<doc id="4914" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4914" title="Flood">
Flood

Sometimes a river receives a lot of extra water, either from lots of rain or other natural disasters. When this happens, the water overflows from its normal path in the river bed and possibly onto dry land. This is called flooding.

During a flood, people should move themselves and their most precious valuables to higher ground quickly. The process of leaving your home behind in search of a safe place is called "evacuation".

During a flood there is plenty of water, but it is mostly polluted and not safe to drink. If people drink the contaminated water they may suffer from illnesses or diseases such as typhoid and cholera. People can prepare for flooding by filling many containers with fresh clean drinking water or using sandbags (to protect their houses and soak up the water). A flood is an overflow or accumulation of an expanse of water that submerges land. In the sense of "flowing water", the word may also mean the inflow of the tide. Flooding usually results from the volume of water within a body of water, such as a river or lake, which overflows. The result is that some of the water escapes its usual boundaries. Floods can also occur in rivers, when the strength of the river is so high it flows out of the river channel, particularly at bends or meanders and causes damage to homes and businesses along such rivers. While flood damage can be eliminated by moving away from rivers and other lakes, people have lived and worked by the water to seek sustenance, and capitalize on the gains of cheap and easy travel and commerce easily, by being near water. 

Queensland floods are hurting Australia's Gross Domestic Product (GDP) by wiping as much as $9 billion off export revenues.

Operations at at least 40 coal mines in central Queensland's Bowen Basin have been disrupted because of the floods. Crops have been damaged and grazing lands are under water.

The state is responsible for more than half of Australia's coal exports, 45 per cent of meat and a quarter of fresh food exports.


</doc>
<doc id="4923" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4923" title="Hell">
Hell

In many religions, Hell is a place where souls of dead people go after their lives end. It is often thought of as the opposite of Heaven, and a place where no love and no God is. In many religions, Hell is the place where the souls of dead people go if they have done evil things in life. It is used in the Old Testament to translate the Hebrew "Sheol", and in the New Testament the Greek ᾅδης, "Hades", and γεέννα, Hebrew "Gehenna".

Many believe that Jews do not believe in Hell, but Jews really do believe. But it does not consist of eternal torture. Rather, there are lower levels of Heaven that a person can descend to considering the number of mitzvot (commandments) that they have obeyed. Gemorah writings tell the Jews of devil beliefs, but these are stories and are taken lightly. Jews also believe that Satan did exist, but he was an angel that quarreled with God, such as the story of Job.

In Christianity, Hell is usually the place where the souls of people go who did not accept Jesus, or broke important rules set forth by God. In Hell, souls suffer and wait for the Last Judgement, a time when the souls of the dead will be judged by God. The concept of Hell in Christianity comes from the Bible and the "casting out" of Lucifer. In being cast out, he was removed from the presence of God. Therefore, if taken in its most literal sense, Hell is separation from God. Stated another way, to the Christian mind being separated from God is to be in Hell. Some Christians believe that Hell has real fire and flames, but others do not.

Many Christian groups believe that once a soul goes to Hell, it stays there forever and cannot leave. However, some Christian groups do not believe this. Mormons, for example, think Hell is only a temporary place, and that souls may leave Hell at some point. Other Christians believe that those who do not go to Heaven simply stop existing and do not go to Hell. These Christians are called "annihilationists".




</doc>
<doc id="4931" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4931" title="October 21">
October 21






</doc>
<doc id="4932" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4932" title="1-1-2">
1-1-2

The telephone number 1-1-2 (or 112) is also the standard European Union (EU) emergency telephone number, it works in every country of the EU, for land lines and mobile phones. It is also used in some other countries as the emergency telephone number for both mobile and fixed-line telephones.

112 is also the international emergency telephone number for all GSM mobile phone networks. It does not necessarily work on other mobile phone technologies, outside the EU.

Countries which use the 112 number for emergencies include:




</doc>
<doc id="4933" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4933" title="Government-in-exile">
Government-in-exile

A government-in-exile is a group of people who claim they are the real government of a country, but who live in another country. These were common during World War II. The Germans took over several countries, and the leaders of those countries went to England for refuge.

Today, there are some governments-in-exile. They include:


Few countries recognize (accept) these groups.

Exile


</doc>
<doc id="4939" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4939" title="Stonehenge">
Stonehenge

Stonehenge is a prehistoric site two miles (3.2km) north of Salisbury in Wiltshire in England. It is made of a henge with standing stones in circles. 

There were three main building phases, each between about 3100 BC and 1950 BC. The first circle, ~3000 BC, was made of timber. The post holes for the timber have been found. Around 2600 BC, the builders gave up timber in favour of stone. Most of the construction took place between 2640 and 2480 BC. 

The first stone circle was a set of 'bluestones'. The holes held up to 80 standing stones (shown blue on the plan), only 43 of which can be traced today. The bluestones (some of which are made of dolerite, an igneous rock), were thought for much of the 20th century to have been brought from the Preseli Hills, 160 miles (250km) away in modern-day Pembrokeshire, Wales. Another theory is that they were brought much nearer to the site as glacial erratics by the Irish Sea Glacier.

Later, ~2400 BC, 30 huge grey sarsen stones were brought to the site. They were erected in a circle 33 metres in diameter, with lintels on top of the standing stones. The remaining blue circles were placed as an inner circle. The site was in use until the Bronze Age. The modern Stonehenge consists entirely of original stones, some of which have been replaced in upright position.

There are also several passage tombs and many tumuli nearby.

No one knows who built Stonehenge or why they built it. During the summer solstice, the sunrise lines up with some of the stones in a particular way. This suggests that the arrangement of stones may work as a calendar. In Egypt and South America, similar ancient buildings can be found. They also show the time of the solstice. 

Stonehenge itself is owned by the Crown and managed by English Heritage while the surrounding land is owned by the National Trust. 

The UNESCO World Heritage Site includes Avebury and Stonhenge together, though they are quite distinct sites. Stonehenge, however, does have a number of satellite structures which are part of the 'ritual landscape':



</doc>
<doc id="4940" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4940" title="Granite">
Granite

Granite is a kind of igneous rock. It is formed from hot, molten magma. 

The magma is forced between other layers of rock by the pressure under the Earth's surface. The magma cools and turns slowly into solid stone. Granite has many different types of minerals in it. These include quartz, feldspar, hornblende, and sometimes mica. As the magma cools, these minerals form crystals. The crystals can be seen easily, if the granite is cut and polished. 

Granite is a common stone on Earth, and makes up a big part of the crust (the Earth's outer layer). Although it forms under the surface of the Earth, there are many places where it has been forced upwards by tectonic movement. This is the cracking and folding of the Earth's crust. When this happens, granite mountains can be formed.

Kitchen benches are often made of polished granite. Granite is found in many countries of the world. Some countries have beautifully patterned granite which is quarried (cut in open mines) and sold for building material. 

Granite is dense, and can be cut, carved and shaped. It is resistant to water and pollution, and has a range of different colors.


</doc>
<doc id="4941" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4941" title="1970">
1970

1970 (MCMLXX) was a common year starting on Thursday. It was also the first year of the 1970s.








</doc>
<doc id="4943" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4943" title="Syracuse, New York">
Syracuse, New York

Syracuse is a city in the U.S. state of New York with a population of 147,306 in 2000, and a metropolitan area population of 732,117. It is often called the "Salt City" because salt used to be the main industry. Today, Syracuse is mostly known as a university city, but many companies have offices there, also.


</doc>
<doc id="4944" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4944" title="Syracuse">
Syracuse

Syracuse is a common name of several cities:


</doc>
<doc id="4945" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4945" title="Soap opera">
Soap opera

A soap opera is a television or radio program that airs in episodic series. This means that each episode continues telling a story, which, in turn, tells more of the last episode's story. A single story on a soap opera can be told for weeks, months, or sometimes even years.

In America, each soap opera airs every day, Monday through Friday, in the afternoon. Because they air at this time, they are sometimes called daytime serials. In the U.K. and other countries, the soap operas air in the evening, twice or three times a week.

This is a list of soap operas that air in America. They are listed by how many people watch them each day. The first show has the most people watch each day, and the last show is watched by the fewest people:


There are still two soaps that air in Australia, Network Ten's "Neighbours" and the Seven Network's "Home and Away". Strangely, "Neighbours" is more popular in England than it is in Australia.

In the U.K., the most popular soap operas are "Coronation Street" and "EastEnders". "Coronation Street" is about people who live in Manchester, in the northern part of England. "EastEnders" is about people who live in an imaginary place called Albert Square in the East End of London. Another popular soap opera is "Emmerdale", and it is about people who live in a small village in Yorkshire, also in the northern part of England.


</doc>
<doc id="4948" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4948" title="MediaWiki:Fundraising notice">
MediaWiki:Fundraising notice


</doc>
<doc id="4949" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4949" title="The Young and the Restless">
The Young and the Restless

The Young and the Restless is a very popular soap opera in America. The show is the highest-rated soap opera, which means that more people watch it than any other soap opera. It aired its first episode on March 26, 1973. In the beginning, the show was about the Brooks family, who were very rich, and the Foster family, who were poor. Today, very few members of either family are still on the show.

Today, the show tells stories about two cosmetics companies: Newman Enterprises and Jabot Cosmetics. Newman's president is Victor Newman (played by the actor Eric Braeden) and Jabot's president is Jack Abbott (played by Peter Bergman). These two men hate each other very much and would like to see the other fail. This hatred is the root of much of the story on the show.


</doc>
<doc id="4951" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4951" title="Georgia (U.S. state)">
Georgia (U.S. state)

Georgia is a state in the southeastern part of the United States. It is bordered by Florida to the south, Alabama to the west, Tennessee and North Carolina to the north, and South Carolina to the east. All of Georgia's coastline is on the Atlantic Ocean. The ocean borders Georgia to the southeast.

Georgia became a state in 1788. Georgia was one of the original 13 colonies of Britain that rebelled in 1776. (See American Revolution)

There are 5 regional habitats of Georgia. They are the Georgia mountains, Okeefenokee marsh/swamp area, the Georgia coastal region, the Georgia Piedmont, and Atlantic Coastal region .

The capital and largest city in Georgia is Atlanta. The 1996 Olympic Games took place there, and the book and movie "Gone With the Wind" was set in and around Atlanta in the 1860s. Other big cities in the state include Augusta, Columbus, Savannah, and Macon. Georgia has a total of 159 counties.


</doc>
<doc id="4954" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4954" title="Prem Rawat">
Prem Rawat

Prem Pal Singh Rawat (now called Maharaji and in the past called Guru Maharaj Ji and Balyogeshwar) was born in India on December 10, 1957. He teaches inner peace by the use of what he calls "Knowledge". Groups that have helped him are the Divine Light Mission, Elan Vital (1983), and The Prem Rawat Foundation (2001).

His father was a guru (or teacher of religious matters) in India for three million people. Prem Rawat took over at the age of eight when his father died. Prem Rawat went to England and America when he was 13 years old, in 1971. He got married when he was 16 years old. In 1975, he had a fight with his mother and brother. They took over in India while Prem Rawat took over in America and the West. Now he lives in California and flies all over the world to share his "Knowledge" with people.

People who like him say that he teaches them how to feel peace by looking within. 



</doc>
<doc id="4955" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4955" title="Immanuel Kant">
Immanuel Kant

Immanuel Kant (April 22, 1724 – February 12, 1804) was a German philosopher. He was born in Königsberg, Prussia, and also died there. Kant studied philosophy in the university there, and later became a professor of philosophy.

Today the town Königsberg is part of Russia, and is renamed Kaliningrad. When Kant was alive, it was the second largest city in the kingdom of Prussia. 

Immanuel Kant was born on April 22, 1724. His father was Johann Georg Kant. In 1732, he was sent to Frederick's college, a school directed by the Kant family's pastor, Franz Albert Schultz. In 1740 he entered the Albertus University in Königsberg and studied the philosophy of Gottfried Leibniz and his follower Christian Wolff. He studied there until 1746 when his father died, then left Königsberg to take up a job as tutor. After a time, he became the tutor of Count Kayserling, and his family. In 1755 Kant became a lecturer and stayed in this position until 1770. He was made the second librarian of the Royal Library in 1766. Kant was eventually given the Chair of Logic and Metaphysics at the University of Königsberg. In his entire life Kant never travelled more than seventy miles from the city of Königsberg. Kant died on February 12, 1804 with the final word: "Enough."

After finishing his study in the university, Kant hoped to be a teacher of philosophy, but it was very difficult. He could have lived a life of private lecturer for a long time. He was offered a job as professor of poetry in Königsberg university, but he turned it down. Later in 1770 he became a full professor of philosophy in Königsberg university.

The young Kant was interested in physics, both of heavenly bodies (such as planets and stars) and the earth. He wrote some papers about this, but he became more interested in metaphysics. He was eager to learn the nature of human experience: how humans could know something, and what their knowledge was based on.

Under the strong influence of the philosophical system of Leibniz and Wolff, Kant began to doubt the basic answers of past philosophers. Then, Kant read a Scottish philosopher, David Hume. Hume had tried to make clear what our experience had been, and had reached a very strong opinion called "skepticism", that there was nothing to make our experience sure. Kant was very shocked by Hume, and saw the theory he had learned in a new point of view. He began to try finding a third way other than the two that Kant called "skepticism" and "dogmaticism".

Kant read another thinker, named Jean-Jacques Rousseau. His thought on human beings, especially on moral and human freedom, impressed Kant.

Some scholars like to include Kant as one of the German idealists, but Kant himself did not like to belong to that group.
The most known work of Kant is the book "Critique of the pure reason" ("Kritik der reinen Vernunft") that Kant published in 1781. Kant called his way of thought "critique", not philosophy. Kant said that critique was a preparation for establishment of real philosophy. According to Kant, for that establishment, people should know what human reason can do and which limits it has. In "Critique of Pure Reason" Kant wrote several limits of human reason, to both feeling and thinking something. For sensation, there are two limits inside of human reason: space and time. There are no physical objects, but the limitations of our mind that work whenever we feel something through our senses. For thinking, he said there are twelve categories or pure rational concepts, divided into four fields: quantity, quality, relation and modality. Kant thought human reason applied those ideas to everything.

Is what we think only our fantasy? Kant said "No", although without those sensual and rational limitations, we can think nothing, then Kant was convinced there would be something we could not know directly behind our limitations, and even with limitations we could know something. It can not be a personal fantasy either, since those limitations were common to all human reason before our particular experience. Kant called what we could not know directly "Ding an sich" -- "thing itself". We can think "thing itself" but cannot have any experience about it, nor know it. God, the eternity of soul, life after death, such things belong to "thing itself", so they were not right objects of philosophy according to Kant, although people had liked to discuss them from ancient times.

Kant wrote two other books named "Critique" too: "Critique of the practical reason" (1788) and "Critique of the Judgement" (1790). In "Critique of the practical reason" Kant wrote about the problem of freedom and God. It was his main work of ethics. In "Critique of the Judgement" Kant wrote about beauty and teleology, or the problem if there was a purpose in general, if the world, a living creature had a reason to exist, and so on. In both books, Kant said we could not answer those problems, because they were concerned with "thing itself".

Kant had a great influence on other thinkers. In the 19th century, German philosophers like Fichte, Schelling, Hegel and writers like Herder, Schiller, and Goethe were influenced by Kant. 

In the early 20th century Kant's ideas were very influential on one group of German philosophers. They became known as the new-Kantians. One of them, Windelband, said, "every philosophy before Kant poured into Kant, and every philosophy after Kant pours from Kant". 

Kant has influenced many modern thinkers, including Hannah Arendt, and John Rawls.



</doc>
<doc id="4962" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4962" title="Aunt">
Aunt

An aunt is a name used in an extended family. 
An aunt is either a sister of one of someone's parents or the wife of their uncle. That person is the aunt's nephew (male) or niece (female). An aunt's child is a cousin. 


</doc>
<doc id="4964" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4964" title="Homer">
Homer

Homer is the name of the Greek poet who wrote the epic poems the "Iliad" and the "Odyssey". These are the earliest works of Greek literature which have survived to the present day, and are among the greatest treasures of the ancient world. They are a product of Mycenaean culture. The Iliad tells the story of the Trojan war, which took place around 1190 BC. The manuscripts of Homer were written much later, probably later than 800 BC. 

What makes the history of this period so difficult is that the Mycenaean civilization was followed by several hundred years of decline, from which little or no writing has survived. This period, the Greek Dark Age, ended around 800 BC, when once again we find Greek writing, though this time in their newly developed alphabetic script. Therefore, there is a distinct possibility that the Homeric epics had a life, perhaps a long life, as oral literature, spoken by story-tellers.

We know little about Homer, and the later Greeks also knew little about him. Some have doubted he was a real person; others think he was a woman. 
A legend, has it that he was a blind poet who lived in Ionia. There is no definite evidence for any of these ideas.

There is archaeological evidence that Troy existed. The site of Troy has been discovered, and excavated. Therefore it is a fair guess that the epic began as a long oral poem based on the siege of Troy, but with details added and changed as time went on. Virtually every feature of Homer's poetry is due to the economy forced on it by oral methods of composition.

The date of Homer's existence is not known. Herodotus said that Homer lived 400 years before his own time, which would place him at around 850 BC; but other ancient sources gave dates much closer to the time of the Trojan War. The date of the Trojan War was given as 1194–1184 BC by Eratosthenes.

Today, "the date of Homer" means the date of the writing down the oral poems, rather than the life of Homer. This is called the "transcription date". The language suggests that the earliest possible date for the transcription is 800 BC, and the latest possible date is 600 AD.


</doc>
<doc id="4966" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4966" title="Marquis de Sade">
Marquis de Sade

Donatien Alphonse François, Comte de Sade, (June 2 1740 - December 2 1814), better known as the Marquis de Sade) was a French nobleman, dramatist and philosopher. The House Sade were French nobility, who originated in the Provence. Different members of the house held positions in the Church, and the French state at different times. 

Once Donatien had grown up, he had troubles with the authorities several times. He spent quite a few years in prison.

The main points he was accused of were:

On one of his escapades, he ""accidentally"" raped a close relative of his, who was a nun. This caused his family to drop him, and to hand him over to the authorities. 

For this, he was sentenced to death (while being absent). He later escaped the death penalty by moving to Italy. The death penalty against him was later changed to a prison sentence.

In prison, he started to read about philosophy. He also started to write down his ideas. He tried to hide his writing, and also wrote in a very small print, so that the consumption of paper would not be noticed. 

In later years, he was moved to an asylum (for the mentally ill), and gave his wife the possibility of a divorce.

After the French Revolution, he got out of the asylum, but in 1803 was declared mentally ill (and again was sent to the asylum). He died in the asylum in 1814 at the age of 74.
The term "sadism" was created after Donatien Alphonse de Sade because of his practice of brutality through his long life.


</doc>
<doc id="4972" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4972" title="Eurozone">
Eurozone

The Eurozone (also called Euro area or Euroland) is the set of countries in the European Union which have adopted the Euro (€) currency. The European Central Bank is responsible for managing the supply of money within the eurozone and political decisions are taken by the "euro group", which is a meeting of the politicians from each euro country in charge of that country's economy.

There are 17 members in the Eurozone 

Made the area on 1 January 1999
1 Austria
2 Belgium
3 Finland
4 France
5 Germany
6 Ireland
7 Italy
8 Luxembourg
9 Netherlands
10 Portugal
11 Spain

Joined on 1 January 2001
12 Greece

Joined on 1 January 2007
13 Slovenia

Joined on 1 January 2008
14 Cyprus
15 Malta

Joined on 1 January 2009
16 Slovakia

Joined on 1 January 2011
17 Estonia

There are other countries outside the European Union which use the euro as well, but these are not officially in the eurozone.


</doc>
<doc id="4973" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4973" title="Ordinal number">
Ordinal number

Ordinal numbers (or ordinals) are numbers that show something's order, for example: 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th.

Suppose a person has four different T-shirts, and then lays them in front of the person, from left to right.


If the person then starts counting the shirts from the left, he would first see the red shirt. So the red shirt is the first T-shirt. The blue shirt is the second T-shirt. The yellow shirt is the third one, and the white T-shirt is the fourth one.

The "first", "second", "third", and "fourth" in this case are ordinal numbers. They result from the fact that the person has many objects, and they give them an order (hence 'ordinal'). The person then simply counts those objects, and gives the ordinal numbers to them.



</doc>
<doc id="4974" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4974" title="File:Wiki.png">
File:Wiki.png

The Simple English Wikipedia logo.


</doc>
<doc id="4975" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4975" title="Template:GFDL">
Template:GFDL


</doc>
<doc id="4977" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4977" title="Gnome">
Gnome

The word Gnome can mean different things:



</doc>
<doc id="4978" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4978" title="Republic">
Republic

A republic is a type of government that has no king, queen, or other monarch and where the people are sovereign. This means that people can choose leaders to represent them and make the laws. The word republic comes from the Latin language words "res publica", which means "public thing".

Countries with a king or other monarch and free elections are called Constitutional Monarchies. What makes a republic different is that the people do not need the permission of a king or other higher power to choose leaders and the type of government they want. Laws are made and enforced in the name of the people.

The Head of State in a republic is generally a person who has been chosen by the citizens, either by direct election or by a group of elected representatives to act as the top representative of the people. In most republics, the Head of State is called the president. In some countries, the president is elected and has a lot of political power. In others, the president does not hold a lot of direct power, but is important in the legal system for other reasons.

Licchavi in India was the first republic in the 6th and 5th century BCE. The other earliest republics were Greek settlements in the Mediterranean sea. The biggest difference from other city-states that were around then was that people could choose their leaders by voting for them. The votes were then counted, and the person with the most votes won.


</doc>
<doc id="4980" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4980" title="Martin Luther">
Martin Luther

Martin Luther (November 10, 1483 in Eisleben - February 18, 1546 in Eisleben) was a German monk and theologian of Christianity. He is credited with starting the Protestant Reformation. As this happened, what are now called Protestant churches split from the Roman Catholic church. He started the Lutheran Church, the first church of Protestantism.

Luther studied philosophy at the University of Erfurt. In 1505, he entered into the Augustinian Order as a monk. Luther studied theology and ancient languages in Erfurt. In 1512 he became a doctor of theology in Wittenberg and began his lectures on the Psalms and Letters of Paul.

In October 1517, Luther wrote his 95 Theses. Many people think that he put them on the door of a church in Wittenberg, but this is not sure. Instead, he published a copy. Luther called them "The Disputation of Doctor Martin Luther on the Power and Efficacy of Indulgences". It questioned the teaching of the western Church and its ideas about penance, the authority of the Pope and the usefulness of "indulgences". At that time, the Catholic Church was saying that they were allowed to decide who could go to Heaven after death, and they were selling indulgences for money to tell them they could go to Heaven. If that was true, it would mean that poor people would not be able to go to Heaven, but that the priests in the church would be rich from selling these things. Luther thought that this was all wrong, and was against the Bible.

After studying the Letters of Paul, especially the Letter to Romans, Luther came up with an idea called "sola fide". This means that faith is the only way that people can get salvation from God. According to sola fide, this would mean that many church customs were useless, and should be cast away.

First, Luther believed that he could reform (change) the Roman Church from the inside (while still being a part of the Church) with his Theses, but the Papacy took his attitude as heresy and excommunicated him on June 15 1520 with a paper saying he did not have their permission to go to Heaven. In October, Luther burned the paper in public, and showed he would not obey the Church unless they accepted his words.

Emperor Charles V Opened the imperial Diet of Worms on 22 January 1521 to hear the case. For Luther, it was the last chance to say he had been wrong. But he did not change his mind. The Diet declared Luther an outlaw.

With the help of a friend, Luther hid in Wartburg Castle, near Erfurt. In the castle, he translated the Bible. First, he wrote the New Testament in German instead of the original Greek. Later, he translated the Old Testament into German, too. Until then, the Holy Mass and the Bible were in Latin. Very few people understood it. Most people went to Mass, and did not understand what the priest said because they did not speak Latin. Luther translated the Bible so that more people could read and understand it. That way, they were no longer depending on the priest to tell them what was in the Bible, but could read it themselves.

Luther started his own church, called the Lutheran Church, with his friend Philip Melanchton. Luther died in 1546.

From the Bible, Luther formed firm ideas about families. Luther knew that what a child learned at home would greatly influence his life. He said in "Table Talks", "Sermons very little edify children, who learn little thereby; it is more needful they be taught and well instructed in schools, and at home, and that they be learned and examined what they have learned; this way profits much; 'tis very wearisome, but very necessary". Luther also preached against the Catholic Church's demands that ministers remain single (not married). After hearing his preaching, many nuns wrote to him to ask for help in escaping their convents. Luther helped nine nuns escape one convent. On April 4, 1524, Luther had a friend help the nuns sneak over the wall and then hid them in barrels on a wagon until they were out of the city. One of these nuns was Katherine von Bora.

After finding husbands for the nuns whose families would not accept them, Luther had to find a husband for Katherine von Bora. Katherine, however, not only rejected a match Luther arranged for her, but said she would accept only Luther or another pastor named Amsdorf as her husband.

At first Luther did not really like Katherine and "supposed she was proud and haughty." His feelings changed, though, and they married on June 13, 1525. Luther later said, "And thank God it hath turned out well; for I have a pious (holy, God-loving) and faithful wife, to whom one may safely commit (give) his heart". 

They had six children. On June 6, 1526, Luther wrote, "I am a happy husband...for from the most precious woman, my best of wives, I have received, by the blessing of God, a little son, John Luther, and, by God's wonderful grace, I have become a father." 

The firstborn was John Luther. The next was a daughter, Elizabeth; but Elizabeth died when she was just eight months old, and Luther wrote in a letter, "My little daughter Elizabeth is taken from me, and hath left me with a bleeding and almost womanly heart, so sad am I on her account. I never thought the heart of a father was so tender towards his children. Pray the Lord for me." A third child, Magdalene, also died young. After Magdalene came Martin, then Paul, and finally Margaret. It was for his children that Luther wrote the Small Catechism - a book showing the basics of Lutheran beliefs.

Since the time of the silent films there existing films to the biography of Martin Luther. The newest film is called Luther. It was released in 2003.



</doc>
<doc id="4982" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4982" title="Noh">
Noh

Noh or No (Japanese:能 Nō) is a major form of classical Japanese musical drama that has been performed since the 14th century. Noh is made up of "mai" (dances), "hayashi" (music) and "utai" (words usually in songs). The performers use masks and dance slowly. Zeami and his father Kan'ami brought Noh to its present-day form during the Muromachi period. 

Theater pieces of Noh is classified into 5 groups.

All Noh players are men. They have been taught their skills by their fathers. When a woman or girl appears in the drama, a male actor plays her role with a woman mask.

There are three types of Noh players: "shite", "waki" and "kyogen". "Shite" plays the hero or the heroine. He talks, sings and dances. "Waki" (meaning "Side") plays the sidekick of "Shite", and usually plays a traveller role in a certain place. He introduces us into the world in the drama. "Kyogen" appears in the middle of the drama if it has two parts, and plays the role of the local citizen. He talks to "Waki" and makes him notice what he has not noticed before their talk.

"Hayashi" means musical instrumentals. Kinds of drum ("Tuzumi", "Taiko") and flute ("Fue") are used in the theater. 


</doc>
<doc id="4984" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4984" title="Manga">
Manga

A manga is a Japanese comic book. 

Manga is drawn by a "mangaka" (Japanese for cartoonist: an artist of comics). Manga is usually read from right to left. 

The word manga can be both singular and plural, and mean both the medium of comics or a single comic. It is a form of art that is used to draw comics and develop Anime (animated cartoons of manga art). Colors and symbols are important.

Manga are well known to the world.




</doc>
<doc id="4985" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4985" title="Category:Computer science">
Category:Computer science


</doc>
<doc id="4988" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4988" title="Spree">
Spree

The Spree is a river in the north-east of Germany.
It runs through the centre of Berlin. The river is long.


</doc>
<doc id="4990" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4990" title="Liberalism">
Liberalism

Liberalism is a way of thinking about politics and government. Liberalism sees the personal freedom and equality as one of the highest goods.


Some liberals believe that freedom is impossible without equality, and that governments should promote equality by providing education and health care supported by taxes. Other liberals believe that taxes are bad, and that people should provide their own education and health care; these people are usually called libertarians today. Most liberal governments today do provide at least some education and health care, though not necessarily equally for all citizens.

Other concepts important to some liberals include:

In the old days, kings or queens told people what to do(a form of government called a Monarchy), and there was very little freedom. A few hundred years ago, philosophers such as Simón Bolívar, John Stuart Mill and Jeremy Bentham began to write about freedom. Earlier writers, such as Marcus Aurelius, had written about freedom, but this time the idea caught on. The United States of America was the first country to have a constitution which was based on the ideas of Mill and Bentham, and which guaranteed certain rights to all citizens, including freedom of speech, freedom of the press, freedom of religion, the right to assemble (get together in groups), the right to bear arms (weapons), and the right to ask their government to take action (right of petition) or to remove from office rulers they did not like (right of referendum).

Another idea that became popular around this time was the idea of free trade. A leading philosopher who promoted free trade was Adam Smith.

Most of the wealthy countries in the world today are liberal democracies with more or less free trade. An exception to this rule are the oil-rich countries, not all of which are liberal or democratic. Most of the poor countries in the world are dictatorships, with heavy restrictions on trade. China is a poor country which is rapidly becoming rich, and is trying the experiment of combining dictatorship with free trade. Whether it is possible to have the advantages of free trade without other freedoms remains to be seen.

While all liberal governments support free elections, other ideas of liberal government vary a great deal from country to country. For information about liberalism in a particular country, look for an article called "Liberalism in..." and then the name of the country.

The government of the United States was created based on a belief in Democracy and personal freedom. However the word "liberalism" has taken on a different meaning in modern times. Liberals in the United States still believe in supporting democracy and freedom, however many liberals also support other ideas. While not all liberals agree on everything, most liberals in the United States agree:


Liberals in the United States are also sometimes called "Progressives". The biggest liberal political party in the United States is the Democratic Party. To the contrary, the Green Party are thought to be more 'left', or liberal than Democrats.

Liberals in Australia have many different ideas about government than liberals in the United States. Most liberals in Australia believe that government should not increase taxes, and would like a government that has lower taxes and less power over the economy. The main liberal political party in Australia is the Liberal Party of Australia. The Liberal Party also believes that government should support traditional values and morals, something which many conservatives believe as well.



</doc>
<doc id="4991" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4991" title="Zeno's paradoxes">
Zeno's paradoxes

Zeno's Paradoxes are a famous set of thought-provoking stories or puzzles created by Zeno of Elea in the mid-5th century B.C. Philosophers, physicists, and mathematicians have argued over how to answer the questions raised by Zeno's Paradoxes for two and a half millennia. Although the specifics of each paradox differ from one another, they all deal with the tension between the apparent continuous nature of the universe and the discrete or incremental nature of mathematics and physics.

The most famous of Zeno's Paradoxes is called "Achilles and the Tortoise". The story goes that if Achilles (the famous hero from The Iliad) were to race a tortoise, but the tortoise were given a head start, Achilles could never catch the tortoise no matter how fast or how long Achilles ran. This is of course at odds with common sense and observation, which conclude that Achilles will eventually catch up with and pass the tortoise. However, the paradox lies upon a purely mathematical inspection of this scenario.

In order for Achilles to catch the tortoise, he must of course cover some distance "A" between where he began the race and where the reptilian racer began ahead of him. However, in the time Achilles traversed "A", the shelled shlepper traveled a second distance "B". Of course Achilles is undaunted, because "B" is less than "A", and brings himself to the point where he has gone the distance "A + B". To the champion's chagrine, the tortoise has not yet given up, and in the time Achilles took to cover "B", has continued to travel to "C". This progression can be carried out "ad infinitum", and it can be shown that, mathematically speaking, there is an infinite number of time intervals and/or distances which Achilles must endure to catch his intrepid opponent.

This then is where Zeno's paradox lies: both pictures of reality cannot be true at the same time. Hence, either:

1. There is something wrong with the way we perceive the continuous nature of time,
2. In reality there is no such thing as a discrete, or incremental, amounts of time, distance, or perhaps anything else for that matter, or
3. There is a third picture of reality that unifies the two pictures--the mathematical one and the common sense or philosophical one--that we do not yet have the tools to fully understand.

Suppose someone wishes to get from point "A" to point "B". Well, first they must move halfway. Then, they must go half of the remaining way. And so forth, never actually reaching the ending. So, motion from any point "A" to any different point "B" is impossible. A common response to such a problem is to point at calculus: we can add up infinite series like 1+1/2+1/4+1/8+1/16... to get 2. However, the basic question Zeno is asking is how one can deal with an infinite progression with doing each element individually. Using calculus does not actually involve adding up infinite numbers one number at a time. Instead, it adds up a large group of numbers all at once. The quantum physicists respond to this paradox by saying that Zeno's premise was incorrect. That is, it is not always necessary that for a point "A" and a point "B", that one can go halfway between them before getting to point "B".


</doc>
<doc id="4993" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4993" title="Mandrake">
Mandrake

Mandrake is the common name of a number of plants in the Nightshade family, genus Mandragora. The roots often look like man or woman, or can be easily made to resemble them. The plant has been used in witchcraft for a long time. 

According to this literature, the plant shrieks in pain, when it is pulled from the ground. This shriek is able to make a person deaf. He might also loose his mind, or even be killed, if he is unprotected. 

Mandrake (Mandragora officinalis) has been used as an anaestethic for a long time. For this, it was usually prepared in an alcoholic solution.


</doc>
<doc id="4994" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4994" title="Debian">
Debian

Debian is a free operating system which is the Linux kernel (the core of Linux itself) and application software run on its kernel. Much of the application and utility software was done by the GNU project, so Debian Linux is more correctly called "Debian GNU/Linux". It is one of the most complete and popular Linux distributions, on which many others, like Ubuntu, are based upon.

The Debian Project officially started on August 16th, 1993, led by Ian Murdock. He is a computer programmer. Today, in this project, Debian is developed by more than 1,000 computer specialists all over the world. 

The name "Debian" was taken after Ian Murdock and his wife Debra. Some people say or pronounce 'deb-ee-n' but others also say 'de-bi-an' or 'de-bai-an' and in Japan 'de-bi-a-n' and so on.

Software packages in development are either uploaded to the project distribution named "unstable" (also known as "sid"), or to the "experimental" repository. Software packages uploaded to "unstable" are normally versions stable enough to be released by the original upstream developer, but with the added Debian-specific packaging and other modifications introduced by Debian developers. These additions may be new and untested. Software not ready yet for the "unstable" distribution is typically placed in the "experimental" repository.

After a version of a software package has remained in "unstable" for a certain length of time (depending on how urgent the changes are), that package is automatically moved to the "testing" distribution. The package's move to testing happens only if no serious ("release-critical") bugs in the package are reported and if other software needed for package functionality qualifies for inclusion in "testing".

Since updates to Debian software packages between official releases do not contain new features, some choose to use the "testing" and "unstable" distributions for their newer packages. However, these distributions are less tested than "stable", and "unstable" does not receive timely security updates. In particular, incautious upgrades to working "unstable" packages can sometimes seriously break software functionality. Since September 9, 2005 the "testing" distributions security updates have been provided by the "testing" security team.

After the packages in "testing" have matured and the goals for the next release are met, the "testing" distribution becomes the next stable release. The latest stable release of Debian ("Squeeze") is 6.0, released on February 6, 2011. The next release is codenamed ""Wheezy"".

Debian has made ten major stable releases:

Due to an incident involving a CD vendor who made an unofficial and broken release labeled "1.0", an official 1.0 release was never made.




</doc>
<doc id="4995" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4995" title="GNU">
GNU

GNU is the name of a computer operating system. The name is short for "GNU's Not Unix". Richard Stallman leads the project working on GNU, known as the GNU Project. It was created to replace the UNIX operating system with all free and open source software. People often mistakingly call it Linux.

People have been working on GNU since it was started in 1983, but it is still being worked on. The central part of the operating system, called the Kernel, is not finished, and lots of people use Linux as the kernel with GNU (which is called a "GNU/Linux Operating System"). Software that runs on the GNU system often has been made for other computer software systems like Microsoft Windows and Mac OS X and is often compatible with other systems inspired by UNIX.



</doc>
<doc id="5000" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5000" title="Serbia">
Serbia

The Republic of Serbia (Serbian: Република Србија) is a country in southeastern Europe. The capital city is Belgrade. To the north of Serbia is the country Hungary. To the east of Serbia are the countries Bulgaria and Romania. To the south of Serbia are countries Macedonia and Albania. To the west of Serbia are the countries Montenegro (the country which was once united with Serbia), Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia.
The Serbian language is used in many of the countries around it.


</doc>
<doc id="5001" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5001" title="Cancer">
Cancer

Cancer is a class of diseases or disorders. It is when the body has no control over cells that begin to split. In cancer, body cells copy their contents. They then make new cells with these copies. These cells are able to go into other tissues. They go into other tissues by growing into them. They can also go into other tissues by putting themselves into far away places by metastasis. Metastasis is the process in which cancer cells move through the bloodstream or lymphatic system. Cancer can affect anybody at any age. People are more likely to get it as they get older. This is because DNA damage becomes more apparent in older DNA. An exception is testicular cancer. It is more common in young men. Cancer is one of the biggest and most researched causes of death in developed countries.

Cancer is a leading cause of death. It causes about 12.5% of all deaths worldwide. This is according to the World Health Organization. There are some things that can be causes or triggers of different types of cancer. They include tobacco (smoked or smokeless), lots of sunlight, radiation (including X-rays in large or many doses and exposure to radiation in a nuclear power plant), chemicals used in building and manufacturing (for example, asbestos and benzene), high-fat or low-fiber diets, air and water pollution, people who eat very little fruits and vegetables, obesity, not enough physical activity, drinking too much alcohol, and household use of some chemicals. Some cancers can also be caused by viruses.

There are lots of different kinds of cancers. Some of the most common include breast cancer, brain cancer, leukemia, testicular cancer, mesothelioma, and lung cancer. Breast cancer begins in the breast. It can be found in anybody at anytime. It can also be found in men. Brain cancer starts in the brain (cancer of the brain is called a brain tumour). Testicular cancer starts in the testicles. It is most common in young men. Mesothelioma and lung cancer start in the lungs. Mesothelioma is usually caused by exposure to asbestos.

There is no cure for cancer. Cancer can sometimes be treated using radiotherapy (also called "radiation therapy"), chemotherapy, or immunotherapy (also called "biological therapy"). In some cases it is possible to use surgery to remove a part of the tumor. But this is not the end of treatment. After surgery patient has radio- or chemotherapy to prevent the tumor growing once again.

One hard problem in treating cancer is that most things that kill cancer also kill normal cells. Cancerous cells are often quite weak. Since the cancer is actually a part of the body, the body will not attack it, even though the cancer often could easily kill the body. Another hard problem in treating cancer is that there are many different types of cancer. Each have their own symptoms and causes. Some people can handle cancer better than others. However, it is harmful to everybody. It can be fatal. 

There is always progress in finding treatment. Many cancers are treated successfully. For example, a study showed that if someone with lymphedema (a swelling of the arm linked to breast cancer) lifts weights, they be able to fight cancer better than somebody who does not.

The Greek term carcinoma is a medical term. It is used for a malignant tumour from epithelial cells. Celsus translated the Greek word "carcinos" into the Latin "cancer". Cancer also means crab. Galen used ""oncos"" to describe "all" tumours. This is the origin for the current word, oncology.

Hippocrates named many kinds of cancer. He called benign tumours "oncos". In Greek, oncos means swelling. He called malignant tumours "carcinos". This means crab or crayfish in Greek. The veins of the cut surface of solid malignant tumor looks like a crab: "the veins stretched on all sides as the animal the crab has its feet, whence it derives (gets) its name". He later added "-oma" after the word. It is Greek for swelling. This has given the name "carcinoma". Hippocrates only described and made drawings of tumors he saw from outside. This is because the Greeks did not open up the body. He drew tumors that were on the skin, nose, and breasts. People were treated based on the humor theory. The humor theory describes four bodily fluids (black, yellow bile, blood, and phlegm). The patient's treatment was made up of diet, blood-letting, and/or laxatives. The treatment was according to the patient's humor. Through the centuries it was discovered that cancer could occur anywhere in the body. The humor theory treatment was popular until the 19th century with the discovery of cells.

The oldest known description and surgical treatment of cancer was discovered in Egypt. It dates back to approximately 1600 B.C. The Papyrus describes eight cases of ulcers of the breast. They were treated by cauterization. They used a tool called "the fire drill." The writing says about the disease, "There is no treatment."

Another very early surgical treatment for cancer was described in the 1020s. It was described by Avicenna (Ibn Sina) in "The Canon of Medicine". He stated that the removal should be radical and that all diseased tissue should be removed. This included the use of amputation or the removal of veins running in the direction of the tumor. He also recommended the use of cauterization for the area treated if necessary.

In the 16th and 17th centuries, it became more acceptable for doctors to dissect bodies to discover the cause of death. The German professor Wilhelm Fabry believed that breast cancer was caused by a milk clot in a mammary duct. The Dutch professor Francois de la Boe Sylvius believed that all disease was the outcome of chemical processes. He believed that acidic lymph fluid was the cause of cancer. He was a follower of Descartes. Nicolaes Tulp believed that cancer was a poison that slowly spreads. He said that it was contagious. He lived at the same time as Sylvius.

British surgeon Percivall Pott was the first to find a cause for cancer. In 1775, he discovered that cancer of the scrotum was a common disease among chimney sweeps. The work of other physicians led to different views. Physicians then started working together. They reached better conclusions.

The microscope began to be widely used in the 18th century. With the microscope, it was discovered that the 'cancer poison' spread from the one tumor through the lymph nodes to other sites ("metastasis"). This view of the disease was first made clear by the English surgeon Campbell De Morgan. He made it known between 1871 and 1874. The use of surgery to treat cancer had poor results. This was because of problems with hygiene. The well known Scottish surgeon Alexander Monro saw only 2 breast tumor patients out of 60 surviving surgery for two years. In the 19th century, asepsis made surgical hygiene better. As the survival statistics went up, surgical removal of the tumor became the primary treatment for cancer. Cancer treatment became dependent on the individual art of the surgeon at removing a tumor, except for William Coley. In the late 1800s, Coley felt that the rate of cure after surgery had been higher "before" asepsis. He had injected bacteria into tumors with mixed results. During the same period, the idea was that the body was made up of many kinds of tissues. They in turn were made up of millions of cells. This laid rest the humor-theories about chemical imbalances in the body. The age of cellular pathology was born.

At the end of the 19th century, Marie Curie and Pierre Curie discovered radiation. They had found the first non-surgical cancer treatment. With radiation also came the first signs of multi-disciplinary approaches to cancer treatment. The surgeon was no longer operating in isolation. The surgeon worked together with hospital radiologists to help patients. This made things difficult in communication. It also made it necessary for the patient's treatment to be done in a hospital rather than at home. This made a process of putting all of the patient data into hospital files. This led to the first statistical patient studies.

Janet Lane-Claypon wrote a paper on cancer epidemiology. It was a founding paper. She published a comparative study in 1926. It was about 500 breast cancer cases and 500 control patients. They both had the same background and lifestyle. It was published for the British Ministry of Health. Her work on cancer epidemiology was carried on by Richard Doll and Austin Bradford Hill. They published "Lung Cancer and Other Causes of Death In Relation to Smoking. A Second Report on the Mortality of British Doctors" followed in 1956 (otherwise known as the British doctors study). Richard Doll left the London Medical Research Center (MRC). He left to start the Oxford unit for Cancer epidemiology in 1968. With the use of computers, the unit was the first to bring together large amounts of cancer data. Modern epidemiological methods are closely related to current ideas of disease and public health policy. Over the past 50 years, great efforts have been made on collecting data across medical practice, hospital, provincial, state, and even country boundaries. This data is used to study the sharing dependence of environmental and cultural causes on cancer incidence.

Cancer patient treatment and studies were only allowed to individual physicians' practices. This changed during World War II. This is when medical research centers found that there were large international differences in disease incidence. This idea made national public health bodies to make it possible to bring together health data across practices and hospitals. Many countries use this process today. The Japanese medical community found that the bone marrow of victims of the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki was completely destroyed. They said that diseased bone marrow could also be destroyed with radiation. This led to the discovery of bone marrow transplants for leukemia. Since World War II, improvements in cancer treatment are getting much better. There are some things that still need to get better. They need to be better on a micro-level with existing treatment methods. They need to be standardized. They need to be globalized to find cures through epidemiology and international partnerships.

New Global Cancer Facts


</doc>
<doc id="5007" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5007" title="Photography">
Photography

Photography is a way of making a picture using a camera. A person who makes pictures using a camera is called a "photographer". A picture made using a camera is called a photograph or photo.

A "camera" is, in its simplest form, like a box with a hole in the front. There is a special piece of glass in front of the hole called a lens. To take a photograph of something, the lens makes a small picture of the object inside the camera. The lens does this by focusing light. A lens in a camera works like a lens in glasses (spectacles) or a magnifying glass. One type of camera called the Pin-Hole camera has no lens but uses a very small hole to focus light.

To make a photograph with a camera the "shutter release" button is pressed. Pressing the button opens the "shutter". The shutter is like a door. It covers the hole in the camera box. The shutter is behind the lens. When the shutter is closed no light can enter the camera box. When the shutter is open light can enter the camera. When the button is pressed the shutter opens and then closes. This happens very fast. The amount of time the shutter stays open for is called the "shutter speed". The shutter speed can change between 1/1000th of a second (0.001 s) to a few seconds. Normally the time taken for the shutter to open and close is far less than 1 second. 

A camera also has an "aperture ring". The aperture ring is behind the lens, but in front of the shutter. The purpose of the aperture ring is to control how much light enters the camera box. The aperture ring is a flat circle with a small hole in the centre. The small hole is called the "aperture". The size of the aperture can be changed. When the aperture is very small only a small amount of light can enter the camera. When the aperture is big, a lot of light can get in.

The photograph in camera may be made on film or, if it is a digital camera, using a special electronic sensor.

The picture the lens makes is recorded on photographic film. Film is placed inside the camera box. Light coming through the lens, aperture and open shutter shines on the film. Photographic film is coated with chemicals that react when light shines on it. Letting light shine on the film is called "exposing" the film. 

There are many different types of photographic film. There are films for taking colour photographs and films for taking black and white photographs. There are different sizes of film. The most common size is "35 mm". It is called 35 mm because the width of the film is 35 millimetres. Most cameras use 35 mm film.

Another difference between films is how sensitive they are to light. Films have a code number, called an "ISO number". The ISO number tells how fast a film reacts when light shines on it. Examples of ISO numbers are ISO 50, ISO 100, IS0 200, ISO 400, ISO 800, and ISO 1600. The ISO number is sometimes called the "ASA number" or the "film speed". When the ISO number is low, for example ISO 50, the film takes a long time to record the picture. This is called a slow film. This means the shutter has to stay open for a long time. When the ISO number is high, for example ISO 800, the picture is made in a very short time. This is a fast film. This means the shutter has to open and close quickly.

Once the film has been exposed it is "processed". Processing has to be done in total darkness or the film will be exposed too much and the picture will be lost. Processing stops the film reacting to light any more. After the film has been processed the picture can be seen on the film. 

A photographic "print" is a photograph made on paper. A light sensitive paper is used. The picture on the film is placed in an "enlarger". An enlarger is a machine that shines light through the film and makes a bigger picture on the light sensitive paper. A chemical reaction happens in the paper, which turns the areas hit with light black when the paper is 'developed'. (The more light, the darker the area.) "Developing" makes the picture appear on the paper – now it is a photograph. Then the paper is put into other chemicals that make it not sensitive to light any more. This is called "fixing". Last, the paper is washed so that there are no more chemicals on it and then dried. Then it is finished.

Digital photography is photography done using a digital camera. Sometimes it is called "digital imaging". A digital camera has a lens, aperture, and shutter. The picture the lens makes is recorded by a light-sensitive electronic sensor. A digital camera does not use photographic film to record a picture. Digital photographs are stored in a computer but paper prints can also be made from digital pictures. Digital cameras are also not expensive to use, as there is no film to buy.

The most important thing when taking a photograph is focusing the lens. If the lens does not focus the picture well, the photograph will be blurry. Autofocus cameras focus automatically when the shutter release is pressed. There are also "manual" focus cameras (usually older ones).

Three other things are important when taking a photograph. These control how bright or dark the photograph will be. 

A slow shutter speed, a bigger aperture, and a fast film will make a brighter picture. A fast shutter speed, a small aperture, and a slow film will give a darker picture. A good picture is not too bright and not too dark. An automatic camera changes these things by itself when the shutter release is pressed.


</doc>
<doc id="5008" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5008" title="Acronym">
Acronym

An acronym is a word whose letters are the first letters of other words. People often create a short word that means the same thing as a much longer phrase (set of words), to make it faster and shorter to say the long phrase. Examples of acronyms are:





</doc>
<doc id="5009" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5009" title="Radio wave">
Radio wave

Radio waves make up part of the electromagnetic spectrum. These waves are packets of energy with differing wavelengths, similar to visible light waves, X-rays or Gamma rays, except longer.

A Radio wave, like other electromagnetic waves, is similar to an ocean wave or any other type of wave. Both types of wave have a hill and valley shape, repeating over and over. A wavelength is measured as the distance from the top of one crest to the top of its neighboring crest. While the wavelength of visible light is very very small, less than one micrometer and much less than the thickness of a human hair, radio waves can have a wavelength from a couple centimeters to several meters.
Antennas designed to detect radio waves are usually similar in size to the wavelength they wish to detect. This is why many radio antennas (like those on cars) must be very long. If the antennas are not close to the size of the wavelength they do not usually do a good job of detecting the waves.

Manmade radio waves have been used for a long time to send information, receive information, and to 'see' objects. Radar uses radio waves to 'see' distant objects by bouncing waves off an object and seeing how long it takes for the waves to return. Radar can even be used to find oil or see what chemicals are in soil. Radios also use these waves to send and receive information.
Natural radio waves were first discovered in the 1930's by a man named Jansky, working for Bell Laboratories. Before his discovery, everyone thought only people could generate radio waves. Bell was detecting static on his radio channels, and had Jansky try to figure out where this static, or interference was coming from. Surprisingly, the interference was coming from space! This discovery eventually led astronomers to look at radio waves along with optical waves to find things in the sky. These radio astronomers use giant Radio telescopes, shaped like satellite dishes, to gather and analyze the waves.

Radio waves are used for many things today. They broadcast TV, communicate with satellites, let cell phones communicate with each other, make radar systems, and allow computers to share information without wires.


</doc>
<doc id="5010" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5010" title="Bridge">
Bridge

A bridge is a structure to cross an open space or gap. Bridges are mostly useful for crossing rivers, valleys, or roads by vehicles but people have also used bridges for a long time for walking. Bridges called highway overpasses are used to avoid traffic control.

Bridges also have uses in the military. Military bridges have to be portable, so that they may be easily moved to the front lines, and so they are much more complex than regular civilian bridges.

There are five major structural types of bridges: 


</doc>
<doc id="5011" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5011" title="Mysticism">
Mysticism

Mysticism is the belief that people can "directly" experience God or true reality, rather than through books, ritual or other people. People who practice this are called "mystics".

Mystics exist within most religions, though not all people who practice religions are mystics. Mystics may experience visions or dreams, or hear God as a voice.

Some examples of Hindu mystics:

Some examples of Christian mystics:

Islamic Mysticism is also known as Sufism.
Some examples of Muslim mystics (also called sufi):

Some examples of Jewish mystics:

Some examples of Buddhist mystics:


</doc>
<doc id="5012" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5012" title="Ontario">
Ontario

Ontario is a province of Canada. It is in the Eastern half of Canada, between Manitoba and Quebec. Ontario has the most people of any province, with 13 150 000 in 2009. It has the second largest area for a province with 1 076 395 km². Quebec has a larger area. (Nunavut and Northwest Territories are also larger, but are called "territories" and not "provinces"). 

There is 4 large lakes in Ontario called the Great Lakes. These lakes are Lake Ontario, Lake Erie, Lake Huron, and Lake Superior. Ontario shares a border with the United States and there are several border crossings including the one at Niagara Falls.

Toronto is the capital of Ontario. Ottawa, which is the capital of Canada, is also in Ontario. The government of Ontario sits at Queen's Park in Toronto. The leader of the government is called the "Premier". There is also a Lieutenant Governor of Ontario who represents the Queen.

Ontario is very big, so sometimes people break it into two. The two parts are called Northern Ontario and Southern Ontario. Most of the people in Ontario live in the south, and that is where the big cities are. The big cities in Southern Ontario are Toronto, Ottawa, Hamilton, London, Windsor, and Sarnia. The cities in the north are smaller. In the far north of Ontario hardly any people live at all, and there are no roads or railways.

Much of Ontario gets lots of snow in the winter. In the summer, it can get very hot in the south parts. In some big cities, there is smog in the summer.

Ontario became part of Canada when it was created in 1867. Before 1840, it was known as Upper Canada, which was a part of the British Empire. Between 1840 and 1867 it was known as Canada West.

The Ontario flag is red with the British Union Jack in the top left corner. The Ontario shield is on the right hand side of the flag.
The Ontario bird is the Loon.
The Ontario flower is the trillium. It has three flower petals and it is usually white. 


</doc>
<doc id="5013" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5013" title="Manitoba">
Manitoba

Manitoba is a province of Canada. It lies roughly in the centre of Canada.

Manitoba is the 6th largest province with 647,797 km² area. It has the fifth largest number of people, with 1 150 000 in 2001. People from Manitoba are called "Manitobans".

The capital of Manitoba is the City of Winnipeg. Other larger cities in Manitoba include Steinbach and Brandon.

The people of Manitoba elected a legislature. The leader of the government, who is called the "Premier", is the leader of the largest party in the legislature. There is also a Lieutenant Governor, who represents the Queen. Right now, the premier of Manitoba is Gary Doer and the Lieutenant Governor is John Harvard.

The main political parties in Manitoba are the New Democratic Party, the Progressive Conservative Party of Manitoba, and the Liberal Party.

People have been living in Manitoba for thousands of years. Both the Hudson's Bay Company from England and many people from France moved to Manitoba during the 17th, 18th, and 19th centuries. It became part of the Northwest Territory in 1869. The Red River Rebellion, which was started by Louis Riel, began in Manitoba.

Manitoba became part of Canada on 12 May 1870. It included only the southern part which is nearest to the United States. But parts of the Northwest Territory were added to Manitoba later on. Manitoba was due to lots of animals.



</doc>
<doc id="5014" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5014" title="Head of government">
Head of government

The head of government of a country is the person who runs it. This is not always the same person as the head of state. Official titles for heads of government include Premier or Prime Minister.

For example, in the United States, the president is both the head of state and the head of government. In the Republic of Ireland the president is the head of state but the Taoiseach is the head of government. In most modern monarchies the king (or queen) is the head of state but not the head of government.

The head of state of some countries has no power over law and justice, for example, the Bundespresident of Germany.


</doc>
<doc id="5017" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5017" title="Saskatchewan">
Saskatchewan

Saskatchewan is a province of Canada. About 1 million people live in Saskatchewan. Most of its population lives in the southern part of the province. The primary industry in Saskatchewan is agriculture (farming).

Saskatchewan is known for its wide horizons. The land is very flat in the south, so you can sometimes see far away. Not all the land is flat prairie. There are beautiful scenic woodlands and forests in the central and northern regions and parklands with lakes for fishing. The province is marked by the North and South Saskatchewan rivers that run through it. The province is nicknamed "The Land of Living Skies". 

The largest city in Saskatchewan is Saskatoon, followed by the province's capital, Regina. Saskatchewan is (approximately) a quadrilateral (four-sided object) bounded on the west by Alberta, on the north by the Northwest Territories, on the east by Manitoba, and on the south by the American states of Montana and North Dakota. 

Saskatchewan was founded on September 1, 1905, the same date that Alberta was founded. The province's colors are gold, red, green, white, brown, yellow, and black. Gold for the wheat, red for the Prairie Lily which is the provincial flower, green for the forests, white for the snow, brown for the fresh cut fields, yellow for the canola and sunflowers, and black for the coal and oil.


</doc>
<doc id="5022" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5022" title="Classical music">
Classical music

Classical music is a very general term which normally refers to the standard music of countries in the Western world. It is music that has been composed by musicians who are trained in the art of writing music (composing) and written down in music notation so that other musicians can play it. Classical music can also be described as "art music" because great art (skill) is needed to compose it and to perform it well. Classical music differs from pop music because it is not made just in order to be popular for a short time or just to be a commercial success. It is different from folk music which is generally made up by ordinary members of society and learned by future generations by listening and copying.

The word “classic” tends to mean: an art which is so good that it will always be enjoyed by future generations. It is something that has become a model for future artists. The period of Ancient Greece and Rome is known as the Classical Period because, many centuries later, people looked back to those ancient civilizations and thought they were perfect. In recent European history the 18th century was known as the Classical Period because musicians, artists, writers and philosophers were inspired by the art forms of the Classical Period of Ancient Greece and Rome. Something that is a “classic” is therefore something that will always be remembered as something great. Famous books such as the novels of Charles Dickens are called "classics". “Classical music” therefore tends to mean music that will not be forgotten soon after it is written, but is likely to be enjoyed by many future generations.

Although people sometimes think of classical music as the opposite of pop music, it can still be very popular. Like all kinds of music, classical music can be in many different moods: happy, sad, scary, peaceful, thoughtful, simple etc. Mozart wrote his serenades and divertimentos to entertain people at parties. Classical pieces of music can be quite short, but they can also be very long, like a big, musical story. A symphony by Mahler or Shostakovich can last for nearly an hour, and an opera is a whole evening’s entertainment.

Classical music is also different from jazz because true jazz is improvised. However, the differences are not always obvious. Classical music has often been inspired by jazz, and jazz by classical music. George Gershwin wrote music which is both jazz and classical. Classical music, too, can be improvised. The great composers Bach, Mozart and Beethoven often improvised long pieces of music on the organ, harpsichord or piano. Sometimes they wrote these improvisations down. They were, in effect, compositions which were composed in one go.

In Western countries a vast amount of music was written for Christian worship in churches and cathedrals. This is called “sacred” (religious) music. All other music is “secular” music. The word “secular” means things that are not sacred. Sacred and secular music have influenced one another in many ways during the course of music history. Secular music was largely influenced by dance, and this in turn changed the style of sacred music. For example: the church music of the 16th century composer Giovanni da Palestrina has nothing to do with dance music, but both the sacred and secular music of Johann Sebastian Bach two centuries later is full of dance rhythms. At some times in music history there have been different styles of composing for sacred and for secular music. Claudio Monteverdi uses two different styles for his church and for his non-church music. When composers were experimenting with new ways of writing music they usually did this with secular music, and sacred music caught up later.

The term "classical music" was not used until the early 19th century. People then started talking about classical music in order to praise the great composers such as Bach, Mozart and Beethoven. In the 20th century many different ways of composing were used, including music played by electronic instruments or very modern music using strange sounds (experimental or "avant garde" music), for example the music of John Cage. Some people feel that this kind of music cannot really be described as "classical music".

Classical music can be for instruments or for the voice. The symphony orchestra is the most common group of instruments for the playing of classical music. It has four families of instruments: the string instruments which include the violins, violas, cellos and double basses, the woodwind which includes flutes, oboes, clarinets and bassoons together with related instruments of different sizes, the brass instruments: trumpet, trombone, tuba and French horn, and percussion instruments which nearly always includes timpani as well as many other possible instruments which are hit or shaken. This is very different from a typical rock band which has a drummer, a guitarist, one or two singers and an electric bass and keyboard. Instruments that play classical music are not normally amplified electronically. 

The same applies to the voice. Singers may be sopranos, altos, tenors or basses, depending on their vocal range. Their voices are not amplified. Opera singers, in particular, have to develop very powerful voices which will be heard over the orchestra and project right to the back of an opera house. 

The instruments used in classical music developed at different times. Some of the earliest were known in Medieval music. The trombone and the triangle have hardly changed for hundreds of years, but the violin family developed from folk instruments such as fiddles and gradually replaced the viols to form the basis of the modern orchestra. This was happening by the beginning of the 17th century, which was the time when opera was invented.

In general, musical instruments have become louder as concert halls have become bigger. Violins are louder than viols. Modern violins are louder than the early 17th century violins, largely because of they have metal strings instead of gut strings. The piano developed from the clavichord which was very quiet indeed. Woodwind instruments developed from Renaissance instruments, while the clarinet was invented in the middle of the 18th century, and the saxophone and tuba came even later. Modern trumpets sound much brighter than the straight trumpets of the 18th century.

Most popular music is based on song form, but classical music has many different forms, some of which can be used over a long time span to make big compositions. Classical music can have many forms, including the symphony, concerto, oratorio, opera, sonata, fugue or any combination of dance movements such as suites. In many of the longer compositions, short tunes are developed and changed during the course of the piece. Beethoven’s Fifth Symphony is a good example of a piece which develops from just four notes into a large piece lasting about half an hour.

People who want to be good at performing classical music have to practice hard for many years. They normally have formal training at a music college or conservatoire and have lessons from well-known music teachers.

Classical musicians often spend a lot of time thinking carefully about pieces of music, especially about pieces of music that they perform. They study such things as harmony and counterpoint to help them understand the way that the composers were thinking when they put the piece together. When they look at pieces of music in this way this is called “musical analysis”. People who specialize in thinking and writing about music may become professors or lecturers of music at universities.

Classical music is often heard in popular culture. It is used as background music for movies, television programs, advertisements and even for mobile phone ringing tones. Most people in the Western world recognize many classical tunes, possibly without even realizing it. Some classical pieces of music have become enormously popular, e.g. the song "Nessun dorma" from Giacomo Puccini's opera "Turandot" which was sung by the three tenors Luciano Pavarotti, Placido Domingo and José Carreras, and used as the theme tune for the 1990 Soccer World Cup. This made many people who had never been interested in opera start to become curious about it.

The history of classical music really started in the late Middle Ages. Music written for the church was almost always vocal (singing), because instruments were thought to be wicked. This is because the devil played them, and because they were used for dancing. There was a lot of dance music, but most of it is lost because it was never written down.
Medieval composers who are remembered today include Léonin, Pérotin and Guillaume de Machaut

The Renaissance was from the 15th century until the 17th century. This period saw a massive increase in the composition of music, both sacred and secular. Many great cathedrals had been built in Europe and composers wrote music for them, mostly vocal music. Secular music also became extremely popular, especially songs and madrigals, which would sometimes be accompanied by instruments.

The greatest composers of this period include: Giovanni da Palestrina, Orlando di Lasso, Thomas Tallis and William Byrd.

The Baroque period was from about the 17th century until the mid-18th century. This was the time when the modern orchestra was formed, more or less as we know it. It was also the time when opera was invented. Most musicians worked either for the church or for rich people who had their own orchestras. Many of them also started to work for opera houses.

The greatest composers of this time include: Claudio Monteverdi, Heinrich Schütz, Henry Purcell, Antonio Vivaldi, George Frideric Handel, Johann Sebastian Bach, Domenico Scarlatti and Georg Philipp Telemann 

The mid-18th century until around 1820 was known as the Classical period. Composers thought a lot about the forms of their pieces and were influenced by the classical art of the Ancient Greeks and Romans. The symphony was invented and various forms of chamber music including the string quartet.

The greatest composers include: Joseph Haydn, Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart and Ludwig van Beethoven

From 1820 to 1910 was known as the Romantic period. Composers continued to use the forms that had been invented in the 18th century, but they also thought that personal feeling and emotion were very important. Music for orchestra sometimes told a story (programme music). Musicians who played their instruments brilliantly (such as Paganini) were worshipped like heroes. Beethoven and Schubert belong, in many ways, to this period as well as to the Classical period. It was a time when there were a lot of changes in society. After the wars that Napoleon had waged, there were not so many ruling aristocratic families. There was a lot of feeling of nationalism as countries united. 19th century music is often nationalistic: composers wrote music that was typical of their own country.

Some of the greatest composers include: Ludwig van Beethoven, Franz Schubert, Hector Berlioz, Frédéric Chopin, Robert Schumann, Felix Mendelssohn, Anton Bruckner, Johannes Brahms, Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky, Edward Elgar, Gustav Mahler and Richard Strauss.

What is known as 20th century classical music (or “modern music”) is music from about 1910 onwards. At this time many composers felt that everything had already been done by the composers of the past, so they wanted to find new ways of composing. Claude Debussy, Arnold Schoenberg and Igor Stravinsky, in particular, found new ways of writing music which was not necessarily tonal (in any particular key). Classical music was influenced by jazz, especially with American composers. Later in the century people such as Pierre Boulez and Karlheinz Stockhausen experimented in many other ways, including with electronic music (tape recorders etc). Today’s composers have combined some of these ideas to develop their own styles. 

Some of the most important composers are: Claude Debussy, Jean Sibelius, Maurice Ravel, Arnold Schoenberg, Igor Stravinsky, Béla Bartók, Aaron Copland, Benjamin Britten, Dmitri Shostakovich, Leonard Bernstein, Philip Glass, Dmitri Kabalevsky, James MacMillan, Judith Weir, Peter Maxwell Davies

It has never been possible to say exactly what is meant by “classical music”. Many different kinds of music influence one another. Since 1970 it has been even harder to make clear dividing lines between rock, pop, classical, folk, jazz and world music. This shows that classical music, like other kinds of music, continues to develop and reflect the society from which it comes.

The New Grove Dictionary of Music & Musicians, ed. Stanley Sadie; 1980; ISBN1-56159-174-2


</doc>
<doc id="5026" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5026" title="SNAFU">
SNAFU

SNAFU or snafu is an acronym that the United States Military first used. Civilians now use it as well. It stands for Situation Normal: All (Fucked/Fouled) Up.

First it meant "things are in a mess – as usual." .

In modern times, it means a situation that was occurring normally but then suddenly began to go wrong. For example:

"The general's visit this week-end went well until we hit a snafu. Everything went wrong after that."

Snafu is used mostly as a noun. It can also be used as a verb but usually in the passive sense. For instance, someone would say:

"The general's visit this week-end went well until it snafued. Everything went wrong after that."

But they would probably not say:

"The general's visit this week-end went well until we snafued it."


</doc>
<doc id="5031" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5031" title="Atlanta, Georgia">
Atlanta, Georgia

Atlanta is the capital and largest city of the state of Georgia (U.S. state) and one of the South's largest cities. Atlanta is known as a major business city. It is the home of Coca-Cola Company, CNN, AT&T, and Home Depot, as well as many other Fortune 500 companies. Coca-Cola, which is made in Atlanta, is drunk all over the world and it's factory is a favorite tourist destination. CNN is also a big tourist attraction. Atlanta's airport, called Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport, is the busiest airport in the world. Atlanta is near the center of Georgia and is on the Chattahoochee River.

Atlanta was built on Cherokee Native American land. It was called Terminus until 1843, when the name was changed to Marthasville. In 1845 the name was changed again to Atlanta.

During the American Civil War, Atlanta was where several battles happened. Some of the battles were the Battle of Peachtree Creek, the Battle of Atlanta, and the Battle of Ezra Church. The city was burnt down and almost entirely destroyed. After the war, the city was built again, and got a nickname because it was built so fast: "the Phoenix City", after the bird which burns itself then rises from the ashes in old myths. A picture of the bird is on the city seal.

Atlanta became the state capital in 1868.

There have been racial problems in Atlanta. During riots in 1906, at least 12 people died and more than 70 other people were hurt. In 1913, a Jewish man named Leo Frank was tried in court for raping and killing a girl in a factory where he worked. He was found guilty, but then the government decided not to execute him because not everyone was convinced he had done it. This upset people who thought he had killed the girl, and there were more riots in 1915 and Frank was lynched (hanged with a rope until he died).

In the 1930s, the Great Depression came to Atlanta. Many people did not have jobs and were hungry. The city government was almost out of money and the Coca-Cola company gave the city some money to help. In 1935, the government built the first federal housing project in the United States.

Atlanta's airport is named Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport. It is the busiest airport in the world. Delta Air Lines is an airline that has its main office in Atlanta, and it uses Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport for many of its flights.

Turner Broadcasting, which broadcasts CNN, has their main office in Atlanta. The Coca Cola Company also has their main office in Atlanta.

Atlanta's public school system has about 100 schools and 48,000 students. It tests the academic performance of students. The job performance of teachers and administrators are based on the results of these tests. In 2009, 178 teachers and administrators seem to have cheated to raise their student's test scores. Of the 178, 82 admitted to cheating. As a result, several area superintendents and school principals lost their jobs. The school board hired Erroll Davis Jr., a retired energy executive, as an interim school superintendent in July 2011. The Atlanta cheating scandal is one of the biggest in the nation.



</doc>
<doc id="5032" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5032" title="Niccolò Machiavelli">
Niccolò Machiavelli

Niccolò Machiavelli (Florence, Italy, 3 May 1469 – 21 June 1527) was a Florentine official at the time of the Medicis.

He was a diplomat, political philosopher, playwright, and a civil servant of the Florentine Republic. He also wrote comedies, carnival songs, poetry, and some of the best-known personal correspondence in the Italian language.

Machiavelli is known today as the author of "The Prince". This book has influenced politics.

In his best known book, "The Prince", he describes the way that a Prince (by which Machiavelli means a ruler) can control the people he rules. He looks especially at what he calls the "new prince", saying that a prince from a royal family has an easier job because the people are used to his family and the way of life. All that such a hereditary prince needs to do is carefully stick to the traditional ways of working that the people are used to. A new prince has a much more difficult job because he must get people used to his new power and build up new ways of working that people can get used to. This job means that in the new prince has to act in a way people would not quickly criticize, but Machiavelli says this may mean doing bad but necessary things which people do not see or remember. Otherwise a new prince will find it difficult to get anything important done, or even to keep ruling.




</doc>
<doc id="5033" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5033" title="Supply line">
Supply line

A supply line is a large line of military supply vehicles, usually in convoy format. The line is useful for transporting needed supplies (food, medical supplies, ammo) to the front line. Without the supply line, a deployed army far from home would not be able to fight for long, as supplies would soon run out. 
The enemy is most likely to target the supply line if not heavily defended, since once the supplies are cut off, the army will soon be unable to fight, and unable to reinforce, and so they will be forced to surrender or die.


</doc>
<doc id="5034" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5034" title="Michigan">
Michigan

Michigan is the 11th largest state in the United States. It is made up of two peninsulas (connected by the Mackinac Bridge). It was the 26th state to join the union on January 26, 1837. In 1847, Michigan became the first U.S. state to abolish the death penalty.

Michigan is noted as the place where many automobiles were made, and it still shows today. Michigan is 50% forest, which makes it very useful to the lumber industry. It also borders four of the Great Lakes, which are some of the largest reservoirs of fresh water in the world. Lake Superior is the largest body of freshwater in the world.

The state experiences four seasons, with the winter being predominant and severe in the north, while the south has more mild, equally long seasons. The northern areas are very popular for skiing in the winter. The National Ski Hall of Fame can be found in Ishpeming in the Upper Peninsula. 

Due to the large amount of water surrounding the state, boating is very popular in the warmer months. There are more private boats registered in Michigan than in any other state.

Many famous people have come from Michigan. They include the singer Madonna, the comedian Andy Richter, singer Stevie Wonder, Anthony Kiedis, former president Gerald Ford, singer Kid Rock, rapper Eminem, the former Reverend Jim Bakker, basketball legend Magic Johnson, American Idol Contestant Matt Giraud, Diana Ross, and Aretha Franklin. Also it was the home of Henry Ford, the founder of Ford Motor Company.

The capital city of Michigan is Lansing, and large cities include Detroit, Ann Arbor, Flint, Grand Rapids, and Saginaw. Marquette is the largest city in the Upper Peninsula.

Michigan has several state universities including the University of Michigan, Michigan State University, Grand Valley State University and Western Michigan University. The state also has many private colleges.

The current governor is Rick Snyder, a Republican who took office in November 2010, and its two national senators are Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin, both Democrats.


</doc>
<doc id="5059" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5059" title="Caenorhabditis elegans">
Caenorhabditis elegans

Caenorhabditis elegans is a species of roundworm or nematode. It is important because much research has been done on its genetics and development.

"C. elegans" is about 1 mm long. The worms are not parasites, they are free-living. They live in soil and feed on bacteria. "C. elegans" is a model organism, used to study animal development and behavior. It is the first multicellular organism for which scientists have been able to sequence its whole genome.

"C. elegans" has two types of sex: hermaphrodite and male. A hermaphrodite makes sperms when its in a larval stage and makes ova in an adult stage. A male can only make sperm. Males are a little smaller than hermaphrodites.

Study using "C. elegans" was begun in 1965 by Sydney Brenner. In laboratories, they are easy to keep alive. At 25ºC, they spend 14 hours as an embryo. Animals like "C. elegans" that do not take long to grow and are easy to feed are usually good organisms for research.

In 2002, the Nobel Prize for Medicine was awarded to Sydney Brenner, Robert Horvitz, and John Sulston for their work on how "C. elegans's" genes cause it to grow and cause some of its cells to die.


</doc>
<doc id="5060" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5060" title="Saxe-Weimar">
Saxe-Weimar

Saxe-Weimar () was a duchy in Thuringia, Germany. The chief town and capital was Weimar.

Saxe-Weimar and Saxe-Gotha were the two original Ernestine Duchies. They both gradually shrank in size as land in Thuringia was divided among sons..

In 1741 Duke Ernest Augustus I of Saxe-Weimar inheritated the Duchy of Saxe-Eisenach. Ernest Augustus II, who succeeded in 1748, died in 1758, and his young widow, Anna Amalia, became regent for her infant son, Charles Augustus. The regency of Anna Amalia and the reign of Charles Augustus were important in the history of Saxe-Weimar. Both intelligent patrons of literature and art, Anna Amalia and Charles Augustus attracted to their court the leading scholars in Germany, including Goethe, Schiller and Herder, and made Weimar an important cultural centre.

Charles Augustus joined Prussia in the wars against France. After France won the Battle of Jena, Saxe Weimar was forced to join the Confederation of the Rhine in 1806. In 1809 Saxe-Weimar and Saxe-Eisenach, which had been separate duchies with the same duke became one country as the Duchy of Saxe-Weimar-Eisenach.


Merged with Saxe-Eisenach to form Saxe-Weimar-Eisenach





</doc>
<doc id="5064" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5064" title="Oldham">
Oldham

Oldham is a town in the North West of England. It is to the north-east of Manchester. It is part of Greater Manchester. Oldham was part of Lancashire until the 1970s.

Oldham is known for racial fights that happened in May 2001. It is the centre of the Borough of Oldham. 

Oldham Council achieved dubious notoriety in 2009 when in ran up a bill of £8 million carrying out a failed prosecution of kitchen tycoon Vance Miller. The Judge threw out the case and lambasted the Council for the frivolity of the prosecution.

The town has an association football team, called Oldham Athletic. It also has a cricket club, called Oldham Cricket Club.

The composer, William Walton was born in Oldham.

The first test tube baby, Louise Joy Brown, was born in Oldham General Hospital on 25 July 1978.




</doc>
<doc id="5066" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5066" title="Category:Sports">
Category:Sports


</doc>
<doc id="5067" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5067" title="Category:Athletics">
Category:Athletics

"See: Athletics"


</doc>
<doc id="5071" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5071" title="Pakistan">
Pakistan

Pakistan is a country of southern Asia, and forms part of the countries in South-central Asia, next to the Republic of India, Iran, Afghanistan, and China. It is officially called the Islamic Republic of Pakistan. It has a long coastline along the Arabian Sea in the south. Pakistan has the sixth largest population in the world and is the second largest Muslim country after Indonesia. Pakistan has a total land area of (including the Pakistani-administered territories of Azad Kashmir and Gilgit Baltistan). This makes Pakistan the 34th largest country in the world. Pakistan has the seventh largest army in the world.

The name Pākistān (IPA://) means "Land of the Pure" in Urdu and Persian.

The name "Pakistan" means "Land of (the) Pure" in Urdu and Persian. It was coined in 1933 as ' by Choudhary Rahmat Ali, a Pakistan movement activist, who published it in his pamphlet "Now or Never". The name is an acronym representing the "thirty million Muslim brethren who live in PAKSTAN—by which we mean the five Northern units of India viz: Punjab, (Afghan Province), Kashmir, Sind, and Baluchistan". The letter 'i' was later added to ease pronunciation.

Pakistan is made up of four provinces, two territories and two special areas. Both special areas are in Kashmir. The provinces and territories were divided into 26 divisions with now 147 districts directly divided from the provinces. Each district is divided into several tehsils and each tehsil is divided into several union councils. There are around 596 tehsils and over 6,000 union councils of Pakistan.

Provinces:
Among the four provinces, Punjab has the most people but Balochistan is the largest province by area.

Territories:

Administrative Areas (Pakistan-administered Kashmir)
India, Pakistan and China separately control parts of the Kashmir region. India and Pakistan's parts are divided by a Line of Control. The Pakistan–China border is internationally known. Trade is common between the 2 countries.

Pakistan has a semi-industrialized economy. The growth poles of the Pakistani economy are situated along the Indus River. Diversified economies of Karachi and Punjab's urban centres, coexist with lesser developed areas in other parts of the country. Despite being a very poor country in 1947, Pakistan's economic growth rate has been better than the global average during the subsequent four decades, but imprudent policies led to a slowdown in the late 1990s.

Recently, wide-ranging economic reforms have resulted in a stronger economic outlook and accelerated growth especially in the manufacturing and financial services sectors. Since the 1990s, there has been great improvement in the foreign exchange market position and rapid growth in hard currency reserves.

The 2005 estimate of foreign debt was close to US$40 billion. However, this has decreased in recent years with assistance from the International Monetary Fund and significant debt-relief from the United States. Pakistan's gross domestic product, as measured by purchasing power parity, is estimated to be $475.4 billion while its per capita income stands at $2,942. The poverty rate in Pakistan is estimated to be between 23% and 28%.

Pakistan became independent in 1947 from the Indian empire of British Raj. The first people in ancient Pakistan lived 9000 years ago. These people were the ones who made up the Indus Valley Civilization, which is one of the oldest civilizations on Earth. After that, the Vedic period came. This also included parts of north-western India. Until 1971, Pakistan also included an area in the North-east India region. This is now called Bangladesh. It lost that area after a war with Indian Army and the joint militant group of Indo-Bangladeshi alliance of Mitro Bahini of West Bengal. During recent times Pakistan has been in the centre of world politics. This is firstly because of its support to guerillas in Afghanistan, following Soviet invasion 1979, and later during the1990s because of its cooperation with and support for the Taliban regime in Afghanistan. However, since 2000 Pakistan has basically supported the West in their war against fundamentalist terrorism, including the removal of the Taliban regime in Afghanistan.

Pakistan is a member of the Commonwealth. However, after the war in East Pakistan the country was excluded (between 1972-1989). It was also a member between 1999 and 2004. However, it is currently excluded from the Commonwealth (since November 2007).

There are many earthquakes in the area. The earthquake in 2005 with its earthquake center in Kashmir is the strongest so far. Over 100,000 people were killed or wounded on October 8, 2005.
Pakistan covers , approximately equalling the combined land areas of France and the United Kingdom. Its eastern regions are located on the Indian plate and the western and northern regions on the Iranian plateau and Eurasian landplate. Apart from the Arabian Sea coastline, Pakistan's land borders total — with Afghanistan to the northwest, with China to the northeast, with India to the south and east, and with Iran to the southwest.

The northern and western highlands of Pakistan contain the towering Karakoram and Pamir mountain ranges, which incorporate some of the world's highest peaks, including K2 () and Nanga Parbat (). The Balochistan Plateau lies to the west, and the Thar Desert and an expanse of alluvial plains, the Punjab and Sindh, lie to the east. The Indus River and its tributaries flow through the country from the disputed territory of Kashmir to the Arabian Sea.

Pakistan has four seasons: a cool, dry winter from December through February; a hot, dry spring from March through May; the summer rainy season, or southwest monsoon period, from June through September; and the retreating monsoon period of October and November. The onset and duration of these seasons vary somewhat according to location. Rainfall can vary radically from year to year, and successive patterns of flooding and drought are also not uncommon.

The Government of Pakistan (حکومتِ پاکستان) is a federal parliamentary system, with an indirectly-elected President as the Head of state and Commander in Chief of the Joint Armed Forces, and an indirectly-elected Prime Minister as the Head of Government. The President’s appointment and term are constitutionally independent of the Prime Minister’s term. The Electoral College (composed of the Senate, the National Assembly, and the four Provincial Assemblies) chooses a leadership reprsenting the President of Pakistan for a five-year term. The Prime Minister is usually the leader of the largest party in the National Assembly and is assisted by a cabinet of ministers drawn from both chambers of the federal legislature. The current Prime Minister is Yousaf Raza Gillani of the Pakistan Peoples Party, who took office on March 25, 2008.

Pakistan is officially a federal republic, but during a long period in its history it changed to a democratic state and a military dictatorship. Military dictators include Ayub Khan in the 1960s, General Zia-ul-Haq in the 1980s.
Pakistan's two largest political parties are the Pakistan Peoples Party and the government party Muslim League (Pakistan)(Q) (which have military support).
On the 27th December 2007 the leader of the Pakistan People's Party, Benazir Bhutto, was assassinated. The reasoning is yet to be determined.

Pakistan has many high mountain peaks. People from all the world come to climb in those mountains. The most famous mountain peak is K2, which is the second highest mountain peak in the world.

97% of the people are Muslim. Most of the Muslims in Pakistan are Sunni Muslims (>67%) and Shia Muslims (30%). However a few minority groups exist. Pakistan also has some Christian, Hindu and animist minority groups in the northern parts of the country. When Pakistan was made, it had 2 wings (sections), "West Pakistan" and "East Pakistan". The East wing started a rebellion and wanted independence, so they started a civil war against the West wing with the help of India. They got their wish in 1971. Even after the independence of Bangladesh, a large Bengali population still lives in Karachi.

English is the official language. Most people can speak Urdu, but only about 8 percent of the population speak Urdu as their first language. Many people also speak Saraiki,Punjabi, Pushto, Sindhi and Balochi.

After the separation from British India, Hinduism had much less importance in the newly created state of Pakistan, but has played an important role in its culture and politics as well as the history of its regions. In fact, Pakistan has the 5th largest population of Hindus, after Sri Lanka.
The term Hindu is etymologically derived from the Sindhu (Indus River) of Pakistan. The Sindhu is one of the holy rivers of Hinduism. Thus, in many ways, the land which is today's heavily Muslim Pakistan has played an important part in the origin of Hinduism. There are approximately 3 million Hindus living in Pakistan.

The national sport of Pakistan is field hockey, although cricket is the most popular game across the country. The national cricket team has won the Cricket World Cup once (in 1992), were runners-up once (in 1999), and co-hosted the games twice (in 1987 and 1996). Pakistan were runners-up in the inaugural 2007 ICC World Twenty20 held in South Africa and were the champions at the 2009 ICC World Twenty20 held in England. Lately however, Pakistani cricket has suffered heavily due to teams refusing to tour Pakistan because of terrorism fears. No teams have toured Pakistan since March 2009, when militants attacked the touring Sri Lankan cricket players.


</doc>
<doc id="5072" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5072" title="New Zealand">
New Zealand

New Zealand (also Aotearoa) is a country in the south-western Pacific Ocean. It is made up of two large islands (the "North Island" and the "South Island") and several much smaller islands. It is currently ranked as the 8th happiest country in the world.
New Zealand is not part of Australia.
The official languages are English, Māori and New Zealand sign language.

The name "New Zealand" comes from “Zeeland” in Dutch. Zeeland is a province of the Netherlands.
New Zealand is called “Aotearoa” in the Maori language. It means "Land of the Long White Cloud". "Ao" means “cloud”, "tea" means “white”, and "roa" means “long”.

New Zealand is a constitutional monarchy and parliamentary democracy. The head of state is Queen Elizabeth II. The Prime Minister is Mr. John Key.

New Zealand has made itself a "Nuclear Free Zone": They do not use nuclear power and do not allow nuclear weapons or nuclear powered vessels in their territory.

As of the 2006 census, 4,143,279 people lived in New Zealand. Most of them had European ancestors. The indigenous people of New Zealand, the Māori, had a population of 565,329, or 14.6%. 

The people of New Zealand call themselves Kiwis, representing their national native although flightless bird. 
The North Island is smaller than the South Island, but most people (more than 3 million) live there.

The main religion in New Zealand is Christianity. Just over 2 million New Zealanders are Christian.

Farming represents a large community in both the North and South Islands. Most New Zealanders however choose to live in more urban areas. Wellington being the capital of New Zealand. Auckland the largest city with around 1 million people.
Other cities in the North Island include Hamilton, Tauranga, Napier/Hastings, New Plymouth, Wanganui, Palmerston North. 
South Island Cities Christchurch, Dunedin, Nelson and Invercargill.

New Zealand sits at the boundary between two continental plates. They are the Australian and Pacific plates. When these two plates moved together ('collided'), one (the Pacific) moved under the other (the Australian) north of the South Island. As a result, there was a great deal of volcanic activity. South of the South Island, the Australian plate moves under the Pacific plate instead. The plates slide past each other in the South Island, where they have pushed up the Southern Alps. Because of these two colliding plates, New Zealand often has earthquakes. One of the best known is the 2010-2011 group of earthquakes that hit the Christchurch area.

The diagram shows that the North Island is on the Australian plate, but most of the South Island is on the Pacific plate. New Zealand is still geologically active, and will remain so as long as the islands are sitting above the plate boundary.

The oldest rocks in New Zealand date from the Cambrian period, 510 million years ago. New Zealand became part of the global super continent Pangaea. and when that split (End-Triassic/early Jurassic), N.Z. became part of the southern supercontinent Gondwana. Finally Gondwana broke up, leaving the continents rather as they are today. N.Z. (like Britain) is a remnant of these great events.

New Zealand was isolated from the rest of the world for a long time. It split from Australia 83 million years ago. Because of this there are many plants and animals that only live in New Zealand. Before humans came to New Zealand, there were no mammals, except three species of bat and marine mammals such as seals, dolphins, and whales. Instead New Zealand has many different kinds of bird. New Zealand has several species of flightless bird, for example the kiwi. Especially important is the Tuatara, the only living member of a whole order of reptiles.

New Zealand used to have more rare species, but some, mostly birds, were hunted to extinction early in its history. The giant Moa, "Dinornis", is a famous example. The group of birds to which the Moa belongs had been in existence since the Cretaceous period. Mankind arrived in New Zealand about a thousand years ago, when a large number of moas lived, especially on South Island. Archaeological sites with evidence of Moa hunting are all over New Zealand. The moas became extinct about five hundred years ago. Extinctions closer to today have been caused by habitat change and introduced species like rats and dogs which can kill the native species.



</doc>
<doc id="5073" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5073" title="South Korea">
South Korea

South Korea is a country in the southern part of the Korean peninsula, in the north east region of Asia. The capital city is Seoul. The official name of South Korea is the Republic of Korea in English, 대한민국 in Korean writing (Hangeul), and 大韓民國 in Chinese characters (Hanja). About half of the country's people live in its capital city, Seoul, or near the city in the metropolitan area. Korea's Seoul metropolitan area is one of the most populous metropolitan areas in the world. In fact, some sources say it is the second most populous after Tokyo, Japan).

South Korea has 1 Special City ("Teukbyeolsi"; 특별시; 特別市), 6 Metropolitan Cities ("Gwangyeoksi"; 광역시; 廣域市), and 9 Provinces ("do"; 도; 道). The names below are given in English, Revised Romanization, Hangeul, and Hanja.



In South Korea, 19.7% of people are Protestant, 6.6% are Catholic, 23.2% are Buddhist, 49.3% have no religion, and 1.3% either are a part of other religions or have beliefs that are unknown.



</doc>
<doc id="5074" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5074" title="Republic of Ireland">
Republic of Ireland

Ireland is a European country on the island of Ireland. It is a member of the European Union. The country is sometimes called the "Republic of Ireland", but Ireland is its official name. It covers about five-sixths of the island of Ireland. The other sixth is called Northern Ireland, which is still part of the United Kingdom. The republic's capital is Dublin. Cork is the second largest city in the country and the third largest on the island of Ireland. The population of Ireland is 4.2 million. English is the main language spoken. The Irish language is widely taught in all schools, and it is still spoken as a first language in some areas of the country, known as the Gaeltacht. Irish is the first official language, followed by English.

Several hundred years ago, the English took over the country and made it part of the United Kingdom in 1801. Ireland left the United Kingdom in 1922 and has been an independent country since then.

The head of State, the President, is elected for seven years by the adult citizens. The same president can only be elected twice (14 years). Most of the president's tasks are representing and ceremonial ones. The president has little power over the government.

Ireland is a democracy and people vote for their representatives. The Taoiseach (equivalent to a prime minister) is selected by the parliament. The Taoiseach is usually the head of the biggest party.

The Oireachtas (equivalent to the parliament) consists of the Dáil Éireann (the lower House) and the Seanad (the 'upper House'). The system is similar to that of France or the United States, except that the President is not an executive.

The main political parties in Ireland are Fianna Fail, Fine Gael, the Labour, Sinn Féin, and the Green Party.


</doc>
<doc id="5075" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5075" title="Vietnam">
Vietnam

Việt Nam (commonly spelled Vietnam; Việtnamese for "Southern Việt" i.e., the nation of the Viet people in the South) is a country in Southeast Asia. The official name of the country is the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. 

The neighbors of Vietnam are China, Laos and Cambodia. 

The capital of Vietnam is Hànội. The largest city is Hồ Chí Minh City. That city was called "Sàigòn", before 1975. 

There are about 87 million people living in Vietnam.

Today, Việt Nam is an important political and cultural centre in Southeast Asia.

In Vietnam the approximate population is 90,549,390. 25.2% of these people are aged between 0-14, with 11,954,354 being male and 10,868,610 female. 69.3% of these people are aged between 15-64 and the male, female ratio is 31,301,879 are male and 31,419,306 are female. 5.5% are 65 and over and the ratio is 1,921,652 are male and 3,092,589 are female. So with the older two catergories women are more populated.

Vietnam is famous for its ancient civilization and some of the world's most ancient and important monuments, including the Huế's Forbidden City and the Hội An Ancient Town; the southern part of the country contains a particularly large number of ancient artifacts such as the Mỹ Sơn Holy Land and the Óc Eo Citadel.

About 5000 years ago, the two ethnic tribes of the Lac Viet and Au Viet lived together in many areas with other inhabitants. Due to increasing needs to control floods, fights against invaders, and culture and trade exchanges, these tribes living near each other tended to gather together and integrate into a larger mixed group.

Among these Lac Viet tribes was the Van Lang, which was the most powerful tribe. The leader of this tribe later joined all the tribes together to found Van Lang Nation in 2897 BC, addressing himself as the King Hung. The next generations followed in their father's footsteps and kept this appellation. Based on historical documents, researchers correlatively delineated the location of Van Lang Nation to the present day regions of North and north of Central Vietnam, as well as the south of present-day Kwangsi (China).

The Van Lang Nation lasted to the 3rd century B.C. The Dong Son civilization that covered much of Southeast Asia was also the beginning of Vietnam's history. In 221 BC, the Qins invaded the land of the Viet tribes. Thuc Phan, leader of the alliance of Au-Viet tribes managed to expel the enemies and declared himself King An Duong Vuong and his territory Au Lac Nation (257-207 BC). In 208 BC, a Qin Dynasty general named Triệu Đà invaded Au Lac. An Duong Vuong failed this time. As a result, the northern feudalist took turns dominating the country over the next eleven centuries, establishing their harsh regime in the country and dividing the country into administrative regions and districts with unfamiliar names. However, the country's name of Au Lac could not be erased from the people's minds in their everyday life.

In 207 BC Triệu Đà established a state called Nam Việt which encompassed southern China and the Red River Delta. The historical significance of the original Nam Việt remains controversial because some historians consider it a Chinese occupation while others believe it was an independent era. For most of the period from 111 BCE to the early 10th century CE, Vietnam was under the rule of successive Chinese dynasties. Sporadic independence movements were attempted, but were quickly suppressed by Chinese forces.

When it was ruled by the Chinese Empire for many hundred years, it was called Annam ("peaceful south").

In September 1858, France occupied Đà Nẵng. Cochinchina was a French colony from 1862 to 1948. 

In 1930 Nguyễn Ái Quốc established the Vietnamese Independence League ("Việt Nam Ðộc Lập Ðồng Minh Hội") which is also known as the Việt Minh. 

The Japanese took over Vietnam in World War II. The Việt Minh fought against both the Japanese and the Vichy French. 

When the Japanese were defeated, the Vietnamese people, led by the Việt Minh started the August Revolution. 

On September 2, 1945, Nguyễn Ái Quốc (who was now calling himself Hồ Chí Minh, meaning 'Hồ (a common last name) with the will of light') read the Declaration of Independence of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam in Ba Ðình Square, in Hànội. It was based on the American Declaration of Independence. 

Hồ Chí Minh led the Việt Minh in a war for independence from France. 

The "Autonomous Republic of Cochinchina" ("République Autonome de Cochinchine") was proclaimed June 1, 1946 to frustrate the Việt Minh's desire to rule all of Vietnam. 

The War between France and the Việt Minh lasted from 1946 to 1954. The French were defeated in 1954 after the Battle of Dien Bien Phu.

The nation was then divided into North Vietnam and South Vietnam. After independence was achieved, the French gave the land of the Mekong delta that was part of Cambodia to South Vietnam. The anti-communist United States had a lot of influence in the South, and the communist and nationalist Việt Minh controlled the North. Hồ Chí Minh was extremely popular in the whole nation, as he was the only remaining leader after years of fighting, so he became President of the Democratic Republic of (North) Việtnam. It was agreed that the nation would be reunited by elections in 1956. But, the Americans and the Southern government stopped the elections from happening because they expected Hồ Chí Minh to win because communist North Vietnam refused to hold free elections. Dwight Eisenhower said he thought Hồ would win with around 80% of the vote if elections were held because of the majority of the population being in the north added with Ho's few supporters in the South.

Soon, the USA was at war with Vietnam. This war was known as the American War, the Vietnam War, or the Second Indochinese War. Soon, South Vietnam became a military dictatorship with some basic freedoms. The Southern army removed the contriversial Ngo Dinh Diem from power and killed him.

On September 2, 1969, Independence Day, President Hồ Chí Minh died of heart failure. People all across the nation cried for him. Even the Sàigòn newspaper said, "Việt Nam loses a unique politician" since this man had fought for freedom from their Japanese and French rulers. 

On April 30, 1975, the National Liberation Front with the help of the N.V.A. overtook Sàigòn and quickly renamed it Hồ Chí Minh City. The nation was fully reunified as Socialist Republic of Vietnam on July 2, 1976.



</doc>
<doc id="5077" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5077" title="Lance Armstrong">
Lance Armstrong

Lance Armstrong (born Lance Edward Gunderson on September 18 1971 in Plano, Texas, USA) is a American bicycle rider. He won the Tour de France seven times in a row, from 1999 to 2005. He did this several years after having brain surgery and testicular surgery, and a lot of chemotherapy in 1996, to treat testicular cancer that spread to his brain and lungs.

He used to race for the Discovery Channel Pro Cycling Team, but was only team leader during the Tour de France. He has been accused of using drugs, but was only found using a drug he was allowed to use. 

He retired in 2005 but he recently announced, that he was going to come back to the Tour de France in 2009.


















</doc>
<doc id="5084" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5084" title="Category:Body parts">
Category:Body parts

This category is for parts of the body.


</doc>
<doc id="5085" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5085" title="Ton">
Ton

A ton is a unit of weight or mass. There are three primary varieties of ton:



</doc>
<doc id="5086" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5086" title="Category:Tools">
Category:Tools

Tools assist people during the course of their work or everyday life.


</doc>
<doc id="5093" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5093" title="Phoebe (moon)">
Phoebe (moon)

Phoebe is a moon which goes around (orbits) the planet called Saturn. It takes eighteen months for Phoebe to go all the way around Saturn. It is half made out of rock, and half made out of ice. The ground on Phoebe is black, which means that it is very dark when seen from Earth. Phoebe does not have any air, and there is no water on its surface. Because there is no air or water, there are no people living there.

There are many craters on Phoebe. These are from asteroids and other things crashing into it, and leaving round marks on the surface.

Phoebe is slightly irregular, which means that it is not spherical, or circular. It has an average diameter of 220 km. This means that Phoebe is about 1/15th the size of Earth's moon.


</doc>
<doc id="5098" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5098" title="Three Peaks Challenge">
Three Peaks Challenge

The Three Peaks Challenge is a challenge (a hard task or job) which involves climbing three British mountains (a peak is the top of a mountain) in less than 24 hours. The three mountains are the highest of each of the three countries in the island of Great Britain.


Each year many people attempt (try) to do the challenge to raise money for charity. They do this by getting their friends and family to sponsor them (give them money). Many people do not do the challenge for charity. They do it simply because they enjoy walking in the mountains and they want to try something hard. These people usually do it in small groups. Some of them will do the walking, and others will do the driving and the cooking for them. Some people have completed the challenge very quickly. The record is fifteen hours.

Recently, the challenge has become more popular. People who live near the mountains often do not like having cars around in the middle of the night. Conservation groups blame people doing the challenge for dropping litter and damaging the landscape. Some people park their cars in inconsiderate places. Thousands of people attempt the challenge each year. Supporters of the challenge say that only a few people cause these problems, and most behave well.

Most attempts are made in the summer, because the days are long and the weather is good. In the winter it is dark for most of the day and can be very cold. The weather up the mountains can change very quickly, and some people die in blizzards (storms of snow) in the winter. Most people who attempt the challenge use the same route, because it is the easiest way of doing the challenge in 24 hours.

They start with Ben Nevis at about five o'clock. It takes about three hours to climb this mountain, so they reach the summit (the top) at about eight o'clock, and return to the bottom at about ten o'clock. In the summer it is still light in Britain at this time. If people start climbing Ben Nevis too early they will arrive at Scafell Pike too early the next morning and it will still be dark. It is important to be quick at the bottom of the mountains. There is not much time so food is usually prepared by others waiting at the bottom. When the climbers arrive they usually leave straight away and eat while they are on the road.

The next mountain is Scafell Pike, in the Lake District of northern England. The journey between Ben Nevis and Scafell Pike is longer than the journey between Scafell Pike and Snowdon. This is why it is done at night, when it is too dark to climb. The journey takes six or seven hours, and the walkers usually go to sleep. The next morning they arrive at Scafell Pike at about half past four. In the summer it is light by this time. Scafell Pike is not as high as the other mountains, but is harder.

If it is climbed quickly enough and the walkers do not get lost they can return to the bottom by about nine o'clock. It takes several hours to get to Snowdon in Wales. The walkers are usually very tired and worried that there is not enough time. If they arrive at the bottom of Snowdon at half past one in the afternoon they can climb it in two hours. This leaves them an hour and a half to get back to the bottom. If they were too slow on the other mountains or the journeys in between they might have to run!

You need to be quite fit to do the challenge in 24 hours, but people who are young and active, and people who are used to hillwalking, can do it. Compared to some mountains in the world, all the mountains in Britain are small. If the weather is bad or the drivers are slow it is very hard.



</doc>
<doc id="5099" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5099" title="Pennsylvania">
Pennsylvania

Pennsylvania is one of the 50 states in the United States of America. It is located in the northeastern section of the country. It has a border with Ohio on the west, West Virginia on the south and west, Maryland and Delaware on the south, New Jersey on the east, and New York and Lake Erie on the north.

The state capital of Pennsylvania is Harrisburg. The largest city in Pennsylvania is Philadelphia. The state nickname of Pennsylvania is "The Keystone State". The current governor of Pennsylvania is Tom Corbett.

Pennsylvania is well known for its role in the American Revolution, its large communities of Amish, and its heavy industry.

Pennsylvania was home to many Native American groups before Europeans settled there. These include the Delaware, Susquehanna, and Iroquois.

The first European settlers in Pennsylvania were from Sweden. They arrived in 1643. The area was later ruled by the Netherlands and Great Britain. In 1681, Charles II of England, gave the land to William Penn. Penn used the land to create a home for Quakers. The land became known as "Penn's Woods", as Pennsylvania has many forests. In Latin this is "Pennsylvania". This became adopted as the name of the colony.

Meanwhile, in the western part of the state, armies from France and Great Britain fought for control of the source of the Ohio River. This conflict was part of the French and Indian War. Great Britain eventually won the conflict for this location and built a fort called Fort Pitt. The fort grew into a city which is now called Pittsburgh. 

The state of Delaware was once part of Pennsylvania. In 1704, Delaware formed when three Pennsylvania counties left the colony and created their own government.

Pennsylvania was one of the 13 colonies that fought Great Britain in the American Revolution. The United States Declaration of Independence was signed in Philadelphia. Benjamin Franklin, an important figure in the Revolution, was also from Philadelphia. Pennsylvania was the second state to join the United States. Philadelphia was capital of the United States before Washington, D.C..

Later, Pennsylvania became an important center of industry. Kerosene was discovered in Titusville in the 19th century. This was the start of the oil industry in the United States. Large deposits of coal were found in and around Pittsburgh. This caused Pittsburgh to become a major industrial city.

Industry began leaving Pennsylvania in the late 20th century, because most heavy industry was being transferred to other nations. This caused the population to drop profoundly. It also caused many of its cities and towns to decay.

Most of Pennsylvania is part of the Appalachian Mountains, including the south central and northeastern areas of the state. Much of the rest of the state is very hilly, partly due to the closeness to mountains and partly due to the steep river valleys in the state. The Monongahela, Allegheny, and Ohio rivers are in the western part of the state, and the Susquehanna is in the central part of the state. The northwestern and southeastern parts of the state are mostly flat and low-lying.

Pennsylvania is the 33rd largest state in the United States, with a land area of 44,817 square miles. The highest point in the state is Mount Davis, at 3,213 feet above sea level. The lowest point is the Delaware River, which is at sea level.

Pennsylvania is the 6th most populated state. In 2000, the population was 12,281,054. 

More than half of the population lives in the areas of Pittsburgh and Philadelphia. Few people live in the north central area of the state. Towns and cities tend to be small in size and densely populated, more so than in other states. This is because many of the towns and cities in Pennsylvania were built around a specific factory or factories.

Pennsylvania has many colleges and universities. Officially, the state's public university is Pennsylvania State University. Best known are a few private university systems which are partially (around 10%) funded by the state, like University of Pittsburgh. The state's most well-known private university is the University of Pennsylvania, an Ivy League institution. Pennsylvania also has a number of state run colleges located in Bloomsburg, California, Cheyney, Clarion, East Stroudsburg, Edinboro, Indiana, Kutztown, Lock Haven, Mansfield, Millersville, Shippensburg, Slippery Rock, and West Chester. Those fourteen schools make up one of the largest state run higher education systems in the country. Other significant private universities are Carnegie-Mellon University, known for its computer science research, and Bucknell University.


</doc>
<doc id="5102" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5102" title="Box">
Box

A box is a container used to put things in. It is mainly a cuboid (square) shape, but it can be other shapes too. Boxes are usually made out of cardboard, wood, plastic or metal.
Many boxes are made of cardboard, and a lot of them are made, which are primarily used for packaging commercial goods or storing goods and materials. They can be made from bent or wrinkled cardboard. In their most obvious life stage they are popularly used as a cheap material for the construction of a range of projects, among them being science experiments, children's toys, costumes and other things.

A box also means a rectangle, "e.g. userbox". But rectangles are mainly referred to as rectangles, the term box is the outline, or perimeter of the rectangle.


</doc>
<doc id="5103" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5103" title="Philippines">
Philippines

The Philippines is archipelago country with 7,000 islands. It is in the Pacific Ocean and about 100 kilometers southeast from Asia. Spain (1521-1898) and the United States (1898-1946), colonized (controlled) the country. The Philippines, South Korea, and East Timor are the only nations in East Asia where most people practice Christianity. Philippines achieved independence after United States left in 1946.

The Philippine Islands are surrounded on the East by the Philippine Sea, on the west by the South China Sea, and on the south by the Celebes Sea. Borneo island is a few hundred kilometers to the southwest, Vietnam is to the west, and Taiwan is directly north. On the eastern side of the Philippine Sea is Palau.

Human fossils were found proving that many people settled in the Philippines for thousands of years. The Negritos crossed prehistoric land or ice to settle in the islands' land. Many groups of Austronesian or Malayan people began to come to the Philippines in the first millennium, pushing the aboriginal population into the interior or perhaps absorbing them through intermarriage.

Chinese merchants arrived in the 8th century. The rise of powerful Buddhist kingdoms enabled trade with the Indonesian archipelago, India, Japan and Southeast Asia. Factional fighting among the kingdoms of Southeast Asia weakened their strength. In the meantime, the spread of Islam through commerce and proselytism, much like Christianity, brought traders and missionaries into the region; Arabs set foot in Mindanao in the 14th century. When the first Europeans arrived, led by Ferdinand Magellan in 1521, there were rajahs as far north as Manila, who historically were tributaries of the kingdoms of Southeast Asia. However, the islands were essentially self-sufficient and self-ruling.

The Spanish led by Conquistador Miguel Lopez de Legazpi claimed and colonized the islands in the 16th century and named it "Filipinas" after King Felipe II. Roman Catholicism was immediately introduced. The Philippines was ruled from New Spain (Mexico) and a trade began in the 18th century began using galleons across the Pacific Ocean. Some rebellions and violence started in the towns near the ocean and during the next three centuries because of some unfairness of the government.

In 1781, Governor José Basco y Vargas founded the Economic Society of Friends of the Country to make the Philippines independent of New Spain.

The country opened up during the 19th century. The rise of an ambitious, more nationalistic Filipino middle class and the Chinese mestizo community, signaled the end of Spanish colonialism in the islands. Enlightened by the Propaganda Movement to the injustices of the Spanish colonial government, they asked for independence. Jose Rizal, the most famous propagandist, was arrested and put to death in 1896 for acts of subversion. Soon after, the Philippine Revolution broke out, led by the Katipunan, a secret revolutionary society founded by Andres Bonifacio and later led by Emilio Aguinaldo. The revolution nearly succeeded in ousting the Spanish by 1898.

That same year Spain and the United States fought the Spanish-American War, after which Spain gave up the Philippines to the United States for US$20 million. The Filipinos had declared independence by that time and the assertion of American control led to the Philippine-American War that officially ended in 1901, but fighting continued well into 1913. Between 1899 and 1913 the American-Philippines war waged, about one million Philippines and well over 5500 American soldiers (including missionaries& private contractors, military families) lost their lives, tens of thousands more were wounded. Most of the Philippine's casualties came from starvation, injuries, diseases, lack of clean living. Hostilities continued until 1914 when Philippines was promised future independence.

President McKinley was killed by an anarchist Leon Czolgosz because Czolgosz believed president McKinley was against good working people, he considered William McKinley responsible for falsifying reasons for war, approving and waging illegal, devastating Philippines war.

The American regime imposed the English language as the lingua franca in the islands through free public education. The status of the country was turned into that of a US commonwealth in 1935, which provided for more self-governance.

Independence was finally given in 1946, after the World War II. The years right after that had many post-war problems. People were also not happy during the unpopular dictatorship of Ferdinand Marcos, who was made to leave the presidency in 1986. Later, the continuing problem of communist insurgency and Moro separatism.

The government of the Philippines, is similar to the Government of the United States of America. The President of the Philippines works as the head of state, the head of government, and the commander in chief of the Military of the Philippines and the armed forces. The president is elected by voting just as in America. He stays as the president for 6 years. He is the leader of the cabinet.

The bicameral Philippine legislature, the Congress of the Philippines, consists of the Senate of the Philippines and the House of Representatives of the Philippines; members of both are elected by popular vote. There are 24 senators serving 6 years in the Senate while the House of Representatives consists of no more than 250 congressmen each serving 3-year terms.

The judiciary branch of the government is headed by the Supreme Court of the Philippines, which has a Chief Justice as its head and 14 Associate Justices, all appointed by the president.

The Philippines is a founding and prominent member of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN). It is also an active participant of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC), a member of the Group of 24 and one of the 51 founding members of the United Nations on October 24, 1945.

Local Government. The parts of Philippines are "local government units" (LGUs). The province is the top unit. There are 79 provinces in the country (2002). In the provinces there are cities and municipalities (towns). In these municipalities there are smaller "barangays" (villages). The "barangay" is the smallest local government unit.

All provinces are in 17 regions for administration (organisation). Most government offices have regional offices for the provinces. The regions do not have a separate local government, except the Muslim Mindanao and Cordillera regions, which have their own power.

¹ Names are capitalized because they are acronyms, containing the names of the constituent provinces or cities).

The Philippines has 7,107 islands. Together there are about 300,000 square kilometers of land. The islands are in three groups: Luzon, Visayas, and Mindanao. Luzon is the largest island and Mindanao is the second largest. The Visayas are the group of islands in the central part of the Philippines. The busy port of Manila, on Luzon, is the country's capital and it is the second-largest city after Quezon City. In the Visayas, Cebu City is the largest city. In Mindanao, Davao City is the largest city.

The climate is hot, humid (there is a lot of water in the air), and tropical. The average temperature all year is around 26.5 °Celsius. Filipinos usually say there are three seasons: "Tag-init" or "Tag-araw" (the hot season or summer from March to May), "Tag-ulan" (the rainy season from June to November), and "Tag-lamig" (the cold season from December to February).

The Philippines is in the Pacific Ring of Fire (zone of frequent earthquakes and volcanic eruptions). Most of the mountainous islands had a lot of tropical rainforests a long time ago. They started as volcanoes. The highest place is Mount Apo on Mindanao at 2,954 m. Many volcanoes in the country, for example Mount Mayon, are active. The country also has about 19 typhoons per year.

Taal Volcano is an island within Taal Lake which sits in a ancient caldera. Located in Batangas Province, it's about 2 hours by bus going south from Manila. The jump-off point in Talisay. It's suitable for day trips and overnighters.

There are many environmental problems in the Philippines. One of them is overfishing in many areas, which lead to pitiful catches. Another problem is that only ten percent of sewage is treated and cleaned, while the other 90% is dumped back to nature and the ocean, which leads to pollution. Deforestation is a serious problem, and after decades of taking down forests, illegal logging and forest fires, there is only 3% left of original forest cover. Forest losses have also affected the Philippines with serious soil erosion, which is threatening the Philippines biodiversity. 

The Philippines is a developing country. In 1998 the Philippine economy — a mixture of agriculture, light industry, and support services — deteriorated because of the spillover from the Asian financial crisis and poor weather conditions. Growth fell to 0.6% in 1998 from 5% in 1997, but recovered to about 3% in 1999 and 4% in 2000. The government has promised to continue its economic reforms to help the Philippines match the pace of development in the newly industrialized countries of East Asia.

The strategies are improving infrastructure, fixing the tax system to help the government income, supporting deregulation (to remove government control) and privatization of the economy, and increasing trade within the region. Future prospects depend heavily on the economic performance of the three major trading partners, China, the United States and Japan.

Around 94 million people live in the Philippines as of 2010. Most people in the Philippines are of Austronesian stock. The ethnic Chinese, who have helped run businesses since the 9th century, also live in the country. The Negritos live in the mountains of Luzon and Visayas. The rest of the groups are the Spanish, North Americans, other Asians, and other ethnicities from other countries, and live throughout the country's major cities.

The people of the Philippines are known as "Filipinos". Filipinos are divided into many groups, the three largest are the Tagalogs, Cebuanos, and the Ilocanos. When the Philippines was a colony, the term "Filipino" used to mean the Spanish and Spanish-mixed minority. But now everyone living in the Philippines is called "Filipino". Even then, it is still has the most diverse ethnic groups in Asia. People also call Filipinos, "Pinoy" for short.

Filipino and English are the official languages. Filipino is based largely on Tagalog, the language spoken in Metro Manila and neighboring provinces. Other local languages are Cebuano and Ilocano and many others. English is used in government, schools and business. Other languages are Chinese and Arabic.

Filipino culture is strongly influenced by both Western and Eastern traditions. It is a mix of native (Austronesian), Spanish, Mexican, American, and Chinese cultures.

Before the Spanish arrived, the Filipinos did not think of themselves as one people. The Spaniards came in 1565, and brought with them Spanish culture. They soon spread to the islands making forts and schools, preaching Christianity, and converting the native peoples to the Catholic religion. When the United States colonized the islands in 1898, the Americans brought with them their culture, which has the strongest influence up to now. This makes the Philippines the most Westernized country in eastern Asia.

Each year major festivities called "barrio fiestas" are held. They commemorate the Patron saints of the towns, villages and regional districts. The festivities includes church services, street parades, fireworks displays, feasts, dance/music contests, and cockfights.

Most of the people in the Philippines are Christians. About 92% of the people are Christians. Most people in the Philippines belong to the Roman Catholic faith (78%). A small percentage of the people are Protestants (many diverse Christian denominations) (2%), Members Church of GOD International (.01%), Iglesia ni Cristo (2%), Muslims (5%), Buddhists (2%). There are also some Hindus and some other minor religions with fewer adherents (with 6.6%).





</doc>
<doc id="5108" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5108" title="Fawlty Towers">
Fawlty Towers

Fawlty Towers was a popular British TV comedy. It was broadcast by the BBC from 1975. It ended in 1979. Only twelve episodes were ever broadcast, however the show is still popular with people. "Fawlty Towers" has influenced other comedies.

It is set in a hotel in the coastal town of Torquay. 

The owners of the hotel are Basil Fawlty (played by John Cleese) and his wife Sybil (Prunella Scales). 

They are helped by Polly, a young British maid (Connie Booth) and Manuel, a clumsy waiter from Barcelona in Spain (Andrew Sachs). 

In later episodes (from series two onwards) there is also a chef, Terry (Brian Hall).

Basil is a rude man, who fought in the Korean War. He has been married to Sybil for fifteen years. Sybil and Basil do not appear to really love each other. Polly has a talent for painting, and this is shown in some episodes when her artwork is laid upon the front desk, annoying Basil. Manuel speaks only a little English and he often makes mistakes. When he makes a mistake Basil usually apologizes to the guests by saying, "I'm so sorry, he's from Barcelona."

The Major (Ballard Berkeley) is a regular guest; he's old and forgetful. The aged and easily shocked Miss Tibbs (Gilly Flower) and Miss Gatsby (Renee Roberts) are also regular guests.

There were twelve episodes of "Fawlty Towers" made. 

The first 6 episodes were made in 1975, the last 6 in 1979. "Fawlty Towers" still has many fans, and many people regard it as the best comedy series made by the BBC. It was voted 5th in a poll in Britain to find "Britain's Best Sitcom" 2004.

One of the most famous episodes is "The Germans". In that episode, people from Germany are visiting the Hotel. Basil dislikes Germans, because he blames them for starting World War II. He tells his staff not to mention the war ("Don't mention the war!"). He himself continually mentions the war, and even imitates Hitler.

The episodes, in order with date of first showing, are:




</doc>
<doc id="5110" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5110" title="Custom">
Custom

A custom (also called a tradition) is any thing which lots of people do, and have done for a long time. Usually, the people come from the same country, culture, time or religion. If something is usually done the same way, you might say that is the "customary way" of doing things.

The meaning of "culture" is similar to the meaning of custom. A custom is more about practices, while culture is more about ideas or a group of customs. A custom overall is just similar to culture and culture means the way of life of a people.

Custom can also have a second meaning, as in "Custom paint job" on a car. This means paintwork that has been specially changed. 

Custom can also mean changed to suit better: altered in order to fit somebody's requirements.

Example of it are: 
In some countries it is polite/respectful to bow to older people. 

In some countries it is OK to burp while eating your food.

In some countries you take your shoes off before entering the house.


</doc>
<doc id="5111" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5111" title="Fort Ouiatenon">
Fort Ouiatenon

Fort Ouiatenon was the first fortified European settlement in what is now the U.S. state of Indiana. It is approximately three miles southwest of modern-day West Lafayette.

Fort Ouiatenon was originally constructed by the French government in 1717 as a military outpost to protect against Great Britain's western expansion. Its location among the unsettled woodlands of the Wabash River valley also made it a key center of trade for fur trappers. French merchants and trappers from Quebec would arrive at Fort Ouiatenon in search of beaver pelts and to take advantage of trade relations with the native Wea Native American tribes.

At its peak level of activity during the mid-18th century Fort Ouiatenon was home to over 2,000 residents. In 1761, during the French and Indian War, a contingent of British soldiers led by Lieutenant Edward Jenkins captured and occupied the fort. In 1763 an uprising led by Chief Pontiac of the Ottawa Native American tribe surprised Lieutenant Jenkins and his men and captured Fort Ouiatenon without firing a shot. Seven similar posts were also captured in what became known as Pontiac's Uprising.

The British made little use of Fort Ouiatenon after the French and Indian War; it was never garrisoned. During the 1780s, local Indian tribes used it as a base of operations to stage raids against American settlers pushing westward. Consequently President George Washington ordered the fort to be destroyed in 1791.
In 1930 a replica of Fort Ouiatenon was built near its original site by a local physician named Richard Wetherill. In 1970 the site was placed on the National Register of Historic Places by the U.S. Department of the Interior. Today Fort Ouiatenon is open to tourists and is the location of the annual Feast of the Hunters' Moon.


</doc>
<doc id="5113" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5113" title="Chennai">
Chennai

Chennai (formerly known as Madras) is the capital city of the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. It has a population of about 7 million people. Almost 10% of all of the people in the state live in Chennai. The city is the fourth largest city of India. It was founded in 1661 by the British East India Company. The city is on the Coromandel Coast of the Bay of Bengal.

Chennai is the automobile capital of India. It is also referred as the Detroit of South Asia. The long Marina Beach in Chennai, is one of the longest beaches in the world. The city is separated into three parts by two rivers. The Cooum River divides the city into almost half and the Adyar River divides the southern half of the city into two parts. The historic Buckingham canal runs through the city. It is almost parallel to the coast. The 350 year old city still has much of its old charm. Today, it is a big commercial and industrial centre. The city has much cultural heritage. The temples, shrines, forts and palaces of the city combine it's past with the present.

Chennai and its nearby area has been an important administrative, military and economic centre back to the 1st century. Many South India kingdoms like the Pallava, the Chola, the Pandya and Vijayanagara Empires have ruled over the area. The British controlled the town in 1749. Under British control, the city grew into a major urban centre and naval base. The city grew up around the English settlement of Fort Saint George. It slowly grew in the nearby towns and villages. Chennai became the capital of Madras state the India became independent in 1947. The state was later renamed as Tamil Nadu is 1968.


Chennai is connected by airways, railways and roads with all the major towns of the country.
Chennai is linked with roads from rest of the country. The distance of major cities and towns from Chennai are: 

Chennai railway station is connected with all the major railway stations of the country. These include Delhi, Mumbai, Calcutta, Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Cochin, Hyderabad, Lucknow, and Varanasi.
The airport in Chennai is directly linked to airports of Delhi, Mumbai, Calcutta, Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Goa, Bhubaneswar, Cochin, Hyderabad, Port Blair and Pune.

The international terminal is connected with other overseas airports including London, Tokyo, Brussels, Singapore, Dubai, Frankfurt, Kuala Lumpur and New York.

It is one of the busiest airports in Asia.



</doc>
<doc id="5114" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5114" title="Mumbai">
Mumbai

Mumbai (known as Bombay until 1994) is a natural harbor on the west coast of India, and is the capital city of Maharashtra state. It is India's largest city, and one of the world's most populous cities. It is called the commercial capital of India. The city is the second most-populous in the world. It has approximately 14 million people. Along with the neighboring cities of Navi Mumbai and Thane, it forms the world's 4th largest urban agglomeration. They have around 19 million people.

The seven islands that form Bombay were home to fishing colonies. The islands were ruled by successive kingdoms and indigenous empires before Portuguese settlers took it. Then, it went to the British East India Company. During the mid-18th century, Bombay became a major trading town. It became a strongplace for the Indian independence movement during the early 20th century. When India became independent in 1947, the city was incorporated into Bombay State. In 1960, following the Samyukta Maharashtra movement, a new state of Maharashtra was created with Bombay as the capital. It was renamed Mumbai in 1996.

Mumbai generates 5% of India's GDP. It accounts for 25% of industrial output, 40% of sea trade, and 70% of capital to India's economy. The Reserve Bank of India, the Bombay Stock Exchange, the National Stock Exchange of India and the many Indian companies and multinational corporations are in the city. It also has the Hindi film and television industry, known as Bollywood. 



</doc>
<doc id="5115" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5115" title="Bangalore">
Bangalore

Bangalore (English Pronunciation:ˈbæŋɡəlɔər, bæŋɡəˈlɔər), also known as Bengaluru (Kannada: ಬೆಂಗಳೂರು) is the capital city of the Indian state of Karnataka. It is famous for its Information technology industry and is called the Silicon Valley of India. Today as a large city and growing metropolis, Bangalore is home to many of the most well-recognized colleges and research institutions in India. 


</doc>
<doc id="5116" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5116" title="Akbar the Great">
Akbar the Great

Jalaluddin Muhammad Akbar was the greatest Mughal ruler of Hindustan. He ruled the Mughal Empire from 1556 C.E. to 1605 C.E.. He is also known as Akbar the Great (Akbar-e-Azam). He was born October 15, 1542 and died October 27 C.E., 1605 C.E.. He was the son of Nasiruddin Humayun and Hamida.
His son's name was Salim but also known as Jehangir. Akbar's favorite courtier was Birbal. Akbar was very eager to learn about other religions and faiths and even though he could not read he loved to have people reading to him. Akbar had also built a palace called Fatehpur Sikri which served him as a capital from 1565-81.He had Navaratnas/nine gems in his court.



</doc>
<doc id="5117" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5117" title="New Delhi">
New Delhi

New Delhi is the capital city of the modern Republic of India. It has a very old history. It is in the north of India. The city has an area of about 42.7 km. New Delhi has a population of about 9.4 mio. people.


</doc>
<doc id="5118" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5118" title="Edmund Hillary">
Edmund Hillary

Sir Edmund Percival Hillary, (born July 20, 1919, died January 11, 2008) was a New Zealand mountaineer and explorer. Along with Sherpa guide Tenzing Norgay, he was the first successful person to climb Mount Everest on May 29, 1953. Mount Everest is the tallest mountain on earth. During his teenage years, Edmund Hillary had attended Auckland Grammar School.

Sir Edmund Hillary's fame came as a result of being the first New Zealander in the world to conquer Mt. Everest in Nepal. He is on the New Zealand five dollar note. He also climbed ten other mountains after Mount Everest, all of which are also located in the Himalayas. 

Hillary was born to Percival Augustus Hillary and Gertrude Hillary, née Clark, in Auckland, New Zealand, on 20 July 1919. His family moved to Tuakau (south of Auckland) in 1920, after his father (who served at Gallipoli) had gotten land there. His grandparents were early settlers in northern Wairoa in the mid 19th century after moving from Yorkshire, England.

Hillary learned at Tuakau Primary School and then Auckland Grammar School. He finished primary school two years early, but he did not do very well at high school. At first, he was smaller than other students there and very shy so he felt safe with his books and often thought of a life filled with adventure. Every day, he rode a train to and from high school, and he often used this time to read. Learning how to box helped him become more confident. At age 16 his interest in climbing started during a school trip to Mount Ruapehu. Although very tall at 6 ft 5 in (195cm), he found that he was stronger than many of his fellow hikers.
He learned about mathematics and science at The University of Auckland, and in 1939 he completed his first important climb, which was reaching the top of a mountain called Mount Ollivier. With his brother Rex, Hillary became a beekeeper during summertime, which allowed him to do climbing in the winter.

Hillary married Louise Mary Rose in 1953, by whom he had a son and two daughters. In 1975, his wife and their younger daughter were killed in a plane crash. Hillary married June Mulgrew in 1989; they remained married until he died.

Hillary died of heart disease in Auckland, at the age of 88.


</doc>
<doc id="5119" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5119" title="Wright brothers">
Wright brothers

The Wright brothers, Orville Wright (August 19, 1871 - January 30, 1948) and Wilbur Wright (April 16, 1867 - May 30, 1912), are credited for making the first controlled, powered, heavier-than-air flight on December 17, 1903. They had been experimenting for many years with gliders and other vehicles before their first powered flight. They are also known for making the first way to steer an airplane. Their first test flight took place in Kitty Hawk Heights, North Carolina though they designed the aircraft in Dayton, Ohio. 

The Wrights both grew up in Dayton, Ohio and were the son of a minister. They went to high school, but did not go to college and started a newspaper instead. After that, they started a shop to build and repair bicycles.

By the 1890s, the Wrights were interested in flight, particularly the gliders of Otto Lilienthal. They saw controlling a plane as one of the big problems of flight, as Lilienthal and others had been killed when they could not control their aircraft, and fixed it by building wings that could be moved up and down slightly. From 1900 to 1902, they built gliders in Dayton and tested them in Kitty Hawk. During this period, they also built a wind tunnel to test how well something will fly. In 1903, they built a powered airplane with a propeller and a light engine. The "Wright Flyer" airplane first flew successfully on December 17, 1903, which many think is the first time man ever flew. The two continued to make changes to their design, and had a very practical plane by 1905.
The Wright Brothers kept their discovery largely secret for a couple of years until they showed it to the world in 1908 . (They had filed a patent on the airplane Mar 23, 1903. ) After that, they started a company to build airplanes and had a “patent war” with Glenn Curtiss over who could make money over the invention of the airplane. During the patent war, Wilbur died. Orville continued work to maintain his reputation as the first man to fly, but eventually sold the airplane company and became an “elder statesman” of aviation. He died in 1948.
<br>
<br><br>
<br>


</doc>
<doc id="5121" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5121" title="Charles Darwin">
Charles Darwin

Charles Robert Darwin (12 February 1809 – 19 April 1882) was an English naturalist. He is famous for his work on the theory of evolution. His book "On the Origin of Species" (1859) did two things. First, it provided a great deal of evidence that evolution has taken place. Second, it proposed a theory to explain "how" evolution works. That theory is natural selection. Evolution by natural selection is the key to understanding biology, and the diversity of life on Earth.

Darwin spent five years on board a Royal Navy exploring ship, the HMS "Beagle". He was the guest naturalist, which meant that he was responsible for making collections and notes about the animals, plants, and the geology of the countries they visited. The ship's crew made charts of all the coastal areas, which could be used by the navy wherever it went in the world. At the time, Britain had by far the largest navy in the world, and an empire which was global.

Darwin collected everywhere the ship weighed anchor. He found huge fossils of recently extinct mammals, experienced an earthquake in Chile, and noticed the land had been raised. He knew of raised beaches elsewhere, high in the Andes, with fossil seashells and trees which had once grown on a sandy beach. Obviously the earth was constantly changing, with land rising in some places, and sinking in others. He collected birds and insects, and sent shipments back to Cambridge for experts to identify. 

Darwin was the first dedicated naturalist to visit the Galapagos Islands, off the west coast of Ecuador. He noticed that some of the birds were like mockingbirds on the mainland, but different enough to be placed in separate species. He began to wonder how so many new species came to be on these islands.

When Charles got back to England, he edited a series of scientific reviews of the Voyage, and he wrote a personal journal which we know as the "Voyage of the Beagle". It is one of the great natural history travel diaries.

While on H.M.S. "Beagle", and later back home in London, Darwin had come across the ideas of the Rev. T.R. Malthus. Malthus had realised that, although humans could double their population every 25 years, it did not happen in practice. He thought the reason was that a struggle for existence (or resources) limited their numbers. If numbers increased, then famine, wars and diseases caused more deaths. Darwin, who knew that all living things could, in principle, increase their numbers, began to think about why some survived, while others did not. His answer took years to develop.

The theory of evolution says that all living things on Earth, including plants, animals and microbes, come from a common ancestor by slowly changing throughout the generations. Darwin suggested that the way living things changed over time is through "natural selection". This is the better survival and reproduction of those that best fit their environment. Fitting into the place where you live is called adapting. Those who fit best into the place where they live, the best adapted, have the best chance to survive and breed. Those who are less well-adapted tend not to survive. If they do not survive well enough to raise young, this means they do not pass on their genes. In this way, the species gradually changes.

The first chapter of the "Origin" deals with domesticated animals, such as cattle and dogs. Darwin reminded readers of the huge changes mankind had made in its domestic animals, which were once wild species. The changes were brought about by "selective breeding" – choosing animals with desirable characters to breed from. This had been done generation after generation, until our modern breeds were produced. Perhaps what man had done deliberately, might happen in nature, where some would leave more offspring than others. 

Darwin noticed that although young plants or animals are very similar to their parents, no two are exactly the same and there is always a range of shape, size, colour, and so on. Some of these differences the plant or animal may have got from their own ancestors, but some are new and caused by mutations. When such differences made an organism more able to live in the wild, it would have a better chance to survive, and would pass on its genes to its offspring, and they to their offspring. Any difference that would cause the plant or animal to have less of a chance to live would be less likely to be passed on, and would eventually die out altogether. In this way groups of similar plants or animals (called species) slowly change in shape and form so that they can live more successfully and have more offspring who will survive them. So, natural selection had similarities to selective breeding, except that it would happen by itself, over a much longer time.

He first started thinking about this in 1838, but it took a full twenty years before his ideas became public. By 1844 he was able to write a draft of the main ideas in his notebook. Historians think that he did not talk about his theory because he was afraid of public criticism. He knew his theory, which did not discuss religion, raised questions about the literal truth of the Book of Genesis. Whatever the reason, he did not publish his theory in a book until 1859. In 1858 he heard that another biologist, Alfred Russel Wallace, had the same ideas about natural selection. Darwin and Wallace's ideas were first published in the "Journal of the Linnaean Society" in London, 1858. Then, Darwin published his book the next year. The name of the book was "On the Origin of Species by means of Natural Selection, or the preservation of favoured races in the struggle for life". This is usually called "The Origin of Species". 

Darwin wrote a number of other books, most of which are also very important.




</doc>
<doc id="5122" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5122" title="Adam Smith">
Adam Smith

Adam Smith (1723 – 17 July 1790) was a Scottish economist, who is called the Father of Modern Economics. His book, "An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations", published in 1776, was very important. People call the book just "The Wealth of Nations". It stated some of the ideas on which modern economics is based, especially market economics. In the "Wealth of Nations" Adam Smith asks 'what can a person do that is best for his country?' He decides that if every person does what is best for himself and his little circle of family and friends, then the country will do better. This is because every person knows a lot about his own situation (what he needs, what he wants, what works and what does not work), much more than the government knows. This sort of thinking is called "liberal theory", a main part of liberalism.

He was also a philosopher who wanted to know why people thought (felt) that some things are good and others bad. He wrote an earlier book, in 1759, called "The Theory of Moral Sentiments". He thought that sympathy was very important in ethics. Sympathy is when you see how someone else is feeling, imagine what it feels like, and then end up feeling the same way: for Smith, sympathy is like "putting yourself in someone else's shoes". For example, sympathy makes us feel happy to see someone else who is happy, or feel sorry for someone who is sad. Sympathy may even make "us" feel pain when we see someone in pain (as if "we" had been hurt). Both Smith and his friend David Hume, who was another Scottish philosopher, wrote about the importance of sympathy in ethics.



</doc>
<doc id="5123" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5123" title="Isaac Newton">
Isaac Newton

Sir Isaac Newton (4 January 1643 – 31 March 1727) was an English physicist and mathematician. 
He is famous for his work on the laws of motion, optics, gravity, and calculus. In 1687, Newton published a book called the "Philosophiae Naturalis Principia Mathematica" in which he presents his theory of universal gravitation and three laws of motion.

Newton built the first practical reflecting telescope in 1668; he also developed a theory of light based on the observation that a prism decomposes white light into the colours of the rainbow. Newton also shares credit with Gottfried Leibniz for the development of calculus.

Newton's ideas on light, motion, and gravity dominated physics for the next three centuries, until modified by Albert Einstein's theory of relativity.

Isaac Newton was born on 4 January 1643, (the same year Galileo Galilei died) in a manor house in Lincolnshire, England. His father died three months before his birth. When Isaac was three his mother remarried, and Isaac remained with his grandmother. He was not interested in the family farm, so he was sent to the University of Cambridge to study. It is sometimes told that Isaac Newton was reading a book under a tree when he saw an apple fall to the ground. This led to his calculations of gravity.

Newton explained the workings of the universe through mathematics. He described laws of motion and gravitation. These laws are math formulas that explain how objects move when a force acts on them. Isaac published his most famous book, Principia, in 1687 while he was a mathematics professor at Trinity College, Cambridge. In the Principia, Isaac explained three basic laws that govern the way objects move. He then described his idea, or theory, about gravity. Gravity is the force that causes things to fall down. If a pencil fell off a desk, it will land on the floor, not the ceiling. In his book Isaac also used his laws to show that the planets revolve around the suns in orbits that are oval, not round. 

Following are the three laws of motion.

Newton's first law of motion states that an object that is not being pushed or pulled by some force will stay still, or will keep moving in a straight line at a steady speed. It is easy to understand that a rocket will not move unless something pushes or pulls it. It is harder to understand that an object will continue to move without help. Think of the rocket again. If someone is flying a rocket and jumps off before the rocket is stopped, what happens? The rocket continues on until it goes into space. The tendency of an object to remain still, or keep moving in a straight line at a steady speed is called inertia.

The second law explains how a force acts on an object. An object accelerates in the direction the force is moving it. If someone gets on a bike and pushes the pedals forward the bike will begin to move. If someone gives the bike a push from behind, the bike will speed up. If the rider pushes back on the pedals the bike will slow down. If the rider turns the handlebars, the bike will change direction.

The third law states that if an object is pushed or pulled, the object will be push or pull equally in the opposite direction. If someone lifts a heavy box, they use force to push it up. The box is heavy because it is producing an equal force downward on the lifter’s arms. The weight is transferred through the lifter’s legs to the floor. The floor presses upward with an equal force. If the floor pushed back with less force, the person lifting the box would fall through the floor. If it pushed back with more force the lifter would fly into the air like young birds taking their first flight and falling back down again.

When most people think of Isaac Newton, they think of him sitting under an apple tree watching an apple fall. Some people even believe the apple fell onto his head. Newton understood that what makes things like apples fall to the ground is a specific kind of force — the force we call gravity. Newton thought that gravity was the force of attraction between two objects, such as an apple and the earth. He also thought that an object with more matter – mass – exerted the greater force, or pulled the smaller object toward it. That meant that the large mass of the earth pulled objects toward it. That is why the apple fell down instead of up, and why people do not float in the air.

Isaac Newton went on thinking about gravity. Before Newton, people thought that only objects near to the earth would fall down. But Newton thought that gravity should not just be limited to the earth and the objects on it. What if gravity extended to the moon and beyond?

Newton invented a formula for calculating the force of attraction between two bodies. He used it to calculate the force needed to keep the moon moving around the earth. Then he compared it with the force that made the apple fall downward. After allowing for the fact that the moon is much farther from the earth, and has a much greater mass, he discovered that the forces were the same. The moon is held in an orbit around earth by the pull of earth’s gravity.

The formula invented by Newton is called the Law of Gravitation.

Isaac Newton’s calculations changed the way people understood the universe. No one had been able to explain why the planets stayed in their orbits. What held them up? Less than 50 years before Isaac Newton was born it was thought that the planets were held in place by an invisible shield. Isaac proved that they were held in place by the sun’s gravity. He also showed that the force of gravity was affected by distance and by mass. He was not the first to understand that the orbit of a planet was not circular, but more elongated, like an oval. What he did was to explain how it worked.

The great physicist, Albert Einstein, thought that Newton's idea of gravity was not completely accurate. He corrected many of the things that Newton did.

Isaac Newton died on 31 March 1727, in London, England. He is buried in Westminster Abbey. He set the stage for many great physicists to come, such as Albert Einstein, James Chadwick, and Stephen Hawking. 



</doc>
<doc id="5125" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5125" title="Johann Wolfgang von Goethe">
Johann Wolfgang von Goethe

Johann Wolfgang von Goethe (August 28, 1749 – March 22, 1832) was a German writer, poet, novelist, and playwright. He also worked as an actor, administrator, scientist, geologist, botanist and philosopher. He influenced many 19th century writers and thinkers. His contributions to science include his work in botany and his "Theory of Colours". Famous lines from his books are often quoted, and some of his phrases have become part of the German language. His poems were set to music by composers like Schubert, Schumann, Brahms, Wolf, and Strauss. Critics and scholars say his poems are only good in German, because that is the language he wrote them in. His plays are not often performed outside Germany, and most of his scientific work now seems old-fashioned. 

Goethe was born in Frankfurt am Main, Germany. His father was well-educated and very strict. His mother was only eighteen when he was born. When Goethe was a young boy, he began to write stories and plays for his friends. In his youth, he learned Greek, Latin and French. He studied law in Leipzig from 1765 to 1768. He also wrote some letters that are seen as beautiful, and that showed his promise as a writer. He continued his studies in Strasbourg from 1770 to 1771. He joined other young men who wanted to change the way that Germans were writing. He thought that people like Johann Christoph Gottsched were too strict about writing poetry. Instead of the ideas of the Enlightenment, he wanted poets to be creative and make their own rules.

One man who had many new ideas was a poet named Johann Gottfried von Herder. Herder liked the plays of Shakespeare (which he had learned in German) as well as folk poetry. These ideas were exciting for Goethe, and he helped Herder to collect folk poetry. Both men believed that poetry should always come from the heart, and that it should be based on the poet’s experiences instead an old-fashioned idea of what a good poem should be. Some of Goethe's best known poems were written during this time, like "Heidenröslein", "Der König in Thule", and "Erlkönig."

Goethe fell in love with several women during his lifetime. During the early period of his life, he was in love with a girl named Friederike Brion, the daughter of a pastor. Several of his poems are inspired by her. He felt extremely sad when they split up. The feeling of desertion by a lover is a lot of Goethe’s works. They are all based on his own experience. His disappointment in love inspired him when writing about Werther in "Die Leiden des jungen Werthers" and Gretchen in his great play "Faust". His poems also show his ideas about science and philosophy.

"Die Leiden des jungen Werthers" ("The Sufferings of Young Werther") is a book written in the form of letters. Werther is a young man who falls passionately in love with a girl called Lotte who is married to someone else. Werther kills himself in the end. The book was very successful all over Europe. People talked about “Werther fever.” Many young men who were disappointed in love copied Werther and killed themselves.

Goethe’s most famous work is a very long play called "Faust". He spent most of his life working at it. He was writing the first version of "Faust" at this time. Based on a legendary character, it tells of a man called Faust who is tired of studying and wants to have the greatest possible happiness. The devil (called Mephistopheles in the play) tells Faust he can help him to do this, but that in the end Faust must give him his soul and go with him to hell. Faust uses magic in the hope that it will tell him everything about life.

Along with writing, Goethe was developing a career in law. In 1772, he spent four months in Wetzlar at the Imperial Law Courts. Here he made new friends, including a young girl who was already engaged to someone else.

Goethe had been well-educated and was good at organizing and getting on with important people. For eleven years he worked at the court of Weimar for a young Duke called Karl August. He became a member and later the president of the Duke’s cabinet. He had to organize road-building projects, and look after parks and buildings. He studied geology, mineralogy, botany and anatomy. He fell in love with a woman called Charlotte von Stein who was married and had several children. He wrote love letters to her, and she inspired him to write many poems. At this time he felt that a man’s task in life was to be useful. The heroes of his books at this time were often ordinary people instead of geniuses. 

After a time he realized that all his work on governmental duties were not giving him time for his writing, so he went to Italy for 18 months. He loved the landscape and made lots of sketches, and he read the ancient poets and books on the history of art. He wrote a play in rhyme called "Iphigenie auf Tauris" which combines the beauty of Classicism with great poetry.

When he returned from Italy he settled once more in Weimar. He visited Italy a second time. He became great friends with the famous poet and playwright Friedrich Schiller. The two men talked about many of their ideas and helped one another by offering criticism of their works. He wrote short works such as "Hermann und Dorothea" which is about life in a small German town at the time of the French Revolution. 

Two works of the greatest importance works occupied him at this time. One is the novel "Wilhelm Meisters Lehrjahre". This is an example of what is called in German a “Bildungsroman” which means something like “Education novel”. It means a novel which shows a person growing up and developing his character and learning about the world. This book was a very important influence on the 19th century Romantic novel and on all German autobiographical novels ever since. Goethe spent many years working on this book.

The second work of enormous importance was his play "Faust". He made changes to the original version, putting all the small bits together into one great play. Schiller gave him advice while he was writing it. Faust enters into a pact with the devil, Mephistopheles who promises him all his soul can wish for: fine living, gold, women and honour. He signs the pact with his blood.

Napoleon was fighting wars all over Europe at this time. Germany, which was still made up of lots of small countries, was an enemy of France. Goethe always thought of Napoleon as a hero. His ideas about politics were still based on 18th century ideas. He hated war and so he did not take part in politics but concentrated on science and literature. He wrote a book called "Die Wahlverwandtschaften" ("Elective Affinities") which is about a divorce problem. Some of his scientific ideas are used in the story as he talks about the way that two chemical compounds can break up and form new unions. He compares this to the people in his story. His poems in "Westöstlicher Divan" are some of his greatest. He uses ideas from Persia and other Eastern countries together with ideas from the West. It has a lot of parables about human life.

Many interesting things that Goethe said were written down in a book by his friend Eckermann, who published them in a book called "Conversations with Goethe". Goethe also wrote about his own life in his autobiography which he called "Dichtung und Wahrheit" ("Poetry and Truth"). The book tells us about his youth up to the time of his arrival in Weimar. It is in four parts. The fourth part was published after his death. He chose the title to show that he was telling us the truth about his life, but that he had changed the order of some events to make it into a poetic book.

Goethe wrote a sequel (a part which follows on) to "Wilhelm Meister" called "Wilhelm Meisters Wanderjahre" ("The Years of Wilhelm Meister’s Wanderings"). It consists of several sections which are like separate stories. They tell us about Wilhelm Meister’s relationship with society and how he has to change his ways to fit in with other people.

Goethe’s "Faust" had made him the greatest person in European literature. At the end of his life he finished a second part of "Faust". It is quite hard to read, and is more of a long poem than a dramatic play. It talks of his ideas about allegory, science and philosophy.

Goethe died in Weimar on March 22, 1832. He had started as a great Classical writer of the 18th century and finished as a young Romantic of the 19th century. No one else had such a big influence on art and literature of that time.




</doc>
<doc id="5127" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5127" title="Pythagoras">
Pythagoras

Pythagoras of Samos was a famous Greek mathematician and philosopher, born between 580 and 572 BC, and died between 500 and 490 BC. He is known best for the Pythagorean theorem, which is an important theorem about right triangles. He started a group of mathematicians, called the Pythagoreans, who worshiped numbers and lived like monks. He was an influence for Plato.

He had a great impact on mathematics, theory of music and astronomy. His theories are still used in mathematics today. He was one of the greatest thinkers of his time.

Pythagoras was born in Samos, a little island off the western coast of Asia Minor. There is not much information about his life. He was said to have had a good childhood. Growing up with two or three brothers, he was well educated. He did not agree with the government and their schooling, so he set up his own cult (little society) of followers under his rule. His followers did not have any personal possessions, and they were all vegetarians. Pythagoras taught them all, and they had to obey strict rules.
Some say he was the first person to use the term philosophy. Since he worked very closely with his group, the Pythagoreans, it is sometimes hard to tell his works from those of his followers.

Religion was important to the Pythagoreans. They swore their oaths by "1+2+3+4" (which equals 10). They also believed that the soul is immortal and goes through a cycle of rebirths until it can become pure. They believed that these souls were in both animal and plant life. Pythagoras himself claimed to remember having lived four different lives. He also told of hearing the voice of a dead friend in the howl of a dog being beaten, and was then attacked by an angry mob.

Pythagoras' most important belief was that the physical world was mathematical and that numbers were the real reality.


</doc>
<doc id="5128" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5128" title="Socrates">
Socrates

Socrates (469 BC – 399 BC) was one of the greatest Greek philosophers. His work was not to propose any specific knowledge or policy: it was to show how argument, debate, and discussion could help men to understand difficult issues. Most of the issues he dealt with were only political on the surface. Underneath, they were moral questions about how life should be lived. Such is the influence of Socrates that philosophers before him are call the Presocratic philosophers.

Socrates made enemies, three of whom brought charges against him. Socrates was tried for his life in 399 BC, found guilty, and put to death by drinking hemlock (a herbal poison). The story of his trial and death is the subject of a tract by Plato which is called the "Apologia". 

Most of what we know about Socrates comes from the works of Plato, who was his pupil. Socrates lived in the Greek city of Athens. His method of teaching was to have a dialogue with individual students. They would propose some point of view, and Socrates would question them, asking what they meant. He would pretend "I don't know anything; I'm just trying to understand what it is you are saying", or words to that effect. This is now called the Socratic method of teaching.

Socrates is sometimes called the "father of Western philosophy". This is because in the discussions he uncovered some of the most basic questions in philosophy, questions which are still discussed today. Also some of the people he taught were important and successful, like Plato and Alcibiades.

Socrates never wrote anything. All of what we know about Socrates is from what other people wrote about him. Our main source of what we know about Socrates is from the writings of his student, Plato. Some of Plato's dialogues, such as the "Crito" and the "Phaedo", are loosely based on fact. They are not written records, but artistic re-creation of Socrates in action.

Another of Socrates' students, Xenophon also wrote about Socrates. Plato wrote down many of the conversations that Socrates had with other people. Aristophanes, a person who wrote brilliant satirical comedies, wrote about him in play called "The Clouds". Socrates was an easy target for satire. He walked barefoot, and with a swagger. Sometimes he stood in a trance for hours. In "The Clouds" Socrates is a crazy person who tries to scam people out of their money. Plato wrote that Socrates taught for free. 

We do not know if Plato's description of Socrates is accurate or not. That is called the 'Socratic problem'. While a lot of what Plato wrote about Socrates is accepted by historians, some believe that Plato (who saw Socrates as a hero) portrayed Socrates as a greater man than he actually was. Some think that Plato was using the character of Socrates as a tool to express his own opinions rather than to accurately write about Socrates. This is what makes Socrates such a mysterious historical figure. Plato's dialogues are works of art, finely written. The general view is that they are based on reality, but no doubt adjusted for the purpose of writing.

Socrates' father was a sculptor, and his mother was a midwife who helped women give birth to children. He may have been a stonemason like his father, and Plato wrote that he served in the Athenian army as a hoplite (heavy infantry). We know he was influenced by an older philosopher, Archelaus, and that he talked with anyone who had interesting ideas in Athens, but beyond that nothing is known.

Socrates was about 50 when he married a much younger woman, Xanthippe. They had three children together. Socrates made complaints about his wife, but no one knew if he was telling the truth.

It is said that one of Socrates' friends went to ask the oracle at Delphi if there was anyone wiser than Socrates in Athens. The oracle said that there was no wiser person. The oracle was well known for saying things that were ambiguous or unclear. It did not say that Socrates was the wisest, just that there was no person wiser. 

After being puzzled by this, Socrates finally decided that his wisdom lay in knowing that he was ignorant. His attempts to show the citizens that some of their ideas were nonsense might help explain his unpopularity. In Plato's works, Socrates says he knows nothing, but can draw out other people's ideas just as his mother helped other women to give birth.

In 399 BC, when Socrates was an old man, three citizens—Meletus, Anytus and Lycon—brought charges against Socrates. A trial was held. In ancient Athens the procedure was quite different from the present day. There was a jury of 500 men drawn from the citizens. Both the accusers and the defendant had to make speeches in person to the jury. Guilt or innocence was by majority vote. There was no preset penalty if the verdict was 'guilty'. Both the accuser and the defendant would make speeches proposing what the penalty should be. Again, a vote was taken.

There were two charges against him. The general theme was that Socrates was a menace to society. The first charge was of heresy, disbelief in the Gods. It was probably meant to cause prejudice amongst the jurymen. Actually, Socrates observed all the correct procedures of the religion of his times. The charge had been used successfully against another philosopher, Anaxagoras.

The second charge was that he corrupted the youth with his teachings. What was meant by this? Apparently, this was not about his personal relationship with his pupils. It was about the way he was thought to influence their political views. His circle had included a number of right-wing aristocrats whose ideas were now rejected by most citizens. The brilliant Alcibiades, once a great leader of Athens, was now seen as a traitor.

Crito, a friend of Socrates, illegally paid the prison guards to allow Socrates to escape. Socrates, however, decided not to escape. When Socrates was put on trial, he gave a long speech to defend himself against the claims made by the Athens government.

We have Plato's version of how Socrates defended himself, in the "Apologia". It starts:

When Socrates was asked to propose his punishment, Socrates said that the government should give him free dinners for the rest of his life for all the good that he did for society. The court held a vote between giving Socrates a fine to pay or putting him to death. The verdict was that Socrates was to be put to death. 

Socrates did not fear death. He did not try to avoid death by apologizing for his actions because he thought it was morally right to stand by his principles. Socrates was ordered to drink a cup of hemlock (a poisonous liquid). He drank it and died soon after.

Socrates helped people to see what was wrong with their ideas. Sometimes they liked this, sometimes they were not happy or grateful. He said that he, Socrates, was not wise, but he said something like "I know what I don't know." In other words, he knew the limit of his knowledge. He said that people who do bad things do so because they do not know any better.

People think that Socrates was a good man because he did no harm, except he asked questions about everything. However, during his life many people thought he was a bad person, because he asked those questions and because he made young people unhappy about their lives.

Someone once wrote that Socrates said that "A life that was not examined was not worth living". This means that someone must think about their own life and its purpose. Some people believe that most humans are happier if they do not think too much about their life.

Socrates also taught that many people can look at something and not truly see it. He asked questions about the meaning of life and goodness. These are still very important questions. Much of philosophy (love of wisdom) is about these things.

Socrates is seen by some people as a martyr (a person who dies supporting a certain principle or cause). Socrates is seen a person who willingly died to support his principle that knowledge and wisdom are very important to our lives.

Socrates is known as one of the most important philosophers in history. He is known by some as the father of Western philosophy. While he did not start Western philosophy, he had a big influence on it. Before Socrates, Philosophy was mainly about mathematics and answering questions about our natural world. Socrates expanded upon that and added topics such as ethics, politics, and knowledge to philosophy. 


</doc>
<doc id="5129" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5129" title="Dante Alighieri">
Dante Alighieri

Dante Alighieri, or simply Dante (May 14/June 13 1265 - September 14, 1321), was an Italian poet from Florence. His central work, the "Commedia" ("Divine Comedy"), is considered the greatest literary work composed in the Italian language and a masterpiece of world literature. In Italian he is known as "the Supreme Poet" ("il Sommo Poeta"). Dante and the "Divine Comedy" have been a source of inspiration for artists for almost seven centuries. Dante, with Petrarch and Boccaccio are also known as "the three fountains". Dante is also called the "the Father of the Italian language". The first biography written on him was by his contemporary Giovanni Villani. The most famous section in "La Divina Commedia" is the first third of it, the first 34 cantos of the poem, called "Inferno", which is Dante's vision of hell.

Dante Alighieri was born in 1265, between May 14 and June 13, under the name "Durante Alighieri." ca. 1450 (Uffizi Gallery). His family was important in Florence, and supported the Papacy.
The poet's mother was Bella degli Abati. She died when Dante was 7 years old, and Alighiero soon married again, to Lapa di Chiarissimo Cialuffi. Lapa had two children, Dante's brother Francesco and sister "Tana" ( short version of "Gaetana").

Dante fought in the front of the Guelph troops in the battle of Campaldino (June 11, 1289). After the victory Dante gained an important part in public life.

When Dante was 12, in 1277, he married Gemma di Manetto Donati. Dante had already fallen in love with another girl, Beatrice Portinari that is mentioned same in "Divine Comedy", (known also as Bice). Years after Dante's marriage to Gemma he met Beatrice again. He had become interested in writing poems.

Dante had six children with Gemma: Jacopo, Pietro, Giovanni, Gabrielle Alighieri, and Antonia.

Not much is known about Dante's education, and it is presumed he studied at home. It is known that he studied Tuscan poetry. His interests brought him to discover the Occitan poetry of the troubadours and the Latin poetry of classical antiquity (with a particular devotion to Virgil).
At 18, Dante met Guido Cavalcanti, Lapo Gianni, Cino da Pistoia, and soon after Brunetto Latini; together they became the leaders of "Dolce Stil Novo" ("The Sweet New Style"). Brunetto later received a special mention in the "Divine Comedy" ("Inferno", XV, 28), for what he had taught Dante.

When he was nine years old he met Beatrice Portinari, daughter of Folco Portinari, with whom he fell in love "at first sight", and apparently without even having spoken to her. He saw her frequently after age 18, often exchanging greetings in the street, but he never knew her well—he effectively set the example for the so-called "courtly love". Dante gave his imprint to the Stil Novo. Love for Beatrice (as in a different manner Petrarch would show for his Laura) would apparently be the reason for poetry and for living, together with political passions. In many of his poems, she appears such as semi-divine, watching over him constantly.

When Beatrice died in 1290, Dante tried to find an "help" in Latin literature.

He then dedicated himself to philosophical studies at religious schools like the Dominican one in Santa Maria Novella. This "excessive" passion for philosophy would later be criticized by the character Beatrice, in "Purgatorio", the second book of the "Divine Comedy".

Boniface quickly dismissed the other delegates and asked Dante alone to remain in Rome. At the same time (November 1, 1301), Charles de Valois entered Florence with Black Guelphs, who in the next six days destroyed much of the city and killed many of their enemies. A new Black Guelph government was installed and Messer Cante dei Gabrielli di Gubbio was appointed "Podestà" of Florence. Dante was put in exile for two years, and ordered to pay a large hill of money. 

Dante did not pay the money, in part because he believed he was not guilty, and in part because all his needs in Florence had been stolen by the Black Guelphs. He was condemned to exile for life, and if he returned to Florence without paying the money, he could be burned at the stake.

In exile he began searching the foundation for the "Divine Comedy", a work in 100 cantos, divided into three books of thirty-three cantos each, with a single introductory canto.

He went to Verona as a guest of Bartolomeo I della Scala, then moved to Sarzana in Liguria. Later, he is supposed to have lived in Lucca with Madame Gentucca. Some not sure sources say that he was also in Paris between 1308 and 1310. 

In 1310, the Holy Roman Emperor Henry VII of Luxembourg, marched 5,000 troops into Italy. Dante saw in him a new Charlemagne who would restore the office of the Holy Roman Emperor for re-take Florence from the Black Guelphs. He wrote to Henry and several Italian princes, demanding that they destroy the Black Guelphs. Mixing religion and private concerns, he invoked the worst anger of God against his city, suggesting several particular targets that coincided with his personal enemies. It was during this time that he wrote the first two books of the "Divine Comedy".

When Dante died at Ravenna, the custodians of the body at Ravenna put the bones in a false wall of the monastery. Nevertheless, in 1829, a tomb was built for him in Florence in the basilica of Santa Croce. That tomb has been empty ever since, with Dante's body remaining in Ravenna, far from the land he loved so dearly. The front of his tomb in Florence reads "Onorate l'altissimo poeta" - which roughly translates as "Honour the most exalted poet". 



</doc>
<doc id="5130" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5130" title="Virginia Woolf">
Virginia Woolf

Virginia Woolf (born 25 January 1882 in London) was an English writer, essayist and feminist.

She was born into a famous family. Her father, Leslie Stephen, was a Victorian scholar. Her sister, Vanessa Bell, was a painter. She had two brothers; one of them, Thoby, died in 1906.

Her mother died when she was thirteen and four years later her half-sister Stella died. In these times Virginia started to have her psychological problems. She had manic-depression in the time when no one knew this disease and for most of the people she was just strange.

After the death of her mother, Leslie Stephen was not able to keep good relations in the family. Virginia and her sister Vanessa were sexually abused by their half-brothers George and Gerald. It affected Virginia for the rest of her life.

In the childhood, all the Stephens children were writing their diaries, but only Virginia kept write it for the whole life (and after her death, lots of them were published). It was important for her in the time of sexual abusing, because there was no one with who she could talk about it. In the diary, she could write everything. 

After her father's death, Virginia and her brothers and sister moved to the London part called Bloomsbury and there they became members of the famous group of the artists called Bloomsbury Group. Here Virginia met her husband, a writer Leonard Woolf. Together, they moved to Richmond, where they opened a publishing office called Hogarth House Press, which later published all Virginia's novels and essays.

Although she had a husband, she was a lesbian. When she was a teenager, she fell in love with Violet Dickinson and she wrote her lots of love letters. Violet probably never loved her. Later, Virginia had a sexual relationship with Vita Sackville-West, a writer and a poet. Their letters, which have been published, are showing us how deeply they were in love.

Her most famous novels are Mrs Dalloway and To the Lighthouse.
Mrs Dalloway she finished in 1925. It is about one day of an English woman called Clarissa Dalloway. Clarissa is making a party and all the day she is preparing it. The story can seem stupid, but it is not so important in the book. More important are the feelings, the colours or the mood of it. It's very charming.

To the Lighthouse was published in 1927 for the first time. It is about a family of Ramsays and its friends. These people are altogether spending a summer in Ramsay's house on an island. The youngest of Ramsays children, James, wants to go to the lighthouse, but they can't go there because of bad weather. In the next part of the book, James is ten years older and his father is taking him to the lighthouse, although he doesn't want to go there anymore.

Virginia Woolf is also an author of these novels: Jacob's Room (1923), Orlando (1928) and The Waves (1931). She was a feminist and she wrote a few essays about women's position in the society, for example The Room of One's Own and Three Guineas.

She died on 28 March 1941. She committed suicide by drowning in the river Ouse.

In 1998, American writer Michael Cunningham wrote about her a novel called The Hours (a winner of the Pulitzer award), which is best known because of the same named movie, in which the role of Virginia played an actress Nicole Kidman. She won the Oscar. 



</doc>
<doc id="5131" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5131" title="March 28">
March 28

March 28 is the 87th day of the year in the Gregorian calendar (88th in leap years). 





</doc>
<doc id="5132" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5132" title="January 25">
January 25





</doc>
<doc id="5133" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5133" title="Jane Austen">
Jane Austen

Jane Austen (16 December 1775 – 18 July 1817) was an English novelist. She wrote many books of romantic fiction about the gentry. Her works made her one of the most famous and beloved writers in English literature. She was one of the great masters of the English novel.

Austen's works criticized sentimental novels in the late eighteenth century, and are part of the change to nineteenth-century realism. She wrote about typical people in everyday life. This gave the English novel its first distinctly modern character. Austen's stories are often comic, but they also show how women depended on marriage for social standing and economic security. Her works are also about moral problems.

Jane Austen was born on 16 December 1775 at Steventon, near Basingstoke. Educated mostly by her father and older brothers, and also by her own reading, she lived with her family at Steventon. They moved to Bath when her father retired in 1801. After he died in 1805, she moved around with her mother. In 1809, they settled in Chawton, near Alton, Hampshire. In May 1817 she moved to Winchester to be near her doctor. She died there on 18 July 1817.

Jane Austen was very modest about her own genius. She once famously described her work as "the little bit (two Inches wide) of Ivory, on which I work with so fine a brush, as produces little effect after much labor". When she was a girl she wrote stories. Her works were printed only after much revision. Only four of her novels were printed while she was alive. They were "Sense and Sensibility" (1811), "Pride and Prejudice" (1813), "Mansfield Park" (1814) and "Emma" (1816). Two other novels, "Northanger Abbey" and "Persuasion", were printed in 1817 with a biographical notice by her brother, Henry Austen. "Persuasion" was written shortly before her death. She also wrote two earlier works, "Lady Susan", and an unfinished novel, "The Watsons". She had been working on a new novel, "Sanditon", but she died before she could finish it.

Biographical facts about Jane Austen are "famously scarce" (few). Only a few letters remain (it is estimated that only 160 out of Austen's 3,000 letters survive). Her sister Cassandra (to whom most of the letters were written) burned "the greater part" of the ones she kept. The letters she did not destroy she censored. Other letters were destroyed by the heirs of Admiral Francis Austen, Jane's brother. Most of the biographies written about her for 50 years after she died was by her relatives, who often described her as "good quiet Aunt Jane". Scholars have not been able to find much information after that.

Austen's parents, George Austen (1731–1805), and his wife, Cassandra (1739–1827), were both part of the gentry. Cassandra was a part of the important Leigh family. George and Cassandra married on 26 April 1764 at Walcot Church in Bath.

Austen had a large family. She had six brothers—James (1765–1819), George (1766–1838), Edward (1767–1852), Henry Thomas (1771–1850), Francis William (Frank) (1774–1865), Charles John (1779–1852)—and one sister, Cassandra Elizabeth (1773–1845), who died without marrying. Jane deeply loved Cassandra, and they were both best friends. Of her brothers, Austen was most close to Henry, who helped spread and influence her writing. "Oh, what a Henry!" she once wrote. George was almost ten years older than Jane. Sadly, he suffered from fits and was not able to develop normally. His father wrote of him, "We have this comfort, he cannot be a bad or a wicked child". He may also have been deaf and mute. Jane knew sign language (she mentioned talking "with my fingers" in a letter) and could have communicated with him. Charles and Frank served in the navy. Edward was adopted by his fourth cousin, Thomas Knight. He became "Edward Knight" instead of Edward Austen in 1812.

Austen was born on 16 December 1775 at Steventon rectory. She was christened in public on 5 April 1776. A few months after she was born, her mother hired a woman named Elizabeth Littlewood to nurse her. Littlewood took care of Austen for about a year. According to family tradition, Jane and Cassandra were sent to Oxford to be educated by Mrs. Ann Crawley in 1783. They moved with her to Southampton later in the year. Both girls caught typhus and Jane almost died. After that, Austen was educated at home until she went to boarding school with Cassandra early in 1785. She learned some French, spelling, needlework, dancing,music, and probably drama. In the winter of 1786, Jane and Cassandra went back home because their family was not rich enough to send both of their daughters to school. Austen then studied English at Bristol University. She stayed in Manor Hall in Clifton at that time.

Austen also learned much by reading books. Her father and brothers helped choose the books she read. George Austen seemed to have let his daughters read the books in his large library freely. He also allowed Austen's experiments in writing, and gave her costly paper and other writing materials.

Jane Austen and her family also enjoyed acting out plays privately. Most of the plays were comedies. This might have been a way for Austen's comedic and satirical talents developed.

Perhaps from as early as 1787, Austen began writing poems, short stories, and plays for fun. Austen later put together "fair copies" of 29 of these early works into three notebooks. They are now called the "Juvenilia". It has pieces which were first written down between 1787 and 1793. There is some proof that Austen continued to work on these pieces later in life. Her nephew and niece, James Edward and Anna Austen, may have made further additions to her work in around 1814. In these works were included "Love and Freindship" . In "Love and Freindship", she laughed at popular sentimental novels. She also wrote "The History of England", which had 13 watercolour pictures by her sister Cassandra inside it.

Primary works 

Secondary works 

Biographies

Essay collections

Monographs and articles


Online works


</doc>
<doc id="5134" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5134" title="Charlotte Brontë">
Charlotte Brontë

Charlotte Brontë (21 April 1816 – 31 March 1855) was an English novelist and poet. She first published her works, including "Jane Eyre", under the pseudonym (false name) of Currer Bell. In 1846, Charlotte encouraged her sisters to print "Poems by Currer, Ellis, and Acton Bell". They did not sell well. Her first novel, "The Professor", was rejected by many publishers. It was not printed until 1857. She is famous for her novel "Jane Eyre" (1847), which was very popular when it was printed. "Jane Eyre" was a strong story of a plain, brave, clever woman struggling with her passions, reasons, and social condition. She later wrote the books "Shirley" (1849) and "Villette" (1853). She lived longer than her sisters, but she was only 38 when she died in pregnancy.

Charlotte Brontë was the third child of Patrick Brontë (formerly "Patrick Brunty"), an Irish Anglican clergyman, and his wife, Maria née Branwell. In April 1821, the family moved a few miles to Haworth. Patrick had been appointed Perpetual Curate there. Maria Branwell Brontë died of cancer on 15 September 1821. She left her five daughters and a son to be looked after by her sister Elizabeth Branwell. In August 1824, Charlotte was sent with three of her sisters to the Clergy Daughters' School at Cowan Bridge in Lancashire. She described it as Lowood School in her novel "Jane Eyre". The sisters were Emily, Maria and Elizabeth. The poor conditions of the school permanently affected Charlotte's health according to her. She thought it led to the early deaths of her two elder sisters, Maria (born 1814) and Elizabeth (born 1815). They died of tuberculosis in June 1825 soon after their father took them from the school on 1 June.

At home in Haworth Parsonage, Charlotte and the other living children (Branwell, Emily and Anne) began writing about the lives and struggles of the dwellers of their imaginary kingdoms. Charlotte and Branwell wrote Byronic stories about their country — Angria &mdash. Emily and Anne wrote articles and poems about theirs Gondal.

Charlotte went to school at Roe Head, Mirfield, from 1831 to 1832. There she met her lifelong friends, Ellen Nussey and Mary Taylor. In 1833 she wrote her novella "The Green Dwarf" under the name of Wellesley. Charlotte returned as a teacher from 1835 to 1838. In 1839 she became a governess to various families in Yorkshire, a career she had until 1841. In 1842 she and Emily travelled to Brussels to enroll in a pensionnat (boarding school) run by Constantin Heger (1809 – 1896) and his wife Claire Zoé Parent Heger (1814 – 1891). In return for this, Charlotte taught English and Emily taught music. Their time at the pensionnat was cut short when Elizabeth Branwell, their aunt, died in October 1842. Charlotte returned alone to Brussels in January 1843 to be a teacher at the pensionnat. This stay was not happy. She became lonely, homesick and deeply attached to Constantin Heger. She finally returned to Haworth in January 1844 and later used her time at the pensionnat as the inspiration for some of "The Professor" and "Villette".


The sisters of Charlotte Brontë:



</doc>
<doc id="5135" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5135" title="Emily Brontë">
Emily Brontë

Emily Brontë (born July 30, 1818 in Thornton, Hampshire, England - December 19, 1848) was a English author and poet. Her most famous book is "Wuthering Heights". Brontë had two sisters, Charlotte and Anne, who were also writers. She attended Cowan School with her sister Charlotte.

The sisters of Emily Brontë:




</doc>
<doc id="5136" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5136" title="Anne Brontë">
Anne Brontë

Anne Brontë (January 17, 1820 – May 28, 1849) was an English writer and poet. She is most famous for writing "Agnes Grey" (1847) and "The Tenant of Wildfell Hall" (1848).

Anne was born on January 17, 1820 in Thornton, Yorkshire, England. She was the daughter of Patrick and Marie Brontë and the youngest of their six children. She was taught at her family's home in Haworth by her aunt Elizabeth Branwell. She worked as a governess in 1839 and then again between 1841 and 1845.

In 1846 Anne contributed 21 poems to "Poems by Currer, Ellis and Acton Bell". This was a joint work with her sisters, Charlotte and Emily. "Agnes Grey" was published in 1847 in three volumes with "Wuthering Heights", a book written by her sister Emily. "The Tenant of Wildfell Hall" was published in 1848 and sold well.

Anne Bronte died on May 28, 1849 in Scarborough, Yorkshire, England of tuberculosis.

The sisters of Anne Brontë:

The books of Anne Brontë:


</doc>
<doc id="5137" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5137" title="Charles Dickens">
Charles Dickens

Charles Dickens (February 7 1812—June 9 1870) was one of the great English writers of the 19th century. 

Charles Dickens was born in Portsmouth, England. His parents were John Dickens (1785-1851), a naval pay clerk, and Elizabeth Barrow(1789–1863).

At age five, Charles moved to Chatham. When Charles was ten years old, his family moved to Camden, London. He worked in a blacking factory there while his father went to prison for debt. Dickens's hard times in this blackening factory served as the base of ideas for many of his novels. Many like "Oliver Twist" soon became famous. When his uncle died and transmitted money, Charles's father paid off his debts and was released from prison. Charles did not like working and wished to stop working after his father was released. However, his mother said that the family needed the money so Charles was forced to continue working. Charles then finished his schooling, and got a job as an office boy for an attorney. After finding that job dull, he taught himself shorthand and became a journalist that reported on the government.

His first book was "Sketches by Boz" in 1836, a collection of the short pieces he had been writing for the Monthly Magazine and the Evening Chronicle. This was followed by the "The Posthumous Papers of the Pickwick Club" in 1837. Both these books became popular as soon as they were printed.

Charles Dickens died on June 9, 1870 and was buried in Poet's Corner in Westminster Abbey.

Charles Dickens' books include: 

He also wrote a number of Christmas books including:



</doc>
<doc id="5138" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5138" title="Portsmouth">
Portsmouth

Portsmouth is a city in the south of England, in the county of Hampshire. About 186,000 people live there. It is a port and is the home of the British Royal Navy (the "navy" is the army of the sea). It is one of the most the most densest cities in Europe.

Situated on Portsea Island and narrowly separated from the mainland by a creek, the city is most famous for the HMS Victory and the HMS Warrior, which are ships. People also visit Portsmouth to see the old ship Mary Rose. This was Henry VIII of England's ship, and it was under the water for a long time, from 1545 to 1982. Tourists also go to see Cumberland House, the birth place of Charles Dickens, a British author (writer).

Charles Dickens, Rudyard Kipling and Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, all British authors, are famous people who lived in Portsmouth.

Portsmouth has one university, the University of Portsmouth.



</doc>
<doc id="5139" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5139" title="HMS Victory">
HMS Victory

HMS Victory is the oldest ship still in use. It is located in Portsmouth, England with the HMS Warrior and the remains of the Mary Rose, a ship belonging to Henry VIII of England. 

Her most famous captains are Horatio Nelson, who died on the ship during the Battle of Trafalgar, and Samuel Hood.



</doc>
<doc id="5142" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5142" title="HMS Warrior">
HMS Warrior

HMS Warrior was the first battleship which was made with a hull made of iron. It is in Portsmouth, England with the HMS Victory and the remains of the Mary Rose, a ship belonging to Henry VIII of England.


</doc>
<doc id="5143" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5143" title="Mary Rose">
Mary Rose

The Mary Rose was a ship which belonged to Henry VIII of England. She sank in 1545 in battle with a French fleet.

In 1979 the "Mary Rose Trust" was formed. In 1982 the "Mary Rose Trust" managed to get the "Mary Rose" out of the sea and in 1994 they started to preserve her. 

The remains of the "Mary Rose" are currently in Portsmouth, England with the "HMS Victory" and "HMS Warrior".

It is not known the exact reason for the sinking. One of the theories is that she had the gun ports open to fire at the French. She then turned to fire at the other side, but the men on board failed to close the gun ports. Sea water got in the open gun ports, which tipped her over and she sank. 

There are other theories about the sinking, but the open gun ports was the main one.


</doc>
<doc id="5144" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5144" title="Mary Tudor">
Mary Tudor

The name Mary Tudor can refer to either:



</doc>
<doc id="5147" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5147" title="1603">
1603





</doc>
<doc id="5148" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5148" title="April 28">
April 28





</doc>
<doc id="5149" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5149" title="Mutiny on the Bounty">
Mutiny on the Bounty

The Mutiny on the Bounty has become a famous story, leading to many books, movies, and songs. The HMS Bounty was a small, three masted, fully rigged, sailing ship. The "Bounty" became famous when the crew (seamen) mutinied (took over) the ship on 28 April 1789. 

The ship was built in Hull, England in 1784 and was first called "Bethia". In 1787 the ship was rebuilt to carry breadfruit trees. Heat and water were added to the cabins so the trees would survive in cold weather. The British government was hoping the breadfruit trees growing wild in Tahiti could be grown in Jamaica. This would provide cheap food for the slaves working on the sugar farms. The ship was very small - 90 feet 10 inches (27.7 metres) long and 24 feet 4 inches (7.4 metres) wide. The tallest mast was 53 feet (16.1 metres) high..

The "Bounty" was captained by Lieutenant William Bligh and he took command on 16 August 1787. On 23 December, 1787, "Bounty" set off on the long trip to Tahiti. On the journey, William Bligh tried to go around Cape Horn. He tried for over a month but bad weather and winds stopped the ship. The "Bounty" was turned around and went the longer way around the Cape of Good Hope.

The "Bounty" reached Tahiti on 25 October 1788. She had been at sea for ten months. The crew stayed for five months and lived on the island. They collected 1015 breadfruit plants. The crew were very happy living in Tahiti and Fletcher Christian fell in love with a Tahitian girl named Maimiti. They did not want to have another long journey and go back to England.
The "Bounty" left Tahiti on 4 April 1789, on the way to Jamaica. On 28 April, near the Friendly Islands, Fletcher Christian led the mutiny (take over). Bligh and 18 sailors were left at sea in a small boat, while Christian and the "Bounty" went back to Tahiti. Christian and a small group of sailors, 11 Tahitian women, and 6 Tahitian men then went to the remote Pitcairn Island. After they arrived they took everything they could from the ship. A sailor called Matthew Quintal, burned and destroyed the "Bounty" on 23 January 1790.

Pitcairn Island is a remote island in the Pacific Ocean. The Polynesians knew about the island and people had once lived there. There was nobody living on Pitcairn when it was discovered by an English sailor, Philip Carteret on 2 July 1767. He made a mistake and marked it on the map 200 miles from its real location. The people from the "Bounty" had the remote island to themselves. There was a lot of fighting between the new settlers. Fletcher Christian, 4 other mutineers and all 6 of the Tahitian men were killed. One of the 4 surviving mutineers fell off a cliff while drunk. Matthew Quintal was killed by the remaining 2 mutineers after he attacked them. When the American seal-hunting ship "Topaz" visited the island in 1808 they found only 1 mutineer, John Adams, still alive along with 9 Tahitian women. In 1856, the British government moved all the island people to Norfolk Island. Most stayed on Norfolk, but about 22 people found their way back and their descendants still live on Pitcairn. Norfolk has about 1000 "Bounty" descendants, which is about half its population.

Lieutenant William Bligh was able to sail the small boat 6500 km back to Batavia. He returned to England and reported the mutiny to the Admiralty on 15 March 1790. On 7 November 1790, HMS "Pandora" was sent to Tahiti look for the "Bounty" and to bring back the mutineers for punishment. The "Pandora" was able to capture the mutineers left on Tahiti, but could find no sign of the group that was hiding on Pitcairn. The "Pandora" was wrecked on the way back to England.

The following list tells what happened to the crew of the "Bounty".

Two died before the mutiny:

From the 19 left in the small boat, only 12 got back safely to England

One sailor was killed on the trip to Timor:

One sailor died from disease when they reached Timor:

Three sailors died from disease not long after getting to Batavia:

Two sailors died on their way home from Batavia to England:

Seven sailors were forced to stay on the "Bounty" after the mutiny. There was not room in the small boat. They were all taken prisoner in Tahiti by the "Pandora" to be taken back to England to be charged:

Two of the mutineers who stayed on Tahiti died before the "Pandora" arrived:

Three mutineers who were captured by the "Pandora", drowned in the wreck:

Four mutineers survived the wreck and were taken to England for trial:

Only two of the mutineers who went to Pitcairn died peacefully:



</doc>
<doc id="5150" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5150" title="1787">
1787





</doc>
<doc id="5151" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5151" title="August 16">
August 16





</doc>
<doc id="5152" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5152" title="December 23">
December 23






</doc>
<doc id="5153" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5153" title="1788">
1788




</doc>
<doc id="5154" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5154" title="October 25">
October 25





</doc>
<doc id="5155" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5155" title="1789">
1789





</doc>
<doc id="5156" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5156" title="April 4">
April 4






</doc>
<doc id="5157" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5157" title="May 28">
May 28






</doc>
<doc id="5158" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5158" title="Political virtues">
Political virtues

The political virtues were listed by Bernard Crick "In Defense of Politics", 1982. They included but were not limited to: 
take one step, then see its results before taking another
making friends with people you have argued with
giving up some things you want to get those things that are most important to you
people want to have a number of choices that are different from each other
meet the needs of changing times
never be boring

He sees these virtues as a way of avoiding ideology or "absolute-sounding ethic". More virtues will lead to less conflict. None of them can be forced on anyone.

Some other virtues have also been suggested:
humour,
empathy,
initiative
and compassion. "Being brief" or "being positive" are sometimes claimed also to be virtues, but just as many people think they are bad things that only help avoid truth or serious problems.


</doc>
<doc id="5159" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5159" title="Lady Jane Grey">
Lady Jane Grey

Lady Jane Grey (1536/1537 – 12 February 1554), also known as 'The Nine Days Queen', was born in London, or at her family home of Bradgate Park, Leicestershire, England.

Jane was an English noblewoman who occupied the English throne from 10 July until 19 July 1553 and was executed ,a commen punishment for royal blood, for high treason. 

A great-granddaughter of Henry VII by his younger daughter Mary, Jane was a first-cousin-once-removed of Edward VI. 

In May 1553 Jane was married to Lord Guildford Dudley, a younger son of Edward's chief minister, John Dudley, Duke of Northumberland. When the 15-year-old King lay dying in June 1553, he nominated Jane as successor to the Crown in his will, thus subverting the claims of his half-sisters Mary and Elizabeth. 

During her short reign, Jane lived in the Tower of London. She became a prisoner there when the Privy Council decided to change sides and proclaim Mary as queen on 19 July 1553. Wyatt's rebellion in January and February 1554 against Queen Mary's plans of a Spanish match was the direct cause of Jane's and her husband's execution. 

She was the daughter of Henry Grey, Duke of Suffolk, and Lady Frances Brandon (16 July 1517 – 20 November 1559), the daughter of Henry VIII's sister, Mary.. She was born on 12 October 1537 and she was probably named after Jane Seymour (c. 1508 or 1509 – 4 October 1537). Jane had two younger sisters, Catherine (b. 1540) and Mary (b. 1545).

Jane's parents were very strict even by the standards of the day. If she made mistakes in her studies or had any other normal troubles, her mother would slap her or beat her. She found she loved her nurse, but otherwise lived a sad childhood.

She told a visiting scholar Roger Ascham: 

"For when I am in the presence of either Father or Mother, whether I speak, keep silence, sit, stand or go, eat, drink, be merry or sad, be sewing, playing, dancing, or doing anything else, I must do it as it were in such weight, measure and number, even so perfectly as God made the world; or else I am so sharply taunted, so cruelly threatened, yes presently sometimes with pinches, nips and bobs and other ways ... that I think myself in hell". 

When Jane was nine, she was sent to the royal court to learn etiquette and manners with Henry VIII's sixth wife and eventual widow, Catherine Parr. Jane liked Catherine a great deal and found love with her, which she had not got from her parents. It was clear that Catherine was very fond of Jane in return. 

Jane also found friendship with her cousin and future king Edward VI. They often studied together.

Jane was well educated as a child and learned to read in Latin, Greek, French and Italian, as well as English. Later in her life, she also learned Hebrew.

Jane's parents, especially her mother, wanted to gain more political influence. For that reason, they wanted to marry her to someone important. Jane had two sisters, Catherine, born in 1540, and Mary, born in 1545. After her sisters were born, her parents tried to marry Jane to her cousin Edward VI. They went to Catherine Parr's new husband, Thomas Seymour, to try to prepare this royal marriage. It is likely that King Edward loved Jane. However, he decided to arrange a marriage with a foreign princess instead.

In 1548, Jane was sent to Chelsea to be with Catherine Parr and Thomas Seymour. Catherine Parr became pregnant that same year and the family moved to Sudeley Castle in June, taking Jane with them. Tragedy struck when Catherine Parr died while having the baby in August of that year and Jane served as chief mourner in her funeral.

Jane was dealt another blow in 1549 when Thomas Seymour was arrested on charges of treason. She was sent back to her angered parents. They knew that their hopes of her marriage to the king were ruined; they punished her cruelly for this, even though it was not her fault.

In 1551 Jane's mother's two half-brothers died of the Sweating Sickness. Since Frances's father was dead, she became Duchess of Suffolk. Jane's father also became Duke of Suffolk. In the same year John Dudley was made the Duke of Northumberland and the chief councillor to Edward VI. 

In April 1552 Edward became sick with the measles and caught tuberculosis as well. By next year, Edward was so ill that he was weak and spitting up blood or something that was greenish-yellow. It was clear that he was going to die soon. 

Dudley knew that if either of Edward's half-sisters, Mary or Elizabeth, became queen, he would not be powerful anymore. Dudley plotted with Jane's equally ambitious parents and planned that Jane became his ward, and also that she marry his son, Guildford Dudley. Jane's mother decided to give up her claim to be queen for Jane. This did not mean that Frances was any less greedy, however. This meant that Jane would become Frances and Dudley's puppet and do what they wanted. Now Jane would be the next in line to the throne if the rights of the princesses Mary and Elizabeth were ignored.

When Jane's mother and father told her that Jane was going to get married, Jane refused. She said that Guildford was ugly, stupid, and rude. She also hated John Dudley. When Jane refused, Frances and Henry swore at Jane and slapped her. This did not work, so Frances gave Jane a brutal whipping. Finally, Jane agreed.
The wedding between Jane and Guildford happened on 25 May 1553. This became a triple marriage because Jane's sister, Katherine, was married at this time to Lord Herbert, and Guildford's sister, Katherine, was also married to Lord Hastings. 

At first, they were all forbidden to "consummate" (or to have sex) their marriages. This probably made Katherine Grey and William Herbert unhappy. It is not known if they liked each other, but it was obvious that they wanted to consummate the marriage. 

On the other hand, Jane and Guildford hated each other. They ignored each other for most of the time. But they consummated the marriage later.

On 6 July 1553, King Edward VI died. Dudley's plan to make Jane queen was starting to take place. Edward's death was kept secret for a few days until Jane could be proclaimed queen.

Jane was told by her parents and John Dudley that she was queen. She became sick with fright and fainted. She refused to take the crown.
"The crown is not my right. It pleaseth me not. The Lady Mary is the rightful heir," Jane said. Her parents swore at her and John Dudley told her that she "doth wrong to herself and her house". Under pressure, Jane finally relented. But she never forgave herself for doing this.

Meanwhile, news was spreading the Jane had been proclaimed the new queen. Although the people liked Jane, they loved Mary and Elizabeth more. They also hated John Dudley. In East Anglia, Mary was gaining support and planning to march into London. Dudley tried to enforce a counter-attack but to no avail. On 19 July Mary became queen. Jane was queen for nine days.

Jane returned all the crown jewels and clothes. She was then brought into the Tower of London. There, she was kept in a cell for the next few months. She was allowed to walk in the garden, however. She wrote many letters and read many books while at the Tower of London. She wrote a letter to Queen Mary saying that she never wanted the crown. 
Queen Mary believed Jane and refused to execute her cousin. Many people pressured Mary, but she was stubborn. She still ordered that a trial be held for traditional purposes. Jane was found guilty but the Queen pardoned her.

But the next year, 1554, a group of rebels under Thomas Wyatt, including Jane's father Henry Grey, led a rebellion against Queen Mary because she was planning to marry prince Phillip II of Spain. It was quickly put down. Although Jane had nothing to do with it and Mary did not want to kill her cousin, her advisors told her that Phillip would only come if Jane was killed. So, with a heavy heart (sadly), Queen Mary signed the death warrant. Jane was going to be beheaded.

When Jane was told that her head was going to be cut off, she was very scared. Nonetheless, she was happy that her "sad and woeful days" of life were finally coming to an end. 

Meanwhile, Mary still did not want to kill her cousin. So she sent a Catholic priest Dr. Feckenham to try to convert Jane to Catholicism. That way, Jane would not be a threat. But Jane was a firm Protestant and refused to become a Catholic. Jane's execution was postponed from 9 February to 12 February to try and make her a Catholic. The night before the execution, Jane wrote many letters to her family and prepared her neck for the block. The next morning, her hair was tied back and she watched Guildford go very unwillingly to the block. Then it was her turn.

On 12 February 1554 at the Tower of London, Jane was sent to the scaffold. She calmly climbed the scaffold and said a speech. She said the Psalm 51 in "the most devout manner". She then knelt by the block and tied a piece of cloth around her eyes. 

When the executioner told her to put her head on the block, she reached out but could not find the block since she was very scared. She cried for help until someone grabbed her hands and helped her find the block. Jane then put her neck above the block and slowly lowered it onto the block, pressed her neck against the wood and fit her chin in the hold. Then she brought her arms around her. Before she was executed she cried out "Lord, into thy hands, I commend my spirit!"

The crowd watched as the executioner raised the axe high in the air. Jane was shivering badly but her neck stayed perfectly still. Then, the executioner quickly swung the axe down perfectly at the middle of Jane's neck, which was severed in a single stroke. Jane's severed head fell to the straw in front of the block while huge amounts of blood splattered across the scaffold. The executioner then grabbed Jane's head by her red hair and lifted it up to show the crowd. He shouted "So perish all the Queen's enemies! Behold the head of a traitor!"

After the crowd left, the blood was removed, and Jane's body was brought to the church St. Peter ad Vincula. Since the church had just become Catholic and Jane was a Protestant, they had to get permission from Queen Mary to bury her. It was four hours until her maids were allowed to prepare her body for burial. Jane's body was buried between former Queens Anne Boleyn and Catherine Howard. It is unknown what happened to her severed head.



</doc>
<doc id="5160" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5160" title="Tower of London">
Tower of London

The Tower of London is an ancient Norman stone fortress in London, England. It stands on the bank of the River Thames, in the oldest part of the city. It was built by William the Conqueror, King William I, starting in 1078. The moat was built by Richard I, using water diverted from the River Thames. 

The Tower had many uses. Its main function was to protect Norman rule in the years after the conquest. It was a prison, and a place of execution. Today, the Crown Jewels are kept there. This is the collection of jewels owned by the British state, and sometimes worn by the monarch. There is also a museum of armour.

Only the most important people were executed (by axe) inside the Tower of London. Among the most famous were:


The Tower of London has a collection of ravens, large black birds of the Crow family. They are taken care of by the staff who work there. The ravens' wing feathers are kept short so they cannot fly away. This is because a legend (story) says that if the ravens leave the Tower, the Tower and the Kingdom will fall.

The closest Underground station to the Tower of London is Tower Hill.

For opening times and other information: 


</doc>
<doc id="5161" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5161" title="Anne Boleyn">
Anne Boleyn

Anne Boleyn (1501 or 1507 – 19 May 1536) was the second wife of King Henry VIII of England and queen consort from 1533 until 1536. She was the mother of Elizabeth I of England. Anne has been called "the most influential and important queen consort England has ever had." It was because of Anne Boleyn that Henry VIII divorced Catherine of Aragon, and became independent from the Roman Catholic Church.

People's opinions of Anne's beauty was different. The Venetian diarist Marino Sanuto described Anne as "not one of the handsomest women in the world; she is of middling , complexion, long neck, wide mouth, bosom not much raised ... eyes, which are black and beautiful". Simon Grynée wrote to Martin Bucer in September 1531 that Anne was "young, good-looking, of a rather dark complexion". Lancelot de Carles called her "beautiful" with a good figure. A Venetian in Paris in 1528 also said that she was beautiful. The most well-known description of Anne was written by the Catholic Nicholas Sanders in 1586. He wrote it several years after Anne died. Even though this is the most famous, it is also probably the wrongest description. "Anne Boleyn," he said, "was rather tall ... with black hair, and an oval face of a sallow complexion, as if troubled with jaundice. She had a projecting tooth under the upper lip, and on her right hand six fingers [which historians now say is not true]. There was a large wen under her chin, and therefore to hide its ugliness she wore a high dress covering her throat ... She was handsome to look at, with a pretty mouth." Sanders said that it was because of Anne that Henry went away from the Catholic church. Sanders' words about Anne made what Eric Ives called the "monster legend" of Anne Boleyn. Anne was also a good dancer. William Forrest, who wrote a modern poem about Catherine of Aragon, praised Anne's dancing. He said she had "passing excellent" skill as a dancer. "Here", he wrote, "was [a] fresh young damsel, that could trip and go."

Little is known for certain about Anne's early life, beginning with her date and place of birth. She was born in either 1501 or 1507, at either Blickling Hall in Norfolk or Hever Castle in Kent. She was the daughter of Sir Thomas Boleyn, a courtier and later a diplomat, and his wife Lady Elizabeth Howard, daughter of the Duke of Norfolk. She had two siblings; a sister Mary and a brother George. 

Anne's early education was the same for girls of her class. Her academic education was limited to arithmetic, her family genealogy, grammar, history, reading, and writing. She had been given a strong upbringing in religion and the Scriptures as the Boleyns were a family of firm religious beliefs. Anne developed domestic skills such as dancing, embroidery, good manners and morals, household management, music, needlework, and singing and excelled in playing several musical instruments including the block flute, the harp, the lute, and the virginals. She learned to play games such as, cards, chess, and dice and outdoor pursuits such as archery, falconry, horseback riding, and hunting. Anne was also taught to have obedience to the men in her life was which first to her father and then to her husband once she was married.

In 1513, she was sent to Margaret of Austria's royal court in the Netherlands to complete her education. Anne learned to speak French and studied art, culture, dance, literature, music, and poetry while she was there. The following year, she was transferred to the French court on the occasion of the marriage of Princess Mary Tudor, younger sister of King Henry VIII, to the French King Louis XII. Anne remained in France after the death of Louis XII and served as a lady-in-waiting to Queen Claude upon the accession of Francis I. In Queen Claude's household, Anne completed her study of French and developed a thorough knowledge of French culture and etiquette. As well as English, French, and some Italian, Anne demonstrated a working knowledge of Latin. She also developed an interest in fashion and religious philosophy that called for reform of the Church. Anne stayed in France until late winter 1521.

Anne was called back to England to marry a distant cousin James Butler, in the hope to settle an inheritance dispute. However, when the plan failed, Thomas Boleyn found a place for his daughter at the English court, as lady-in-waiting to Queen Katherine. There, Anne fell in love with Sir Henry Percy, who was the eldest son of the Earl of Northumberland, and they became secretly engaged to be married much to the displeasure of their respective families. Cardinal Wolsey ordered them to be separated. Anne was sent home to Hever Castle and Henry Percy was forced to marry Lady Mary Talbot, the daughter of Edward Talbot, Earl of Shrewsbury. Anne blamed Cardinal Wolsey for her lost love and was determined to have her revenge on him, because he had called her a "foolish girl".

Anne came back to the royal court and soon King Henry fell passionately in love with her. He wanted her to become his mistress, however she categorically refused, which made Henry's desire for her even greater. 

King Henry's marriage to Catherine of Aragon had produced only one daughter, Princess Mary, not thought suitable to rule the country after his death. Henry needed a son to succeed him and to secure the Tudor dynasty, but Catherine was now to old to have children. Henry then came to see Anne as the answer to the problem of the succession, and decided to divorce Catherine, so that he could marry Anne instead and have male heirs. 

He said that the marriage was not valid because Catherine had been married to his older brother Arthur, Prince of Wales before she had married Henry. Arthur had died a few months after the marriage at the age of fifteen, and a special dispensation from the Pope on the ground the marriage had never been consummated was issued so Catherine could marry Henry and the alliance between Spain and England would be kept. King Henry now thought that their marriage should not have been allowed in the first place and that they had been punished by not having any sons. He quoted a verse from the Bible that said "a man may not marry his brother's wife". He said he was doing what he thought was right, even though he still loved Catherine, but his conscience would not allow him to continue living in sin with her. The plans for the divorce caused a lot of gossip at court and abroad and became known as the "King's Great Matter". 

A special court was held, with Wolsey leading it, to decide if the divorce should be allowed. An official from the Pope in Rome was brought over and a trial was held. The official stated that he could not decide what to do. He wanted the Pope to decide instead. The Pope was fearful to offend Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor, nephew of Catherine, and what would happen if he allowed the divorce. He did not make a decision. In the meantime, Anne and King Henry were becoming more and more impatient.

After becoming Marquess of Pembroke in her own right, Anne felt secure enough and finally gave in to Henry in late 1532 and soon became pregnant. In order to have a legitimate heir to the throne, this meant that Anne and Henry needed to legalize their union quickly and therefore were secretly married on January 25, 1533, even though the divorce had not come through. 

No longer hoping for the Pope to grant him a divorce, Henry's marriage to Catherine of Aragon was declared illegal in the following May by the newly appointed Archbishop of Canterbury Thomas Cranmer, former chaplain of the Boleyns. Catherine was sent away from court with the title of Dowager Princess of Wales as if she had never been married to Henry. 

Now recognized as Henry's legal wife, Anne was formally crowned Queen of England on June 1, 1533. All that was needed now was the birth of a son and her triumph would be complete. 

Anne gave birth to a daughter, the future Elizabeth I of England, on September 7, 1533. King Henry was very disappointed, after all his troubles, the problem of the succession was still not resolved. However, Anne soon became pregnant again but that ended in a miscarriage in the summer of 1534. Henry started to worry that Anne could not give him a healthy male child. Anne feeling more and more insecure became more and more difficult and Henry began tiring of her. When, on January 29, 1536, Anne gave birth to a stillborn male child, Henry was furious and turned against her, accusing her of having bewitched him. 

Henry's new secretary, Thomas Cromwell, looked for a way to get rid of Anne so that Henry could marry again. He found people who said that Anne had been the lover of other men while she was married to King Henry. She was put on trial and found guilty of treason, adultery and incest, although she was probably innocent. The men who were accused of being her lovers were Sir Francis Weston, her musician Mark Smeaton, Sir Henry Norris, William Brereton, and her brother Viscount Rochford George Boleyn. All of them were condemned and executed.

Anne was executed on 19 May 1536 in the Tower of London, London, England. She was buried in the Chapel Royal of Saint Peter ad Vincula, within the Tower of London.



</doc>
<doc id="5163" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5163" title="Mona Lisa">
Mona Lisa

Mona Lisa (also known as La Gioconda or La Joconde) is a 16th-century portrait painted in oil by Leonardo da Vinci during the Renaissance in Florence, Italy. As of 2011, the work is owned by the Government of France and is shown at the Musée du Louvre in Paris under the title "Portrait of Lisa Gherardini, wife of Francesco del Giocondo". Many people think Mona Lisa's smile is mysterious. It is so often studied, recognized, and copied that many people say it is the most famous painting in the world. The Louvre says that about 80 percent of its visitors come to see the painting of Mona Lisa.

Vasari, who was Leonardo's first biographer (a person who writes about the life of another person), thought the painting was of a person named Lisa Gherardini. Speculation over the painting's model was solved in 2008 by Dr Armin Schlechter, a manuscript expert. Notes discovered in Heidelberg University Library which were written by Agostino Vespucci, a Florentine city official, reinforced Vasaril's earlier indentification of the model. Lisa was the wife of Francesco del Giocondo a wealthy silk merchant, who lived in Florence.

Scholars have been of many minds, identifying several people as the painting's subject. There are scholars who think that the "Mona Lisa" is Leonardo's mother Caterina in a distant memory.

Leonardo began painting the "Mona Lisa" in 1503 or 1504 in Florence, Italy. According to Da Vinci's contemporary, Giorgio Vasari, "...after he had lingered over it four years, left it unfinished...".
The painting was brought to France by Leonardo in 1516 and it was bought by Francis I of France. 

The "Mona Lisa" used to hang in the Chateau Fontainebleau and was then moved to the Palace of Versailles. After the French Revolution, Napoleon I of France had it hanging in his bedroom in the Tuileries Palace, but it was later moved to the Louvre where it is still hanging today.

On August 21, 1911, the "Mona Lisa" was stolen. The Louvre museum thought it was being photographed, but when they checked, it was not there. The Louvre closed for one week to help look for it.

People thought Guillaume Apollinaire, a French poet, stole it. He was put into jail, and tried to make people think his friend Pablo Picasso did it, and he was questioned. It was not either of them, though.

It was lost for two years, and everybody thought it would be lost forever. A worker at the Louvre, named Vincenzo Peruggia, had actually stolen it. He had hidden it in his coat and walked out with it after the museum had closed. He wanted the painting to go back to Italy and be shown in an Italian museum. After hiding it in his apartment for two years, he grew impatient and tried to sell it to a gallery in Florence, but was caught. It was shown all over Italy before going back to the Louvre. People thought Vincenzo was a hero who loved Italy, so he only spent a few months in jail. The Mona Lisa is very mysterious.


</doc>
<doc id="5164" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5164" title="December 14">
December 14






</doc>
<doc id="5165" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5165" title="1542">
1542





</doc>
<doc id="5166" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5166" title="February 13">
February 13





</doc>
<doc id="5167" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5167" title="January 31">
January 31





</doc>
<doc id="5168" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5168" title="1981">
1981

1981 (MCMLXXXI) was a common year starting on Thursday of the Gregorian calendar.








</doc>
<doc id="5169" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5169" title="Britney Spears">
Britney Spears

Britney Spears (born December 2, 1981 in McComb, Mississippi), is an American pop singer.

Britney Spears was born in McComb, Mississippi, about 25 miles away from where she grew up in Kentwood, Louisiana. Her parents are James (Jamie) and Lynne Spears. She has an older brother, Bryan (born 1977) and a younger sister, Jamie Lynn Spears (born 1991). Ever since Spears was very young she liked to sing, dance and act so she took lessons. She also did gymnastics and she was very good at it. When She was eight, she tried out for a TV program for children called the "New Mickey Mouse Club". She was great, but too young. Every summer for the next three years, she went to a school for performing arts in New York City. It was a long way from home for a young child, her mother and baby sister from a small town to go but Spears' family believed in her. At the age of 11, Spears tried out once again for the Mickey Mouse Club and was on the show from 1993-1994. It was filmed in Lake Buena Vista, Florida. Others on the show during this time were singers Christina Aguilera, Justin Timberlake, and JC Chasez (who would later be members of the band *NSYNC), and actors Ryan Gosling and Keri Russell. After the Mickey Mouse Club ended in 1994, Spears went back to her hometown, Kentwood, and went to high school. In 1995 and 1996, she was voted Junior High School Most Beautiful. Britney liked her home but really wanted to sing and dance again. In 1997 she joined a girl group called Innosense but she wanted to be a solo singer. Later that year, 16 year old Spears was signed by Jive Records.

In 1998, she made her first song, "...Baby One More Time". The music video for the song is famous for showing Spears in a schoolgirl uniform.

Spears is currently the 8th best selling female artist in America and has sold 83 million records worldwide. She has one Grammy, three MTV Video Music Awards, and her own star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. She has had four #1 songs: "Baby One More Time", "Womanizer", "3", and "Hold It Against Me".

Her 6th recent album 'Circus' was released on her birthday, December 2, 2008. It reached number one in the United States and many other countries. Four singles have been released from that album: Womanizer, Circus, If U Seek Amy and Radar. On November 10, 2009, she released a second greatest hits compilation 'The Singles Collection' featuring 17 hits including the new first single "3". A special box set featured all of her singles in their original separate sleeves and included at least 1 remix or b-side. 

She wrapped up her successful 'The Circus Starring Britney Spears' at the end of 2009. During her extended break, she has been slowly recording new songs for her 7th studio album, 'Femme Fatale'. The album has had three singles so far: "Hold It Against Me", "Till The World Ends", and "I Wanna Go". She is now promoting 'Femme Fatale' on her 'Femme Fatale Tour' with American singer/rapper Nicki Minaj.

Spears has made nine albums, six of which are studio albums, and three compilations:

In 2002, Spears played the lead role, Lucy Ann Wagner, in the movie "Crossroads".

She also had a small role in the movie "Austin Powers in Goldmember" in 2002.

On January 3, 2004, Spears married her childhood friend Jason Allen Alexander in Las Vegas, Nevada, United States. The marriage was cancelled only 55 hours later.

On September 18, 2004, Spears married Kevin Federline. They had a son together on September 14, 2005 named Sean Preston Spears Federline. On September 12, 2006, Britney gave birth to her second child, another son named Jayden James Spears Federline.

In November 2006, Spears filed for divorce from Federline.

In September of 2007, Spears lost some custody of her two children, Sean Preston and Jayden James, to her ex-husband, Federline.

At the beginning of January 2008, Spears lost full custody of her children after a mental breakdown. The media reported mostly on Britney Spears' mental issues and custody battle with Federline. 

Since February 2008, her father has taken control of her estate and has helped Spears to get her life back to normal. 

Spears currently has 50/50 custody of her two sons.



</doc>
<doc id="5171" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5171" title="The Matrix">
The Matrix

The Matrix is a science fiction action movie that was made in 1999. It was written and directed by the Wachowski Brothers. The main actors in the movie are Keanu Reeves, Laurence Fishburne, Carrie-Anne Moss, and Hugo Weaving. "The Matrix" was followed by two sequels: "The Matrix Reloaded" and "The Matrix Revolutions".

The main character is Neo, a hacker. A man named Morpheus shows Neo what the Matrix is. The Matrix is a computer program that is an unreal world. The computer program makes people think that they live in the real world. The machines built the Matrix. 

The Matrix is a computer program that tricks people. It uses their bodies to get energy. Before the movie, Neo lives in the computer program of the Matrix. Then, Neo realizes that he is living a false life inside of the Matrix. Neo must fight the Matrix to free the humans. He is trying to let all the humans know the truth - that they are living inside the Matrix.

There is a lot of symbolism in "The Matrix". Common sources are Christianity, Buddhism,Hinduism(the concept of maya), the ancient philosopher Plato and "Plato's Cave", modern philosophers such as René Descartes, and modern authors such as William Gibson. 

Descartes says that maybe humans are brains in jars. A monster is maybe tricking humans. The monster makes humans believe that they are in the real world, but actually humans are simply brains. Humans cannot know what is real. 

There are also references to "Simulacra and Simulation", a very modern philosophy book by Jean Baudrillard. Baudrillard says that in the modern world, copies of copies are made. "The Real" is gone because people do not know what the first things were. For example, a modern person who eats a chicken did not kill the chicken. That person does not know what a real chicken is. The chicken meat is false because the person did not kill the chicken. The person's reality is the chicken meat. 


<poem>
</poem>



Don Davis made the score (orchestra part with violins and flutes).
The Matrix's soundtrack (band music for a movie) includes music from bands such as Rammstein, Rob Dougan, Rage Against the Machine, Propellerheads, Massive Attack, The Prodigy, Rob Zombie, and Marilyn Manson.

The word "matrix" sometimes means "origin" or "beginnings". In very old English, "matrix" means "womb". A matrix is also a part of mathematics.

A new religion called Matrixism or The path of the One is based on the movie "The Matrix". The religion began in 2004 with 300 members. Now there are about 16,000 members of Matrixism.


</doc>
<doc id="5172" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5172" title="Category:Movies">
Category:Movies

This category lists movies (also known as films, cinema, or motion pictures) and related articles.


</doc>
<doc id="5174" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5174" title="Portuguese (disambiguation)">
Portuguese (disambiguation)

The word Portuguese can mean: 



</doc>
<doc id="5176" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5176" title="September 11 attacks">
September 11 attacks

The September 11, 2001 attacks, shortened as nine-eleven, 9/11 or "9-11", were four attacks by terrorists that happened on the same day. Four groups of people, each with a trained pilot, captured airplanes and flew them into US landmarks. These landmarks were the World Trade Center's twin towers in New York, and the Pentagon. The fourth plane crashed before reaching its target in Washington, D.C. After the event, the US government said the people who had done the attacks were close to the terrorist group al-Qaeda. During the events, nearly 3000 people died. Most of them were from the United States, but over 300 were from other places, such as the United Kingdom, India and Canada.


All of the 246 people on the four planes died in the crashes. 19 terrorists were also killed in the attacks. Both towers of the World Trade Center caught on fire after the crashes. The south tower (2 WTC) burned for 56 minutes before it fell and was destroyed. The north tower (1 WTC) burned for 102 minutes before it also fell. As the towers fell, parts of the towers hit other buildings around them. It is believed that because of this damage, a third building, 7 World Trade Center (7 WTC), fell at 5:20 p.m., but this is a debated subject. Many other buildings in the area were damaged badly and had to be destroyed. 2,602 people died at the World Trade Center.

The plane that hit the Pentagon hit the ground just as it hit the western side of the building. It then crashed through three of the five "rings" that make up the Pentagon. The crash killed 125 people in the Pentagon.

2,973 people died in the attacks, including people such as firemen and policemen trying to save the lives of other people. 

This was the first big attack by non-Americans on the United States since 1941, when Japanese war planes attacked the US naval base at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii. There had been some big terrorist acts against American targets before but most of them have been outside the U.S. (such as the Marine camp in Lebanon).

Many conspiracy theories have appeared which say that certain people in the United States government knew about the attacks beforehand, or even made them happen, and many people in the United States believe that this is the truth.

After the attack, the United States blamed al-Qaeda, which the U.S. believed was a terrorist group. President George Bush said he would start a "War on Terror". He meant that the United States would take major steps to protect Americans and their property from terrorists. For example, the American government would be reorganized. Security in public places was made stronger, especially at airports. Americans were told every day whether there was a serious threat of terrorism. (This was done by giving a color for the day. Red meant there was a severe risk, green meant a low risk, and there were several levels in between.)

The War on Terror also led to real military wars. The leader of al-Qaeda, Osama bin Laden, lived in the country of Afghanistan. The United States told the government of Afghanistan, called the Taliban, to turn bin Laden over to them. The Taliban would not do this. The leader of the Taliban, Mullah Muhammad Omar, demanded to see proof first from the United States government. President George Bush said that he did not need to provide proof. . The United States then went to war against Afghanistan. The Taliban was removed from power, and a new government was elected by the people of Afghanistan.

While this was happening, the United States government changed in a few ways. The U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) created the Transportation Security Administration (TSA). Before 9/11, security at American airports was provided by the airlines. The TSA made it the government's job to provide airport security. New officers were hired by TSA to work at airports and to fly on planes as air marshals. The TSA also provides security on American trains and subways. A new Department of Homeland Security was also created. It became their job to protect Americans and their property inside the United States. When this department was created, the TSA moved from the DOT to Homeland Security.

After defeating the Taliban, President Bush thought the US should invade Iraq. He believed that Iraq helped terrorist groups, including al-Qaeda. He said he had evidence that Iraq was also making weapons of mass destruction. He sent Secretary of State Colin Powell to the United Nations to show them some of the evidence. In March, 2003, the United States began its invasion of Iraq. (Four other countries also took part, including the United Kingdom, Australia, Poland, and Denmark.) The government of Iraq was overthrown, and the people of Iraq elected a new government. No weapons of mass destruction were found in Iraq.



</doc>
<doc id="5179" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5179" title="Cardiff">
Cardiff

Cardiff is the capital and biggest city of Wales, in the United Kingdom. 

Its name in the Welsh language is Caerdydd. 325,000 people live in Cardiff. It is the most important city in Wales for tourism, culture, government, sport, transport, nightlife and business.

Cardiff has a big port that used to be known as Tiger Bay, now just called Cardiff Bay, where the Welsh government works and now there are lots of shops, pubs and restaurants. Cardiff has an international airport, and is twinned with Nantes in France and Stuttgart in Germany. Cardiff has one of the largest stadiums in the United Kingdom, the Millennium Stadium, where important world sports matches and concerts happen. Other big stadiums in the city are the Cardiff City Stadium, where the main football and rugby teams play, and the SWALEC Stadium where cricket is played.

To get around, there are lots of bus routes and train lines in the city. There are two big train stations in Cardiff city centre, called Central station and Queen Street station, but there are also 18 other smaller stations in the city for local areas. There are lots of cycle paths in Cardiff on and off the road.

Three big rivers flow through Cardiff - the Taff, the Ely and the Rhymney.

Part of Cardiff is built on marshland.


</doc>
<doc id="5185" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5185" title="Valladolid">
Valladolid

On October 19 1469, Ferdinand II of Aragon and Isabella I of Castile married secretely in the "Palacio de los Vivero". Also, Christopher Columbus died in the city on May 20, 1506.

The river which runs through the city is known as the Pisuerga.


</doc>
<doc id="5188" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5188" title="Category:Grammar">
Category:Grammar


</doc>
<doc id="5194" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5194" title="Elizabeth Gaskell">
Elizabeth Gaskell

Elizabeth Cleghorn Gaskell (September 29, 1810 – November 12, 1865) was an English writer.

She was born in London. After her mother died, she lived with her aunt in Knutsford, Cheshire. She married William Gaskell, a priest, in 1832. They lived in Manchester, where several of her books are set. 

Her most famous books are "Mary Barton", "Cranford", "North and South", and "Wives and Daughters". She also wrote a book of the life of her friend, writer Charlotte Brontë. Some of her books have been made into movies and television programmes.



</doc>
<doc id="5195" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5195" title="Category:Mathematics">
Category:Mathematics


</doc>
<doc id="5198" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5198" title="Venice">
Venice

Venice is a city in northern Italy. 

Venice is the capital of the Veneto region, which is in the north-east of the country. The population of Venice is 271,367. Area is 412km². Usually, the warmest month is July and the coolest month is January. The maximum average precipitation occurs in November.

Venice is built on 117 small islands that are separated by 150 canals. People cross the canals by many small bridges. They can also be taken for rides along the canals in a type of boat called a "gondola".

The buildings in Venice are very old and attractive, and tourists come from all over the world to see them and the canals. This has made Venice one of the most famous cities in the world. 
The most famous sights are the Rialto Bridge, St Mark's Basilica and the Doge's Palace.

Every year the city sinks a couple of centimeters because the ground is made from mud. Eventually the city will be completely underwater, but that will take years. Because of this the Italian government is building the , a state-of-the-art defense against the sea water flooding, that will safely protect Venice forever.

There are other ways to get around in Venice as well. The most common is the gondola, and also the vaporetto, which is a water bus and carries lots of people around the canals. There are also motoscafi, motonavi and traghetti (ferries). You can use a motorboat, catch a taxi, or walk.

There are problems with transit and sewage in Venice, but it is still the most popular tourist attraction in northeast Italy. It was once flooded.

The history of Venice is very big and important. The city was founded by people from the actual veneto region as a refuge from the barbarian invasions, when the Roman empire fell. During the middle Ages Venice slowly grew to be an important commercial city. Around the year 1000 AD the Republic of Venice started to create an empire in the eastern Mediterranean sea. It lasted until 1797 AD , when was annexed by Napoleon' s France. Venice deeply influenced the Veneto, Istria and Dalmatia coast for one thousand years.

Venice started to lose population after Napoleon conquest, but with the unification of Italy the city returned to be an important city. Actually it is one of the most visited places on earth by turists from all around the globe.





</doc>
<doc id="5199" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5199" title="Naples">
Naples

Naples is a southern Italian city with a port. It faces the Mediterranean Sea. Its name in Italian is Napoli which came from its Greek name Neapolis, meaning "new city". 

Ancient Greeks settled Naples in the 6th Century B.C. There were so many Greeks there, the Romans called it "Magna Graecia", which means "Greater Greece." Later the Romans conquered the southern Italy and took Naples. When the Roman Empire fell to invaders in the west, Naples came under the rule of the Byzantines. The Byzantines ruled the Greek-speaking Eastern Roman Empire based in Greece and also in what is today called Turkey. Naples became independent later and but was combined with the Kingdom of Sicily during the Middle Ages. By 1500 it was ruled by Aragon, which was a kingdom in western Spain. Later Naples became part of Spain when Aragon and the other kingdom in Spain called Castile became one country. Naples was part of this Kingdom of Spain for over 300 years. Then it was conquered by the Italian kingdom of Sardinia-Piedmont in 1861. That kingdom became known as Italy. Naples was heavily bombed when Italy fought in World War Two, since British/American armies tried to capture it.

Today Naples is the capital of Campania and the largest city in southern Italy. It has a population of about 1 million. 300,000 people live in the area around Naples (including the habitans of Naples). It is an important city for tourists.

The average temperature and in the summer is 24°C. In the winter, the average can be as low as 8°C.

There is one airport in the city, Naples International Airport at Capodichino.



</doc>
<doc id="5200" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5200" title="Florence">
Florence

Florence (Italian: "Firenze") is the capital city of the region of Tuscany ("Toscana"), in Italy. From 1865 to 1870 the city was also the capital of the Kingdom of Italy. Florence is on the Arno River. The city has a population of around 400,000 people, and a suburban population of over 2,000,000 persons. The greater area has some 956,000 people. The city was a center of medieval European trade and finance. It is often considered the birthplace of the Italian Renaissance and was long ruled by the Medici family. Florence is also famous for its fine art and architecture. It is said that, of the 1,000 most important European artists of the second millennium, 350 lived or worked in Florence.

Bridges:

Museums:

Palaces:

Churches:



The football team of Florence is the Fiorentina.

The food of Florence is based more on peasant eating rather than expensive cooking. Most of foods are based on meat. The whole animal was usually eaten. Many kinds of tripe, (trippa) and (lampredotto) were commonly served. They are still sold at the food carts in the city. Antipasti include "crostini toscani", sliced bread topped with a chicken liver-based pâté. Also common are sliced meats (mainly prosciutto and salami). They are often served with melon when it is in season. Tuscan bread has no salt or butter. It is used often in Florentine meals. It is very common in the local soups, "ribollita" and "pappa al pomodoro", Both soups are usually served with local olive oil. The bread is also used in the salad of bread and fresh vegetables called "panzanella" that is served in summer. The most famous main course is the "bistecca alla fiorentina". It is a huge steak of Chianina beef that is cooked over hot charcoal. It is served very rare with the "tagliata", sliced rare beef served on a bed of arugula, often with slices of parmesan cheese on top.

Florence has a mixed Mediterranean climate and Humid subtropical climate, with hot and humid summers and cool and damp winters. Florence can be especially hot and humid from June to August (surrounded by hills in a valley cut by the Arno river). Summer temperatures are higher than those along coastlines. Snow is common in winter.



</doc>
<doc id="5201" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5201" title="Milan">
Milan

Milan (Italian: "Milano"; ancient "Medhelan" "Mediolanum" (City in the middle of the lands)) is a city in northern Italy. Milan is the capital of the Milano Provence and of the Lombardy Region. It is populated by 1,308,735 inhabitants.
It is the most populated province in Italy, and it is the second biggest city in Italy (after Rome). 

Milan is the fashion capital of the world and its important influence on design, economics, opera, and the media make it amongst the world's top 18 Global cities, along with Moscow, Buenos Aires and Kuala Lumpur.

Mediolanum was founded by Insubres, a Celtic people. It was captured by the Romans in 222 BC. Milan became very successful under the Roman Empire. 

Milan was ruled by the Spanish in the 1500s and the Austrians in the 1700s. During the Renaissance and the Romantic periods, Milan was a major cultural centre in the whole of Europe, famous for its literature and opera.

During the war, the city was badly affected by Allied bombings and during the 50s and 60s the city grew into being the wealthy and industrial metropolis it is today.


</doc>
<doc id="5208" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5208" title="Category:Alphabet">
Category:Alphabet


</doc>
<doc id="5209" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5209" title="Category:Countries">
Category:Countries


</doc>
<doc id="5210" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5210" title="Category:Rivers">
Category:Rivers


</doc>
<doc id="5211" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5211" title="Category:Cities">
Category:Cities


</doc>
<doc id="5212" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5212" title="Category:Continents">
Category:Continents


</doc>
<doc id="5213" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5213" title="Category:Oceans">
Category:Oceans


</doc>
<doc id="5216" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5216" title="Category:Biology">
Category:Biology


</doc>
<doc id="5217" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5217" title="Category:Ships">
Category:Ships


</doc>
<doc id="5219" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5219" title="Category:Chemistry">
Category:Chemistry


</doc>
<doc id="5220" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5220" title="Category:Christianity">
Category:Christianity


</doc>
<doc id="5221" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5221" title="Category:Hinduism">
Category:Hinduism


</doc>
<doc id="5222" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5222" title="Category:Mammals">
Category:Mammals

These articles are about mammals, a class of vertebrate animals.


</doc>
<doc id="5223" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5223" title="Category:Cats">
Category:Cats

This category and articles are about domestic cats. For big cats and wild cats, see .


</doc>
<doc id="5226" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5226" title="Glamorgan">
Glamorgan

Glamorgan, also known as Glamorganshire is a county in Wales in the west of Great Britain. Glamorgan was a medieval kingdom. Its capital is Cardiff.

The county is home to over a million people, which is more than one third the total of Wales. It contains the cities of Cardiff, Swansea and most of the valleys that are famous for coal mining in the past.


</doc>
<doc id="5227" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5227" title="Cornwall">
Cornwall

Cornwall (Cornish: "Kernow") is a county in the far south west of England in the UK. Truro is the capital of the Unitary Authority that has administered Cornwall since 2009. Truro is also the only city and has the cathedral of the Diocese of Truro. The Duchy of Cornwall is an estate which belongs to the Prince of Wales (who is also the Duke of Cornwall) but only part of it is in Cornwall. Cornwall is divided from Devon by the River Tamar.
Some people in Cornwall have revived Cornish, a very old recently extinct Celtic language of the area of Britain which is called Cornwall, which is related to Breton and to Welsh. There is also a dialect of the English language spoken in Cornwall.

Cornwall has a population of approx 550,000 and its population is divided almost equally between native Cornish and incomers from elsewhere in the UK, mostly England. Many Cornish people consider themselves as descendents of the indigenous Britons, and not English, and are recognised by Celtic organisations worldwide as such. 

Tintagel Castle is on the north coast of Cornwall. Falmouth harbour is one of the largest natural harbours in the world. Newquay is one of the larger holiday resorts and popular with surfers.

Since early times Cornwall has been an important area for the mining of tin. Tin is no longer mined but china clay is still an important industry. Bodmin Moor is the largest and highest of the granite moors of Cornwall. The climate is generally mild, with much frontal rain. The varied scenery and historical monuments attract many tourists to Cornwall.

The most important transport links between Devon and Cornwall are the Plymouth to Penzance railway line and the A30 and A38 major roads.

The Scilly Isles are a group of islands south west of Cornwall and forming part of the county. The Scilly Isles have a long history of shipwrecks because of the rocky coasts. There are 530 known ship wrecks around the isles.


</doc>
<doc id="5229" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5229" title="Tintagel Castle">
Tintagel Castle

Tintagel Castle is in Cornwall, a county in England.

Reginald, Earl of Cornwall built the castle on Tintagel Head (a piece of land by the sea) in about 1150. In Cornish legend, this is the place where the old Kings of Cornwall lived. Reginald built the castle for propaganda, not for military use; he wanted people to think of Camelot when they thought about him. Some people say King Arthur was born at the castle, because traditional stories say the King of Cornwall looked after him when he was a child.

The modern village of Tintagel was first called Trevena. Then, in the 1850s, it got a new name, to bring in tourism because of the King Arthur and Camelot legends. Really, Tintagel is only the name of land by the sea.


</doc>
<doc id="5230" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5230" title="Gwyneth Paltrow">
Gwyneth Paltrow

Gwyneth Kate Paltrow (born September 28, 1972) is an American actress. She was born in Los Angeles, California. 

She studied Spanish language in Talavera of the Queen, Spain.

Paltrow has been married to Chris Martin, lead singer of rock band "Coldplay", since December 5, 2003. Together they have a daughter, Apple (born May 14, 2004) and son, Moses (born April 8, 2006).



</doc>
<doc id="5231" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5231" title="Sarah Michelle Gellar">
Sarah Michelle Gellar

Sarah Michelle Gellar (born April 14, 1977) is an American actress. After several television acting roles during the 1990s, Gellar became famous for playing Buffy Summers in the television series "Buffy the Vampire Slayer". After "Buffy", she started acting in movies. She has starred in the family movies "Scooby-Doo" (2002) and "" (2004) , the movie "Harvard Man" (2001), and the horror moviess "The Return" (2006), "The Grudge 2" (2006), "The Grudge" (2004) and "I Know What You Did Last Summer" (1997). She also won an award for her part in the 1999 movie "Cruel Intentions".
Gellar was born in New York City. She is the only child of Rosellen Greenfield and Arthur Gellar. Both of her parents were Jewish, but Gellar's family had a Christmas tree during the holidays while she was growing up. In 1984, her parents divorced. She was raised by her mother on New York's Upper East Side. Gellar and her father did not had a good relationship from this time until his death from liver cancer on October 9, 2001. She went to school at New York's Columbia Grammar & Preparatory School and the Professional Children's School. Gellar was a very good student and was a good figure skater. Her best friend was Melissa Joan Hart. Several years later, Hart was the star of the series "Clarissa Explains It All" and "Sabrina, the Teenage Witch".

At the age of four, Gellar was seen by an talent agent in a restaurant in Uptown Manhattan. Two weeks later, she auditioned for a part in "An Invasion Of Privacy", a movie made for television. The movie starred Valerie Harper, Carol Kane and Jeff Daniels. At the audition, Gellar read the lines for both her own character and Harper's character. The directors thought this was very impressive and she got the job. A short while later, she got a part in a television commercial for the fast food restaurant Burger King. In it, she said bad things about McDonald's and said she only ate at Burger King. Gellar made other commercials while doing other acting job. Some of these jobs were playing Emily in an episode of the TV series "", appearing in a small role in the Chevy Chase comedy movie "Funny Farm" and in the movie "High Stakes". She was also in Europe working on the TV series "Crossbow". In 1991, she played a young Jacqueline Bouvier in "A Woman Named Jackie". 

Gellar's major break came in 1992. She starred in the teen soap opera "Swan's Crossing". After that, she got a part in another soap opera, "All My Children". She playing the character Kendall Hart, the long-lost daughter of character Erica Kane (Susan Lucci). In 1995, at the age of eighteen, she won a Daytime Emmy Award for Outstanding Younger Leading Actress in a Drama Series for her work as Kendall Hart.

Gellar left "All My Children" in 1995. People were saying that her and Susan Lucci did not get along and this caused problems with them working together. She got the main role in the 1997 TV series "Buffy the Vampire Slayer". She played a teenager who had to fight many of supernatural enemies with the help of a group of friends and her Watcher (a mentor). The show was well liked by both the critics and the audience. Another series, ("Angel"), was made based on characters from "Buffy". "Buffy" was on television for seven seasons and a total of 144 episodes. During the show, Buffy, and Gellar also, became cult icons in the United States and the UK. They were a symbol of "empowered" women. Gellar also sang several of the songs during the "Buffy the Vampire Slayer" musical episode "Once More, with Feeling".

During the show's later years, Gellar said she did not like some parts of Season six and the seventh season's final episode. After the show ended, Gellar said that she did not want to be in a "Buffy" movie. Since that time, she has said she might do it if the script is good enough. 

Gellar's picture has been used on the covers of "Cosmopolitan, Glamour, FHM, Rolling Stone", and other magazines. She was part of Maxim's "Hot 100" list in 2002, 2003, and 2005, and in FHM's "100 Sexiest Women" of 2005. In 1998, she was named one of "People" Magazine's "50 Most Beautiful People (in the World)". Gellar has also been in the Stone Temple Pilots music video "Sour Girl" and is a celebrity spokesperson for the cosmetics company Maybelline.

After "Buffy", Gellar tried to use her television fame for a movie career. Some of her movies were well liked, others were not. After roles in the popular horror movies "I Know What You Did Last Summer" and "Scream 2" (both 1997), she starred in the 1999 movies "Simply Irresistible", a romantic comedy, and "Cruel Intentions". "Cruel Intentions" was a small hit at the box office. It made over $38 million in the United States. The movie had a lesbian kiss between Gellar and co-star Selma Blair that won the "Best Kiss" award at the 2000 MTV Movie Awards. Critic Roger Ebert said that Gellar is "effective as a bright girl who knows exactly how to use her act as a tramp".

Gellar starred as Daphne in the box office success "Scooby-Doo" (2002), a live-action version of the cartoon series. Gellar was also in the sequel, "" (2004), which made less money than the first movie. Gellar's next movie was the 2004 horror movie "The Grudge". It was very well liked. Gellar appeared in the sequel "The Grudge 2". It opened on October 13, 2006. She has also starred in several movies that have yet to be released, including "Southland Tales", "The Air I Breathe" and "The Girls' Guide to Hunting And Fishing". 

Gellar met her husband Freddie Prinze, Jr. during filming of the 1997 teen horror movie "I Know What You Did Last Summer" but the two did not begin a romantic relationship until 2000. They were engaged to be married in April 2001. They got married in Jalisco, Mexico on September 1, 2002.

In 2004, while filming "The Grudge" in Japan, Gellar visited the famous Japanese swordmaker Shoji Yoshihara (Kuniie III) and bought a Katana from him as a birthday gift for her husband. Gellar found out that she needed permission from the government to take the sword out of the country. After she got permission, she said that it was incredibly difficult to do.

Gellar has said in interviews that she believes in God but does not belong to an organized religion.

Gellar had a baby girl in 2009.





</doc>
<doc id="5233" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5233" title="Jennifer Garner">
Jennifer Garner

Jennifer Anne Garner (born April 17, 1972) is a Golden Globe Award- and SAG Award-winning and Emmy Award-nominated American movie and television actress, and producer. She first became famous for her role as "Sydney Bristow" on "Alias", a CIA agent. She was also in Juno, Pear Harbour, and Dude, Where's My Car.



</doc>
<doc id="5234" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5234" title="Heather Graham">
Heather Graham

Heather Joan Graham (born January 29, 1970 in Milwaukee, Wisconsin) is an American actress.

Her father is a retired FBI agent. Her mother is a writer of books for children. Her sister, Aimee, is an actress and writer. Graham's parents are Catholics. They did not want their daughter to make any movies about sex. She does not talk to her parents now.

Graham was a student at the University of California, Los Angeles. She met James Woods when she was a student. She stopped going to college so she could become an actress.

Graham was in the movie "Drugstore Cowboy" in 1989. In 1997, She was in the movie "Boogie Nights". She played a character called "Roller Girl". She was in the movie "" in 1999. She played a character called "Felicity Shagwell". She was in the movie "From Hell" in 2001, in which she played a character called "Mary Kelly".

She was in several episodes of the television series "Scrubs" in 2004 and 2005.

Pictures of Graham were used in advertisements for Garnier hair care products and for Skyy vodka.

Graham has dated several famous men.


</doc>
<doc id="5235" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5235" title="Christina Ricci">
Christina Ricci

Christina Ricci (b. February 12, 1980) is an actress. She is from America. She was born in Santa Monica, California.




</doc>
<doc id="5236" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5236" title="Julia Roberts">
Julia Roberts

Julia Roberts (born October 28, 1967) is an American actress. She is best remembered for her roles in the movies "Steel Magnolias" (1989), "Pretty Woman" (1990), "Runaway Bride" (1998) and "Erin Brockovich" (2000). Roberts regularly plays characters of attractive powerful women. She has been among People Magazine's "50 Most Beautiful People in the world" eight times. 

It is commonly mistaken that Julia's birth name is "Julie". Roberts has said in interviews that "Julie" was a nickname given to her by classmates in elementary school, and she never took well to it. She reverted to her original name "Julia Roberts" when she discovered that a "Julie Roberts" was already registered with the Screen Actors Guild. Roberts originally wanted to be a veterinarian (an animal doctor), but later studied journalism. When her brother, Eric Roberts, achieved success in Hollywood, Julia decided to try acting. Her first breakthrough came when she played in two youth-oriented movies called "Mystic Pizza" and "Satisfaction", both filmed in 1987. Roberts' sister Lisa Roberts Gillan and niece Emma Roberts are actresses.

Roberts' first marriage was to musician Lyle Lovett; they divorced. She and her husband Danny Moder have three children. She gave birth to twins, Hazel Patricia and Phinnaeus Walter, in 2004. In 2007, she gave birth to a son, Henry Daniel.

Roberts is a convert to Hinduism.



</doc>
<doc id="5237" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5237" title="Angelina Jolie">
Angelina Jolie

Angelina Jolie (born June 4, 1975 as Angelina Jolie Voight in Los Angeles, California) is an award-winning American actress. She is the daughter of John Voight, who is also an actor and former actress/model Marcheline Bertrand. Her full name is Angelina Jolie Voight, but she decided to go by Angelina Jolie. She grew up in Los Angeles and attended the Lee Strasberg Theatre Institute. She began acting at about 12 years old, and since then has starred in many movies, including the Tomb Raider movies. She has also been in the movies "Hackers", "Gathering Evidence" (U.S. title), and "Gone in Sixty Seconds". She has been married to Jonny Lee Miller and Billy Bob Thorton. 

Jolie has three adopted children. She lives with actor Brad Pitt. They have three biological children. On May 27, 2006, Jolie gave birth to a girl, Shiloh. In 2008, she also gave birth to twins, Vivienne Marcheline and Knox Leon.

She won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for her performance in "Girl, Interrupted".



</doc>
<doc id="5238" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5238" title="Lisa Kudrow">
Lisa Kudrow

Lisa Marie Diane Kudrow (born July 30, 1963 in Encino, California) is an American actress. She was best known for her roles as Ursula on "Mad About You" and Phoebe on "Friends". "Friends" has been very popular lately and is still selling many copies, beating many popular shows even though it finished a long time ago. She also starred in P.S. I Love You playing the role Denise Hennessey.


</doc>
<doc id="5239" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5239" title="Grace Kelly">
Grace Kelly

Grace Kelly (November 12, 1929 - September 14, 1982) was an American actress. She later married Prince Rainier III of Monaco and became Her Serene Highness The Princess of Monaco. With Prince Rainier, she had 3 children:

Her movies included three by Alfred Hitchock: "Dial M for Murder", "Rear Window", and "To Catch a Thief". In 1955 she won an Academy Award for "The Country Girl". She was the first actress to appear on a postage stamp. She was also mentioned in Billy Joel's song "We didn't start the fire" and in Mika's song "Grace Kelly" (2007). The classic head-cover of a silk scarf crossed under the chin and knotted at the side or nape of the neck is universally known as the "Grace Kelly." This chic look is still copied by many female Hollywood stars when they wish to retain a degree of anonymity in the public eye.

Kelly was killed in a car accident.


</doc>
<doc id="5240" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5240" title="Elizabeth Taylor">
Elizabeth Taylor

Dame Elizabeth Rosemond Taylor, DBE (born February 27, 1932 – died March 23, 2011) was an English-born American actress. 

Taylor was born in London to American parents who returned to the United States on the onset of World War II. Considered to be a beautiful child, she started acting in films at the age of 10, first in "Lassie Come Home" (1942), followed by "National Velvet" (1944). Throughout her teens, she appeared in various supporting roles and easily made the transition to young adult parts. 

Her first major role was in "A Place in the Sun" in 1950, with Montgomery Clift. Working steadily during the 1950s, notable films have included; "The Father of the Bride" (1951), "Ivanhoe" (1952), "Elephant Walk" (1954), "Rhapsody" (1954), "Giant" (1956), "Raintree County" (1957), "Cat on a Hot Tin Roof" (1958), "Suddenly last Summer" (1959), "BUtterfield 8" (1960), etc. 
In 1963, she played the lead role in "Cleopatra" and met actor Richard Burton, who became her fifth husband in 1964. They appeared in several films together; "The V.I.P's" (1963), "The Sandpiper" (1965), "Who's afraid of Virginia Woolf ?" (1966), "The Taming of the Shrew" (1967), "Boom" (1968). She also starred in "Secret Ceremony" (1969), "X, Y and Zee" (1972) and "Ash Wednesday" (1973).

She has won two Academy Awards for best actress, the first for her performance in "Butterfield 8", the second for her performance in "Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?".

Taylor often received media attention because of her many illnesses and controversial marriages to well known figures such as Nicky Hilton, Michael Wilding, Mike Todd, Eddie Fisher, Richard Burton (twice), John Warner. She has two sons with Michael Wilding and a daughter with Mike Todd. She also adopted a daughter while married to Richard Burton. 

In later life, she became a highly dedicated fundraiser for AIDS.

Taylor had a number of health problems. In 2004, she was diagnosed with congestive heart failure; in 2009 she underwent cardiac surgery for it; in early 2011, new symptoms related to congestive heart failure caused her to be admitted into Cedars-Sinai Medical Center for treatment. Taylor died on March 23, 2011, surrounded by her four children at the same medical center in in Los Angeles, California, at the age of 79.



</doc>
<doc id="5242" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5242" title="Hilary Swank">
Hilary Swank

Hilary Swank (July 30, 1974) is an Academy and Golden Globe Award-winning American actress. Second woman in the world whom wins two Oscars before thirty age old (the first one was Jodi Foster). She is famous for movies such as "Million Dollar Baby" and "Freedom Writers". 

Hilary was born July 30, 1974 in Lincoln, Nebraska. In nine years old she had played her first role Mowgli in school staging "The Jungle Book" by Rudyard Kipling. Afterward she frequently appeared in school and university performances.


</doc>
<doc id="5243" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5243" title="Nana Visitor">
Nana Visitor

Nana Visitor (July 26, 1957) is an American actress. Visitor, who was born in New York, is most famous for playing Kira Nerys in the "Star Trek" television series "".

Visitor married fellow "Star Trek" actor Alexander Siddig in 1997. They had a son in 1996. Visitor and Siddig divorced in 2001.

Visitor is the niece of American actress Cyd Charisse.


</doc>
<doc id="5244" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5244" title="Alexander Siddig">
Alexander Siddig

Alexander Siddig (November 21, 1965) is a Sudanese actor. Siddig, who was born in Sudan, is most famous for playing Dr Julian Bashir in the "Star Trek" television series "".

Siddig married fellow "Star Trek" actor Nana Visitor in 1997. They had a son in 1996. Siddig and Visitor divorced in 2001.

Siddig is the nephew of English actor Malcolm McDowell and of former Sudanese Prime Minister Sadiq al-Mahdi.


</doc>
<doc id="5246" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5246" title="Eiffel Tower">
Eiffel Tower

The Eiffel Tower (, IPA pronunciation: "EYE-full" English; "eh-FEHL" French) is a famous landmark in Paris. It was built between 1887 and 1889 as the entrance arch for a fair called the Exposition Universelle. It cost £35million to build. It is 300 metres tall, but this height does not include the 24 m aerial (antenna) on the top; the total height of the structure is 324 m (1058 feet). There are also 1,665 steps inside the Eiffel Tower. It weighs 10,000 tons. It consists of 18,038 pieces and 2 1/2 million rivets. There are 20,000 sparkling lights and 80 kilometers of cables covering the structure. The weight of paint used is 60 tons, and the surface to be painted - 250,000 m2. The paper used to print the visitor's tickets in a year weighs 2 tons.

The Eiffel Tower was built by Gustave Eiffel for the 100th year of the French freedom. There were 107 bids submitted to construct the Eiffel Tower, 50 people worked on the design, and more than 100 built the parts. 132 workers assembled the parts on site. At first, the Eiffel Tower was to be made in Barcelona, Spain, but the people of Barcelona did not want it. Construction began on January 28, 1887 and was concluded on March 31, 1889. When the tower was built, it was only meant to be kept for 20 years. People did not like the Eiffel Tower and wanted it taken down. After the 20 years , the tower became the property of Paris again. By this time, the city had learned that the tower could be used to help with communications. The military used the tower to communicate during battle. When the tower was used in the capture of the spy, "Mata Hari", nobody wanted it taken apart.



</doc>
<doc id="5247" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5247" title="Musée du Louvre">
Musée du Louvre

The Louvre is a museum in Paris, which attracts millions of visitors every year because of its art collection. It is the most popular art museum in the world.

The most famous picture in the Louvre is the Mona Lisa by Leonardo da Vinci, but there are also paintings by Renoir, Rembrandt, Rubens, and Titian. 

There are also statues inside the Louvre. The most famous statues are the Venus de Milo and the Winged Victory of Samothrace.

Philip II of France built a castle called the "Castle of the Louvre". It used to be where the museum is. They used the castle as a fortress to defend Paris against the Vikings.
Charles V, King of France turned the castle into a palace. However, Francis I, King of France, knocked it down and built a new palace.

Henry IV, King of France added the Grande Galerie to the Louvre. The Grande Galerie is more than a quarter of a mile long and one hundred feet wide. The Grande Galerie was built along the River Seine. It was the longest building in the world.



</doc>
<doc id="5248" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5248" title="Venus de Milo">
Venus de Milo

The Venus de Milo is a ancient Greek statue. It is in the Louvre, a museum in Paris, France. The Venus de Milo represents Aphrodite, the goddess of love in Greek mythology. The statue is made of marble and is 203cm high. It is believed to be the work of Alexandros of Antioch.

The Venus de Milo was found on April 8, 1820 on the Aegean island of Melos. King Louis XVIII of France presented The Venus de Milo to the Louvre in 1821. 



</doc>
<doc id="5249" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5249" title="Aphrodite">
Aphrodite

Aphrodite (Greek 'risen from sea-foam') is the goddess of love and beauty in Greek mythology, and one of the Twelve Olympians. Many artists chose to portray her as a naked woman, or with very little clothing.. 

The major theory of Aphrodite's birth was that she was the daughter of Zeus and Dione.
Another theory states that Aphrodite was born from sea-foam near Paphos, Cyprus. She appeared from the sea.

Aphrodite was very beautiful, which made Zeus, the god of the gods, afraid that she would be the cause of fights between the other gods. He therefore married Aphrodite to Hephaestus. Hephastus was happy to be married to Aphrodite and gave her many pieces of jewelry in order to please her. Aphrodite, however, did not care for him due to his deformities. Looking for other, more attractive men, she spent most of her time with Ares, but was also linked with Adonis and Anchises.




</doc>
<doc id="5250" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5250" title="Venus (mythology)">
Venus (mythology)

Venus is the Roman goddess of love and beauty. She was the Roman version of the Greek Aphrodite and Etruscan Turan.

Her cult began in Ardea and Lavinium, Latium. On August 18, 293 BC, the first temple to her was built. August 18 was then a festival called the Vinalia Rustica. On April 1, the Veneralia was celebrated in honor of Venus Verticordia, the protector against vice. On April 23, 215 BC, a temple was built on the Capitol dedicated to Venus Erycina to commemorate the Roman defeat at Lake Trasum.

Julius Caesar introduced Venus Genetrix as a goddess of motherhood and domesticity.



</doc>
<doc id="5251" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5251" title="Jupiter (mythology)">
Jupiter (mythology)

Jupiter (Latin: "Iuppiter") is the king of the gods in Roman mythology. He was the god of the sky and thunder. He is known as Zeus in Greek mythology.
Jupiter was the son of Saturn (Cronos in Greek mythology). Saturn, who was the previous king of the gods, began to swallow the children that he had with his wife, Ops (Greek equivalent Rhea), when they were born. This was because he had been warned that one of his children would overthrow him. Saturn swallowed the children Neptune, Pluto, Ceres, Juno and Vesta. When Ops realised that she was pregnant again, she had the baby secretly moved to Crete, giving a stone wrapped in swaddling-clothes to Saturn for him to eat. Saturn believed he had eaten Jupiter therefore Jupiter was saved.

After Jupiter was raised by his mother, his destiny was to take over his own father, Saturn, as revenge for all he had done to his brothers and sisters in the past. When Jupiter grew up, he made Saturn vomit up all of the children he had swallowed. All the brothers and sisters joined forces and overthrew Saturn.

Then, with the help of the Cyclopses and the Hundred-handed Giants, they declared war on Saturn and the other Titans. Jupiter finally defeated the Titans and they were imprisoned in Tartarus.

Jupiter and his brothers divided the universe into three parts, Jupiter obtaining the heavens, Neptune the sea and Pluto the underworld. This is how Jupiter became the king of the gods.



</doc>
<doc id="5254" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5254" title="Minerva">
Minerva

Minerva was the Roman goddess of crafts and wisdom. The Greeks called her Athena (for the wisdom and crafts), and Pallas for the war part.



</doc>
<doc id="5255" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5255" title="Athena">
Athena

Athena is the Greek goddess of wisdom, strategy, war and travel. She is one of the Twelve Olympians. Athena's symbol is the owl, the wisest of the birds. She also had a breastplate called Aegis, which was a present given to her by Zeus. She is often shown with her helmet on and with her shield, which has Medusa's head on it. This was a present to her from Perseus. 

Athena is the protector of Athens, Greece, a city named after her. The Parthenon, which is on the Acropolis in Athens, is her most famous temple. She also helped many heroes, including Heracles, Jason, and Odysseus, and is always seen with Nike, the goddess of victory. 

There are many stories about Athena's birth. In Hesiod's "Theogony", Zeus had sexual intercourse with Metis, but was then scared of her having a child because a prophecy had said that a son born to Metis would overthrow Zeus as he had done to his father. To try and stop Metis having a child, Zeus swallowed her whole . However, Zeus was too late as Metis was already pregnant. 

While she was inside Zeus, Metis made a helmet and a robe for her baby. The hammering noise caused Zeus to have a headache. To try and help Zeus with the pain, Prometheus, Hephaestus, Hermes or Palaemon cut his head open with a Minoan axe. Athena then came out of Zeus's head. She was fully grown and had her armor on. 



</doc>
<doc id="5257" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5257" title="Salt Lake City, Utah">
Salt Lake City, Utah

Salt Lake City is a city in the United States of America. It is the capital, and largest city, in the state of Utah. It was founded by the Mormons and is the official headquarters of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It is named after the Great Salt Lake, which it is near. In 2010, the city's population is 186,440.

The city was founded in 1847 by Brigham Young and his Mormon followers. They extensively irrigated and cultivated the arid valley. Due to its proximity to the Great Salt Lake, the city was originally named "Great Salt Lake City"—the word "great" was dropped from the official name in 1868. Although Salt Lake City is still home to the headquarters of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church), less than half the population of Salt Lake City proper is Mormon today.

Immigration of international LDS members, mining booms, and the construction of the first transcontinental railroad initially brought economic growth, and the city was nicknamed the "Crossroads of the West". It was traversed by the Lincoln Highway, the first transcontinental highway, in 1913, and presently two major cross-country freeways, I-15 and I-80, intersect in the city. Salt Lake City has since developed a strong outdoor recreation tourist industry based primarily on skiing. It was host to the 2002 Winter Olympics. It is the industrial banking center of the United States.

In 1847 pioneer Jane Dillworth held the first classes in her tent for the children of the first LDS families. In the last part of the 19th century, there was much controversy over how children in the area should be educated. LDS and non-LDS parents could not agree on the level of religious influence in schools. Today, many LDS youths in grades 9 through 12 attend some form of religious instruction, referred to as seminary. Students are released from public schools at various times of the day to attend seminary. LDS seminaries are usually located on church-owned property adjacent to the public school and within walking distance.
Because of high birth rates and large classrooms, Utah spends less per student than any other state. At the same time, Utah spends more per capita than any state with the exception of Alaska. Recently, money was approved for the reconstruction of more than half of the elementary schools and one of the middle schools in the Salt Lake City School District, which serves most of the area within the city limits. There are twenty-three K-6 elementary schools, five 7-8 middle schools, three 9-12 high schools (Highland, East, and West, with the former South High being converted to the South City campus of the Salt Lake Community College), and an alternative high school (Horizonte) located within the school district. In addition, Highland has recently been selected as the site for the charter school Salt Lake School for the Performing Arts (SPA). Many Catholic schools are located in the city, including Judge Memorial High School. Rowland Hall-St. Mark's School, established in 1867 by Episcopal Bishop Daniel Tuttle, is the area's premier independent school.

The Salt Lake City Public Library system consists of the main library downtown, and five branches in various neighborhoods. The main library, designed by renowned architect Moshe Safdie, opened in 2003. In 2006, the Salt Lake City Public Library was named "Library of the Year" by the American Library Association.

Colleges in Salt Lake City include the University of Utah, Westminster College, Salt Lake Community College, Stevens-Henager College, Eagle Gate College, The Art Institute of Salt Lake City and LDS Business College. Utah State University and BYU also operate education centers in the city. There are also many trade and technical schools such as Healing Mountain Massage School and the Utah College of Massage Therapy. The University of Utah has good research and medical programs. It was one of the original four universities to be connected to ARPANET, the predecessor to the Internet, in 1969, and was also the site of the first artificial heart transplant in 1982.



</doc>
<doc id="5258" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5258" title="Nagano, Nagano">
Nagano, Nagano

Nagano (Japanese 長野市) is a city in Japan and the capital of Nagano Prefecture (長野県).
Nagano Prefecture is located in the center of Japan and is surrounded on all four sides by 3000-meter tall mountains. This is called the “Roof of Japan”.
Nagano’s population is 2,182,190 (as of Oct 1, 2007).


</doc>
<doc id="5259" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5259" title="Barcelona">
Barcelona

Barcelona is a city in Spain. It is the capital city of Catalonia, which is a section of Spain. Barcelona is on the Mediterranean coast. The city is between the rivers of "Llobregat" and "Besòs", and south of the Pyrenees mountains.

In 2007, about 1.6 million people lived in Barcelona. Around 3.1 million people live in the Metropolitan Area and 4.9 million people live in the Urban Region. Barcelona is the second most populated city in Spain, and the tenth in the European Union.


Barcelona has sister relationships with many places worldwide:





</doc>
<doc id="5260" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5260" title="Denise Lewis">
Denise Lewis

Denise Lewis (born August 27, 1972) is an athlete from United Kingdom.


</doc>
<doc id="5267" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5267" title="Michael Johnson">
Michael Johnson

Michael Duane Johnson (born in September 13, 1967), Dallas, Texas. He is considered one of the best runners (athletes) in the world. He still holds a world record: 
His 200 meter world record was beaten by Usain Bolt at the Beijing 2008 Olympics.
He was the first athlete to win both the 200m and 400m sprints in the same Olympic Games (Atlanta).
He retired in 2001, and currently is a sports commentator on TV. 


</doc>
<doc id="5277" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5277" title="Category:United Kingdom">
Category:United Kingdom


</doc>
<doc id="5285" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5285" title="Bronze Age">
Bronze Age

The Bronze Age is the time period when people made tools from a metal called bronze. Bronze is a mixture of two other metals: nine parts copper to one part tin. Materials like wood and stone were also used for tools, but bronze was better for cutting and chopping, and was easy to shape. The Bronze Age was not at the same time everywhere, because different groups of people began to use bronze at different times. In Western Europe, the Bronze Age lasted from about 2000 BC until 800 BC. In the Middle East, it started about a thousand years earlier. For example, bronze was first used in Mesopotamia around 3000 BC.

Archaeologists think that people became more organised in the Bronze Age, because the making of metal tools was difficult and needed certain skills. The people who had these new skills would have been important. The new metal tools were bought, sold, or traded across larger distances.

Later, when iron tools spread, the Bronze Age ended and the Iron Age started. A reason for iron replacing bronze is that tin ore, a rock in which tin may found, is much more rare than iron ore. Copper tools were not useful because they were too soft.

By the Bronze Age, wild food was no longer a main part of the diet. The title "inventors of agriculture" might go to the Sumerians, starting c. 5500 BC. 

Farming allows more people in an area than can be supported by hunting and gathering. Crops can be stored for off-season use, or to sell or barter. Farmers could feed people to do other things than agriculture. This was a crucial factor in the rise of full-time armies. 

Sumerian agriculture allowed them to win battles and land. This made them early empire builders. Not long after, the Egyptians, farming in the fertile Nile valley, increased their population. There were now enough warriors for a territorial expansion more than tripling the Sumerian empire in area.

In Sumer, barley was the primary crop; wheat, flax, dates, apples, plums, and grapes were grown as well. Mesopotamian agriculture was both supported and limited by flooding of the Tigris and Euphrates rivers. Floods came in late spring or early summer from snow melting from the Anatolian mountains. 

Sheep and goats were domesticated, kept mainly for meat, milk, butter and cheese. Ur, a large town that covered about 50 acres (20 hectares), kept 10,000 animals; 3,000 were slaughtered every year. The city's population of 6,000 included a labour force of 2,500, cultivated 3,000 acres (12 km²) of land. The labour force included storehouse recorders, work foremen, overseers, and harvest supervisors as well as labourers. 

The land was plowed by teams of oxen pulling light unwheeled plows and grain was harvested with sickle. Wagons had solid wheels covered by leather tires kept in position by copper nails and were drawn by oxen. As many as four animals could pull a wagon at one time. The horse was domesticated in Ukraine around 4000 BC, and was in use by the Sumerians around 2000 BC.


</doc>
<doc id="5287" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5287" title="Wikipedia:Welcome">
Wikipedia:Welcome

Welcome to the ! We hope you are happy changing here and being a .

Some helpful pages are:

If you want to meet and talk with other members, you can visit our version of the "village pump" at . Just remember to sign your messages on Talk pages by typing "<nowiki>~~~~</nowiki>" at the end of your words.

You can set your own preferences or choices for the Simple English Wikipedia software at or at any time by clicking "my settings". 

We have a special page that describes .
Some new pages that need to be written now may be listed at .

Non-native English speakers are welcome to work on Simple English Wikipedia. To write here, you do need to know "some" English, because all of our articles are in English. For many writers here, English is not their first language!

What non-native English speakers write on Simple English Wikipedia is special and valuable. We may not have many articles on their cultures, and they can give more information. Native speakers will help and correct articles; don't feel bad if they change your article. Also remember that they probably can't speak your language as well as you can speak English.


</doc>
<doc id="5289" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5289" title="Louis XIV of France">
Louis XIV of France

Louis XIV, also popularly known as the Sun King (5 September 1638–1 September 1715) was the King of France and King of Navarre from 14 May 1643 until his death. He was a king for 72 years. This was the longest recorded rule of any European monarch. He is often seen as the typical example of absolutism.

Louis' parents were Louis XIII and Anne of Austria. He was the unexpected child of King Louis XIII and Anne of Austria, who had not had children in their 22-year marriage. He was christened Louis Dieudonné (literally, “gift of God”). In 1643, before his fifth birthday, his father died, and Louis inherited the throne of France. Because Louis XIV was too young to rule, his mother ruled France with Cardinal Mazarin, the Italian financier who had been the principal minister of Louis XIII. Mazarin had guided the nation through the later stages of the Thirty Years' War (1618-1648). In this war France struggled against the Habsburg dynasty that ruled Spain for military supremacy in Europe. 

After Mazarin died in 1661, Louis declared that he would rule France without a chief minister, something no French king had done in living memory. He intended to rule as an absolute monarch, believing that his power as king was derived from God and that he was responsible to God alone. He was obliged to rule for the benefit of his people. While Louis assumed responsibility for decision making, he understood that he must rule within the constraints of the laws and customs of his kingdom. Louis consulted widely with his nobles and ministers, and he met weekly with members of his high council. He created an informal cabinet, which was eventually led by Jean-Baptiste Colbert, chief minister of finance. 

Nevertheless, the system of absolute monarchy emphasized the role of the king, and no monarch was more successful in creating the image of monarchy than Louis XIV. He took the sun as his emblem and connected himself to its radiant image.

Starting in 1661, King Louis XIV transformed a humble hunting lodge into a glittering palace. Over 30,000 men worked on constructing the Palace of Versailles, a project that drained the royal treasury for decades. Expenses included not only building but also diverting rivers, piping in fresh water, and planting thousands of orange trees to mask the smell of sewage that could not be properly drained away. In May 1682, Louis moved the capital of France to Versailles, 12 miles away of Paris. It was Louis XIV's motive to remove himself and his nobles from the political intrigues of Paris. It became a symbol of his Absolute Monarchy.

Although Louis dreamed of a Spanish inheritance for his heirs, his military policy was not to expand French territory. He fought his early wars for defensive purposes—to secure France’s northern border and to dislodge the Spanish from strategic towns.

Louis fought the War of the Devolution (1667-1668) to assert his claims to a portion of Spain’s possessions after his wife’s father, Philip IV, died. Louis claimed the Spanish Netherlands in place of the wedding gift that Philip IV had never paid. 

The French aggression in the Spanish Netherlands caused relations between France and Holland to deteriorate. The Dutch had already fought the Spanish for generations to protect against an invasion of their country. They had no intention of allowing the French to pose the same threat by occupying the territories on their border. The result was war in the Netherlands from 1672 to 1678, during which Louis again demonstrated the effectiveness of French might. In a sweeping campaign, Louis almost succeeded in conquering Holland. To protect themselves, the Dutch opened their dikes, flooded the countryside, and turned Amsterdam into a virtual island. Louis’s armies could not advance farther, and they began negotiating a truce. War resumed, however, when Spain and Austria allied themselves with Holland, and Louis signed a treaty with England in 1670 to keep the English navy neutral. Neither side could win a decisive victory, and both suffered from financial exhaustion, which ultimately led to a treaty to end the war. 

Louis revoked, or ended, the Treaty of Nantes. This Treaty said that there would be freedom of religion in France. This means that everybody in France could worship the way they wanted to. When Louis revoked the Treaty of Nantes, he said that all people in France must be Catholic. Because of this, 50 thousand Protestant workers left France and went to America, England, and Germany. 

While Louis ruled, France became the most powerful country in all of Europe, and many other countries copied the French people's way of dressing and thinking. He also encouraged people to explore Canada, and tried very hard to make France larger. Louis spent a lot of money on wars, and France went into deep debt because of him.

By the middle of the 1680s the Sun King was losing much of his shine. Mazarin had taught him to work rigorously, and Louis maintained a punishing schedule throughout his life, shrugging off a series of minor illnesses and not listening to the advice of his physicians. Eventually a broken arm put an end to his vigorous horseback riding, and gout ended his long walks around Versailles. He was wheeled to the throne room or carried to his carriage. In 1683 his first wife died, and Louis secretly married his longtime mistress, Françoise d’Aubigné, Marquise de Maintenon. In 1711 he went through the tragedy of the death of his oldest son and the following year that of his oldest grandson.

French kings after Louis XIV taxed a lot of money from the poor people to try and pay off the debt. This is part of what led to the French Revolution.

In a world that regarded territory, power, and wealth as paramount, Louis XIV was recognized as a great king. He transformed France into the dominant nation in Europe, expanded its boundaries, and left his heirs secure in their possessions. Louis reached the height of his power in the 1670s, and he protected what he had achieved for the next four decades in the face of a Europe united against him. Moreover, he eventually realized his dream of seeing a Bourbon on the Spanish throne. During Louis’s reign, France also consolidated the administration of its colonial possessions and commerce, becoming a world power. On the domestic front, Louis strengthened the central government’s control over the diverse regions of France, incorporating his territorial gains into a united state. On the other hand, he provoked controversy when he restored Catholic religious unity by revoking the Edict of Nantes and repressing Protestantism. Unfortunately many of Louis’s policies, both domestic and foreign, caused great hardship to ordinary people, many of whom suffered starvation, fled their homeland, or lived in terror of persecution. Ultimately, Louis XIV wished to bring glory to France and to his dynasty, and he died believing that he had.


</doc>
<doc id="5290" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5290" title="Olympic Games">
Olympic Games

The Olympic Games are an important international event featuring summer and winter sports. The Games are held every two years, with Summer and Winter Olympic Games taking turns. Each seasonal games happens every four years. Originally, the ancient Olympic Games were held in Olympia, Greece, from the 8th century BC to the 5th century AD. The first "modern" Olympics happened in 1896 in Athens Greece. People choose to play in the Olympics to represent the place they are from.

Over time the Olympics have become bigger. The Winter Games were created for ice and snow sports. The Paralympic Games were created for athletes with physical disabilities. As well, the Olympics became bigger with the addition of the Youth Olympic Games for teenage athletes. World War I and World War II led to the cancellation of the 1916, 1940, and 1944 Games. As the decision-making body, the IOC is responsible for choosing the host city for each Olympic Games. The IOC is also responsible for choosing what sports are in the games.

The celebration of the Games includes many rituals and symbols, such as Olympic flag and torch, as well as the opening and closing ceremonies. The first, second, and third place finishers in each event receive gold, silver, and bronze medals.

The Ancient Olympic Games was a series of competitions held between representatives of several city-states and kingdoms from Ancient Greece, which featured mainly athletic but also combat and chariot racing events. During the Olympic games all struggles against the participating city-states were postponed until the games were finished. The origin of these Olympics is shrouded in mystery and legend. According to legend, it was Heracles who first called the Games "Olympic" and established the custom of holding them every four years. The most widely accepted date for the beginning of the Ancient Olympics is 776 BC; this is based on inscriptions, found at Olympia, of the winners of a footrace held every four years starting in 776 BC. The Ancient Games featured running events, a pentathlon (consisting of a jumping event, discus and javelin throws, a foot race and wrestling), boxing, wrestling, and equestrian events.

There is no consensus on when the Games officially ended, but many historians think it is 393 AD, when the emperor Theodosius I declared that all religious practices should end. Another date cited is 426 AD, when his successor Theodosius II ordered the destruction of all Greek temples. After the demise of the Olympics, they were not held again until the late 19th century.

An attempt to copy the ancient Olympic Games was the "L'Olympiade de la République", a national Olympic festival held annually from 1796 to 1798 in Revolutionary France. The competition had several sports from the ancient Greek Olympics.

Greek interest in bringing back the Olympic Games began with the Greek War of Independence from the Ottoman Empire in 1821. It was first proposed by poet and newspaper editor Panagiotis Soutsos in his poem "Dialogue of the Dead", published in 1833. Evangelis Zappas, a wealthy Greek-Romanian philanthropist, first wrote to King Otto of Greece, in 1856, offering to fund a permanent revival of the Olympic Games. Zappas sponsored the first Olympic Games in 1859, which was held in Athens. Athletes from Greece and the Ottoman Empire participated. Zappas funded the restoration of the ancient Panathenaic stadium so that it could host all future Olympic Games.

Between 1862 and 1867, Liverpool held an annual Grand Olympic Festival. It was created by John Hulley and Charles Melly, with support from Dr. Brookes. These games were unfair in nature since only Men could compete. In 1865 Hulley, Dr. Brookes and E.G. Ravenstein founded the National Olympian Association in Liverpool, a forerunner of the British Olympic Association. Its articles of foundation provided the framework for the International Olympic Charter.

Dr. Brookes copied the sports which were in the Olympics held in Athens in 1859 in future Wenlock Olympian Games (Brookes created this first as a class in 1850 and then as an event in 1856.). In 1866, a national Olympic Games in Great Britain was organized by Dr. Brookes at London's Crystal Palace.

The Panathinaiko Stadium hosted Olympics in 1870 and 1875. Thirty thousand spectators attended that Games in 1870, although no official attendance records are available for the 1875 Games. In 1890, after attending the Olympian Games of the Wenlock Olympian Society, Baron Pierre de Coubertin created the International Olympic Committee. Coubertin built on the ideas and work of Brookes and Zappas with the aim of creating an Olympic Games that would occur every four years in a different country. He presented these ideas during the first meeting of the newly created International Olympic Committee (IOC). This meeting was held from June 16 to June 23, 1894, at the Sorbonne University in Paris. On the last day of the meeting, it was decided that the first Olympic Games, to be controlled by the IOC, would take place two years later in Athens. The IOC elected the Greek writer Demetrius Vikelas as its first president.

The first Games held under the IOC was hosted in the Panathenaic stadium in Athens in 1896. These Games brought 14 nations and 241 athletes who competed in 43 events. Zappas and his cousin Konstantinos Zappas had left the Greek government money to fund future Olympic Games. This money was used to pay for the 1896 Games. George Averoff paid for the refurbishment of the stadium in preparation for the Games. The Greek government also provided money, which was paid back through the sale of tickets. Money was also paid back through the sale of the first Olympic commemorative stamp set.

The Greek officials and public were excited about hosting these Games. This feeling was shared by many of the athletes, who even demanded that Athens be the host of the Olympic Games on a permanent basis. The IOC did not approve this request. The IOC stated that each games would be held in a different country.

Following the success of the 1896 Games, the Olympics entered a period of stagnation that threatened their survival. The Olympic Games held at the Paris Exposition in 1900 and the World's Fair at St. Louis in 1904 were side-shows. The Games at Paris did not have a stadium, however this was the first time women took part in the games. The St. Louis Games hosted 650 athletes, but 580 were from the United States. The homogeneous nature of these celebrations was a low point for the Olympic Movement. The Games rebounded when the Intercalated Games (so-called because they were the second Games held within an Olympiad, a period of time lasting four years) were held in Athens. These Games are not officially recognized by the IOC and no Intercalated Games have been held since. These Games were hosted at the Panathenaic stadium in Athens. The games attracted an international field of participants, and generated great public interest.

The Winter Olympics were created to feature snow and ice sports that were not part of the Summer Games. Figure skating (in 1908 and 1920) and ice hockey (in 1920) were featured as Olympic events at the Summer Olympics. The IOC wanted to expand this list of sports to encompass other winter activities. At the 1921 Olympic Congress, in Lausanne, it was decided to hold a winter version of the Olympic Games. A winter sports week (it was actually 11 days) was held in 1924 in Chamonix, France; this event was the first Winter Olympic Games. The IOC ruled that the Winter Games to be celebrated every four years on the same year as the summer games. This pattern continued until the 1992 Games in Albertville, France. After this, beginning with the 1994 Games, the Winter Olympics were held on the third year of each Olympiad.

Starting in 2010, Youth Games will help to develop young athletes for the Olympic Games. Athletes between the ages of 14 and 18 will compete. The Youth Olympic Games were created by IOC president Jacques Rogge in 2001 and approved during the 119th meeting of the IOC. The first Summer Youth Games were held in Singapore from 14–26 August 2010. The first Winter Games will be hosted in Innsbruck, Austria, in 2012. These Games are shorter than the Olympic Games. The summer version will last twelve days and the winter version will last nine days. The IOC will allow 3,500 athletes and 875 officials to take part at the Summer Youth Games. 970 athletes and 580 officials will take part at the Winter Youth Games. The sports to be played will be the same as at the Olympic Games.

The Olympic Movement includes a large number of national and international sporting organizations and federations. As the group in charge of the Olympic Movement, the International Olympic Committee (IOC) is responsible for selecting the host city. Overseeing the planning of the Olympic Games. Changing the sports involved. Agreeing sponsorship and broadcasting rights. 

The Olympic Movement is made of three major elements:

French and English are the official languages of the Olympic Movement. The other language used at each Olympic Games is the language of the host country.

In 1998, it was uncovered that several IOC members had taken bribes from members of the Salt Lake City bid committee for the hosting of the 2002 Winter Olympics. This was done to make sure that Salt Lake City won. The IOC pursued an investigation which led to the resignation of four members and six people were sacked.

A BBC documentary entitled "Panorama: Buying the Games", aired in August 2004, investigated the taking of bribes in the bidding process for the 2012 Summer Olympics. The documentary claimed it was possible to bribe IOC members into voting for a particular candidate city. After being narrowly defeated in their bid for the 2012 Summer Games, Parisian Mayor Bertrand Delanoë accused the British Prime Minister Tony Blair and the London Bid Committee of breaking the bid rules.

The Turin bid for the 2006 Winter Olympics was also shrouded in controversy. A prominent IOC member, Marc Hodler, strongly connected with the rival bid of Sion, Switzerland, alleged bribery of IOC officials by members of the Turin Organizing Committee. These accusations led to a wide-ranging investigation. The allegations also served to sour many IOC members against Sion's bid and potentially helped Turin to capture the host city nomination.

The Olympic logo also known as the Olympic rings, consists of five intertwined rings and represents the unity of the five inhabited continents (America, Africa, Asia, Australasia, Europe). The colored version of the rings—blue, yellow, black, green, and red—over a white field forms the Olympic flag. The flag was adopted in 1914 but flown for the first time at the 1920 Summer Olympics in Antwerp, Belgium. The flag has since been flown during every Games. The Olympic motto is "Citius, Altius, Fortius", a Latin expression meaning "Faster, Higher, Stronger".

Before each Games, the Olympic flame is lit in Olympia in a ceremony that reflects ancient Greek rituals. A female performer, acting as a priestess, lights a torch with the use of the sun. The woman then lights the torch of the first relay bearer. Starting the Olympic torch relay that will carry the flame to the host city's Olympic stadium. The flame has been an Olympic symbol since 1928 and the torch relay was introduced at the 1936 Summer Games.

The Olympic mascot was introduced in 1968. The mascot is either an animal or human figure representing the cultural heritage of the host country.

As mandated by the Olympic Charter, various elements frame the opening ceremony of the Olympic Games. Most of these rituals were established at the 1920 Summer Olympics in Antwerp. The ceremony typically starts with the hoisting of the host country's flag and a performance of its national anthem. The host nation then presents artistic displays of music, singing, dance, and theater representative of its culture. 

After the artistic portion of the ceremony, the athletes parade into the stadium grouped by nation. Greece is traditionally the first nation to enter in order to honor the origins of the Olympics. Nations then enter the stadium alphabetically according to the host country's chosen language. The host country's athletes are always the last to enter. During the 2004 Summer Olympics, which was hosted in Athens, Greece. The Greek flag entered the stadium first and last. When it came in to the stadium for the second time it was followed by the athletes. Speeches are then given formally opening the Games. Finally the athletes oath said. Following this the Olympic torch is brought into the stadium and passed on until it reaches the final torch carrier who lights the cauldren.

The closing ceremony of the Olympic Games takes place after all sporting events have concluded. Flag-bearers from each participating country enter the stadium. They are followed by the athletes who enter together without any national distinction.
Three national flags are hoisted while the corresponding national anthems are played. The flag of Greece to honor the birthplace of the Olympic Games. The flag of the current host country. The flag of the country hosting the next Summer or Winter Olympic Games is also flown. 
The president of the organizing committee and the IOC president make their closing speeches. The Games are officially closed and the Olympic flame is put out. 
In what is known as the Antwerp Ceremony (as this tradition was started in Antwerp), the mayor of the city that organized the Games transfers a special Olympic flag to the president of the IOC. The president then passes it on to the mayor of the city hosting the next Olympic Games. 
After these compulsory elements, the next host nation briefly introduces itself with artistic displays of dance and theater representative of its culture.

A medal ceremony is held after each Olympic event is concluded. The winner, second and third-place competitors or teams stand on top of a three-tiered rostrum to be awarded their respective medals. After the medals are given out by an IOC member, the national flags of the three medalists are raised while the national anthem of the gold medalist's country plays.

The Olympic Games program consists of 26 sports, 30 disciplines and nearly 300 events. For example, wrestling is a Summer Olympic sport, comprising two disciplines: Greco-Roman and Freestyle. It is broken down into fourteen events for men and four events for women. Each event represents a different weight class. The Summer Olympics program includes 26 sports, while the Winter Olympics program features 15 sports. 

Olympic sports are governed by international sports federations (IFs) recognized by the IOC as the global supervisors of those sports. There are 35 federations represented at the IOC. Changes can happen to the list of sports in the Olympics. Sports can be added or removed from the list on the basis of a two-thirds majority vote of the members of the IOC. 

The 114th IOC meeting, in 2002, limited the Summer Games program to a maximum of 28 sports, 301 events, and 10,500 athletes. Three years later, at the 117th IOC Session, the first major change to the list was performed. This resulted in the removal of baseball and softball from the list of sports for the 2012 London Games. Since there was no agreement in the promotion of two other sports, the 2012 program will feature just 26 sports. The 2016 and 2020 Games will return to the maximum of 28 sports given the addition of rugby and golf.

The exclusion of professionals caused several controversies throughout the history of the modern Olympics. The 1912 Olympic pentathlon and decathlon champion Jim Thorpe was stripped of his medals when it was discovered that he had played semi-professional baseball before the Olympics. His medals were restored by the IOC in 1983 on compassionate grounds. As class structure evolved through the 20th century, the definition of the amateur athlete as an aristocratic gentleman became outdated. The advent of the state-sponsored "full-time amateur athlete" of the Eastern Bloc countries further eroded the ideology of the pure amateur, as it put the self-financed amateurs of the Western countries at a disadvantage. Nevertheless, the IOC held to the traditional rules regarding amateurism. 

Beginning in the 1970s, amateurism requirements were gradually phased out of the Olympic Charter. After the 1988 Games, the IOC decided to make all professional athletes eligible for the Olympics, subject to the approval of the IFs.
As of 2004, the only sport in which no professionals compete is boxing, although even this requires a definition of amateurism based on fight rules rather than on payment, as some boxers receive cash prizes from their National Olympic Committees. In men's football (soccer), only three professional players over the age of 23 are eligible to participate per team in the Olympic tournament.

There have been many countries deliberately missing the Olympics in order to make political statements. The most famous examples of countries missing the Olympics happened in 1980 and 1984. The Cold War opponents missed each other's Games. 65 nations refused to compete at the Moscow Olympics in 1980 because of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. The Soviet Union and 14 of its Eastern Bloc partners (except Romania) countered by missing the Los Angeles Olympics of 1984. The countries stated that they could not guarantee the safety of their athletes. Soviet officials defended their decision to withdraw from the Games by saying that "chauvinistic sentiments and an anti-Soviet hysteria are being whipped up in the United States".

The Olympic Games have been used as a platform to promote political ideologies almost from its inception. Nazi Germany wished to portray the Nationalist Socialist Party as benevolent and peace-loving when they hosted the 1936 Games. The Games were also intended to show the superiority of the Aryan )white) race. This goal was not met due in part to the achievements of athletes such as Jesse Owens, who won four gold medals at this Olympics.

Individual athletes have also used the Olympic stage to promote their own political agenda. At the 1968 Summer Olympics, in Mexico City, two American track and field athletes, Tommie Smith and John Carlos, who finished first and third in the 200 meter sprint race, performed the Black Power salute on the podium. The runner up Peter Norman wore an Olympic Project for Human Rights badge in support of Smith and Carlos. IOC President Avery Brundage then told the United States, to either send the two athletes home or withdraw the track and field team. The United States chose to send the pair home.

In the early 20th century, many Olympic athletes began using drugs to improve their athletic abilities. For example, the winner of the marathon at the 1904 Games, Thomas J. Hicks, was given strychnine and brandy by his coach. The only Olympic death linked to doping happened at the Rome Games of 1960. During the cycling road race, Danish cyclist Knud Enemark Jensen fell from his bicycle and later died. A coroner's inquiry found that he was under the influence of amphetamines. By the mid-1960s, sports federations were starting to ban the use of performance enhancing drugs. The IOC did like wise in 1967. The IOC created the World Anti-Doping Agency in 1999. The IOC-established drug testing regimen (now known as the Olympic Standard) has set the worldwide benchmark that other sporting federations around the world attempt to emulate. The first Olympic athlete to test positive for the use of performance enhancing drugs was Hans-Gunnar Liljenwall, a Swedish pentathlete at the 1968 Summer Olympics, who lost his bronze medal for alcohol use.

The Olympics have not brought lasting peace to the world, even during the Games. Three Olympic Games were not held due to war. The 1916 Games were cancelled because of World War I, and the summer and winter games of 1940 and 1944 were cancelled because of World War II. Terrorism has also threatened the Olympic Games. In 1972, when the Summer Games were held in Munich, West Germany, eleven members of the Israeli Olympic team were taken hostage by the terrorist group Black September. This event is now known as the Munich massacre. The terrorists killed two of the athletes soon after they had taken them hostage and killed the other nine during a failed rescue attempt. A German police officer and 5 terrorists also died. During the Summer Olympics in 1996 in Atlanta, a bomb was detonated at the Centennial Olympic Park, which killed 2 and injured 111 others. Eric Robert Rudolph is currently serving a life sentence for the bombing.

The host city for an Olympic Games is chosen seven years ahead of the event. The process of selection is carried out in two phases that span a two-year period. The process starts when a city wanting to host the games applies to its country's Olympic group. If more than one city from the same country gives a proposal to its NOC, the national group choses which city will run for host. The first step once the deadline passes (To tell the IOC that you want to hold the Games), is to ask the cities to complete a questionnaire which covers many key points in the organization of the Olympic Games. The evaluation of the filled questionnaires by a group provides the IOC with an idea of each cities project and their potential to host the Games. On the basis of this evaluation, the IOC choses the applicants that will proceed to the candidature stage. 

Once the candidate cities are chosen, they must give to the IOC a bigger presentation of their project as part of a candidature file. Each city is analyzed by an evaluation group. This group will also visit the cities. The group give a report on its findings one month prior to the IOC's final decision. During the interview process the candidate city must also guarantee that it can fund the Games. The IOC members gathered in the meeting have the final vote on the host city. 

By 2016, the Olympic Games will have been hosted by 44 cities in 23 countries. The United States has hosted four Summer and four Winter Olympics, more than any other nation. Among Summer Olympics host nations, the United Kingdom has been the host of two Games, and will host its third Olympics in 2012 in London. Germany, Australia, France, and Greece are the other nations to have hosted the Summer Olympics twice. Among host cities, only Los Angeles, Paris, Athens and London have played host to the Olympic Games more than once, with each holding that honor twice. With the 2012 Games scheduled to take place in London, the British capital will hold the distinction of hosting the modern Olympics Games three times, more than any other city.

In the Winter Olympics, France has hosted three Games, hile Switzerland, Austria, Norway, Japan, and Italy have hosted twice. The most recent Games were held in Vancouver, Canada's second Winter Olympics and third overall. The next Winter Games will be in Sochi, Russia in 2014, which will be the first time this nation has hosted.





</doc>
<doc id="5291" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5291" title="Iron Age">
Iron Age

The Iron Age was a time in history after people began to use iron tools. Before this, they had used bronze or stone tools. Most of Europe, Africa and Asia reached the Iron Age by 500 BC. In Europe, it is a period of prehistory, because Iron Age people did not write their history down.

Iron is easy to find, but hard to make tools with. It melts at a higher temperature than bronze. The people who learned how to make iron tools were able to make many of them. This meant that people's behaviours changed. For example, more people could own a metal plough. They could farm their fields better and grow more crops. Some people invented coins to help buy and sell their crops and their iron tools. And of course, bronze weapons and armor were no match for those made out of iron, so many peoples who did not have iron were conquered by those who did. Armour was rare in western Europe's Iron Age, but people used shields and helmets to keep safe in battles.
In ancient times people were dependent on animals and plants only.


</doc>
<doc id="5293" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5293" title="Template:Numbers (0 E2)">
Template:Numbers (0 E2)


</doc>
<doc id="5294" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5294" title="Template:Numbers (integers)">
Template:Numbers (integers)


</doc>
<doc id="5296" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5296" title="Template:Days of the week">
Template:Days of the week


</doc>
<doc id="5300" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5300" title="Entertainment">
Entertainment

Entertainment is, for example, an activity like a sport or game that excites people and keeps their attention. Some entertainment, like a scary movie, can also make people feel sad or scared. Other entertainment, like a comedy show, are funny.


</doc>
<doc id="5301" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5301" title="Open Site">
Open Site

Open Site is a free internet encyclopedia created by many editors. Anyone can apply to become an editor or donate content.

At Open Site all the content is separated into categories. There are eleven main categories which each have many subcategories. These are the main categories:

Open Site claims to have encyclopedias in many languages e.g. Romanian, but there are very few articles.

Open Site started an encyclopedia for children in August 2004. The writing and pictures on the children's' encyclopedia are simpler and easier to understand than other encyclopedias, like this one. The encyclopedia contains tools and facts as well as articles.



</doc>
<doc id="5302" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5302" title="Category:Learning">
Category:Learning


</doc>
<doc id="5310" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5310" title="Coca-Cola">
Coca-Cola

Coca-Cola, is a carbonated, sweetened soft drink and is the world's best-selling drink. The Coca-Cola Company claims that the beverage is sold in more than 200 countries. The company's headquarters are in Atlanta, Georgia. Coca-Cola's main rival is Pepsi. 

Coca Cola was first made in the 1800s by John Pemberton. The first sales were at Jacob's Pharmacy in Atlanta, Georgia, on May 8, 1886. They sold it there for five cents a glass, but it was very strong tasting because they did not mix it with water. Coca-Cola was first made the way it is now in Columbus, Georgia. It was called Pemberton's French Wine Coca at first, and was sold as a medicine to help cure colds and give people more energy. The drink used to be sold at soda fountains in the United States.

Coca-Cola was first sold in bottles in Atlanta on March 12, 1894 with actual cocaine content. It was first sold in cans in 1955. During the first year, sales were about only nine drinks per day. Dr. Pemberton did not think he could make a lot of money with the drink he invented, so he sold parts of his business to different people. Just before he died in 1888, he sold the rest of his Coca-Cola business to Asa G. Candler. Mr Candler, together with some other businessmen, started the Coca-Cola Company.

The drink is called "Coca-Cola" because of the coca leaves and kola fruits that were used to add flavor. Dr. Pemberton's partner and bookkeeper, Frank Robinson, suggested the name "Coca Cola" because he thought using the letter C twice would look better than if they used a K in the word "Cola". He then wrote down the name to use as a logo that is now very famous.

Coca-Cola was the first ever sponsor of the Olympic Games. This was for the 1928 Olympic Games in Amsterdam.

The company sells many other products, including other sorts of Coca-Cola, such as Diet Coke (1981), Cherry Coke (1985), Diet Cherry Coke (1986), Diet/ Coke with Lemon (2001), Diet/ Vanilla Coke (2002), Diet/ Coke with Li (2004), Coke Zero (2006), Coca Cola with Orange (2007), Diet Coke Citrus Zest (2007).



</doc>
<doc id="5311" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5311" title="Sulfur">
Sulfur

Sulfur (or sulphur) is a chemical element. The symbol for sulfur is S, and its atomic number is 16. 

Sulfur is a yellow solid that is a nonmetal. It is brittle (easily broken) and crystalline. It burns easily, releasing toxic fumes of sulfur dioxide. It has a very faint odor. If it is melted and cooled very quickly, it makes a rubbery form of sulfur that is called "plastic sulfur". It gradually turns back into the yellow brittle form. It does not dissolve in water. The smell normally known as "sulfur" comes from hydrogen sulfide and similar chemicals. These sulfides are produced when things decay without air.

Sulfur can be found in the earth near volcanoes. Many minerals contain sulfur ions. Coal contains sulfur ions which are released when it burns. Hydrogen sulfide and sulfur dioxide are some sulfur compounds that are released when coal burns. They are reacted to make sulfur. Sulfur in the ground in melted, then forced up through pipes by compressed (squeezed) air.

Sulfur is commonly used in gunpowder, medicine, and matches. Matches release sulfur dioxide when they burn, giving them their smell. Sulfur is an essential component to living cells. Many proteins contain sulfur. It is also used as a pesticide on organic farms. 

Powder sulfur is said to be left after an occurrence of a supernatural being.

Sulfur is not toxic, but the chemical compounds formed when sulfur burns can be very toxic. Sulfuric acid, for example, can make paper turn black!

The ancient name for sulfur is "brimstone". Sulfur was used in fumigation (making fumes) and medicine in ancient Greece. In 1777, Antoine Lavosier convinced the scientific community that sulfur was an element.



</doc>
<doc id="5313" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5313" title="Aluminium">
Aluminium

Aluminium (or aluminum) is a chemical element. The symbol for aluminium is Al, and its atomic number is 13. Aluminium is the most abundant metal.

Aluminium is a very good conductor of electricity and heat. It is light and strong. It can be hammered into sheets (malleable) or pulled out into wires (ductile). It is a highly reactive metal, although it is corrosion resistant.

Aluminium prevents corrosion by forming a small, thin layer of aluminium oxide on its surface. This layer protects the metal by preventing oxygen from reaching it. Corrosion can not occur without oxygen. Because of this thin layer, the reactivity of aluminium is not seen.

Pure aluminium is made from bauxite, a kind of rock that has aluminium oxide and many impurities. The bauxite is crushed and reacted with sodium hydroxide. The aluminium oxide dissolves. Then the aluminum oxide is dissolved in liquid cryolite, a rare mineral. Cryolite is normally produced artificially though. The aluminium oxide is electrolyzed to make aluminium and oxygen.

Aluminium was once considered a precious metal that was even more valuable than gold. This is no longer true because, as technology improved, it became cheaper and easier to make pure aluminium.

Aluminium forms chemical compounds in the +3 oxidation state. They are generally unreactive. Aluminium chloride is an example. Very rarely are compounds in the +1 or +2 oxidation state.

Aluminium has many uses. Much of it is used in overhead power cables. It is also widely used in window frames and aircraft bodies. It is found at home as saucepans, soft drink cans, and cooking foil. Aluminium is also used to coat car headlamps and compact discs.

Pure aluminium is very soft, so a harder metal is almost always added. The harder metal is usually copper. Copper/aluminium alloys are to make ships, because the aluminium prevents corrosion, and the copper prevents barnacles.

Aluminium compounds are used in deodorants, water processing plants, food additives, and antacids.

Since aluminium needs to be made by electrolysis, it requires a very large amount of electrical power. Recycling aluminium would be much cheaper. That's why recycling plants were opened. The cost of recycling aluminium is much less than the cost of making it from bauxite.

Aluminium is not used in the human body, although it is very common. People debate whether its use in deodorants and water treatment is healthy. Aluminium ions slow down plant growth in acidic soils. Aluminium may be a factor in Alzheimer's disease (a disease when the brain stops working and the patient is confused). But the Alzheimer's Society says overwhelming medical and scientific opinion is that studies have not convincingly demonstrated a causal relationship between aluminium and Alzheimer's disease.



</doc>
<doc id="5316" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5316" title="Drawing">
Drawing

Drawing is a way of making a picture. Drawings are created by making lines on a surface. Long lines make up the shapes and small lines make the textures. Drawings can be images of real life or abstract images showing ideas cannot be seen in the real world.

A drawing is the art created this way. Examples of things used to mark with are pencils, chalk, charcoal, crayons, pastels, pen and ink.

Artists have been drawing for many centuries. They draw on paper or on other surfaces which the marks show up on.


</doc>
<doc id="5324" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5324" title="Texas">
Texas

Texas is the second largest state in the United States. It is larger than France. In 1845, it became the 28th state in the United States. Texas has been controlled by Spain, France, and Mexico before declaring its independence from Mexico in 1836. It was its own country, The Republic of Texas, for 9 years. 

The largest cities in Texas are Houston, Dallas, Fort Worth, San Antonio, El Paso, and Austin. Austin is the capital city of Texas.

There are many famous attractions in Texas. Fort Worth is known for its stockyards, and Amarillo is known for the cattle business and stockyards. In Dallas, Industrial Technology companies such as Texas Instruments and EDS have their offices.

San Antonio has The Alamo, and Houston has the Johnson Space Center. Austin has The University of Texas at Austin. Texas A&M in College Station and Texas Tech in Lubbock are other important universities in the state.

The state's name derives from táyshay, a word in the Caddoan language of the Hasinai (a Native American tribe), which means "allies" or "friends".

Texas was first explored in 1528 by Spanish explorers on accident (they arrived when their ship sunk off the coast). It did not become a colony until 1685, when France claimed it. In response, Spain set up a rival colony in 1691 by setting up a religious outpost in the eastern part of Texas. Spain did not come back to Texas until 1716 to protect its colonies in the west from French forces. Two years later, San Antonio was started.

The pressure between the Spaniards and Native Americans in East Texas stopped many settlers from coming to Texas. To stop the violence and the increasing Native American raids, Spain called a truce between many tribes in 1745 and 1789.

Tensions rose in Texas after the United States bought a large amount of nearby land from France in 1803. This land was called the Louisiana Purchase. People began wondering whether Spain or the United States could claim Texas.

When Mexico got independence from Spain in 1821, Texas became part of Mexico. Americans and other settlers came into Texas when Mexico allowed non-Spanish settlers to settle here. After many settlers came to Texas, Mexico started taxing non-citizens. This made many settlers outraged. Those from the South got even more outraged because Mexico banned all slavery in 1829 (many southerners saw slavery as a way of life back then). On March 2, 1836, Texas declared independence from Mexico and soon they were at war. Texas won, but Mexico refused to recognize Texas as an independent. Texas soon asked to become a state of the United States. Years later, in 1845, the US added Texas as a state, and Mexico broke off diplomatic relations. Mexico resisted offers by the U.S. to buy land extending from Texas to the Pacific Ocean. In 1846, a dispute over the border between Texas and Mexico resulted in armed conflict, and the Mexican-American War began. The United States won the war, and by the Treaty of Guadalupe-Hidalgo won lands that later formed the states of California, Arizona, Nevada, Utah, New Mexico, southwestern Colorado, and southwestern Wyoming. Mexico received 15 million dollars and gave up its claims to Texas.

After Abraham Lincoln was elected President of the United States, Texas joined the newly formed Confederate States of America in 1861 and fought in the American Civil War in an attempt to become independent from the United States. The Confederates lost to the Union (the United States) in 1865. Texas was restored to full representation in Congress on March 30, 1870. 

On January 10, 1901, oil was found in Texas, leading the founding of a richer economy. During a time when the economy was bad, many people left Texas. Texas did not regain its population it lost until the 1950s and 60s. In recent years, Texas has been exploring technology and computers.

Texas is the second biggest state in the Union (after Alaska) and is bigger than every European country except Russia. It has mountains, deserts, plains and coasts.


</doc>
<doc id="5328" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5328" title="Category:Capital cities">
Category:Capital cities

Capital (city)


</doc>
<doc id="5333" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5333" title="Category:Olympic cities">
Category:Olympic cities

These cities have hosted the Olympic Games, either in the summer or winter, at least once.


</doc>
<doc id="5354" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5354" title="Prussia">
Prussia

The word Prussia (, , Lithuanian: "Prusai") has a lot of different meanings in the past and now:

In 1934 the Nazis stopped using Prussia as a land unit and in 1947 the Allies abolished the state of Prussia, and divided its territory among the new "Länder". Today the name is only for historical, geographical or cultural use.

The name Prussia is from the Borussi/Prussi people who lived in the Baltic region. Their ancestors came from Lithuania. Ducal Prussia was a fief of the Kingdom of Poland until 1660, and Royal Prussia was part of Poland until 1772. In the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries, most German-speaking Prussians started thinking they were part of the German nation. They thought the “typical Prussian” way of life was very important: 

From the late 18th century, this bigger Prussia had the power in North Germany; it was strongest in politics, economics and number of people. In 1871 Bismarck created the German Empire, and Prussia was its heart.

Prussia was a small part of today’s northern Poland. After a small number of Prussi people lived there, Germans made their homes. In 1934, Germany’s borders were with France, Belgium, the Netherlands and Lithuania. Some parts of Prussia can be found in eastern Poland. Before 1918, a lot of western Poland was also in Prussia. Between 1795 and 1807, Prussia also controlled Warsaw and most of central Poland.

Before 1934, these regions were also in Prussia:

But some regions were never part of Prussia, e.g. Oldenburg, Mecklenburg, and the Hanse city-states.

North-east Germany was Protestant, so Prussian people were mostly Protestant. But there were a lot of Catholic people in the Rhineland, East Prussia, Posen, Silesia , West Prussia and Ermland. The states of south Germany (especially Austria and Bavaria) were Catholic, so they did not want Prussia to have the power. Prussia was mostly German, but in the late 18th century the new Polish areas had a large Polish minority. In 1918, these Polish areas returned to Poland.

In 1226 Polish Prince Conrad of Mazovia (a place in Northern Poland) asked the Teutonic Knights from Transylvania to come to Mazovia. He wanted them to fight the Prussian tribes on his borders. They fought for more than 100 years, then they created a new state. After some time, this state controlled most of today’s Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, and parts of northern Poland. From 1466, the Knights were under the King of Poland and Lithuania. In 1525 the leader of the Knights became a Protestant. He made part of the Knights' land into the Duchy of Prussia, in the Kingdom of Poland. 

At that time, the Duchy of Prussia was only the area east of the mouth of the Vistula. In 1618 the new Duke of Prussia was the Elector John Sigismund of Brandenburg. He was also Margrave of Brandenburg. Brandenburg was under the Hohenzollern family. The Duchy of Prussia was important to the Hohenzollern family because it was not in the Holy Roman Empire. The name for the new state was "Brandenburg-Prussia". In the middle of the state was Polish land, but Brandenburg-Prussia was moving away from Poland. Under Frederick William, "the Great Elector," Prussia took new land, e.g. Magdeburg and areas west of the Rhine.

In 1701 the Holy Roman Emperor and Polish King allowed Brandenburg-Prussia to have the name "Kingdom of Prussia" under Frederick I. Under Frederick II ("the Great"), Prussia took Silesia from Austria and kept it in the Silesian Wars. The wars ended in 1763; Prussia was now the most powerful state in eastern Germany. Other parts of Germany went to Prussia because of marriage or death, e.g. Pomerania.

In this time, the Prussian military machine grew, as did the administration system. Until 1945 these were at the heart of the German state. Between 1772 and 1795 Prussia, Russia and Austria divided Poland into parts (the Partitions of Poland). Now Prussia controlled land in the far east, e.g. Warsaw. 

Frederick William II took Prussia into war with France in 1792. He lost at Valmy and gave his western land to France. Frederick William III started a new war, but lost at Jena. He gave more land to France at the Treaty of Tilsit.

In 1813 Prussia again started war with Napoléonic France. In 1815 Prussia won her lost land again, and also all the Rhineland and Westphalia and some other land. This land in the west was very important, especially the Ruhr valley. It was the new centre of Germany's industrialisation, and the home of the weapons industry. After the Napoléonic Wars Prussia was the biggest power in Germany, and more powerful than Austria. 

In the early 19th century, the liberals in Germany wanted one federal, democratic Germany. The conservatives wanted Germany as a group of independent, weak states. In 1848 revolution came to Europe – the liberals had a chance. Frederick William IV was worried. He allowed a National Assembly and a constitution. The new Frankfurt Parliament wanted to give Frederick William the crown of all Germany, but he did not want it. He said that revolutionaries could not name kings. Now Prussia had a semi-democratic constitution, but really the people with land (the Junkers) had the power, especially in the east.

In 1862 Prussian King William I named Otto von Bismarck as the new Minister-President (prime minister). Bismarck wanted the liberals and the conservatives to lose. He wanted to create a strong united Germany, but under the Junker, not under the western German liberals. So, he started three wars:* with Denmark in 1864 – this gave Prussia Schleswig-Holstein* with Austria in 186] (Austro-Prussian War) – this allowed Prussia to take Hanover and most other north German territories who were with Austria* with France in 1870 (Franco-Prussian War) - so Bismarck could control Mecklenburg, Bavaria, Baden, Württemberg and Saxony. After this, these states (but not Austria) became part of a united German Empire, and William I took the title of Emperor (Kaiser). 

This was Prussia’s high moment. The economic and political future looked good, if the leaders were clever. But after 99 days, in 1888 the state had a new leader, William II. He had little experience and little imagination, and he made bad plans. Bismarck lost his job in 1890 and William II started a new foreign policy. He started a military program and took risks; this took Germany into World War I. The Prussian Junker controlled the war, so when they lost, it was the end for them. The Prussian king and all the other German kings lost their power. Germany became a republic. In 1919 the Treaty of Versailles re-created the Polish state, and Prussia had to return a lot of land. The Polish Corridor was between East Prussia and Germany.

At the end of World War I some people wanted to break Prussia into smaller states. But tradition won, and Prussia became the "Prussian Free State" "(Freistaat Preußen)," the largest state of the Weimar Republic, with 60% of its land. The industrial Ruhr area was in Prussia, and also Berlin, so Prussia was the home of the left. The Social Democrats and the Catholic Centre had power for most of the 1920s. 

In 1932 Germany's conservative Chancellor Franz von Papen took control of Prussia, ending the state’s democratic constitution. It was the end of German democracy too. In 1933 Hermann Göring became Interior Minister of Prussia; he was now very strong. In 1934 the Nazis took the German states’ power. 

In 1945 the Soviet Union’s army took all of eastern and central Germany (and Berlin). Poland took everything east of the Oder-Neisse line, e.g. Silesia, Pomerania, eastern Brandenburg and East Prussia. The Soviet Union took the northern third of East Prussia, including Königsberg, now Kaliningrad. About ten million Germans had to fly from these areas. Polish and Russian people moved there to fill the area. Because of this, and because the Communists took control of land in the GDR, the Junker and Prussia were finished. 

In 1947, the United States, Britain, France and the Soviet Union formally agreed the end of Prussia. In the Soviet Zone (from 1949 the GDR) the Prussian lands were now the states of Brandenburg and Saxony-Anhalt. The Prussian parts of Pomerania went to Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania. In 1952, the GDR government stopped using states and used districts. In 1990, the end of the GDR, the states returned. In the West (from 1949 the Federal Republic of Germany), the Prussian lands went to North Rhine-Westphalia, Lower Saxony, Hesse, Rhineland-Palatinate and Schleswig-Holstein. Baden-Württemberg took the Hohenzollern land.

The idea of Prussia is not completely dead in Germany. Today some people want to put together the states of Brandenburg, Mecklenburg-Vorpommern and Berlin and call them Prussia. But German politicians are not interested in the idea. The constitution of Berlin allows for Berlin and Brandenburg becoming one state, but the people of Berlin said no in a vote. [



</doc>
<doc id="5361" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5361" title="Apocrypha">
Apocrypha

The Apocrypha are religious texts that are in some versions of the Bible. Other versions omit them. The word comes from Ancient Greek "ἀπόκρυφα" (apokrypha). Apocrypha means "those that were hidden". Generally, the term is applied to writings that were not part of the canon. There are several reasons why these texts were not included in the canon. The texts might only have been known to few people, or they might have been left out because their content does not fit well into that of the other books of the Bible. Some of the apocrypha were written at a later date, and where therefore not included. 

The Authorized King James Version called these books ‘Apocrypha’. It separated them, because the Bible said so in 2 Esdras 14:46, "But keep the seventy last, that thou mayest deliver them only to such as be wise among the people: For in them is the spring of understanding, the fountain of wisdom, and the stream of knowledge."

Roman Catholic Bibles have these books in the Old Testament. They do not call them Apocrypha. They call them deuterocanonical, which means that they belong to the second canon. Canon just means an official list of literary works accepted as representing a field. The first list is of books first written in Hebrew. This second list is of books first written in Greek.

These books were kept in Catholic Bibles because it is believed that the Bible Jesus read was a Bible that included the books of the "Apocrypha," the deuterocanonical books. It is known that the most popular Bible at the time of Jesus was the Greek Septuagint version - which includes these extra books. That is why early Church fathers quoted from Bibles including these books.

Christians disagree about the ‘Apocrypha’. Others point out that the ‘Apocrypha’ was in every Christian Bible until 1828.
In 1828 these books were taken out of some Bibles. The translators of the King James Bible said that these books were written to prepare the people for Jesus, in the same way as John the Baptist did. They said that the apostles used these books. 

There is no question that these books have always been part of the Bible in Oriental Orthodox Churches, so they were definitely not added in the 1500s. Around the year 80 AD, the Jewish Council (Sanhedrin) decided to cut the books from the Hebrew Bible, but they stayed in the Christian Bible. Then soon after Christianity became the only religion of Roman Empire in the 4th century, the Romans decided to cut out all of the same books that the Sanhedrin had cut out, and they moved some of them to the "apocrypha".

Books of the Apocrypha (they may not be in order):

Note: Other candidates for Apocryphal scriptures include supposedly lost portions of Esther and Sirach.

There are also Apocrypha candidates for the New Testament:



</doc>
<doc id="5362" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5362" title="Category:Metals">
Category:Metals


</doc>
<doc id="5363" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5363" title="Category:Chemical elements">
Category:Chemical elements


</doc>
<doc id="5369" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5369" title="Category:Paris">
Category:Paris


</doc>
<doc id="5371" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5371" title="Category:France">
Category:France


</doc>
<doc id="5374" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5374" title="Category:Greek philosophers">
Category:Greek philosophers


</doc>
<doc id="5375" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5375" title="Category:Philosophers">
Category:Philosophers


</doc>
<doc id="5377" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5377" title="Category:Ancient Greek poets">
Category:Ancient Greek poets


</doc>
<doc id="5378" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5378" title="Category:Poets">
Category:Poets


</doc>
<doc id="5381" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5381" title="Category:Greece">
Category:Greece


</doc>
<doc id="5382" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5382" title="Category:Languages">
Category:Languages

Language is how we all exchange ideas and information with other people.


</doc>
<doc id="5383" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5383" title="Category:Lists of countries">
Category:Lists of countries


</doc>
<doc id="5385" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5385" title="Category:Olympic medalists">
Category:Olympic medalists


</doc>
<doc id="5386" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5386" title="Category:Olympic gold medalists">
Category:Olympic gold medalists


</doc>
<doc id="5389" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5389" title="Category:Pop music">
Category:Pop music


</doc>
<doc id="5390" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5390" title="Category:Musicians">
Category:Musicians

This category is for individual "Musicians". For groups use .



</doc>
<doc id="5392" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5392" title="Sodium">
Sodium

Sodium (symbol Na, from the Latin name "natrium") is the chemical element number 11 in the periodic table of elements. It follows that its nucleus includes 11 protons, and 11 electrons orbit around it (according to the simplified model known as "Niels Bohr atom"). Even if a relatively large number of isotopes can be artificially produced, all decay in a short time. As a consequence all sodium found in nature (mainly in sea water) has the composition Na, meaning that the nucleus includes 12 neutrons. The atomic mass of sodium is 22.9898; if it is rounded, it would be 23.

Sodium is a light, white metal. Sodium is so soft that it can be easily cut with a knife. Sodium is a little lighter than water; when it reacts with water it floats. This reaction is very fast. Hydrogen and sodium hydroxide are produced. The hydrogen may ignite. Since sodium melts at a low temperature, it melts when it reacts with water. It has one valence electron which is removed easily, making it highly reactive. 

Compared with other alkali metals (metals in the first column of the periodic table), sodium is usually less reactive than potassium and more reactive than lithium. cocaine! dont do it its bad for your brain

Sodium was discovered by Sir Humphrey Davis, an English scientist, back in 1807. He made it by the electrolysis of sodium hydroxide. It is named after soda, a name for sodium hydroxide or sodium carbonate.

It is used in the preperation of organic compounds. It is also used in the street lights that are orange.

"Main article:Sodium compounds"

Sodium compounds are used in soaps, toothpaste, baking, and antacids.

Sodium does not exist as an element in nature; its easily removed valence electron is too reactive. It exists as an ion in chemical compounds. Sodium ions are found in the ocean. It is also found as sodium chloride in the earth's crust, where it is mined.

Sodium is normally made by electrolysis of very hot sodium chloride that was melted.

Sodium ion in the form of sodium chloride is needed in the human body, but large amounts of it cause problems, which is why one should not eat too much salt. Many organisms in the ocean depend on the proper concentration of ions in sea water to live.



</doc>
<doc id="5395" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5395" title="Dice">
Dice

Dice are objects used in games when something random needs to be done, such as moving a piece a random number of places on a board. Most dice are cubes that have the numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 on the faces. Dice are sometimes made in other shapes than cubes, but the six-sided die ("die" is the singular of "dice") is the most common. A die is usually rolled by the player’s hand.

Some games are played with two dice and some use only one. Some games that use dice are Monopoly, Yahtzee, Risk, Dungeons and Dragons, and many more. Dice with different numbers of sides are called polyhedral dice.

Weights can be put inside a die to make it only land on a certain number once it is rolled. 


</doc>
<doc id="5398" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5398" title="Matrix (mathematics)">
Matrix (mathematics)

In mathematics, a matrix (plural: matrices) is a rectangular table of cells of numbers, with rows and columns. The rows are each left-to-right (horizontal) lines, and the columns go top-to-bottom (vertical). The top-left cell is at row 1, column 1 "(see diagram at right)".

There are rules for adding, subtracting and "multiplying" matrices together, but the rules are different than for numbers. As an example, formula_1 does not always give the same result as formula_2, which is the case for the multiplication of ordinary numbers. A matrix can have more than 2 dimensions, such as a 3D matrix. Also, a matrix can be one-dimensional, as a single row or column.

Many natural sciences use matrices quite a lot. In many universities, courses about matrices (usually called linear algebra) are taught very early, sometimes even in the first year of studies. Matrices are also very common in computer science.

The horizontal lines in a matrix are called rows and the vertical lines are called columns. A matrix with "m" rows and "n" columns is called an "m"-by-"n" matrix (or "m"×"n" matrix) and "m" and "n" are called its dimensions. 

The places in the matrix where the numbers are, are called "entries". The entry of a matrix "A" that lies in the row number "i" and column number "j" is called the "i,j" entry of "A". This is written as "A"["i,j"] or "a".

We write formula_3 to define an "m" × "n" matrix "A" with each entry in the matrix called "a" for all 1 ≤ "i" ≤ "m" and 1 ≤ "j" ≤ "n".

The matrix

is a 4×3 matrix. This matrix has m=4 rows, and n=3 columns. 

The element "A"[2,3] or "a" is 7.

The sum of two matrices is the matrix, which ("i","j")-th entry is equal to the sum of the ("i","j")-th entries of two matrices:

The two matrices have the same dimensions. Here formula_6 is true.

The multiplication of two matrices is a bit more complicated: 
So with Numbers:

There are some matrices that are special. 

A square matrix has the same number of rows as columns, so m=n. 

An example of a square matrix is 

This matrix has 3 rows and 3 columns: m=n=3.

Every square dimension set of a matrix has a special counterpart called an "identity matrix". The identity matrix has nothing but zeroes except on the main diagonal, where there are all ones. For example:
is an identity matrix. There is exactly one identity matrix for each square dimension set. An identity matrix is special because when multiplying any matrix by the identity matrix, the result is always the original matrix with no change.

An inverse matrix is a matrix that, when multiplied by another matrix, equals the identity matrix. For example:
formula_14 is the inverse of 
formula_15.

A matrix, that has many rows, but only one column, is called a column vector.

The determinant takes a square matrix and returns a number. To understand what the number means, take each column of the matrix and draw it as a vector. The parallelogram drawn by those vectors has an area, which is the determinant. For all 2x2 matrices, the formula is very simple:
formula_16

For 3x3 matrices the formula is more complicated:
formula_17

There are no simple formulas for the determinants of larger matrices, and many computer programmers study how to get computers to quickly find large determinants.
There are three rules that all determinants follow. These are:





</doc>
<doc id="5400" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5400" title="Hawaiian">
Hawaiian

Hawaiian can be:


</doc>
<doc id="5401" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5401" title="British Isles">
British Isles

The British Isles are a group of islands in north-western Europe. The biggest islands are called Great Britain and Ireland, followed by the Isle of Man. Great Britain, the biggest island, is home to three countries. These are England, Wales and Scotland. The island of Ireland is divided into Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland. Great Britain is the biggest island in Europe and Ireland is the third biggest.

England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland join together to make the United Kingdom. 

Some people include the Channel Islands of Jersey, Guernsey, Sark in the term "British Isles", but they are a lot closer to France than to Great Britain. In politics, they are British islands but in geology they are French islands.

The term tends not to be used in the Republic of Ireland because many people feel it implies that Ireland is politically British.


</doc>
<doc id="5403" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5403" title="Mandarin language">
Mandarin language

Mandarin is the language of instruction of China and Taiwan.

Mandarin is one of five major regional languages of China. It spreads wider than any other regional language, from the whole northern part of China down to Yunnan Province in the southwest corner of China. In that big area there are many regional differences in vocabulary, so somebody who moves from Beijing to Yunnan could not understand people there who were speaking their own language, Yunnan hua. The problem is bigger than for a person in Great Britain or the United States to go to Australia. Therefore, starting in the 1920s, the Chinese government set up a national language based on the most widely understood words and pronunciations. 

In China, the language used in all schools is known as Standard Mandarin, "Pu Tong Hua" 普通话/普通話 meaning "common (spoken) language" or "Han Yu" 汉语/漢語 meaning "language of the Han. In places such as Malaysia it is known as "Huayu". In Taiwan it is known as "Guo Yu" 国语/國語 meaning "national language." There are some minor differences in these standards.

Mandarin is spoken by over 800 million people around the world, more than any other language.

Standard Mandarin is one of the six official languages at the United Nations.

Mandarin is written with Chinese characters called "Hàn zì" (漢字 or 汉字). Each "Hànzì" has its own pronunciation and meaning. An ordinary dictionary will contain about 10,000 characters. Spoken Mandarin uses very many compound words, words that combine meanings the way English does in such terms as "machine gun," "fire truck," "playground," etc. 

Some Chinese characters were originally fairly concrete pictures of the things they represent. As time went on, people chose to write simpler versions that are easier to write but do not look so much like the real thing, just as we sometimes draw stick men rather than drawing people with real-looking bodies, arms, legs, etc. Here are some examples:

Most characters, however, are made by combining pictures, using one to give a general meaning, and the other to represent a sound. For instance, "媽 mā" (mom) is made by adding 女 (nǚ, human female) to 馬 (mǎ, horse). The "ma" part is only there to represent the sound. 

In ancient Chinese, one character is generally enough for one word, but spoken Mandarin uses mostly compounds like "媽媽 māma," which is just "mama." Other examples show different ways of combining components:


Just as the English used in Great Britain favors "petrol" but the English used in the United States almost always uses "gasoline," different regional languages in China may use different compound words to name the same thing.

Mandarin is defined and designed based on Beijing accent. In China, there are over 600,000 dialects and more accents although they all use Chinese language and characters, but their pronunciation and some expressions are totally different. China must find a standard pronunciation to make all people to understand and communicate. Beijing has been the capital city of China for more than 1,000 years, so China defined Beijing Accent as standard mandarin.

Beijing also has some local dialects that are not included by mandarin or standard Chinese language yet. But different from the other dialects, Beijing is capital city, political, economic, culture and education center of China, more and more new Beijing dialects have been or will be accepted as mandarin or standard Chinese language. (On the contrary, the other dialects, such as Shanghainese, Cantonese, Hakka and etc, have few opportunity to be included into mandarin or standard Chinese language or be accepted by the whole China.)

The following samples are some Beijing dialects which are not accepted as standard mandarin yet by now.
倍儿: bei er means 'very much'; 拌蒜: ban suan means 'stagger'; 不吝: bu lin means 'do not worry about'; 撮: cuo means 'eat'; 出溜: chu liu means 'slip'; 大老爷儿们儿: da lao ye men means 'man, male'; 

The following samples are some Beijing dialects which have been already accepted as mandarin in recent years.
二把刀: er ba dao means 'not very skillful'; 哥们儿: ge men er means 'good male friends'; 抠门儿: kou men means 'parsimony'; 打小儿: da xiao er means 'since childhood'





</doc>
<doc id="5404" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5404" title="Algeria">
Algeria

Algeria is a country in the Western part of North Africa. The capital city is Algiers. It is the second largest country on the African continent.

Official languages are Arabic and Berber. French is widely spoken too.
Algeria's population is about 35 million.

The famous mathematician, Fibonacci (1170—1250) lived in Algeria as a teenager. This is where he learned the Hindu-Arabic number system and realized it was simpler to use.

It became independent from France in July 5, 1962

<noinclude>


</doc>
<doc id="5406" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5406" title="Plymouth, Devon">
Plymouth, Devon

"This article is about Plymouth, England. Plymouth can be other places or things, see Plymouth (disambiguation)."

Plymouth is a city in Devon, England. It is on the south coast. It has a large port used by the Royal Navy. Nearly 250,000 people live in Plymouth and it is the largest place in Devon. West of Plymouth is the mouth of the River Tamar which is called the Hamoaze. The Roman Catholic Bishop of Plymouth has his cathedral here. Plymouth was badly affected by German bombing during the Second World War when many buildings were destroyed. The Plymouth Fathers and the Plymouth Brethren were both named after Plymouth.

It has a football team called Plymouth Argyle.


</doc>
<doc id="5409" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5409" title="Plymouth (disambiguation)">
Plymouth (disambiguation)

Plymouth is the name of various places:



Other meanings of the word Plymouth are:


</doc>
<doc id="5410" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5410" title="George Washington">
George Washington

George Washington (February 22, 1732 – December 14, 1799) was the first President of the United States from 1789 to 1797. He was also the commander in chief of all American forces during the American Revolutionary War. For his central role in the beginning of the United States, he is often called the father of his country. Other revolutionaries around the world have molested themselves to a picture of him.
His mother was Mary Ball and his father was Augustine Washington. They were teachers at the local university. They lived in Virginia. As a child, Washington did not attend school for very long.

There is an untrue story that Washington cut down his father's cherry tree. When asked, he did not lie and said that he did cut down the tree. This story is supposed to show that Washington was honest. However, it was made up by Parson Weemes in an early biography written about Washington.

Washington was a farmer like his father. His large farm, or plantation, was called Mount Vernon. He also worked as a surveyor, someone who measures land. 

Washington began his army career during the French and Indian War. He first was a messenger for Virginia. He later led troops against the French. The British did not think soldiers from the colonies were as good as they were, so Washington went home and started to farm again.

In 1759, Washington married Martha Custis Washington. They did not have any children.

Washington was a delegate to the First Continental Congress, which was created by the Thirteen Colonies to respond to various laws passed by the British government. Washington was chosen by the Second Continental Congress to be the commanding general of the Continental Army. Washington led the army from 1775 until the end of the war in 1783. 

Washington is noted for leading troops across the Delaware River on Christmas Day, 1776, in a surprise attack on Hessian mercenaries at Trenton, New Jersey. The British had more troops and more supplies than Washington. However, Washington kept his troops together and won the key battle. 

Overall, Washington did not win many battles, but he never let the British destroy his army. With the help of the French navy, Washington made a British army surrender at Yorktown, Virginia in 1781, in the final major battle of the war. The war officially ended with the Treaty of Paris in 1783.

When the Revolutionary war ended, Washington was a national hero. He was offered what would basically be a dictatorship over the colonies. In a move that surprised everyone, however, Washington said no, quit the army and went home to Mount Vernon. He wanted the colonies to have a strong government, but was tired of leading. He also did not want the U.S. to be run by a tyrant.

A few years later, Washington was called over to host the discussions for the new government. He was voted president of the Constitutional Convention in 1785. Washington wanted the states to ratify the Constitution of the United States and they did, largely thanks to the Federalist Papers, which were written by Alexander Hamilton, John Jay, and James Madison. 

In 1789, Washington was elected president without any competition. Washington was the first President of the United States. Washington helped the government get started. While Washington did not belong to any political party and stayed neutral, he agreed with Federalist policies such as the country having a standing army and a national bank. He was re-elected to a second term. After his second term, Washington decided not to run for reelection even though he was popular enough to probably win in a landslide. His decision set a precedent that every president followed until Franklin D. Roosevelt broke it in 1940. In Washington's farewell address, he warned the country not to divide into political parties and to not get involved in European wars. Washington's isolationist policy was supported by most Americans for over one hundred years. His advice concerning political parties was completely ignored, as parties were already forming at the time of his speech.

Washington went back home to Mount Vernon after his second term ended in 1797. He died on December 14, 1799, in Mount Vernon at the age of 67. He was the only leader of the early United States who decided in his will that his slaves were to be freed once he himself and his wife had died. Washington, D.C. and the state of Washington are named after him. He is on the one dollar bill and the quarter coin.

From his 20s, George Washington was one of the largest landowners in Virginia. Owning a lot of land was one of the reasons Washington was chosen as a leader. By the 1780s, Washington was one of the largest landowners in the United States. He owned land in several states. Some of this land was given to him by states as thanks for being a general. Some this land he had never seen, and he never made money on that land. In addition to land, Washington also owned more than 100 slaves. However, did not have much money in cash. He actually had to borrow money while he was president. At his death, Washington's estate was worth over $500,000. That would be more than a billion dollars today. George Washington owned about 30.000 acres of land in six states, some of it in the District of Columbia.

Many people think George Washington had wooden teeth, but this is not true. He tried many different ways to replace his teeth, though: for instance, he tried having teeth carved from elk's teeth or ivory. George Washington's teeth started falling out when he was about 22, and he had only one tooth left by the time he became president. It was hard to talk and hard to eat. At one time, he had fake teeth with a special hole so that the one tooth he still had could poke through; he tried to keep them smelling clean by soaking them in wine, but instead they just became mushy and black. In 1796, a dentist had to pull out George Washington's last tooth, and he kept his tooth in a gold locket attached to his watch chain. When the time came for the president to have his portrait painted, cotton was pushed under his lips to make him look as if he had teeth. But the cotton made his mouth puff out too far, as is seen on the picture on the dollar bill.



</doc>
<doc id="5411" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5411" title="February 22">
February 22





</doc>
<doc id="5412" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5412" title="Category:Presidents of the United States">
Category:Presidents of the United States


</doc>
<doc id="5414" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5414" title="Abraham Lincoln">
Abraham Lincoln

Abraham Lincoln (February 12, 1809  – April 15, 1865) was the 16th President of the United States. He served as president from 1861 to 1865, during the American Civil War. After many Confederate forces had already surrendered and the war was ending, John Wilkes Booth assassinated Lincoln. Lincoln has been remembered as the "Great Emancipator" because he worked to end slavery in the United States.

Abraham Lincoln was born on February 12, 1809, in Hardin County (now LaRue County), Kentucky. His parents were Thomas Lincoln, a farmer, and Nancy Hanks. His family was poor. Abraham had one brother and one sister. His brother died in childhood. They grew up in a small log cabin house, with just one room inside. Although slavery was legal in Kentucky at that time, Lincoln's father, who was a religious Baptist, refused to own any slaves. When Lincoln was seven years old, his family moved to Indiana, and later to Illinois. In his childhood he helped his father on the farm, but when he was 22 years old he left home and moved to New Salem, Illinois, where he worked in a general store.
Later, he said that he had gone to school for just one year, but that was enough to learn how to read, write, and do simple math. In 1842, he married Mary Todd Lincoln. They had four children, but three of them died when they were very young.
Abraham Lincoln was sometimes called Abe Lincoln or "Honest Abe". The nickname "Honest Abe" came from a time when he started a business that failed. Instead of running away like many people would have, he stayed and worked to pay off his debt. He has also been called the "Great Emancipator" because of his work to end slavery in the United States. In 1863, he declared that all slaves held in the rebellious Confederate States were free. He also sponsored the Thirteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution. Ratified in 1865, nine months after his assassination, that amendment completely outlawed slavery in the United States.

Lincoln started his political career in 1832 when he ran for the Illinois General Assembly, but he lost the election. He served as a captain in the army during the Black Hawk War, a war with Native American tribes. When he moved to Springfield in 1837, he began to work as a lawyer. Soon, he became one of the most highly respected lawyers in Illinois.
In 1837, as a member of the Illinois General Assembly, Lincoln issued a written protest of its passage of a resolution stating that slavery could not be abolished in Washington, D.C.
In 1841, he won a court case (Bailey v. Cromwell), representing a black woman who claimed she had already been freed and could not be sold as a slave. In 1847, he lost a case (Matson v. Rutherford) representing a slave owner (Robert Matson) claiming return of fugitive slaves.

In 1846, Lincoln joined the Whig Party and was elected to one term in the House of Representatives. After that, he ignored his political career and instead became a very good railroad lawyer. In 1854, in reaction to the passage of the Kansas-Nebraska Act, Lincoln became involved in politics again. He joined the Republican Party, which had recently been formed in opposition to the expansion of slavery. In 1858, he wanted to become senator; although this was unsuccessful, the debates drew national attention to him.
The Republican Party nominated him for the Presidential election of 1860.

Lincoln was chosen as a candidate for the elections in 1860 for different reasons. Among these reasons were that his views on slavery were less extreme than those of other people who wanted to be candidates. Lincoln was from what was then one of the Western states, and had a bigger chance of winning the election there. Other candidates that were older or more experienced than him had enemies inside the party. Lincoln's family was poor, which added to the Republican position of free labor, the opposite of slave labor. Lincoln won the election in 1860, and was made the 16th President of the United States. He won with almost no votes in the South. For the first time, a president had won the election because of the large support he got from the states in the North. 

After Lincoln's election, seven States (South Carolina, Mississippi, Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Texas and Louisiana) formed the Confederate States of America, which led to the American Civil War. Later, four more states (Arkansas, Virginia, Tennessee, and North Carolina) joined the Confederacy for a total of eleven. In his whole period as President, he had to rebuild the Union with military force and many bloody battles. He also had to stop the "border states", like Kentucky, Missouri, and Maryland, from leaving the Union and joining the Confederacy.

Lincoln was not a general, and had only been in the army for a short time during the Black Hawk War. However, he still took a major role in the war, often spending days and days in the War Department. His plan was to cut off the South by surrounding it with ships, control the Mississippi River, and take Richmond, the Confederate capital. He often clashed with generals in the field, especially George B. McClellan, and fired generals who lost battles or were not aggressive enough. Eventually, he made Ulysses S. Grant the top general in the army.

With the Emancipation Proclamation on January 1, 1863, Lincoln ordered the freedom of all slaves in those states still in rebellion during the American Civil War. It did not actually immediately free all those slaves however, since those areas were still controlled by the rebelling states of the Confederacy. Only a small number of slaves already behind Union lines were immediately freed. As the Union army advanced, nearly all four million slaves were effectively freed. Some former slaves joined the Union army.
The Proclamation also did not free slaves in the slave states that had remained loyal to the Union (the federal government of the US). Neither did it apply to areas where Union forces had already regained control. Until the Thirteenth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution in 1865, only the states had power to end slavery within their own borders, so Lincoln issued the proclamation as a war measure. 

The Proclamation made freeing the slaves a Union goal for the war, and put an end to movements in European nations (especially in Great Britain and France) that would have recognized the Confederacy as an independent nation. Lincoln then sponsored a constitutional amendment to free all slaves. The Thirteenth Amendment, making slavery illegal everywhere in the United States, was passed late in 1865, eight months after Lincoln was assassinated.

Lincoln made a famous speech after the Battle of Gettysburg in 1863 called the Gettysburg Address. The battle was very important, and many soldiers from both sides died. The speech was given when they built the cemetery for the dead soldiers. It is one of the most famous speeches in American history.

Lincoln was reelected president in 1864. He proposed laws to make the nation become one again quickly. While attending a play at Ford's Theatre in Washington, D.C., John Wilkes Booth, a well-known actor and a Confederate spy from Maryland, aimed a gun at the back of Lincoln's head and fired at point-blank range, mortally wounding the President. An Army surgeon, Doctor Charles Leale, assessed Lincoln's wound as mortal. The dying Lincoln was carried across the street to Petersen House and after being laid on the bed, lost consciousness from blood loss. After being in a coma for nine hours, Lincoln died at 7:22 am on April 15. 

He was the first American president to be assassinated.

Lincoln has been ranked by scholars as one of the greatest U.S. presidents.


</doc>
<doc id="5415" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5415" title="February 12">
February 12





</doc>
<doc id="5416" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5416" title="April 15">
April 15






</doc>
<doc id="5419" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5419" title="Template:USPresidents">
Template:USPresidents

<includeonly>
</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="5420" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5420" title="Calvin Coolidge">
Calvin Coolidge

John Calvin Coolidge (July 4, 1872 - January 5, 1933) was the 30th President of the United States between 1923 to 1929.

He was married to Grace Coolidge and had 2 children: John (born September 6, 1906 - died 2000) and Calvin Jr. (born 13 April 1908 - died 1924). His younger son Calvin Jr. died at 16 while playing tennis at the White House. He was wearing shoes without socks and died from a toe infection. He was buried at the foot of Hill Cemetery.

Coolidge served as the Mayor of Northampton, Massachusetts. He later served as the Governor of Massachusetts. As governor, he became famous because of his response during the Boston Police Strike. Coolidge fired the police who went on strike and gave the jobs to unemployed World War 1 veterans (he gave the same bonuses that the striking policemen asked for to the veterans). 

In 1920, he was nominated Vice President under Warren G.Harding. The Harding-Coolidge team won easily. Harding died in 1923 and Coolidge became the next President.

Coolidge finished Harding's term and was elected in 1924 to continue to be the country's president.

Coolidge was president during a prosperous economy and the country did not face many challenges. He believed that the federal government should be as small as possible. He supported tax cuts and wanted the federal government to keep it's hands off the economy.

Coolidge was criticized for refusing to give subsidies to farmers and when a giant flood happened in Mississippi during 1927, he did not want the federal government to be involved. This was part of his belief of federalism, that the country's problems should be solved mainly by state governments and local governments rather than the federal government. 

He surprised many people by choosing not to run for re-election during 1928.

The legacy of Calvin Coolidge is mixed. People who support more federal government involvement in the economy do not like him. People who support less federal government involvement in the economy like him.

Calvin Coolidge was nicknamed "Silent Cal" because he did not talk much.



</doc>
<doc id="5422" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5422" title="Harry S. Truman">
Harry S. Truman

Harry S. Truman (May 8, 1884 - December 26, 1972) was the 33rd President of the United States, from 1945 to 1953. His wife was Bess Wallace Truman. Harry became president when Franklin D. Roosevelt died in office. As president, Truman made important foreign policy decisions such as using atomic weapons on Japan to end World War II, repairing Europe (which was destroyed during the war), beginning the Cold War, and getting the U.S. involved in the Korean War.

Harry Truman was born on May 8 1884 in Lamar, Missouri. He prospered for 12 years as a Missouri farmer. The presidential election of 1892 happened when Harry was eight years old. Harry wanted Grover Cleveland to win. Grover Cleveland did win. He joined the United States Military in 1917.Harry S. Truman went to France in World War 1 and was captain in the Field Artillery. Later on, he had opened a clothing store in Kansas city. He left the military in 1919. In 1919 He married Elizabeth Virginia Wallace. As he was active in the democratic party-he was elected judge of Jackson County Court.

In 1922 Harry was elected county judge. On February 17, 1924 Bess had a baby girl and named her Mary Margaret Truman. In November 1924 Harry Truman lost re-election. He was elected county judge again in 1926. In 1934 He was elected Senator of Missouri. Harry became a member of the Interstate Commerce Committee. He was vice-chairman of a subcommittee on railroad safety. In 1940 Harry Truman ran for re-election to the Senate. Governor Lloyd Stark was his primary opponent. President Franklin Roosevelt wanted Stark to win. St. Louis Mayor Bernard Dickmann wanted Stark to win. Harry had a hard time getting money. Most people thought that Harry would lose. About a month before the primary election the railroad unions said that they wanted Truman to win. Two days before primary election day Bernard Dickmann also said that he wanted Harry to win instead of stark. Harry won by about 8,000 votes. He also won the election in November. 

Truman became chairman of a committee to investigate defense spending during World War 2. He helped eliminate billions of dollars of spending in the defense department that he believed was a waste. He supported Roosevelt's leadership of the country in the war, but wanted to make the government more efficient and effective. He gained a moderate amount of fame for leading that committe. 

In 1944 President Franklin Roosevelt ran for re-election again. Roosevelt was in bad health and he did not have much longer to live. The Democratic Party realized that whoever they selected as Vice President could potentially be the next president of the United States. George Wallace, Roosevelt's former Vice President, was not selected because he had a friendly attitude toward the Soviet Union, which many saw as a dictatorship. Roosevelt wanted Truman as his Vice President and Truman was selected as his Vice President. 

They won the election and Roosevelt began his 4th term as president. April 12th 1945, shortly after the election, Franklin Delano Roosevelt died and Harry S. Truman became president.

After Franklin Roosevelt died, Truman became president. Truman said "it felt like the moon, the stars, and all of the planets had fallen upon me".

Harry Truman became president during the last few months of World War II. While Truman was vice president, he was never told much about the World War II by Roosevelt because back then the Vice Presidency was not considered to be an important political position. Truman, entered the presidency knowing not much more about U.S. military operations in World War II than the average person. Truman's defense advisors told Truman everything once he became president though.

The United States made the Potsdam Declaration, telling Japan to surrender the war or it will face "prompt and utter destruction". Japan did not surrender. In result, Truman authorized the dropping of the first Atomic bomb on Japan (in the city Hiroshima) on August 6th, 1945. The Soviet Union invaded Japan as it promised it would three months ago. Truman ordered the second Atomic bomb to be dropped on the Japanese city Nagasaki on August 9th, 1945. Japan surrendered and the war ended.

The bombs were very destructive. They destroyed both cities and killed hundreds of thousands of people. For that reason, the decision to use the weapons was controversial (meaning that many people supported it, but many people were against it also). People who were against it, such as general and future president Dwight Eisenhower, believe it was a cruel and inhumane attack on innocent people when Japan was already close to being defeated. People who supported the decision they felt it was necessary because it ended the war early. Truman felt that if the U.S. had invaded Japan instead of using the bombs to end the war quickly, much more people would have died. 

After the war, Truman ordered Europe (which was destroyed during the war) to be repaired with the Marshall Plan. Germany was divided into two parts after the war. The Soviet Union controlled East Germany. The United States, Britain, and France controlled West Germany. Truman ordered the Berlin Airlift which flew in tons of food to West Germany to feed the starving people. He helped create the United Nations, an organization which was based on the League of Nations. The United Nations (which still exists today) was founded on the purpose of developed nations working together to help humanity and to promote peace. 

After World War II, the Soviet Union and the United States were the only two powerful countries left. With Germany being divided between the Soviet Union and the United States, tensions began to increase between the two countries. The Cold War began. This was a war where the Soviet Union and the United States did not fight directly, but each wanted to have a bigger influence than the other over the world. The Soviet Union wanted to spread communism (a belief that the government should own the economy to make everybody equal) around the world. Truman believed in a policy called containment, which was devised by one of his defense advisors, that the U.S. should contain communism and stop it from spreading. Truman declared the Truman Doctrine was the belief that the United States should give money to Turkey and Greece, so that they are strong enough to defend themselves from communism.
He sent Congress his "Fair Deal". It was based on Roosevelt's New Deal. It included more money to education, more money to farmers, and a higher minimum wage for workers. Labor union leaders asked him for higher wages and more benefites. After the coal miners strike he had the Department of Interior take over the mines. While Truman sympathized for the working class, when there was a huge railroad strike, Truman believed it was illegal and unfair to people who could not get to work because the railroads were not operating, so he threatened to draft the people into the army if they did not return to work. He also desegregated the military, allowing blacks and whites to fight together.

In 1948 Harry Truman ran for a second term as President against Thomas Dewey. He was the underdog and everyone thought he was going to lose. The Chicago Tribune published a newspaper on the night of the election with the title "Dewey Defeats Truman". To everyone's surprise, Harry Truman won the election.

On June 24 1950, North Korea attacked South Korea. China was on the side of North Korea. North Korea wanted to bring Communism into South Korea. The U.S. fought the Korean War to defend South Korea and it eventually ended shortly after Truman's term ended. General Douglas MacArthur wanted to bomb China, but Truman thought it was too dangerous to do that, so he fired him. Many people respected MacArthur so they were angry at Truman. He made Mathew B. Ridgeway general. 

During the end of his term, Harry Truman's approval rating at an all-time low. He was very unpopular because thousands of Americans died in the Korean War, there was a moderate amount of corruption in his government, and people were accusing many of Truman's employees of being communists. He left office on January 20 1953.

As time passed, his reputation improved. Many historians now believe that Harry Truman was a great president.

Harry Truman moved back to Missouri. He died on December 26, 1972.



</doc>
<doc id="5423" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5423" title="John Adams">
John Adams

John Adams (October 30, 1735 – July 4, 1826) was the second President of the United States (1797–1801), and father of the sixth President, John Quincy Adams. He was also the first Vice President of the United States (1789–1797). He was from Massachusetts.

Adams was born in Braintree, Massachusetts. He went to Harvard College. He married Abigail Adams in 1764.

Adams wanted the Thirteen Colonies to be free from Great Britain. However, Adams was fair and thought every person should be treated fairly. Even though he did not want British soldiers in Boston, he was the lawyer who defended the British soldiers who were involved in the Boston Massacre.

Adams was a representative from Massachusetts during the Second Continental Congress. He helped Thomas Jefferson write the United States Declaration of Independence. During the American Revolutionary War, Adams helped make peace with Great Britain. He served in France, the Netherlands and England as an ambassador in the 1780s.

Adams was the first vice president under George Washington. After Washington chose not to run again, Adams won the 1796 election. Adams is thought to have been the first president to belong to a political party, but like George Washington, he thought himself above any particular party. He ran for president on the Federalist ticket. He beat Thomas Jefferson of the Democratic-Republican Party. President candidates and vice president candidates did not run together like they do today. Since Jefferson got the second highest number of votes, he became vice president.

During his term, he resolved a conflict against France peacefully. He also passed the Alien and Sedition Acts which made it illegal to say bad things about the government. Many people did not like those acts because they felt it took away their freedom of speech. Adams was not re-elected president and lost to Thomas Jefferson. The Federalist Party was not as popular as it was when Adams was elected. One of his last acts as president was to make John Marshall the Chief Justice of the United States. This made sure that the Federalist Party would still be important.

Of the first five U.S. presidents, Adams was the only one who did not own slaves. He was also the only one to be from New England.

Adams died on July 4, 1826. This was the same day that Thomas Jefferson died, and was also exactly when the adopten of the Declaration of Independence was signed.



</doc>
<doc id="5424" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5424" title="Bill Clinton">
Bill Clinton

William Jefferson Clinton (born on August 19, 1946 as William Jefferson Blythe III), better known as Bill Clinton, was the 42nd president of the United States. He served from 1993 to 2001. He was 46 years old when he was elected. His major opponents were George H. W. Bush and Bob Dole. Clinton was the first president from the post-World War II baby boom generation and was the third youngest president in the U.S. He is a Democrat. Before he was president, Clinton was governor of Arkansas.

Clinton was born William Jefferson Blythe in Hope, Arkansas. He took the last name Clinton because it was his stepfather, Roger Clinton, Sr.'s name. Clinton grew up in Hot Springs, Arkansas. In high school, Clinton played the saxophone. Clinton went to college at Georgetown University. During his college years, Clinton worked under several politicians. He later went to Oxford University and Yale Law School. Clinton did not fight in the Vietnam War because he was in the ROTC for a short time. 

Clinton married Hillary Rodham in 1975. In 1980, their daughter, Chelsea Clinton, was born.

After law school. Clinton was elected Attorney General of Arkansas in 1976 and governor of Arkansas in 1978. At 32, he was the youngest governor in the country at that time. Clinton served as governor of Arkansas from 1979 to 1981 and again from 1983 to 1993. Clinton was known for being a "New Democrat" while governor. During, Clinton changed the state's school system. There was also a scandal called Whitewater during Clinton's term.

During the early part of Clinton's first term, he implemented a tax code which would increase taxes on the rich and decrease taxes on the poor.

In 1994, during Clinton's first term in office, the Congress switched to a Republican majority. However, Clinton still beat Republican Bob Dole in the 1996 election.

The Republicans defeated Clinton's proposal for the U.S. government to adopt universal health care. The Republicans proposed many new ideas to Congress to limit the size of government such as requiring the budget to be balanced and to stop people from abusing the welfare system.

President Clinton was accused of wrongdoing by the U.S. House of Representatives in December 1998 during the Monica Lewinsky scandal. Although he lied that they did not engage in sexual activity, he was found to have done nothing wrong by the U.S. Senate in February 1999.

The country faced very few challenges during his term. The Cold War was over and there was very little need for the U.S. military to get involved in the world's affairs, so defense spending was significantly lowered. The economy was doing very well during his term, though there is a debate whether the economy was well because of Clinton's policies or because of the Republicans' policies.

The decade ended with the being the first time the United States did not have to borrow money to pay for its budget. Clinton left office with high approval ratings.

After his presidency, he wrote some books and travelled around the world helping out the United States. He is married to US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and now lives in New York. He has written "My Life", a book about his life, and several other books. Clinton has received two Grammy Awards, both for books he read on tape. He is now the U.N.'s envoy to Haiti. He also became a vegetarian.



</doc>
<doc id="5429" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5429" title="Yield">
Yield

The yield of a financial instrument, usually a debt or other fixed income instrument, is the amount the holder (the one who owns) is paid each year for leaving his or her money invested in that instrument. Unlike a corporate dividend, a yield is fairly certain, unless there is a bankruptcy.

Yields vary with inflation. However, they tend to fit in a fixed order: the least risky instruments, such as Treasury bonds, yield the least, then safe and "guaranteed" instruments like long-term deposits, then overnight deposits, and so on to the various municipal bond and corporate bonds. Extremely risky instruments with high yield are usually called junk bonds.

Economics is very concerned with yields and related money supply questions. A key issue is the contrast with ecological yield: some people advocate a monetary reform to ensure that the requirement to repay global debt does not reduce the Earth's carrying capacity or carbon sink capacity. If the payments of economic yield to holders of global debt exceed that which can be borne by the natural renewal of the Earth, (for instance, its current solar income) that is an energy subsidy. These subsidies typically come from fossil fuel and other non-renewable resources. Full cost accounting for these versus renewable resources may limit the yield that can be guaranteed to holders of debt instruments.

In practice, this is an issue with money supply and monetary policy and does not affect each individual holder of a bond or other debt, except insofar as it may lead from time to time to odious debt writeoffs or a major credit crisis. These are surprisingly common in a business cycle anyway.

Also, there are so many restrictions on who can issue debt instruments in a bond market, that the most egregious horrors (issuing junk bonds with a promise to tear down a rainforest to pay them back) do not happen in a developed nation. They are, however, still quite common in Brazil and other emerging markets.


</doc>
<doc id="5430" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5430" title="Moral purchasing">
Moral purchasing

Moral purchasing is when a person uses moral reasoning to decide what to buy. For example, when a person chooses to buy local goods instead of those from other countries, helps neighbours and processes that one can point to quickly.


</doc>
<doc id="5431" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5431" title="Social network">
Social network

A social network is a set of social actors (e.g. people, organizations, communities, nations) and a set of social relationships (e.g. friendship/affect, communication, economic transactions, interactions, kinship, authority/hierarchy, trust, social support, diffusion, contagion, shared memberships) among them. Considering social relationships as a network calls attention in some manner (e.g. graphically, analytically) to the importance of the pattern or structure of the set of relationships. 

A personal social network is the pattern of relationships among a set of actors who have a relationship to a particular focal person. A community social network is the pattern of relationships among a set of people and/or organizations in a community. Each of these networks can involve social support, provide people with a sense of community and 
lead them to help and protect each other. 

How big a personal network can become depends on the individual and the type of relationships considered. The set of people that a person knows well or with whom a person frequently interacts seldom exceeds several hundred. Similarly as the size of a community network grows maintaining relationships among all or even most members is strained by sheer size. There is a Law of 150 which suggests that about 150 persons is the best size for a village or large clan. Many experts think that a corporation has an ideal size of about 70 people: these people and their spouses would also fit as a large social network.

Social capital refers to properties of social relationships (i.e. a network) which can be utilized to yield a desired result or return, just as human capital are skills and talents resident in a person that can be used to achieve a desired result and (economic) capital are material items that can be used to yield a desired result (e.g. new product, profit). One example of social capital is people in a community network who are willing to help each other. This use of a social network is most obvious during disaster recovery. At that time people often come forward to help each other. Other examples are people using their social network to find employment or to aid their career. 

In psychology, a free rider is a person who uses the social network but does not contribute help when required. It is often thought that power structures evolve from the need to detect and exclude such free riders . Social networks are vulnerable to them, since the circumstances where help is required, like disasters, occur by surprise. It might happen that someone cannot help at that one time - it might also happen that they are not there the next time. Only after a lot of time does it become obvious who is and is not contributing to the safety of the group, or who is avoiding the group when people really need their help.

Some social networks are held together by the ties of religion. A mosque, church or temple is almost always a center of a social network, and often that network has a name and an identity of its own that is not that of the religious organization.

See also: contact network

The Law of 150 is well documented by Robin Dunbar, British Anthropologist, Professor of Psychology, University of Liverpool, in R. I. M. Dunbar, ""Neocortex size as a constraint on group size in primates,"" Journal of Human Evolution (1992), vol. 20, pp. 469-493 - it is also proposed by some branches of sociology.


</doc>
<doc id="5432" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5432" title="Cabal">
Cabal

A cabal is a group of people who try to control things in a secret way.

Sometimes people say "There Is No Cabal", or use the abbreviation TINC to mean "There Is No Cabal".

A cabal does not mean people who are in power because they are meant to have power. A cabal means people who have more power than they are meant to have.

One new example of the use of the word Cabal is that the former chief of staff, Lawrence Wilkerson, of the Secretary of State Colin Powell said that the foreign policy of George W. Bush's administration were run by a "Cheney-Rumsfeld cabal". With this word he meant that the President had not really the power that he is given by the constitution and that the Vice President and the Secretary of Defense had more influence than they should have. 


</doc>
<doc id="5433" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5433" title="Creating">
Creating

Creating is making new things that have not existed before, usually by combining two or three things that existed. Art is almost always called creative, but so are other activities like music, mathematics, technology, business, craft, building, gardening and forestry, if they combine things to get new things.

When several people cooperate in more than one process of creating, that is a creative network. This cuts risk since anything creative involves some chance that it will simply not work.

What is "not creative" is usually called imitative, and includes anything that is mostly trying not to do what has never been done – like law, sports, science, war and especially education. These involve more direct competition, so risk comes from the competitor who may do it better. The word team is used for such groups.

Most people fear change and new things, and so what is most stable and considered important by society tends to be imitative and done in teams. But unless society encourages creating it loses out to others by competition in business or technology, so there must be some creative networks, somewhere, in labs or art studios.

Views of control of creative work also depend very much on religious and spiritual views of nature (or a creator) creating Man, according to economist Lester Thurow. Those ethical traditions that see "Man in the image of God" have created legal codes (see guild, intellectual right, intellectual interest, intellectual property) to tightly control what they are creating or have created. These are now the basis of organizations such as WIPO or ICANN. Often, such laws also create control over things which are merely found, not created.

Many people give away what they have created and never think about it as property – other people try to control it and get paid every time anyone sees it – or even every time they just talk about it.

Wikipedia uses the GNU FDL which is a content license that tries to get people to combine what they are creating, with no one clearly in control. This is considered strange by many people, who are uncomfortable with that idea, or seek to control some aspect of it themselves.


</doc>
<doc id="5434" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5434" title="Human science">
Human science

Human science is the science of humans: what makes them different from animals, and their limits, which tend to be the same as those of other animals. Because human bodies are animal bodies, human science is part of biology which leads to Life Science. However human behaviour includes the use of words, measures, numbers, knowing time and having memory, and such habits as trade - thus economics and psychology are considered to be part of human science. A general human science is anthropology which studies only the differences between humans and near relatives.

One important debate in human science is whether the exchange of culture (or in economics instructional capital), is only among humans or if it also goes on among our Great Ape near relatives. If so, then culture is part of primatology and there is no clear line between human science and life sciences.

Another name for human science is Social Science, since the most complex thing about humans is how they relate to each other in society. The most general social science is ethics, or economics, depending on your point of view.

However, life science also deals with humans as objects of study (notably in medicine), while hard science such as chemistry deals with humans as the observer who "does" the study - sets the scale at which observation can happen, incurs observer effects - as studied in philosophy of science. 

Often sciences have different names based on whether they study humans or not. For instance economics is the study of how humans make a living, while ecology is the study of how non-humans make a living. Medicine is normally restricted to humans while veterinary medicine refers to the same techniques made on other species. One relies more on ethics and less on economics when dealing with humans, at least according to any ethical tradition.

The living, social, and sensory observing aspects of humans are probably all part of the human sciences to the degree they affect how humans view themselves.

Specific human sciences are (in addition to anthropology and ethics and economics) include psychology, sociology and linguistics. There is debate as to whether mathematics is something human or if it is universal - see philosophy of mathematics on this.



</doc>
<doc id="5435" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5435" title="Flaying">
Flaying

Flaying is a form of torture, mutilation, and execution. It is the act of stripping the skin and flesh from the bones. Flaying an enemy while alive is apparently a very ancient practice. Accounts attribute the practice to the ancient Assyrians, who were said to flay the skin from a captured enemy or rebellious ruler and nail it to the wall of his city, as warning to all who would defy their power. Searing or cutting the flesh from the body was sometimes used as part of the public execution of traitors in medieval Europe. A similar mode of execution was used as late as the early 18th century in France; one such episode is graphically recounted in the opening chapter of Michel Foucault's "Discipline and Punish" (1979).


</doc>
<doc id="5437" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5437" title="Rice">
Rice

Rice is a type of food. It is grown in warm parts of the world, mainly Asia, Africa, northern Italy, and the West Coast of North America.

Rice used to be the main diet in many countries. It is not eaten raw; usually it is cooked or boiled. In some areas, such as Spain, rice is first fried in olive oil or butter, then cooked with water or soup. In other areas, such as India, rice is eaten with sauce or curry. Rice can also be used to make alcohol, such as Japanese sake.

Rice is believed to have been first grown in ancient southern China and India. Rice growing was brought to Japan possibly in the 1st century BC, and became popular during the 2nd century and the 3rd century. From India, rice spread to southern Europe and Africa.
Rice is usually planted in a flat field filled with water. Before cropping, the water is drained from the field. Before farmers developed a good farming system and fertilizers, they used to let lands rest for 1 to 2 years while farming in other lands. 

In some hot areas, close to the equator, farmers do double-cropping which means raising two crops one year.



</doc>
<doc id="5444" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5444" title="Yoga">
Yoga

"For other uses, see Yogi (disambiguation)"

Yoga is an old discipline from India. Yoga uses breathing techniques, exercise and meditation. It claims to improve health and happiness.

"Yoga" is the Sanskrit word for "union".

Patanjali was a pioneer of classical yoga. He defined yoga as "the cessation of the modification of the mind." ("stopping changing the mind").

For example, the famous "sun-salutation" contains 12 poses of asanas one after the other and helps to balance body and soul.
The Vedic Samhitas contain references to ascetics, while ascetic practices ("tapas") are referenced in the (900 to 500 BCE), early commentaries on the Vedas. Several seals discovered at Indus Valley Civilization (c. 3300–1700 B.C.E.) sites in Pakistan depict figures in positions resembling a common yoga or meditation pose, showing "a form of ritual discipline, suggesting a precursor of yoga", according to archaeologist Gregory Possehl. Some type of connection between the Indus Valley seals and later yoga and meditation practices is speculated (thought) upon by many scholars, though there is no conclusive evidence.





</doc>
<doc id="5445" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5445" title="Human development theory">
Human development theory

Even though economics is all about choice on the basis of what is available rather than what should be available, the big question relates to who decides how resources should be distributed and how economics can embrace a trade-off between different groups which each seek to make the most of their allocation of resources. If "what should be" cannot be incorporated, the subject of economics will be as dry as desert as described by Ayn Rand. The challenge therefore is to construct a model combining "what is" to "what should be" and make the same acceptable to common man as well as politicians. Not being able to sell the idea as such is a defeat to the discipline. The issue is that of influence and not of theory, as Adam Smith perceived that no group of business men ever met other than to exploit the consumer.


</doc>
<doc id="5450" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5450" title="Cattle">
Cattle

Cattle are animals which are mammals and belong to the genus "Bos". 
The word "cattle" is in the plural, meaning "some cattle" or "many cattle". There is no word in English that means "one cattle". The usual way is to say "cow", "bull" or "ox". 

Cattle are large grass-eating animals with hoofs that are divided into two parts. They have horns which are a simple shape, usually curved upwards but sometimes down. They usually stay together in groups called "herds". One male, called a "bull" will usually have a number of female "cows" in a herd. The cows give birth to one "calf" a year. The "calves" have long strong legs and can walk a few minutes after they are born, so they can follow the herd. 

Cattle are native to most tropical and subtropical parts of the world except Australia and New Zealand. Cattle have been domesticated for about 7,000 years. They are used for milk, meat, transport and power. 

The word "cattle" has been used in English for about 1,000 years and the meaning has changed. In books that are written in "Old English", such as the King James Version of the Bible, the word is used for all sorts of farm animals, including horses, sheep and goats. The word comes from the "Old French" word, chattels, meaning all the things that a person owns.

The word "cattle" is used for some wild animals as well as for domesticated cattle. Wild cattle include the Water Buffalo from South East Asia, the Musk Ox and Yak from Central Asia, the Bison of North America and Europe and the African Buffalo. The last Aurochs, wild cattle of Europe, were killed in Masovia, Poland in 1627.

A male is called a "bull". A female that has had a baby is called a "cow". A baby is called a "calf". Two or more babies are "calves". A young female that has not had a calf is called a "heifer", (pronounced "heffer"). A young male is called a bullock.

Because many cows will form a herd with one bull, most male cattle are used for meat. They are "castrated" by removing the testicles. A castrated male is called a "steer" or an "ox". "Steer" is the word for beef cattle. "Ox" is the word for working cattle. 

The adjective that is used to describe something that is like a cow or an ox is "bovine". 

The words "cow", "bull" and "calf" are also used to describe some other large animals that are not related to cattle, such as elephants, moose and whales.

Cattle live across the world, from snowy Scotland to the dry inland of Australia. Different types of cattle are suited to different environments. Their large wide hoofs are good in both wet areas and dry grassland. Their hairy coat grows much longer in the winter and has an extra fluffy layer to hold the warmth. Most cattle do not sweat, but their wet nose is a cooling system. 

Cattle can make a range of noises, usually a gentle "Moo!" When they are angry or upset, they can bellow loudly. 

Cattle are grass-eating animals. They are ruminants which means that they have more than one stomach and they digest their food very well. Cattle have very strong tongues and strong lower front teeth that help them to eat grass. After a cow has eaten and is resting, they return the grass from their stomach to their mouth and grind it with their very large back teeth to get all the nourishment from it. This is called "chewing the cud". Other ruminants like deer also do this. It means that cattle do not need as much food as horses, even though they are about the same size. 
Female cattle, or cows, have large breasts called "udders" which are under the belly and partly between the back legs. The udder is divided into four parts, each with a large "teat" for feeding the calf. Cows usually make more milk than they need for one calf. If the milk is regularly taken from the cow, be hand or by machine, the cow makes more milk. Cows that have a lot of milk are used as "dairy cows". 

Male cattle, or bulls, can be fierce and dangerous. In the wild, they fight over the herds of cows and use their horns to "gore" each other. They also protect the herds from other animals such as wolves, jackals and lions. On farms, bulls are usually quieter and can be led by their owners, but they can be aggressive with other bulls and with strangers who might go near the herd. 

For this reason, most male cattle are either sent to the butcher while they are still calves or are " castrated" so that they are not likely to fight. Young "steers", or castrated males, can be safely kept together in herds until they are sent to the market for meat.

Ever since people started using cattle in Prehistoric times, cattle have been seen as a sign of wealth. In many countries today, particularly in Africa and Asia, a person's wealth is judged by the number of cattle they own. 

Cattle are very useful animals. Their flesh can be eaten as meat. Their milk can be drunk and turned into cheese and yogurt. Their skin can be used as leather. They can pull carts and plows. They can make the power to turn flour mills or pump water. The food that they eat is not expensive. 
Dairy cattle are kept specially for milking. Herds of cows are kept and are regularly mated with a bull, so that they produce calves. This keeps the milk supply going. 

Cows can be milked by hand, but in many countries where there are large dairies, the cows are milked by "milking machine". The milk is collected in stainless steel containers and is taken by truck to the Milk Factory to be treated so that any germs are killed. The milk is also separated to remove most of the cream. It is then put into bottles or cartons to be sold. Some milk is turned into cheese and some is turned into yogurt. The cream is also put into bottles and sold. Milk factories often make ice cream as well. 

Large dairy herds are usually kept in places where there is a good supply of grass and the fields are quite small. This is because the cows are brought in for milking every day. 
Many types of cattle are used for milk. They include:- 

Beef cattle are kept specifically to provide meat. "Steers" are the best for this purpose because they can be kept in herds, without fighting each other. The cows of beef cattle are used to raise calves for meat. They are not usually used for milk, although some types of cattle, such as the "Red Devon" are used for both. 

Beef cattle can be let loose to graze over a big area, because they do not have to be brought in every day like dairy cattle. The biggest farms in the world are "cattle stations" in Australia, "ranches" in North America and "ranchos" in Latin America where they run beef cattle.

Until the mid 20th century, beef cattle were often sent to market "on the hoof". Cowboys or drovers would herd the cattle along the roads to the cattle markets in big towns. In Australia, sometimes the cattle would travel for hundreds of miles along roads known as Travelling Stock Routes. Big herds would have thousands of "head of cattle". (Cattle are counted by the "head".) Nowadays cattle are usually sent to the market in huge lorries known as "road-trains". 
The meat of a young beast is called "veal" and from an older beast, "beef". Meat that is cut into flat pieces for frying or grilling is called "steak". Every part of a beast can be used. The skin becomes leather. The meat which is not used by humans becomes pet food and everything that is left over becomes garden fertilizer.

Types of cattle that are used for beef:- 

"Oxen" are cattle trained as work animals. The word "ox" is used to describe just one. They are castrated males (steers). 

An ox is over four years old and grown to full size when it begins to work. Oxen are used for pulling plows and wagons, for hauling heavy loads like logs, for grinding grain by trampling it or for powering different machines such as mills and irrigation pumps. 
Oxen are most often used in teams of two for light work such as plowing. In past days, very large teams of fourteen to twenty oxen were used for heavy work such as logging. The oxen are put into pairs and each pair must work together. A wooden yoke is put about the neck of each pair, so that the work is shared across their shoulders. Oxen are chosen from calves with horns, since the horns hold the yoke in place when the oxen lower their heads, back up or slow down.

Oxen must be trained from a young age. The owner must make or buy as many as a dozen yokes of different sizes as the animals grow. Ox teams are steered by shouted commands, whistles or the noise of a whip crack. Men who drove ox teams were called teamsters in America, wagoners in Britain, or in Australia, "bullockies". Many bullockies and teamsters were famous for their voices and for their foul language. 

Oxen can pull harder and longer than horses, especially for very large loads. They are not as fast as horses, but they are less often injured. Many oxen are still in use all over the world, especially in poor countries.





</doc>
<doc id="5458" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5458" title="Friend">
Friend

A friend is a person that someone likes or knows. People who are friends talk to each other and spend time together. They also help each other when they are in trouble. Friends are people that can be looked up to and trusted. A friend is one who admires a person's skill and helps or encourages them to make the right choices. 

People sometimes call their closest friend their "best friend".

If a person become very good friends with someone of the opposite sex, they are called their boyfriend or girlfriend. This means that they like them very much, and have formed a relationship and have started dating. Women often use the word girlfriend when referring to their close female friends. If you have many things in common you refer to them as soul sisters.


</doc>
<doc id="5459" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5459" title="Quick">
Quick

If something is called quick, that means it moves at a very fast speed or does not take much time to finish.

These things are quick:

The opposite of quick is slow.


</doc>
<doc id="5460" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5460" title="Thunder">
Thunder

Thunder is a very loud sound that is made sometimes during a very big rain storm.
Thunder is so loud, it can be heard from a very far distance.
It can sound like a boom, a crash, or a rumble.

Thunder is made when lightning strikes.
The energy from the lightning heats up the air so much that it makes a kind of explosion.

When lightning is very near, thunder will be heard soon after the lightning flash, and the sound will be very loud. If the lightning is farther away, the thunder will be a few seconds or many seconds after the lightning. People can guess how far away the lightning is by counting the number of seconds between the time they see the lightning and hear the thunder.


</doc>
<doc id="5461" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5461" title="1">
1

The year 1 (I) was a common year starting on Saturday of the Julian calendar. The year started on a Monday in the Gregorian calendar. It was the first year of the 1st century and 1st millennium.

It is one of only seven years to use just one Roman numeral. The seven are 1 AD (I), 5 AD (V), 10 AD (X), 50 AD (L), 100 AD (C), 500 AD (D), and 1000 AD (M).

At the time, it was known as the "Year of the Consulship of Caesar and Paullus". The denomination 1 for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the main method in Europe for naming years. The year before this is 1 BC in the widely used Julian calendar.










</doc>
<doc id="5462" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5462" title="2">
2

The year 2 (II) was a common year that started on Sunday, according to the Julian calendar. According to the Gregorian calendar, it started on a Tuesday.

At the time, it was known as the "Year of the Consulship of Vinicius and Varus". It was the 2nd year of the 1st century.








</doc>
<doc id="5463" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5463" title="3">
3

The year 3 (III) was a common year which started on a Monday. according to the Julian calendar. According to the Gregorian calendar, it started on a Wednesday. At the time, it was known as the "Year of the Consulship of Lamia and Servilius". The year is called 3 since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the usual method in Europe for naming years. It was the 3rd year of the 1st century.






</doc>
<doc id="5464" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5464" title="4">
4

The year 4 (IV) was a leap year which started on a Tuesday, according to the Julian calendar. According to the Gregorian calendar, it started on a Thursday. At the time, it was known as the "Year of the Consulship of Catus and Saturninus". It was called the fourth year since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the usual method in Europe for naming years. It was the 4th year of the 1st century.








</doc>
<doc id="5465" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5465" title="5">
5

5 (V) is a common year of the Julian calendar which started on a Thursday. According to the Gregorian calendar, it started on a Saturday. It was known as the "Year of the Consulship of Messalla and Cinna". It was the 5th year of the 1st century.

It is one of only seven years to use just one Roman numeral. The seven are 1 AD (I), 5 AD (V), 10 AD (X), 50 AD (L), 100 AD (C), 500 AD (D), and 1000 AD (M).






</doc>
<doc id="5466" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5466" title="6">
6

6 (VI) is a common year of the Julian calendar which started on a Friday. According to the Gregorian calendar, it started on a Sunday. It was the 6th year of the 1st century.







</doc>
<doc id="5467" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5467" title="7">
7

7 (VII) is a common year of the Julian calendar which started on a Saturday. According to the Gregorian calendar, it started on a Monday. It was the 7th year of the 1st century.







</doc>
<doc id="5468" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5468" title="8">
8

8 (VIII) is a leap year of the Julian calendar which started on a Sunday. According to the Gregorian calendar, it started on a Tuesday. It was the 8th year of the 1st century.









</doc>
<doc id="5469" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5469" title="9">
9

9 (IX) is a common year of the Julian calendar which started on a Tuesday. According to the Gregorian calendar, it started on a Thursday. It was the 9th year of the 1st century.



Ovid completes Ibis (single poem)



</doc>
<doc id="5470" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5470" title="10">
10

10 is a year in the 1st century.


Ovid completes Tristia (the "Sorrows") (5 books) and Epistulae ex Ponto (Letters from the Black Sea) (4 books) describing the sadness of banishment.




</doc>
<doc id="5471" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5471" title="11">
11

11 is a year in the 1st century.





</doc>
<doc id="5472" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5472" title="12">
12

12 is a year in the 1st century.





</doc>
<doc id="5473" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5473" title="13">
13

13 is a year in the 1st century.





</doc>
<doc id="5481" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5481" title="30">
30

30 is a year in the 1st century.







</doc>
<doc id="5482" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5482" title="40">
40

40 is a year in the 1st century.





</doc>
<doc id="5483" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5483" title="50">
50

50 (Roman numerals: L) is a common year of the Gregorian calendar. It started on a Saturday.

It is one of only seven years to use just one Roman numeral. The seven are 1 AD (I), 5 AD (V), 10 AD (X), 50 AD (L), 100 AD (C), 500 AD (D), and 1000 AD (M).




</doc>
<doc id="5489" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5489" title="3 (number)">
3 (number)

The number three is one more than two and one less than four. Three is an important number for many cultures (groups of people living together). Sometimes people think of three as a special number.
It is also a prime number. It is the first odd prime. In Roman numerals, it is III.



</doc>
<doc id="5496" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5496" title="10 (number)">
10 (number)

Ten is the number that is after nine and before eleven. Most people have ten fingers and ten toes.

Ten is the smallest positive whole number with two digits. Ten is an important number because most people write numbers using multiples of ten. This is called the decimal number system.

In Roman numerals, 10 is written as X.


</doc>
<doc id="5498" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5498" title="Category:Websites">
Category:Websites

This page has links to articles about websites. Wikipedia is an example of a website.


</doc>
<doc id="5499" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5499" title="Category:Deletion requests">
Category:Deletion requests

The pages here have been marked to request deletion.


</doc>
<doc id="5504" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5504" title="Man">
Man

A man is a male human adult (male:not female; human:a person; adult:not a child). We use the word "man" (one "man", two or more "men") to talk about biological sex.

Manhood is the time in a man's life after he changes from a boy. A boy is a male human child, not a female child (a girl). 

After boys grow, we call them a man. There are some times we also call a man a "boy". For example, we often use the word "boy" when talking about adult males who have a partner, for example in the word boyfriend. Sometimes people also use the word in a bad way for a black man or male slave.

There are some sexual differences between a man and a woman. Men have sex organs which we call "external" (not in the body). But many parts of the male reproductive system are internal too. The study of male reproduction and sex organs is "andrology".

Men normally have the same illnesses as women, but there are some sexual illnesses which men have only, or more often.

Biology is not the only thing which makes people feel they are men, or that other people are men. Perhaps one in 100,000 people are men who were born without a male body. We call these "transgendered" or "transsexual" men. Some men can have a hormone or chromosomal difference (for example "androgen insensitivity syndrome"). Some men have other intersex conditions. Some of those intersex people who people said were female (girls) when they were born later want to change this. 

About 20% of males, especially babies and children in the USA, have had circumcision which changes the male genitalia (the penis).

There are more differences between men and women, not only sexual differences.



</doc>
<doc id="5505" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5505" title="Woman">
Woman

A woman is a female human adult. We use the word "woman" (one woman, two or more women) to talk about biological sex, however, the term woman is also sometimes used to identify a female human, regardless of age, as in phrases such as "Women's rights".
A woman has a uterus or "womb". It is a counterpart of a human male, or man. Women give birth to babies. Until the 20th century, women in most of the world did not have the right to vote, and were treated with the utmost respect. The symbol for the goddess Venus is used for women. 

In some prehistoric cultures, women often had the roles of gathering food and looking after children. In modern times, these roles have changed a lot, with single, career oriented women becoming normal in society.


</doc>
<doc id="5506" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5506" title="Position">
Position

"Up redirects here. For the movie, see Up (2009 film)."
Position is a way to explain where something is.

To find which is your left hand side, point your index fingers and stick your thumbs out at right angles. The finger and thumb of your left hand will form a capital letter L.

Middle is between "up" and "down" and is between "left" and "right".
Middle means the same as "center".

Up means the same as "above". Down means the same as "below".

Left and right are called opposite sides.
<br clear="right">

In, indoors, or inside, and out, outdoors, or outside, mean whether one thing is in another, most commonly in a house or other building, or out "in nature".
<br clear="right">

Far means that something is a long way away. Near means "close".

In many sports, the term "position" is used to show what occupation a person has on their team. For example, in baseball, positions include catcher, shortstop and pitcher. 


</doc>
<doc id="5517" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5517" title="Arundel Castle">
Arundel Castle

Arundel Castle is a castle in West Sussex, England. It was built by Edward the Confessor.



</doc>
<doc id="5522" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5522" title="Religious Society of Friends">
Religious Society of Friends

The Religious Society of Friends is a group of religious people, who have joined together because they have similar beliefs. People in the Society of Friends are called "Friends" or Quakers - both mean the same thing. The Society is very different from other religious groups. The first Quakers were Christians but the religion today includes some other people who are not Christian. They live all over the world, but the largest groups are in Bolivia, Guatemala, India, Kenya, Tanzania, the United Kingdom, and the United States of America.

The Society of Friends began in the 1600's in England. A man named George Fox went around preaching his ideas to people, including a large group on Pendle Hill. He told them they could talk to God themselves - that they did not need a priest or minister to do it for them. Many people liked this idea; they found it helped them feel close to God. Together they started the Society of Friends. The government of England did not like this new religion; at the time it was against the law not to belong to the Church of England. They put a lot of people in jail, or made them pay money as a punishment. At first, the word "Quaker" was a name used to make fun of people who belonged to the Society of Friends, but after a while those people came to like it and use it for themselves.

Because Quakers were being thrown in jail in England, some of them moved away, to places like America. A young Quaker named William Penn started a new colony there -- he got the land because the English king Charles II owed his father a lot of money. This new colony was called Pennsylvania, and it was made to be a place where anyone could be free to belong to any religion. Penn wanted people to be fair to each other, and he called the biggest city in his new colony Philadelphia, which means "The City of Brotherly Love." Soon there were many Quakers in America.

The Quakers were very active in America in the Nineteenth century. Many of the leaders of the abolition and women's right's movement, such as Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Lucretia Mott, were Quakers.

Today there are about 350,000 Quakers in the world. This number is very small compared to other religious groups. Even so, a lot of people have heard of the Quakers, because they are good at letting people know what they believe.

Quakers worship in "meetings for worship", and at other times these meetings also decide what Quakers should do - these meetings can be called "meetings for business", but other people call them "meetings for worship for business", because they include parts of both worship and business.

Anyone can go to a Quaker meeting, because most Quakers think that everyone is equal, and that this is a very important idea. There are two types of Quakers: "members" are definitely part of the Religious Society of Friends, and "attenders" might just be wondering whether Quakerism is right for them. In practice, both tend to be treated the same.

Usually, a meeting for worship lasts about an hour. It starts with everybody sitting quietly, often in a circle. This is because they are trying to listen to God. Sometimes, a Quaker will think that God wants him or her to say something. When this happens, the person stands up to tell everyone. Then they all sit quietly again. At some meetings, a large number of people will speak. At other meetings, nobody speaks. Quakers believe that a meeting for worship helps them to understand what God wants.

At these meetings, each Quaker will have a slightly different idea of what it means to them to "listen to God", and each Quaker will go about doing it in a different way.

Quakers also have meetings for worship for weddings and funerals -- when two people want to get married, or if someone dies. When two people get married, the meeting is about them and the life that they will have together. When someone has died, the meeting is about remembering good things about the person and the life they had.

Some Quakers in North America, South America, and Africa have a different kind of meeting. They often sing songs, or ask a pastor to talk about something interesting. They also have quiet times, but they do not last as long. These Quakers often have strong Christian beliefs.

Almost all Quakers share these beliefs:

When Quakers say "inner light", they do not mean that there is really a light bulb inside them. They use the phrase "inner light" to mean something else, which they might find difficult to find words to explain. Other words that Quakers use to mean similar things include "God", "spirit" and "love".

Quakers think that the truth is very important. They believe that it is wrong to make an oath or promise. This is because they think people should tell the truth all the time. Making a promise shows that they are trying to be more truthful than normal. Instead, Quakers believe that they should simply say what they are going to do.

This is another idea that has caused problems. Governments often want people to promise that they will be loyal to the country. In a court, people have to promise that they will tell the truth. Quakers refuse to do these things. Several countries now say that Quakers do not have to make oaths, but in the past Quakers were put in prison for not making oaths.

Today, Quakers can sometimes make an "affirmation" instead. The word "affirm" hints that whatever is being affirmed has already been said, or thought. This means that they have to say out loud what they are going to do. For example, in court they might say "I affirm that I will tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth". Other people would have to say "I swear" instead of "I affirm". Many courts ask those testifying if they "swear or affirm to tell the truth," this covers Quakers as well as non-Quakers, because people who are not Quakers also believe some of the same things as Quakers.

There are two types of people in the Religious Society of Friends - "members" and "attenders". Quakers believe that neither is better than the other, but there are some differences between the types. Quakers who are attenders are part of the Religious Society of Friends; they worship with Friends, and Quakers like them to be able to do everything that members can do. However, there are some important jobs - such as the people who look after the meeting's money - that Quakers prefer to be done by members.

Members have decided that they definitely want to be Quakers, and have asked their meeting to make them a member, to show that they think that Quakerism is right for them. Some people are made members by their parents, when they are still babies; other people go to Quaker meetings for a while before deciding they want to ask to be a member, and some people wait for up to twenty years (or more) before asking to be a member.


</doc>
<doc id="5526" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5526" title="Size">
Size

The size of something is how much space the thing takes. It can also be described as how big or small something is.

Sizes can be measured. When a size is measured, it is given a number.

"Small" and "big" are opposites.




</doc>
<doc id="5546" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5546" title="Opposite">
Opposite

Opposite means that one thing is completely different from another.
It might also mean that only one part is different.

Opposite also means "contrary", "reverse", "mirror", or on the other side.


</doc>
<doc id="5547" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5547" title="Direction">
Direction

Direction follows an imaginary line connecting two points.
Something following the line is moving in that "direction". People show directions by pointing their index finger towards it.

The word "direction" is made from the root "direct" meaning to guide.

These are words used to talk about a direction:



</doc>
<doc id="5548" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5548" title="Starvation">
Starvation

Starvation is when a person or animal has not eaten food for such a time that they are unable to do things in a normal way.

After the stomach has been left empty for so long the body starts to give up.

The effects of starvation can include:

Consistently not being able to eat enough, will lead to permanent damage to the organs. This is the case for humans when they do not eat enough for about 1-2 months. A process called Catabolysis will break down usable resources, to keep vital functions (the nervous system and the heart working. It will first turn to muscles before it turns to fat).

Starvation was also used as a form of sentencing people to death.



</doc>
<doc id="5549" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5549" title="Microsoft Word">
Microsoft Word

Microsoft Word (often called "Word") is a graphical word processing program that users can type with. It is made by the computer company Microsoft. The purpose of the MS Word is to allow the users to type and save documents. 

Similar to other word processors, it has helpful tools to make documents paper. Some of the important tools are a spelling & grammar checker, word count (this also counts letters and lines), and the newer version includes speech recognition (a technology that lets users control their computers by speaking to it, or telling it what to write). Also, like with other programs, with this program one can make attractive documents, insert pictures in documents, make web pages, graphs etc.Also you can create tables. Also, it displays synonyms (similar words) of words and can read out the text. It also can print in different ways.

It can be bought at shops and normally comes with Microsoft Office, but can be bought separately.

The program was first released in 1981.
Many of the ideas and features in Microsoft Word came from Bravo, the first graphical writing program.
Microsoft brought the Bravo program, and changed its name to "Microsoft Word".
When it first came out, it was not very popular, and did not sell as well as other writing programs like WordPerfect.
Although it was not very popular when it came out, it had a feature called "WYSIWYG" (What You See Is What You Get), which meant that people can change the visual style of writing (e.g. bold, italics), by clicking on buttons, when in other programs like WordPerfect, people had to add special 'codes' to change the style of writing. "WYSIWYG" is now a common feature of all computer writing programs.
"There are versions for Microsoft Word for other operating systems as well as Microsoft Windows, but new versions support fewer operating systems, although they always support Windows."
"Note: "Word for Windows" is the name of the of Microsoft Word made for Microsoft Windows.""


The program is very popular.

Although it is sold for money, some people download it illegally. This is against the copyright of Microsoft, and means that Microsoft does not make money from people who illegally download the program, but it made the program more popular than if only the people who could buy it used it.

That is because, if the user did not configure it, the program saved the document in a secret file format, so other programs could not open it. Then if the user who does not configure the program sent his document to a friend, the friend needed a copy of Microsoft Word to read the document. Then that friend would probably also save documents in the secret format of Word. After many years, the most important parts of the format were guessed, and the format is less secret (though it is patented, and some people say the patents are still bad), but Microsoft Word is still popular, because many people do not know of other programs, or do not want to learn to use them.



</doc>
<doc id="5553" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5553" title="Ant">
Ant

Ants are social insects of the family Formicidae. 

Like wasps and bees, ants are in the order Hymenoptera. There are about 22,000 species of ants. More than 12,500 have been classified. They have a thin waist and elbowed antennae.

A colony has a female ant, called a queen, who lays eggs. Those eggs will hatch into worker ants. Larger colonies of ants having millions of ants mostly have female ants making groups of "workers", "soldiers", or other special "castes". Almost all ant colonies also have some fertile male ants called "drones".

Ants have colonies almost everywhere on planet Earth. Places that do not have ants are Antarctica, and certain far away places or islands hard to live on.

Ants are usually small, but can carry the weight of twenty ants.
Usually, worker ants will carry food back to the colony so that the other ants and the queen can eat.

Some people use ants for food, medicine and rituals. Some species of ants are used for pest control (they eat pests that destroy food for humans). They can damage crops and enter buildings, though. Some species, like the red imported fire ant, live in places where they came to by accident.

The family Formicidae belongs to the order Hymenoptera, which also includes sawflies, bees and wasps. Ants evolved from a lineage within the vespoid wasps. 

Phylogenetic analysis suggests that ants arose in the mid-Cretaceous period about 110 to 130 million years ago. After the rise of flowering plants about 100 million years ago they diversified. They became ecologically dominant about 60 million years ago. 

In 1966 E.O. Wilson and his colleagues identified the fossil remains of an ant ("Sphecomyrma freyi") from the Cretaceous period. The specimen, trapped in amber dating back to more than 80 million years ago, has features of both ants and wasps. "Sphecomyrma" was probably a ground forager but some suggest that primitive ants were likely to have been predators underneath the surface of the soil.

During the Cretaceous period, a few species of primitive ants ranged widely on the Laurasian super-continent (the northern hemisphere). They were scarce in comparison to other insects, representing about 1% of the insect population. 

Ants became dominant after adaptive radiation at the beginning of the Cainozoic. By the Oligocene and Miocene ants had come to represent 20-40% of all insects found in major fossil deposits. Of the species that lived in the Eocene epoch, approximately one in ten genera survive to the present. Genera surviving today comprise 56% of the genera in Baltic amber fossils (early Oligocene), and 92% of the genera in Dominican amber fossils (apparently early Miocene).

Termites, though sometimes called "white ants", are not ants and belong to the order Isoptera. Termites are actually more closely related to cockroaches and mantids. Termites are eusocial but differ greatly in the genetics of reproduction. The similar social structure is attributed to convergent evolution. Velvet ants look like large ants, but are wingless female wasps.

The life of an ant starts from an egg. If the egg is fertilised, the progeny will be female (diploid); if not, it will be male (haploid). Ants develop by complete metamorphosis with the larval stages passing through a pupal stage before emerging as an adult. The larva is fed and cared for by workers.

Food is given to the larvae by trophallaxis, a process in which an ant regurgitates liquid food held in its crop. This is also how adults share food, stored in the 'social stomach', among themselves. 

Larvae may also be given solid food brought back by foraging workers, and may even be taken to captured prey in some species. The larvae grow through a series of moults and enter the pupal stage. 

The differentiation into queens and workers (which are both female), and different castes of workers, is influenced in some species by the food the larvae get. Genetic influences, and the control of gene expression by the feeding are complex. The determination of caste is a major subject of research.

A new worker spends the first few days of its adult life caring for the queen and young. It then does digging and other nest work, and later, defends the nest and forages. These changes are sometimes fairly sudden, and define what are called "temporal castes". An explanation for the sequence is suggested by the high casualties involved in foraging, making it an acceptable risk only for ants that are older and are likely to die soon of natural causes. 

Most ant species have a system in which only the queen and breeding females can mate. Contrary to popular belief, some ant nests have multiple queens while others can exist without queens. Workers with the ability to reproduce are called "gamergates" and colonies that lack queens are then called gamergate colonies; colonies with queens are said to be queen-right. 

The winged male ants, called "drones", emerge from pupae with the breeding females (although some species, like army ants, have wingless queens), and do nothing in life except eat and mate. 

Most ants produce a new generation each year. During the species specific breeding period, new reproductives, winged males and females leave the colony in what is called a "nuptial flight". Typically, the males take flight before the females. Males then use visual cues to find a common mating ground, for example, a landmark such as a pine tree to which other males in the area converge. Males secrete a mating pheromone that females follow. Females of some species mate with just one male, but in some others they may mate with anywhere from one to ten or more different males. Mated females then seek a suitable place to begin a colony. There, they break off their wings and begin to lay and care for eggs. The females store the sperm they obtain during their nuptial flight to selectively fertilise future eggs. 

The first workers to hatch are weak and smaller than later workers, but they begin to serve the colony immediately. They enlarge the nest, forage for food and care for the other eggs. This is how new colonies start in most species. Species that have multiple queens may have a queen leaving the nest along with some workers to found a colony at a new site, a process akin to swarming in honeybees.
A wide range of reproductive strategies have been noted in ant species. Females of many species are known to be capable of reproducing asexually through thelytoky (parthenogenesis), and one species, "Mycocepurus smithii" is known to be all-female.

Ant colonies can be long-lived. The queens can live for up to 30 years, and workers live from 1 to 3 years. Males, however, are more transitory, and survive only a few weeks. Ant queens are estimated to live 100 times longer than solitary insects of a similar size.

Ants are active all year long in the tropics but, in cooler regions, survive the winter in a state of dormancy or inactivity. The forms of inactivity are varied and some temperate species have larvae going into the inactive state (diapause), while in others, the adults alone pass the winter in a state of reduced activity.




</doc>
<doc id="5555" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5555" title="Scissors">
Scissors

Scissors are a tool used for cutting thin material like:

Knives are better than scissors for some uses. Unlike a knife, scissors have two sharp edges.
Some types of scissors, like children's scissors, are not very sharp. Children's scissors are often protected with plastic. These are called "Safety Scissors".

Scissors can be made for left-handed or right-handed people. Using scissors made for the wrong hand is very hard for most people. 

There are many kinds of scissors used for cutting different materials and shapes.


</doc>
<doc id="5556" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5556" title="Indigo">
Indigo

Indigo is one of the colors of the rainbow. 

The brightest shade of indigo is the sixth color of the rainbow, a hue lying between blue and violet. The color shown at right, "electric indigo", is the closest color it is possible to display on a computer to the color of the indigo color band in the rainbow. 

Isaac Newton named and defined indigo as a spectrum color when he divided up the spectrum into the seven colors of the rainbow.

The name of the color indigo originally came from the indigo plant.
Indigo is a dye made from the indigo plant, used to dye cloth. Indigo dye also is used to dye denim cloth, which is used to make what are called blue jeans (they should really be called "indigo jeans"). This shade of indigo, called "indigo dye" (shown at left above in the picture and in the color chart below), is darker than the spectrum indigo shown above.

The indigo plant originally came from the nation of India. The Ancient Greek language word for the dye is "indikon". The Romans used the term "indicum", which passed into Italian dialect and eventually into English as the word indigo. 

These things are colored indigo:


Note: The spectrum colors can only be approximated on a computer screen but the colors shown below are a close approximation of the spectrum colors blue, indigo, and violet. 



</doc>
<doc id="5557" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5557" title="Violet">
Violet

Violet is the seventh color of the rainbow--it is the color on the inner edge of the rainbow. Violet is sometimes confused with purple. The name of the color comes from the violet, which is a small flower grown in most parts of the world.

The first recorded use of "violet" as a color name in English was in 1370.



</doc>
<doc id="5558" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5558" title="Malcolm IV of Scotland">
Malcolm IV of Scotland

Malcolm IV of Scotland (c. 1141- December 9, 1165) was the grandson of David I of Scotland. He succeeded his grandfather as King of Scotland in 1153. He never married or had children. Not much is known about him.


</doc>
<doc id="5561" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5561" title="David I of Scotland">
David I of Scotland

David I of Scotland (b. 1084 - d. May 24, 1153) was the son of Malcolm Canmore and Saint Margaret.


</doc>
<doc id="5562" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5562" title="Saint Margaret of Scotland">
Saint Margaret of Scotland

Saint Margaret of Scotland (c. 1045 - 16 November, 1093) was married to Malcolm Canmore and the mother for David I of Scotland, Alexander I of Scotland and Edgar. She was the daughter of Edward the Exile and the granddaughter of Edmund Ironside. She was probably born in Hungary. 

Margaret died four days after her husband.



</doc>
<doc id="5565" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5565" title="Alexander I of Scotland">
Alexander I of Scotland

Alexander I of Scotland (c. 1078 - 23 April, 1124) was the son of Malcolm Canmore and Saint Margaret. He became the King of Scotland in 1107. In the same year he married Sybilla, who was an illegitimate daughter of Henry I of England.


</doc>
<doc id="5566" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5566" title="Henry I of England">
Henry I of England

Henry I of England (c. 1068 C.E. - 1 December 1135 C.E.) was the King of England from 1100 until his death in 1135. Henry was born in Selby, Yorkshire. He was the third son of William the Conqueror and Queen Matilda of Flanders.

He became King when his brother, William II, died in a hunting accident. As King, Henry tried to make social reforms. He issued the Charter of Liberties which is considered a predecessor of the Magna Carta. He put back in place some of the laws of Edward the Confessor.

Henry and his wife had two children, Matilda and William Adelin. He also fathered more illegitimate children than any other English King. Guesses place the number between 20 and 25.

Henry died in 1135 while visiting his daughter and grandchildren in Normandy. After his death, his daughter Mathilda and his nephew, Stephen, argued over who would become the ruler of England, and started a civil war.



</doc>
<doc id="5568" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5568" title="William I of England">
William I of England

William I of England (c. 1027 - September 9 1087), also known as William the Conqueror, was King of England from 1066 until 1087.

William was born in Falaise, which is in Normandy, France. He became Duke of Normandy in 1047 when he a won a battle at Caen.

William married his cousin Matilda of Flanders in either 1050 or 1051.

William became the King of England after he invaded England and won the Battle of Hastings in 1066 against King Harold. The Normans became the Anglo-Saxon's kings and lords but the common people remained the same.

After he became King of England William had his servants write the Domesday Book which listed all the land in his new kingdom, who owned it and how much it was worth. It was finished in 1086.

William died when he was in Rouen, France from injuries he had received from falling off a horse. He was succeeded by his son William II of England.


</doc>
<doc id="5569" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5569" title="Matilda of Flanders">
Matilda of Flanders

Matilda of Flanders (c. 1031 - November 2, 1083) was the Queen of William I of England. 

Matilda was the daughter of Baldwin V of Flanders and Adela of France, who was the daughter of Robert II of France. She was married to William in 1052 and they had about ten children, including:

After Matilda died, William became very angry. Everybody believed that this was because he was sad because Matilda had died.


</doc>
<doc id="5571" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5571" title="Robert II of France">
Robert II of France

Robert II of France (March 27, 972 - July 20, 1031) was born in Orleans, France. He was the son of Hugh Capet and Adelaide of Aquitaine. He was married to Constance of Arles. 

Robert was succeeded by his son Henry I of France. Robert is buried in the Saint Denis Basilica.


</doc>
<doc id="5574" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5574" title="Adelaide of Aquitaine">
Adelaide of Aquitaine

Adelaide of Aquitaine (952-1004) was the Queen of Hugh Capet and the daughter of William III of Aquitaine. She was the sister of William IV of Aquitaine.


</doc>
<doc id="5576" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5576" title="William III of Aquitaine">
William III of Aquitaine

William III of Aquitaine (c. 915 – April 3, 963) became the Duke of Aquitaine and Count of Poitiers in 935. He was the son of Ebalus of Aquitaine.

William's nickname was "Towhead".

William was married to Adela of Normandy. He was the father of Adelaide of Aquitaine, who became Queen of France when she married Hugh Capet. He was succeeded by his son, William IV of Aquitaine.


</doc>
<doc id="5577" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5577" title="Saint Denis Basilica">
Saint Denis Basilica

Saint Denis Basilica is famous for its architecture and as the burial place for many Kings of France. It is in the suburb of Saint Denis, which is in the north of Paris, France.

The Basilica is named after Saint Denis. Saint Denis is the patron saint of France. He was also the first Bishop of Paris.

The Basilica was a Romanesque building. In 1136 the Abbot Suger (1081 - 1155) began replacing the building, bit by bit, beginning with the west front and then with a new east end. The east end is said to be the first building in the Gothic style. It was not completed until the 13th century.




</doc>
<doc id="5578" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5578" title="Gothic architecture">
Gothic architecture

Gothic architecture is a style of architecture used in Western Europe in the Middle Ages. It began in France in the 12th century after Romanesque architecture. It lasted into the 16th century when Renaissance architecture became popular. Its important features are the pointed arch, the ribbed vault and the flying buttress, which are explained below. 

Gothic architecture is best known as the style of many of the great cathedrals, abbeys and churches of Europe. It is also the architecture of many castles, palaces, town halls, universities, and also some houses.

Many church buildings still remain from this period. Even the smallest Gothic churches are often very beautiful, while many of the larger churches and cathedrals are thought to be priceless works of art. Many are listed with the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) as World Heritage Sites.

In the 19th century, the Gothic style became popular again, particularly for building churches and universities. This style is called Gothic Revival architecture.

Gothic architecture was at first called "the French Style" ("").
The word "Gothic" was used later during the Renaissance as an insult. In fact, the architecture had nothing to do with the real Goths, a tribe of people who attacked Rome in the early Middle Ages.

An Italian writer named Giorgio Vasari used the word "Gothic" in the 1530s, because he thought buildings from the Middle Ages were not carefully planned and measured like Renaissance buildings or the buildings of ancient Rome. After Vasari, many other people used the word "Gothic" to describe architecture with pointed arches.

At the end of the 12th century, Western Europe was split into different states. A big part of Europe was called the Holy Roman Empire. The Holy Roman Empire included the modern countries of Germany, The Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg, Switzerland, Austria, eastern France and much of northern Italy, apart from Venice. People believed the Emperor Charlemagne started the Holy Roman Empire in 800 AD.

The countries of France and Spain were split into kingdoms. England was ruled by a king whose family also had a lot of land in France. Norway was influenced by England, while the other Scandinavian countries and Poland were influenced by Germany.

At that time, there was a lot of trade between towns and states. This caused the towns to grow larger. Germany, Holland and Belgium had many big towns that grew peacefully, often trading with each other. Because of the peace and wealth of these towns, they showed their pride by building huge Town Halls, often with very tall towers.

In England and France, most people did not live in towns. They lived on farms, which were often owned by a rich nobleman (or lord). The house of the lord was usually called a Manor house. This form of economy is known as Manorialism. 
Italy was mostly split up into small city states which often fought each other. Cities often had high walls and many of the houses built at this time were tall, high towers.

In Western Europe, in the Middle Ages, almost everyone belonged to the Roman Catholic Church. The Roman Catholic Church has one head - the Pope. During the Middle Ages, one language was used in churches all across Europe - Church Latin, which had developed from ancient Latin.
The churches of each area had a local ruler who came under the Pope. This was the Bishop. Each Bishop had a throne where he could sit when priests and people came to him. A church which has a Bishop's throne is called a "cathedral". Cathedrals were usually the biggest and most beautiful churches.

In the early Middle Ages, many monasteries were built all over Europe. A monastery was a group of buildings where holy men lived and worked and prayed. Monks belonged to different "orders" which had different rules. The biggest number of monasteries were homes to the monks of the Benedictine Order. Their monasteries were generally in towns and they often built very big churches called "Abbeys" for the monks and the townspeople to worship in. Other orders of monks, like the Cistercians, did not live near towns. Nowadays their abbeys are seen as beautiful ruins in the English countryside.

In France, there were also Benedictines, as well as Cluniac and Cistercian Orders. The great monastery at Cluny, built in the Romanesque style, was the biggest in Europe. The abbey and other buildings were very well planned so for hundreds of years other monasteries were influenced by that plan.

In the 13th century St. Francis of Assisi started the Franciscans, who were often called the "Grey Friars" because of their grey-brown robes. From them came the Dominicans, founded by St. Dominic in Toulouse and Bologna. The Dominicans built a large number of Italy's Gothic churches.

Abbot Suger was the head of a large monastery just north of Paris in France. The monastery had a large church, the Abbey of Saint-Denis, and also a royal palace where the French kings sometimes stayed. Abbot Suger was a close friend to two kings, Louis VI and Louis VII.

In 1127 Suger had the idea to rebuild the great abbey Church of Saint-Denis. He began by changing the "West Front" or facade which was about 200 years old and had only one small door. Suger's grand design had three big doors like the arches on the Arch of Constantine in Rome, which were to let in all the crowds on special Holy Days. The facade also had a big round window in the centre, called a rose window, which was the first one in France.

Abbot Suger did not then rebuild the part of the church inside the west doors, the "nave" where most of the ordinary people stood. The next part that he rebuilt was the eastern end.

Abbot Suger wanted this part to make people think of Heaven. He wanted it to be very light and bright, with great big windows of beautifully coloured glass. To do this, he looked at all the most modern designs, and all the clever things that other architects had done. He put all the new ideas together in one building. It was the first building of the new "Gothic" style. (But of course it was not called Gothic at this time. It was called "the French Style".)

The new East End was dedicated or "given to God" on June 11, 1144. Other architects soon copied the design for other big churches and cathedrals in northern France. After Abbot Suger's death, the rest of the church was also rebuilt in the new style, and got two more much larger and more decorated rose windows, one on either side.

The style soon spread to England and through France, the Low Countries, Germany, Spain and northern of Italy and Sicily.

Note:- The architectural vocabulary words are written in bold type and are explained and/or shown on the plan and cross-section.
"Romanesque" was the style of architecture in Europe before the "Gothic" style. Gothic architecture grew out of Romanesque architecture. There was not a clean break between the two styles. Many of the features of Gothic architecture did not begin in the Gothic period. They were already there is Romanesque architecture, and slowly changed to become Gothic. The main changes were the pointed arch and the flying buttress. These two developments allowed many other changes to happen. 

Romanesque buildings had thick walls, small windows, round arches and flat buttresses. Gothic buildings had thinner walls, larger windows, pointed arches and large buttresses. 

All the types of buildings, and the general shape of the buildings were already there in the Romanesque period. The types of buildings were:- the cathedral church, the parish church, the monastery, the castle, the palace, the great hall and the gatehouse.

Before the 20th century, the landmark building in almost every town was a church, cathedral, abbey, or town hall with its tall tower or spire rising high above all the houses. Many of these buildings were from the Middle Ages and were Romanesque or Gothic in style. 

The groundplan of most Gothic churches is shaped like a cross. The long nave makes the body of the church and, crossing it, the arms are called the transept. On the other side of the "transept" is the chancel which is often called the choir because that is where the priest and the choir sing the services.

The "nave" usually has a passageway or aisle on either side. Sometimes there are two "aisles" on each side. The "nave" is usually a lot taller than the "aisles", and has high windows which light up the central space. The upper part of the building, where these windows are, is called the clerestory (or clear storey). (It is pronounced "clair-rest-tree")

Some Gothic churches in Germany and Austria and also Milan Cathedral (which was built in the German style) often have "nave" and "aisles" of almost the same height and are called "hallenkirke" (hall church). The Cathedral of St. Stephen of Vienna is an example.

In some churches with double aisles, like Notre Dame, Paris, the transept does not stick out beyond the aisles. In English cathedrals the "transepts" always stick out a long way and sometimes there are two transepts as at Salisbury Cathedral.

It is at the eastern end that Gothic churches are the most different from each other.

In England the eastern end it is usually long and often has two parts. It is usually square or has a "Lady Chapel", a place to pray to the Virgin Mary, the mother of Jesus.

In France the eastern end is often polygonal and has by a passage for walking called an ambulatory. Often French churches have a ring of chapels called a chevette. German churches are often like those of France at the eastern end.

In Italy, there is no long "chancel" jutting out beyond the transept. There is usually just a semicircular chapel as at Florence Cathedral.


The "facade" or West Front of a large church or cathedral is designed to make a big impression on the worshippers. One of the best known is Notre Dame de Paris.

In the centre of the facade is the main door or portal, often with two side doors as well. In the arch of the middle door is often an important piece of sculpture, usually "Christ in Majesty". Sometimes there is a stone post in the middle of the doorway where there is a statue of the "Madonna and Child". There many other carved figures in niches set all around the portals. Sometimes there are hundreds of stone figures carved all across the front of the building.

Above the middle door there is a large window, which is usually a rose window like that at Reims Cathedral, but not in England, Scotland, Belgium or Scandinavia where there will nearly always be a very large pointed window to let in lots of light.

In Italy, the facade is often decorated with coloured marble and mosaic made of little coloured tiles, and not so many statues, as at Orvieto Cathedral

The "facade" of a French cathedral and many English, Spanish and German cathedrals usually has two towers. 

Large Gothic churches and cathedrals are often very tall. On the inside, the "nave" is usually at least twice as high as it is wide, which gives the church a very tall narrow look. Some of the churches in France and Germany have naves that are three times as high as they are wide. Cologne Cathedral is an example. The tallest nave is at Beauvais Cathedral which is 157.5 feet high. Westminster Abbey is 102 feet high.

On the outside most Gothic churches, both big and small, have at least one tower. In Italy there are domes on the churches, and the tower stands to one side. But in most other countries, cathedrals generally have two towers and quite often have three. Some have even more. Laon Cathedral was planned to have seven, but they were not all built.

Sometimes there is just one tower with a huge spire as at Salisbury. Lincoln Cathedral had the tallest spire of the Middle Ages at 527 feet (160 metres).

Because a pointed arch points upwards, it makes people look upwards. In Gothic architecture, the whole building is designed to make people look up. There are long narrow columns, long narrow windows and high pointed roofs. On the inside the arches of the roof rise up like branches. On the outside, there are often lots of fancy bits along the edge of the roof and on the tops of buttresses and above the windows. These are called " pinnacles". Milan Cathedral has hundreds of them.

Gothic architecture usually has a lot of windows. Sainte Chapelle is a famous example. At Gloucester Cathedral in England, the East window is as big as a tennis court. Milan Cathedral also has windows of about the same size.

The flying buttresses which arch across the roof of the aisle were used to support the roof above the windows, so the walls did not have to be so thick.

The columns of the inside, the ribs of the vault (or roof) and the flying buttresses, made a strong stone skeleton. in between these parts, the walls and the filling of the vaults could be of lighter thinner material. Between the narrow buttresses, the walls could be opened up into large windows.

Through the Gothic period, because of the pointed arch, Gothic windows were able to change from simple openings to very rich designs. The windows were very often filled with stained glass which made coloured light in the building, and was used for story-telling pictures.

Pointed arches were used in Persian architecture, and from 641 AD onwards, they were a feature of Islamic architecture. Knowledge of the pointed arch spread into Europe through the Crusaders who travelled to the Middle East from 1096 onwards. Also, Islamic forces had taken over parts of Spain, where they built cities and Mosques with pointed arches.

Architectural historians think that the pointed arch was also used by some European architects because it was a very strong way of making an arch.

In Gothic Architecture, the pointed arch is used in every place where an arch is needed, both for strength and for decoration. Gothic openings such as doorways, windows, arcades and galleries have pointed arches. A row of arches is called an arcade. A row of arches that is up high on a building is a gallery.

Rows of pointed arches were used to decorate walls. This is known as blind arcading. Often walls were made with tall narrow arched openings in them that could be used to stand statues in. An opening like this is called a niche which is pronounced "neesh".

An arched roof built of bricks or stone is called a vault. In the Romanesque period before the Gothic, some churches had vaulted roofs. They were always based on perfectly semi-circular shapes. There were two main ways to make a nave vault in the Romanesque period. A vault could be long like a tunnel. Churches with this type of vault were always rather dark. Or it could be square, like two tunnels crossing each other. This meant that the columns that carried the vault always had to be placed on a perfectly square ground plan, which was not always possible.

One of the good things about pointed arches was that they could be narrow and tall, or flattened and wide. Using pointed arches, architects could make vaults of very different shapes. They did not even have to be rectangular. A Gothic architect could make a vault with one side narrow, two sides wide and the last side even wider. They could make a vault with three sides or five sides quite easily, by using pointed arches.

The vaults were made of ribs which met each other at the highest part of the vault. In between the ribs were sloping surfaces of stone or brick that could be much thinner and lighter than the ribs. At first the pattern made by the ribs was quite plain, like Romanesque vaults, but architects, particularly in England, soon started adding small ribs in between the main ones and making different patterns. Some vaults like this can also be seen in Spain and Germany, but not usually in France or Italy.

In the Gothic period the shape and style of pointed arches changed. But the changes were not the same in every country.

With pointed arches, windows could be made very large. Architects made many designs of pointed arches crossing each other in different ways. These designs were often used in windows, which look as if they are filled with beautiful stone lace. This is called "tracery". The stone tracery was used to hold the glass in place. An Architectural Historian can often tell just how old a part of a building is by looking at the window tracery design.

The simplest Gothic arch is a long opening with a pointed arch known in England as the lancet. A "lancet" is a sharp knife, so these windows are knife-shaped. Very often lancet windows are put together in a group of three or five.

Salisbury Cathedral is famous for the beauty of its Lancet Gothic Architecture. In England the style is called "Early English Gothic". York Cathedral in England has a group of five lancet windows that are 50 feet high and are still full of ancient glass. They are called the Five Sisters.

These simple windows are also found at Chartres Cathedral and Laon Cathedral in France. They are the most usual sort of Gothic windows in Italy.

Many Gothic openings have tops that are based upon an equilateral triangle. The Equilateral Arch has a very pleasing look and gives a wide opening useful for doorways, arcades and big windows.

These arches are often filled with tracery in circular designs. In England this style is called Geometric Decorated Gothic. It can be seen at many English and French Cathedrals, for example Lincoln cathedral in England and Notre Dame in Paris.

Some Gothic windows have designs in the tracery, or even in the top of the window itself, that rises up like a flame. This is called Flamboyant Gothic. Tracery like this makes a very rich and lively effect.

Some of the most beautiful and famous windows of Europe have this type of tracery. It can be seen at St Stephen's Vienna, Sainte Chapelle in Paris, at the Cathedrals of Limoges and Rouen in France, and at Milan Cathedral in Italy. In England the most famous windows like this are the West Window of York Minster with its design based on the Sacred Heart, the East Window at Carlisle Cathedral and the East window of Selby Abbey. Architectural Historians sometimes argue about which of these is the most beautiful.

Flame-shaped arches are not as strong as ordinary pointed arches. It is never used for making a vaulted roof. If this shape is used to make a doorway, there is generally another stronger arch around it. Another way is to make a square topped door that has Flamboyant decoration over the top. In France there are many doorways, both in churches and in houses, that are like this. They are rare in England but there is one at Rochester Cathedral.

In England the Flamboyant style was used wall arcading and niches. The most famous examples in are in the Lady Chapel at Ely, the Screen at Lincoln and the facade of Exeter Cathedral. In German and Spanish Gothic architecture the Flamboyant style is often used for opnwork stone screens. The famous "pulpit" in Vienna Cathedral is made like this.

The Depressed arch is wide and looks as if it has been pushed almost flat. When arches like this are used to make great big windows they need to be supported by many tall thin vertical shafts and horizontal transoms, so that the window looks as if it has been divided up into a grid (lots of rectangles). This sort of decoration is used one walls as well. In England the style is called Perpendicular Gothic style.

At Gloucester Cathedral the Perpendicular East Window is said to be as large as a tennis court. There are three very famous large chapels in this style- King's College Chapel, Cambridge; St. George's Chapel at Windsor Castle; Henry VII's Chapel at Westminster Abbey. The other famous example is Bath Abbey.
A Gothic cathedral was designed to be like a model of the universe. Everything about the building was designed to tell a message about God.

The statues, the decoration, stained glass windows and wall paintings told Bible stories such as how God created the world and how he rules over everything that is in the universe, the seasons of the year and the stars in the sky.

Carvings near the door often show the signs of the Zodiac because the patterns of stars in the sky were very important to farming people who did not have calendars to tell them when to plant and when to harvest.

Above the main door is often a sculpture of Jesus on a throne, judging the people of the Earth. Many pictures and sculptures are there to remind people to live good lives because they never know what will happen next.

Many churches were very richly decorated, both inside and out. the statues were often painted in bright colours but nowadays only tiny bits remain at Chartres cathedral and some other places. Wooden ceilings were usually brightly coloured. Sometimes the stone columns were painted as well.

Even though some things about Gothic architecture stay the same, other things look different in different countries.

Different building materials were found in different parts of Europe. This is one of the differences in the architecture between different places.
In France, there was limestone. It was good for building because it was soft to cut, but got much harder when the air and rain got on it. It was usually a pale grey colour. France also had beautiful white limestone from Caen which was perfect for making very fine carvings.

England had coarse limestone, red sandstone and dark green Purbeck marble which was often used for architectural decorations like thin columns.

In Northern Germany, Netherlands, Denmark, Baltic countries and northern Poland there was no good building stone, but there was clay for making bricks and tiles. So many of these countries have Brick Gothic churches and even Brick Gothic castles.

In Italy, limestone was used for city walls and castles, but brick was used for other buildings. Because Italy had lots of beautiful marble in many different colours, many buildings have fronts or "facades" decorated in coloured marble. Some churches have very rough brick "facades" because the marble was never put on. Florence Cathedral, for example, did not get its marble "facade" until the 1800s.

In some parts of Europe, there were many tall straight trees that were good for making very large roofs. But in England, by the 1400s, the long straight trees were running out. Many of the trees were used for building ships. The architects had to think of a new way to make a wide roof from short pieces of timber. That is how they invented the hammer-beam roofs which are one of the beautiful features seen in many old English churches.

French cathedrals, and those in Germany and Belgium are often very high, both inside and outside. "The transepts" do not stick out far. The "facades" in France nearly always have three doors, a rose window and two towers. There are often "facades" with doors on the transepts as well as the front. 

The thing that makes English cathedrals different from the others is that they are long, and look horizontal, like big ocean liners.
English cathedrals nearly all took hundreds of years to build, and every part is in a style that is quite different to the next part. (Only Salisbury Cathedral was not built in lots of styles.)
The West window is very large and is never a rose window. The west front may have two towers like a French Cathedral, or none. There is nearly always a tower at the middle of the building, which may have a big spire. 

In Germany the towers and spires are often enormously large. Sometimes they are so big that it was impossible to finish them until modern times. The spires are quite different to English spires because they are made of lacy "openwork".
There are also many "hallenkirke" (or hall-churches) which have no "clerestorey" windows. The nave and the aisles are about the same height.

Like an English Cathedral, a Spanish or Portuguese Gothic Cathedral is often built in many different styles. They are often wide. Spanish cathedrals often have chapels all around them. The roof often has many different types of towers and spires. Often the central towers are polygonal. 

Italian Gothic cathedrals use lots of colour, both outside and inside. On the outside, the "facade" is often decorated with marble. On the inside, the walls are often painted plaster. The columns and arches are often decorated with bright coloured paint. There are also mosaics with gold backgrounds and beautifully tiled floors is geometric patterns.
The facades often have an open porch with a wheel windows above it. There is often a dome at the centre of the building. The bell tower is hardly ever attached to the building, because Italy has quite a few earthquakes. The windows are not as large as in northern Europe and, although stained glass windows are often found, the favorite way of decorating the churches is fresco (wall painting).



</doc>
<doc id="5579" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5579" title="Cathedral">
Cathedral

A cathedral is a large Christian church. It is the seat of a Bishop. Only those Christian denominations that have bishops have cathedrals. Cathedrals can be found in the Roman Catholic, Eastern Orthodox, Oriental Orthodox, Anclican as well as some Lutheran churches. As cathedrals are the seat of a bishop, they are central church of a diocese. 

In the Greek Orthodox Church, the terms "kathedrikos naos" (literally: "cathedral shrine") and "metropolis" (literally "mother city") are both used to describe the same thing. "Metropolis" is more common, but both terms are officially used.

There are certain variations on the use of the term "cathedral"; for example, some pre-Reformation cathedrals in Scotland now within the Church of Scotland still retain the term cathedral, despite the Church's Presbyterian polity which does not have bishops. As cathedrals are often particularly impressive buildings, the term is often used incorrectly to refer to any large important church. 

Several cathedrals in Europe, such as Strasbourg, and in England at York, Lincoln and Southwell, are referred to as "Minster" (German: "Münster") churches, from Latin "monasterium", because the establishments were served by canons living in community or may have been an abbey, prior to the Reformation. The other kind of great church in Western Europe is the abbey. 

The word cathedral is derived from the Latin noun "cathedra" ("seat" or "chair"), and refers to the presence of the bishop's or archbishop's chair or throne. In the ancient world, the chair was the symbol of a teacher and thus of the bishop's role as teacher, and also of an official presiding as a magistrate and thus of the bishop's role in governing a diocese.

The word cathedral, though now grammatically used as a noun, is originally the adjective in the phrase "cathedral church", from the Latin "ecclesia cathedralis". The seat marks the place set aside in the prominent church of the diocese for the head of that diocese and is therefore a major symbol of authority.

Many cathedrals are very old.


</doc>
<doc id="5580" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5580" title="Patron saint">
Patron saint

A patron saint is someone who has their whole life to something greater than themselves. They are someone who worked hard to make the world a better place. Catholics traditionally take a name of a patron saint to help them throughout their life.

Here is a list of patron saints and the things that they are the patron saint of:



</doc>
<doc id="5581" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5581" title="Saint David">
Saint David

Saint David (c. 512 - 587) is the patron saint of Wales.


</doc>
<doc id="5582" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5582" title="Saint George">
Saint George

Saint George (c. 275/280 – April 23, 303) is the patron saint of England.

According to a legend, Saint George of Lydda killed a dragon and saved the lives of many people. It is sometimes called 'The Golden Legend'. It is a legend that is older than Christianity, which some people believe is based on gods from different religions, such as Sabazios.

A city called Silene had a large lake, where a plague-bearing dragon who breathed fire and disease lived. The dragon poisoned all the countryside. To please the dragon, the people of Silene gave it a sheep every day, for food, and when there were no more sheep, they gave their children to the dragon. The children were chosen by a lottery.

One year the lottery chose the King's daughter. The King, sad and desperate, asked the people to take all his gold and silver, and half of his empire - but only if his daughter could be saved. The people refused. The daughter was sent out to the lake, dressed in white as a bride, to be a fine meal for the dragon.

Not knowing this, Saint George was riding past the lake on the same day. The princess, terrified and trembling, tried to send him away, but George said he would stay and protect her.

The dragon came suddenly out of the lake while they were speaking. Saint George made a gesture called the Sign of the Cross, jumped on his horse and advanced toward the dragon. He used his long spear to hurt the dragon badly. Then he asked the princess to throw her long pretty belt to him. He put the silk belt around the dragon's neck. 
Now, the dragon followed the girl like a humble pet follows its master. 

The Princess and Saint George took the dragon back to the city of Silene, where the people were terrified to see the dragon enter. But Saint George told them not to be scared. He said that if the people became Christians and went to Church to be baptized, he would kill the dragon immediately.

The king and the people of Silene converted to Christianity, George killed the dragon with his sword, 'Ascalon', and its body was taken out of the city on carts. 
Fifteen thousand men were baptized, not counting women and children. 
On the site where the dragon died, the king built a Church for the Blessed Virgin Mary and Saint George. From the altar in the church came a fountain of holy water. The water cured any disease.

The story of Saint George and the Dragon symbolizes when good wins over evil, and is very famous. It might be based on the Greek legend of Perseus and Andromeda. 
It is the subject of a lot of art through many centuries. In Sweden, the Princess symbolizes the nation of Sweden, and the dragon represents a foreign army of enemies. The story was passed from parent to child through songs in Russia. It was also made into the story 'The Reluctant Dragon' by Kenneth Ransome, which was made into a Disney film.

Saint George's Day (also England's National Day) is on April 23rd, although this is not a holiday in the UK. He is the patron saint of many other countries, too - including Greece, Palestine, Georgia, Portugal and Russia. Moscow, Russia has 41 Churches with the name of Saint George, and the Moscow city Coat of Arms, or symbol, is of Saint George on a horse killing the dragon. Saint George is the patron saint of the Boy Scouts of America.

On St George's day some people in England wear a red rose, or put an English flag in their window. The flag of England is white with a red cross. The design of the flag is often called 'The Saint George Cross', or 'The Colors of Saint George'.


</doc>
<doc id="5583" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5583" title="Saint Andrew">
Saint Andrew

Saint Andrew is one of the twelve apostles of Jesus and the patron saint of Scotland. He was crucified on a cross that was turned sideways to look like an "X". The Saint Andrew's flag is the official flag of Scotland.
On St Andrew's Day, many people in Scotland wear a thistle.
The following people were the twelve apostles of Jesus: 



</doc>
<doc id="5584" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5584" title="Saint Patrick">
Saint Patrick

Saint Patrick (c. 402 - March 17, year unknown (probably 491 or 493) is the patron saint of Ireland and Nigeria. He was born in a village in Wales 

When he was 16 years old he was captured and sold into slavery. He also married couples when the king prohibited it.

Saint Patrick came from a Christian family. He was the son of Calpornius, who was a deacon. He brought Christianity to Ireland. He converted many pagans to Christianity. He also challenged many of their leaders and druids such as Aodhan the Brave also known as Chief Aodhan. St.Patrick eventually converted Chief Aodhan and they worked together to convert many other pagans. 

St. Patrick's Day is celebrated every year on March 17 in his honour.

There is a bell in the National Museum of Ireland that was made around the time of Saint Patrick's life. There is no evidence that Saint Patrick owned the bell but the Irish have believed the bell belonged to Saint Patrick for 1400 years. One of the kings of Ulster who was the high king of Ireland at the time had a beautiful cover made out of gold and gems to preserve the bell. The names of the bishops of Ireland were engraved on the cover. The style of the letters on the cover were used to make the first typewriters. It is believed that the bell was rung by Saint Patrick to let people know it was time for church.

There are no snakes in Ireland but there is a legend that at the time of Saint Patrick there were lots of snakes and he chased them all into the Irish Sea.



</doc>
<doc id="5585" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5585" title="491">
491

Centuries: 4th century - 5th century - 6th century

Decades: 440s 450s 460s 470s 480s - 490s - 500s 510s 520s 530s 540s

Years: 486 487 488 489 490 - 491 - 492 493 494 495 496



</doc>
<doc id="5586" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5586" title="March 17">
March 17

March 17 is the 76th day of the year in the Gregorian calendar (77th in leap years). There are 289 days remaining.





</doc>
<doc id="5587" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5587" title="402">
402

Centuries: 4th century - 5th century - 6th century

Decades: 350s 360s 370s 380s 390s - 400s - 410s 420s 430s 440s 450s

Years: 397 398 399 400 401 - 402 - 403 404 405 406 407



</doc>
<doc id="5588" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5588" title="Somerset">
Somerset

Somerset is a county in South West England.

The main town of Somerset was Somerton, but it is now Taunton. There are two cities in Somerset. They are Bath and Wells.

The name "Somerset" comes from the Anglo-Saxon phrase "Sumorsaete". This means "the land of the summer people", because in the past people could only live on the land in the summer. In the winter, the land was flooded.

In the past, the northern border of Somerset was the River Avon. However, as the city of Bristol has grown, the border moved south.

In 1974 parts of north Somerset, the city of Bristol and parts of south Gloucestershire were joined into a new county. This county was named Avon. In 1996 Avon was split into 4 parts, which are now unitary authorities. People usually say that 2 of these parts (named North Somerset and Bath and North East Somerset) are part of Somerset, even though they have their own councils.

The oldest prison in England which is still used is in a town named Shepton Mallet in Somerset. Somerset also has the world's oldest road which people built. It is called the Sweet Track; it was built in about 3800 BC.

There is not much large industry in Somerset, but Bridgwater is a port, and Yeovil is important in building helicopters.

Tourism is an important industry in the county; in 2001 about 23,000 people worked in tourism. Tourists like Somerset because it is very beautiful, with much countryside and few big towns. Somerset has many places to visit:

Farming is an important industry in Somerset, but not as many people work in this industry today. Somerset is famous for its cider (an alcoholic apple drink) and it has many apple orchards.

The numbers on the map are linked to the numbers below.


This is a list of the main towns and cities in Somerset:


</doc>
<doc id="5589" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5589" title="Glastonbury">
Glastonbury

Glastonbury is a town in Somerset, England. It is well-known for the Glastonbury Festival which happens every year in Glastonbury.

Glastonbury is also well-known because of Glastonbury Abbey. This is because Glastonbury Abbey is said to be the place where King Arthur is buried, and it was burned down when King Henry the Eighth got angry at all Catholic monasteries in the country as the Pope would not grant him a divorce. The abbot, Abbot Whiting, was killed on the Tor, a local landmark.


</doc>
<doc id="5590" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5590" title="Glastonbury Abbey">
Glastonbury Abbey

Glastonbury Abbey is in Glastonbury, Somerset, England. It was King Ine of Wessex who decided to build Glastonbury Abbey and out of stone. King Edmund I of England was buried at the Abbey in 946 AD. It is said to be the burial place of King Arthur.


</doc>
<doc id="5591" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5591" title="Somerton">
Somerton

Somerton is a town in Somerset. It is between the towns of Yeovil and Street. It is in the South Somerset District of Somerset. 

Somerton was the capital of the Kingdom of Wessex from 871 to 901. It also used to be Somerset's county town, but this is now Taunton. 


</doc>
<doc id="5592" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5592" title="Yeovil, Somerset">
Yeovil, Somerset

Yeovil is a town in the county of Somerset. It is in the South Somerset District. Yeovil takes its name from the River Yeo. "Yeo Village" became Yeovil over time.

The town has two railway stations. They are called Yeovil Junction and Yeovil Pen Mill. The town has many villages near by. These are East Coker, Stoford, Evershot, Halstock and Yetminster. 

Yeovil is where the council is based for the district of South Somerset. The town's main employers are Westlands Helicopters.

Yeovil is home to the "giant killer" football club Yeovil Town F.C.. The club played against Liverpool City F.C in 2004. Yeovil used to be famous for glove-making. This is why the football team are nicknamed "The Glovers".


</doc>
<doc id="5593" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5593" title="Bridgwater">
Bridgwater

Bridgwater is a town in the county of Somerset. It is in the District of Sedgemoor.


</doc>
<doc id="5594" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5594" title="Street">
Street

A street is a piece of land, made flat or prepared in another way, so that people can travel on it better. We often use the words "street" and "road" for the same thing, but really a street is in a town.

Many streets are the centre of local culture and people make groups there. New Orleans’ Bourbon Street, for example, is famous for its active nightlife and also for its role as the center of the city’s French Quarter. The Bowery in New York was, for many years, the nation’s center of underground punk culture.



</doc>
<doc id="5595" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5595" title="Taunton">
Taunton

Taunton is a town in the county of Somerset. It is in the Taunton Deane District. Taunton is the county town of Somerset. Taunton is on the River Tone and takes its name from the river. "Tone town" became Taunton. 

In 1685, Judge Jefferies was based in Taunton during the Bloody Assizes that followed the Battle of Sedgemoor.


</doc>
<doc id="5596" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5596" title="Shepton Mallet">
Shepton Mallet

Shepton Mallet is a town in the county of Somerset, England. It is in the Mendip district.

Shepton Mallet is where the council is based for the Mendip district. It is a pleasant place to go, and has a beautiful countryside.


</doc>
<doc id="5597" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5597" title="Bath, Somerset">
Bath, Somerset

Bath is a city in the county of Somerset in England. It is 97 miles (156 km) west of London and 13 miles (21 km) south-east of Bristol. Bath became a city in 1585, when Queen Elizabeth I declared it to be one. Today there are 84,000 people living in Bath.

The city gets its name from the famous Roman baths which are in the town. The Romans built the baths as part of a spa, in the year 43 BC, but they called it "Aquae Sulis", which means "The waters of Sulis" (Sulis was a Roman goddess) Because of the baths and the architecture of the city (the style of the buildings), Bath was named a World Heritage Site in 1987. That means that it is a unique place and important to the history and culture of the world.

Bath is also where Roald Dahl's short story "The Landlady" takes place (the "setting"). The City is also mentioned in many of Jane Austen's books, like "Northanger Abbey", "Sense and Sensibility", and "Pride and Prejudice". 

During the Middle Ages, from about 476 to 1492, it was an important city for buying and selling wool. For a long time, especially from about 1734 to 1820, it was also a very popular place where rich people went to go to the spa. 

Today the city has theatres, museums and other cultural places; there is also lots to do for people who like sport. Because of this, Bath is popular with tourists: almost 4 million people visit the city each year. Bath also has two universities and several schools and colleges. 


</doc>
<doc id="5598" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5598" title="Wells">
Wells

Wells is a city in the county of Somerset. It is in the district of Mendip. The only other city in Somerset is Bath. In 2001 there were 10,406 people living in Wells.

Wells Cathedral is in Wells. The cathedral is very popular with visitors to Wells.
The cathedral has a school attached to it. Timothy K. Murray, a composer, was a student there.


</doc>
<doc id="5599" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5599" title="Category:Cities in Somerset">
Category:Cities in Somerset


</doc>
<doc id="5600" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5600" title="Category:Towns in Somerset">
Category:Towns in Somerset


</doc>
<doc id="5601" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5601" title="Category:Somerset">
Category:Somerset


</doc>
<doc id="5602" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5602" title="East Coker, Somerset">
East Coker, Somerset

East Coker is a village in Somerset. It is in the South Somerset District. East Coker is near the town of Yeovil. 

St Michael's church contains the ashes of the poet T. S. Eliot. One of his poems is called "East Coker". William Dampier, explorer and buccaneer was born in the village in 1651. He circumnavigated the world four times and published a book about his experiences. Dampier Island and Dampier Straits off Australia are named after him. Along the approach to the church are 12 almshouses built in 1640 by Archdeacon Helyar, chaplain to Queen Elizabeth l.

One of East Coker's famous residents is Trevor Peacock. Trevor Peacock played "Jim" in "The Vicar of Dibley".


</doc>
<doc id="5603" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5603" title="Category:Villages in Somerset">
Category:Villages in Somerset

Villages in Somerset, England


</doc>
<doc id="5604" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5604" title="Tatworth">
Tatworth

Tatworth is a village near Chard in the South Somerset District of Somerset, England. It was settled in 1254, but traces of earlier settlers have been found, such as a Roman villa.


</doc>
<doc id="5605" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5605" title="Chard (Somerset)">
Chard (Somerset)

Chard is a town in Somerset. It is in the South Somerset District. It is near the border of the county of Devon.

Chard is the birthplace of aviation. It was in Chard, during 1848, that John Stringfellow (1799 - 1883), first demonstrated that powered flight was possible.

In 1685, Chard was one of the towns in which Judge Jefferies held some of the Bloody Assizes after the failure of the Monmouth Rebellion. He stayed in "The Choughs", a public house in Chard.


</doc>
<doc id="5606" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5606" title="Crewkerne">
Crewkerne

Crewkerne is a town in Somerset, England where about 6,700 people live. It is in the South Somerset District. 

The first time it is mentioned in history is 899, when king Alfred the Great left the manor to his son Ethelweard. The name "Crewkerne" comes from the Saxon words "Cruce" (cross) and "earne" (cottage), because of the early church there. There was also a mint where coins were made between 978 and 1035. In 1066, the manor belonged to Edith, mistress of Harold Godwinson. After the Norman Conquest, it belonged directly to William the Conqueror. 



</doc>
<doc id="5607" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5607" title="Stoford, Somerset">
Stoford, Somerset

Stoford is a village in the county of Somerset, England. It is in the South Somerset District.


</doc>
<doc id="5608" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5608" title="River Tone">
River Tone

The River Tone is a river in the county of Somerset. It flows through the town of Taunton and joins the River Parrett.

Taunton takes its name from the River Tone. "Tone town" became Taunton.


</doc>
<doc id="5610" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5610" title="River Yeo">
River Yeo

The River Yeo is a river in the county of Somerset in the United Kingdom. It flows through the town of Yeovil and joins the River Perrett.

Yeovil takes its name from the River Yeo. "Yeo Village" became "Yeovil" over time.


</doc>
<doc id="5612" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5612" title="Category:Cities in England">
Category:Cities in England


</doc>
<doc id="5614" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5614" title="River Adur">
River Adur

The River Adur is a river in the county of Sussex, in England. It starts from South Downs, southern England and ends in the port town of Shoreham-by-Sea.



</doc>
<doc id="5617" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5617" title="River Aire">
River Aire

The River Aire is a river in the England. It runs through the counties of North Yorkshire, West Yorkshire and the East Riding of Yorkshire, although most of it is in West Yorkshire.

The river starts in Malham, and from there flows through (in order) Skipton, Keighley, Shipley, Leeds, Castleford, Knottingley and Airmyn.


</doc>
<doc id="5620" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5620" title="River Aln">
River Aln

The River Aln is a river in the county of Northumberland.
It has served as a war zone between the English and the Scots.


</doc>
<doc id="5623" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5623" title="River Alt">
River Alt

The River Alt is a river in the county of Merseyside in England just north of Liverpool. The river begins near Huyton and flows about 28 km northeast to empty into the Irish Sea at the town of Hightown. Other towns along the river include Kirkby, Maghull and Formby. There are 75km of tributary feeding the river. About 250,000 people live in the area around the river. The northern part of the river forms the boundary between the counties of Merseyside and Lancashire.


</doc>
<doc id="5626" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5626" title="River Yare">
River Yare

The River Yare is a river in the county of Norfolk, England.

The river starts south of Dereham in the county of Norfolk. From there it flows to the east. The river flows along the southern edge of the city of Norwich. The river continues past Norwich into the tidal lake of Breydon Water. Here the Yare is joined by the Rivers Bure and Waveney. It empties into North Sea at Gorleston, Great Yarmouth.

Small coastal boats can sail along the river from Norwich to the North Sea. In the past, the river had a large amount of boats carrying good to Norwich. Larger modern boats can not get across Breydon Water because it is not deep enough. Because of this, a canal was created at Reedham to provides a connection to the River Waveney. 


</doc>
<doc id="5629" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5629" title="River Exe">
River Exe

The River Exe is a river in the county of Devon in England. It usually flows directly south. The island had many mills making paper and textiles, and also created valuable land by draining the marshlands.




</doc>
<doc id="5631" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5631" title="Category:Devon">
Category:Devon


</doc>
<doc id="5632" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5632" title="Ilminster, Somerset">
Ilminster, Somerset

Ilminster is a town in the county of Somerset. It is in the South Somerset District. 

Ilminster is on the River Ile and has a large church. The church is known as the "Minster". It is from both of these things that Ilminster takes its name. "Ile" and "Minster" became "Ilminster".


</doc>
<doc id="5633" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5633" title="South Cadbury">
South Cadbury

South Cadbury is an archaeological site in south Somerset.

It was dug in the early 1970s, and it showed many times that people lived there. The first was in the early Neolithic (around 4000-3000 BC?) when the hill seems to have been an important place for groups of early farmers who moved around. Most things were found from when late Bronze Age people lived on the hill (around 1200 BC). In the Iron Age the site changed, with many big walls. There are signs that when the Romans came to Britain, they killed many people here. Ruins of a feasting hall built after the Roman time were also found in the dig. There are also legends connecting this place with King Arthur.


</doc>
<doc id="5635" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5635" title="Watchet">
Watchet

Watchet is a harbor town in the county of Somerset in England. It gets its name either from the blue "wacet" dye found in the cliffs, or from British "gwo coed" or "waeced", "under the wood". 

It is first recorded in the 7th century, when Saint Decuman crossed over from South Wales on a raft with a cow to help the people there. Legend says he was killed there by a violent man who cut off his head. There is a spring of water dedicated to him there. 

Coins were minted here for Ethelred II and five other Saxon kings. They have been found as far away as Scandinavia, probably because they were part of the Danegeld - payments made to the Vikings, who attacked Watchet in 918, 977, 988, and destroyed part of it in 997. Harold Godwinson's mother Eleanor fled through this port in 1066.

Watchet is the only place in England to still have the Court leet system, but only in name, with people chosen for ceremonial jobs like port reeve and ale taster. 



</doc>
<doc id="5636" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5636" title="Burnham-on-Sea">
Burnham-on-Sea

Burnham-on-Sea is a small town in the county of Somerset in England. It is next to the sea.


</doc>
<doc id="5637" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5637" title="Cheddar">
Cheddar

Cheddar is a type of hard cheese made from cow's milk. Its name comes from a village in the county of Somerset in England, where the cheese was first made. Many other countries, such as the United States and Canada make cheddar cheese.

The first record of cheddar cheese dates back to the 12th century

Cheddar cheese is different from other cheeses in how it is made. After the curds are heated, they are cut and stacked. The stacks are then turned periodically and re-stacked. This process is called cheddaring.

Cheddar cheese is sometimes aged in caves for up to 30 months before it is ready to eat.


</doc>
<doc id="5638" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5638" title="Yatton">
Yatton

Yatton is a large village with 9,000 people in the county of Somerset in England. Archaeology in the area has found a Roman villa (country-house) belonging to some rich person who lived here in the late 3rd century, judging from the coins. Records show the land was part of the manor of John the Dane before the Norman Conquest, and Giso, bishop of Wells afterward. 



</doc>
<doc id="5639" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5639" title="Backwell">
Backwell

Backwell is a village in the county of Avon, in North Somerset. 5,455 people live in Backwell. It is 7 miles from Bristol. Nailsea, Flax Bourton, Yatton, Brockley and Barrow Gurney are nearby.

There is a railway station in the village called "Nailsea and Backwell". Bristol International Airport is less than three miles away. 


</doc>
<doc id="5641" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5641" title="Clevedon">
Clevedon

Clevedon is a town in the county of Somerset, in England. The name comes from Old English and means "divided hill". Archaeology shows that many people lived here during the Roman occupation. Just before the Norman Conquest in 1066 it was part of a huge manor held by John (Gunni?) the Dane. At the time of the Domesday Book (1086) it belonged to Matthew of Mortaigne and had only a few people living there. The town of today was not built until around 1800 as a seaside resort.



</doc>
<doc id="5642" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5642" title="Weston-super-Mare">
Weston-super-Mare

Weston-super-Mare is a sea-side town in the county of North Somerset. 


</doc>
<doc id="5643" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5643" title="South Somerset">
South Somerset

South Somerset is a district in the county of Somerset. Its council is based in the town of Yeovil. The district was formed on 1 April 1974 and was originally called Yeovil.


</doc>
<doc id="5651" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5651" title="Scone">
Scone

A scone is a kind of bread that is usually shaped into triangles and baked on a griddle or sheet. Scones are very small, and are in the same group as the crumpet or muffin. It is made of wheat, barley, or oatmeal and baking powder to make it rise. The scone is shaped closely like the North American biscuit, and its recipe is almost the same with it as well. Sometimes scones may have raisins, currants, cheese, or dates in them. In the United States, however, scones include more sweet kind of fillings like cranberries, chocolate chips, or nuts. They can often be found in coffee shops and in a great variety in the British Isles. It is generally thought that scones are best eaten when they are very hot and freshly baked right from the oven, accompanied with melting warm butter. Some people even enjoy buttering their scones for themselves.

Some think that scone comes from the Gaelic "sgonn", which meant a a piece of dough that has been cooked for a couple of minutes, shapeless mass or large mouthful; and the Dutch "schoonbrot", which meant "fine white bread"; or, for last, the German "sconbrot", which meant "fine or beautiful bread". The Oxford English Dictionary believes the German and Dutch is more accurate.

Scone can also be a slang word for "head", "insane", or "angry".

It is sometimes debated on the correct pronunciation for "scone". In Scotland and North England, the word is pronounced as "skawn", or "skahn", while in Southern England, it is pronounced as "skoan" or "skown". The latter pronounciation came from the United States and Canada.

Scones are connected traditionally with England, Scotland, and Ireland, but nobody knows which country invented it. However, the first known mention of a scone that was printed is from the translation of "The Aenaid" (1513) written by a Scottish poet named Gavin Douglas.

Scones are related to the ancient Welsh tradition of cooking small round yeast cakes on stones, that later changed to griddles. First-made scones included oats inside them, and was baked over an open fire. However, today's scones are more like American biscuits. They are made with wheat, and baked in the oven.

The most popular scones are soda scones, wholemeal scones, rich white scones, treacle scones, potato scones, ballater scones and drop scones. Scones usually take about four to ten minutes to bake.


</doc>
<doc id="5654" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5654" title="Template:Welcome">
Template:Welcome

Hello, Welcome, and to the Simple English Wikipedia!

You may want to begin by reading these pages :

For some ideas of pages to work on, read or the .

You can Any changes you make can be seen immediately. You can ask questions at . At the end of your messages on talk pages, please sign your name by typing "<nowiki>~~~~</nowiki>" (four tildes) 

If you need help just click here and type <nowiki></nowiki> and your question. Someone will reply to you shortly after you do this.

Good luck and happy changing!

</doc>
<doc id="5659" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5659" title="Ankara">
Ankara

Ankara is the capital city of the country of Turkey. It is located in the center of Anatolia. Ankara is the second largest city after Istanbul. The city has a population of 4,319,167 (2005) (Province 5,153,000), and an elevation of 938 meters (3080 feet). It was formerly known as Angora or Engürü, and in Roman as Ancyra, and in classical and Hellenistic periods as Άγκυρα Ánkyra. The city is also the capital of Ankara Province.


</doc>
<doc id="5663" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5663" title="Template:Infobox country">
Template:Infobox country


</doc>
<doc id="5675" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5675" title="Johannes Gutenberg">
Johannes Gutenberg

Johannes Gensfleisch zur Laden zum Gutenberg (more commonly known as Johannes Gutenberg) (1390s – 3 February 1468), was a German metal-worker and inventor. He is famous for his work in printing in the 1450s, and is specifically known for inventing typography.

Gutenberg was born in Mainz, the son of a merchant, Friele Gensfleisch zur Laden. Gutenberg's father took the surname "zum Gutenberg" after the name of the place they now lived.

Gutenberg invented a sort of metal for printing; inks; a way to fix type (metal letters) very accurately; and a new sort of printing press. He took the idea for his printing press from the presses wine-makers used. Many people say Gutenberg invented printing with moveable type, but it was already invented in China before that: see printing. 

Before movable type, people used block printing, where the printer prints a whole page from one piece of metal or wood. With movable type, the printer makes a letter (A, B, C ...) from a piece of metal or wood, and can use it again and again in different words. Together, all Gutenberg's inventions made printing fast. In Renaissance Europe, there was an information explosion - in a short time, people printed a lot of new books.
The high number of new books was partly because of the popular Bible Gutenberg printed – the Gutenberg Bible. This was the first Bible people made in large numbers; Gutenberg started on 23 February 1455. Gutenberg was not a clever businessman, and did not get much money from his system. He had legal problems, and lost his machines to his partner, Johann Fust. The Archbishop at the time sympathized with Gutenberg because of his contributions to society, so told him that he would receive a pension each year with clothes, wine, and grain. Gutenberg died in Mainz, Germany, in 1468.

In his lifetime Gutenberg was not successful, but his invention was very important. In a short time, news and books were travelling around Europe very fast. Scientists could communicate better, and it helped the development of science and technology. More people learned to read. 

Today, there are still 60 Gutenberg Bibles. They are probably the oldest books that printers made with moveable type.

The "Gutenberg Galaxy" and Project Gutenberg use Gutenberg's name. The city of Guttenberg, Iowa in the United States is named after him.


</doc>
<doc id="5676" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5676" title="Wikipedia:Basic English combined wordlist">
Wikipedia:Basic English combined wordlist

This is the maximum Basic English combined wordlist. It is not the Basic English list of 850 words plus 150 specialty words. This maximum list is what the advanced student will know when moving from Basic English to the standard English language. Thus any student who knows all of these words has gone far beyond Basic English.

It actually contains well over 2,600 words and consists of five subordinate word lists:

Total: 2626 words.

Basic: a • able • about • account • acid • across • act • addition • adjustment • advertisement • agreement • after • again • against • air • all • almost • among • amount • amusement • angle • animal • answer • and • angry • ant • any • apparatus • apple • approval • arch • argument • arm • army • art • as • at • attack • attempt • attention • attraction • authority • automatic • awake

International: alcohol • Algebra • aluminium • ammonia • anesthetic • April • Arithmetic • asbestos • August • autobus • automobile

Addendum: absence • absorption • acceleration • acceptance • accessory • accident • active • address • adjacent • adventure • advice • age • agent • agency • ago • allowance • along • also • alternative • always • ambition • amplitude • anchor • ankle • appendage • application • approximation • arbitration • arbitrary • arc • area • arrangement • ash • asset • assistant • average • awkward • axis

Compound: afterthought • airplane • another • anybody • anyhow • anyone • anything • anywhere

Endings: actor • acting

Basic: baby • back • bad • bag • balance • ball • band • base • basin • basket • bath • be • beautiful • because • bed • bee • before • behavior • belief • bell • bent • berry • between • bird • birth • bit • bite • bitter • black • blade • blood • blow • blue • board • boat • body • bone • book • boot • boiling • bottle • box • boy • brain • brake • branch • brass • bread • breath • brick • bridge • bright • broken • brother • brown • brush • bucket • building • bulb • button • burn • burst • business • but • butter • by

International: ballet • Bang • bank • bar • beef • beer • Biology • bomb

Addendum: balcony • bale • bankrupt • bark • barrel • beak • beaker • beard • beat • behind • belt • bet • bill • birefringence • blame • blanket • both • bottom • brave • break • breakfast • breast • broker • bubble • bud • budget • buoyancy • bunch • burial • busy

Compound: backbone • backwoods • become • bedroom • beeswax • birthday • birthright • blackberry • blackbird • blackboard • bloodvessel • bluebell • bookkeeper • brushwood • buttercup

Endings: basing • based • builder • burner • burned • burning

Basic: cake • camera • canvas • card • care • carriage • cart • cat • cause • certain • chain • chalk • chance • change • cheap • cheese • chemical • chest • chief • chin • church • circle • cloth • clean • clear • clock • cloud • coal • coat • cold • collar • color • comb • come • comfort • committee • common • company • comparison • competition • complete • complex • condition • connection • conscious • control • cook • copper • copy • cord • cork • cotton • cough • country • cover • cow • crack • credit • crime • cruel • crush • cry • cup • current • curtain • curve • cushion • cut

International: cafe • calendar • catarrh • centi- • champagne • chauffeur • chemist • Chemistry • check • chocolate • chorus • cigarette • circus • citron • club • coffee • cocktail • cognac • College • colony

Addendum: calculation • call • capacity • capital • carpet • cartilage • case • cast • cave • cavity • cell • ceremony • certificate • chair • character • charge • child • chimney • china • choice • circulation • circuit • circumference • civilization • clay • claim • claw • cleavage • clever • client • climber • clip • code • coil • collision • collection • column • combination • combine • communications • complaint • component • compound • concept • concrete • conductor • congruent • conservation • consignment • constant • consumer • continuous • contour • convenient • conversion • cool • corner • correlation • corrosion • cost • court • creeper • crop • cross • cunning • cusp • customs

Compound: cardboard • carefree • caretaker • clockwork • commonsense • copyright • cupboard

Endings: carter • clothier • clothing • cooker • cooked • cooking • crying

Basic: damage • danger • dark • daughter • day • dead • dear • death • debt • decision • deep • degree • delicate • dependent • design • desire • destruction • detail • development • different • digestion • direction • dirty • discovery • discussion • disease • disgust • distance • distribution • division • do • dog • door • down • doubt • drain • drawer • dress • drink • driving • drop • dry • dust

International: dance • December • deci- • degree • Dominion • dynamite

Addendum: damping • date • debit • deck • decrease • defect • deficiency • deflation • degenerate • delivery • demand • denominator • department • desert • density • deposit • determining • dew • diameter • difference • difficulty • drift • dike • dilution • dinner • dip • direct • disappearance • discharge • discount • disgrace • dislike • dissipation • disturbance • ditch • dive • divisor • divorce • doll • domesticating • dreadful • dream • duct • dull • duty

Compound: daylight • downfall

Endings: dancer • dancing (to) • designer • dressing (up) • driver • dropped • dropper • duster

Basic: ear • early • earth • east • edge • education • effect • egg • elastic • electric • end • engine • enough • equal • error • even • event • ever • every • example • exchange • existence • expansion • experience • expert • eye

International: eight • electricity • eleven • Embassy • Empire • encyclopedia • engineer

Addendum: each • easy • economy • efficiency • effort • either • elimination • employer • empty • enemy • envelope • environment • envy • equation • erosion • eruption • evaporation • evening • exact • excitement • experiment • exercise • explanation • explosion • export • expression • extinction • eyebrow • eyelash

Compound: ear-ring • earthwork • evergreen • everybody • everyday • everyone • everything • everywhere • eyeball

Basic: face • fact • fall • false • family • far • farm • fat • father • fear • feather • feeble • feeling • female • fertile • fiction • field • fight • finger • fire • first • fish • fixed • flag • flame • flat • flight • floor • flower • fly • fold • food • foolish • foot • for • force • fork • form • forward • fowl • frame • free • frequent • friend • from • front • fruit • full • future

International: February • fifteen • fifth • fifty • five • four • fourteen • fourth • forty • Friday

Addendum: factor • failure • fair • famous • fan • fastening • fault • ferment • fertilizing • fever • fiber • figure • fin • financial • flash • flask • flesh • flood • flour • focus • forecast • forehead • foreign • forgiveness • fraction • fracture • fresh • friction • flint • flood • flow • foliation • frost • frozen • fume • funnel • funny • fur • furnace • furniture • fusion

Compound: fatherland • fingerprint • firearm • fire-engine • firefly • fireman • fireplace • firework • first-rate • football • footlights • footman • footnote • footprint • footstep

Endings: farmer • fisher/fisherman • folder • fired • firing

Basic: garden • general • get • girl • give • glass • glove • go • goat • gold • good • government • grain • grass • great • green • grey/gray • grip • group • growth • guide • gun

International: gas • Geography • Geology • Geometry • gram • glycerin

Addendum: gate • generation • germ • germinating • gill • glacier • gland • god • grand • grateful • grating • gravel • grease • grief • grocery • groove • gross • ground • guard • guarantee • guess • gum

Compound: gasworks • goldfish • goodlooking • good-morning • goodnight • gunboat • gun-carriage • gunmetal • gunpowder

Endings: gardener

Basic: hair • hammer • hand • hanging • happy • harbor • hard • harmony • hat • hate • have • he • head • healthy • hearing • heart • heat • help • here • high • history • hole • hollow • hook • hope • horn • horse • hospital • hour • house • how • humor

International: half • hiss • hotel • hundred • hyena • hygiene • hysteria

Addendum: habit • handkerchief • handle • heavy • hedge • hill • hinge • hire • hold • holiday • home • honest • honey • hoof • host • human • hunt • hurry • hurt • husband

Compound: handbook • handwriting • headdress • headland • headstone • headway • hereafter • herewith • highlands • highway • himself • horseplay • horsepower • hourglass • houseboat • housekeeper • however

Endings: hanger • heater • heated • heating

Basic: I • ice • idea • if • ill • important • impulse • in • increase • industry • ink • insect • instrument • insurance • interest • invention • iron • island

International: Imperial • inferno • influenza • international

Addendum: igneous • image • imagination • import • impurity • inclusion • index • individual • inflation • infinity • inheritance • innocent • institution • insulator • integer • intelligent • intercept • interpretation • intersection • intrusion • investigation • investment • inverse • invitation

Compound: inasmuch • income • indoors • inland • inlet • input • inside • instep • into • itself

Endings: inner

Basic: jelly • jewel • join • journey • judge • jump

International: January • jazz • July • June

Addendum: jam • jaw • jealous • jerk • joint • jug • juice • jury • justice

Endings: jeweler • joiner

Basic: keep • kettle • key • kick • kind • kiss • knee • knife • knot • knowledge

International: kilo- • King

Addendum: kennel • kidney • kitchen • knock

Endings: keeper

Basic: land • language • last • late • laugh • law • lead • leaf • learning • least • leather • leg • less • left • let • letter • level • library • lift • light • like • limit • line • linen • lip • liquid • list • little • living • lock • long • look • loose • loss • loud • love • low

International: latitude • lava • liter • liqueur • longitude

Addendum: lace • lag • lake • lame • lamp • large • latitude • lawyer • layer • lazy • lecture • legal • length • lens • lesson • lever • lever • liability • license • lid • life • lime • limestone • link • liver • load • local • loan • locus • longitude • luck • lump • lunch • lung

Compound: landmark • landslip • lighthouse • looking-glass

Endings: laughing (at) • learner • locker • locking (up)

Basic: machine • man • manager • make • male • map • mark • market • married • match • material • mass • may • meal • measure • meat • medical • meeting • memory • metal • middle • military • milk • mind • mine • minute • mist • mixed • money • monkey • month • moon • more • morning • most • mother • motion • mountain • mouth • move • much • muscle • music

International: macaroni • madam • magnetic • malaria • mania • March • Mathematics • May • meter • meow • micro- • microscope • milli- • million • minute • Monday • Museum

Addendum: magic • magnitude • manner • many • marble • margin • marriage • mast • mattress • mature • mean • meaning • medicine • medium • melt • member • mess • message • metabolism • mill • mineral • mixture • model • modern • modest • momentum • monopoly • mood • moral • moustache • mud • multiple • multiplication • murder

Compound: manhole • myself

Endings: marked • miner

Basic: nail • name • narrow • nation • natural • near • necessary • neck • need • needle • nerve • net • new • news • night • no • noise • normal • north • nose • not • note • now • number • nut

International: neutron • nickel • nicotine • nine • November

Addendum: nasty • nature • navy • neat • neglect • neighbor • nest • next • nice • node • nostril • nucleus • numerator • nurse

Compound: network • newspaper • nobody • nothing • nowhere

Endings: nearer • noted

Basic: observation • of • off • offer • office • oil • old • on • only • open • operation • opinion • opposite • or • orange • order • organization • ornament • other • out • oven • over • owner

International: October • olive • once • omelet • one • opera • opium • orchestra • organism

Addendum: obedient • officer • orchestra • ore • organ • origin • outcrop • outlier • overlap • oval • own • oxidation

Compound: offspring • oncoming • oneself • onlooker • onto • outburst • outcome • outcry • outdoor • outgoing • outhouse • outlaw • outlet • outline • outlook • output • outside • outskirts • outstretched • overacting • overall • overbalancing • overbearing • overcoat • overcome • overdo • overdressed • overfull • overhanging • overhead • overland • overleaf • overloud • overseas • overseer • overshoe • overstatement • overtake • overtaxed • overtime • overturned • overuse • overvalued • overweight • overworking

Endings: outer

Basic: page • pain • paint • paper • parallel • parcel • part • past • paste • payment • peace • pen • pencil • person • physical • picture • pig • pin • pipe • place • plane • plant • plate • play • please • pleasure • plough/plow • pocket • point • poison • polish • political • poor • porter • position • possible • pot • potato • powder • power • present • price • print • prison • private • probable • process • produce • profit • property • prose • protest • public • pull • pump • punishment • purpose • push • put

International: pajamas • paraffin • paradise • park • passport • patent • penguin • petroleum • phonograph • Physics • Physiology • piano • platinum • police • post • potash • President • Prince • Princess • program • propaganda • Psychology • Purr • pyramid

Addendum: packing • pad • pair • pan • paragraph • parent • particle • partner • party • passage • path • patience • pedal • pendulum • pension • people • perfect • petal • piston • plain • plan • plaster • plug • poetry • pollen • pool • population • porcelain • practice • praise • prayer • pressure • prick • priest • prime • probability • product • progress • projectile • projection • promise • proof • proud • pulley • pupil • purchase • pure

Compound: pincushion • plaything • policeman • postman • postmark • postmaster • postoffice

Endings: painter • painting • parting • playing • played • pleased (with) • pointer • pointing (at) • potter • printer • prisoner • producer

Basic: quality • question • quick • quiet • quite

International: Quack • quarter • Queen • quinine

Addendum: quantity • quotient

Basic: rail • rain • range • rat • rate • ray • reaction • red • reading • ready • reason • receipt • record • regret • regular • relation • religion • representative • request • respect • responsible • rest • reward • rhythm • rice • right • ring • river • road • rod • roll • roof • room • root • rough • round • rub • rule • run

International: radio • radium • referendum • restaurant • rheumatism • Royal • rum

Addendum: race • radiation • ratio • reagent • real • receiver • reciprocal • rectangle • recurring • reference • reflux • reinforcement • relative • remark • remedy • rent • repair • reproduction • repulsion • resistance • residue • resolution • result • retail • revenge • reversible • rich • rigidity • rise • rival • rock • rot • rotation • rude • rust

Compound: runaway

Endings: raining • reader • reading • roller • ruler • rubber

Basic: sad • safe • sail • salt • same • sand • say • scale • school • science • scissors • screw • sea • seat • second • secret • secretary • see • seed • selection • self • send • seem • sense • separate • serious • servant • sex • shade • shake • shame • sharp • sheep • shelf • ship • shirt • shock • shoe • short • shut • side • sign • silk • silver • simple • sister • size • skin • skirt • sky • sleep • slip • slope • slow • small • smash • smell • smile • smoke • smooth • snake • sneeze • snow • so • soap • society • sock • soft • solid • some • son • song • sort • sound • soup • south • space • spade • special • sponge • spoon • spring • square • stage • stamp • star • start • statement • station • steam • steel • stem • step • stick • sticky • stiff • still • stitch • stocking • stomach • stone • stop • store • story • straight • strange • street • stretch • strong • structure • substance • such • sudden • sugar • suggestion • summer • sun • support • surprise • sweet • swim • system

International: salad • sardine • Saturday • second • September • serum • seven • sir • six • sixteen • sport • Sunday

Addendum: sac • sale • sample • satisfaction • saturated • saucer • saving • scale • scarp • schist • scratch • screen • seal • search • security • secretion • section • sedimentary • selfish • sensitivity • sentence • sepal • service • set • shadow • shale • share • shave • shear • sheet • shell • shore • shoulder • show • sight • sill • similarity • since • skull • slate • sleeve • slide • social • soil • soldier • solution • solvent • sorry • spark • specialization • specimen • speculation • spirit • spit • splash • spot • stable • stain • stair • stalk • stamen • statistics • steady • stimulus • storm • strain • straw • stream • strength • stress • strike • string • study • subject • substitution • subtraction • success • successive • sucker • sum • supply • surface • surgeon • suspension • suspicious • swelling • swing • switch • sympathetic

Compound: seaman • secondhand • shorthand • sideboard • sidewalk • somebody • someday • somehow • someone • something • sometime • somewhat • somewhere • suchlike • sunburn • sunlight • sunshade • sweetheart

Endings: sailor • shocking • shocked • snowing • steamer • stopper • stopping • stopping up • stretcher

Basic: table • tail • take • talk • tall • taste • tax • teaching • tendency • test • than • that • the • then • theory • there • thick • thin • thing • this • though • thought • thread • throat • through • thumb • thunder • ticket • tight • tired • till • time • tin • to • toe • together • tomorrow • tongue • tooth • top • touch • town • trade • train • transport • tray • tree • trick • trousers • true • trouble • turn • twist

International: tapioca • taxi • tea • telegram • telephone • ten • terrace • theater • thermometer • third • thirteen • thirty • thousand • three • Thursday • toast • tobacco • torpedo • Tuesday • turbine • twenty-one • twelve • twenty • twice • two

Addendum: tailor • tame • tap • tear • tent • term • texture • thickness • thief • thimble • thorax • threat • thrust • tide • tie • tissue • tongs • too • total • towel • tower • traffic • tragedy • transmission • transparent • trap • travel • treatment • triangle • truck • tube • tune • tunnel • twin • typist

Compound: today • tonight • tradesman

Endings: talking (of) • teacher • touching (up) • trader • trainer • training • troubling • troubled • turning (over)

Basic: umbrella • under • unit • up • use

International: university

Addendum: ugly • unconformity • understanding • universe • unknown

Compound: underclothing • undercooked • undergo • undergrowth • undermined • undersigned • undersized • understatement • undertake • undervalued • undo • upkeep • uplift • upon • upright • uptake

Endings: used (to)

Basic: value • verse • very • vessel • view • violent • voice

International: vanilla • violin • visa • vitamin • vodka • volt

Addendum: valency • valley • valve • vapor • variable • vascular • vegetable • velocity • vestigial • victim • victory • volume • vortex • vote

Compound: viewpoint

Basic: walk • wall • waiting • war • warm • wash • waste • watch • water • wave • wax • way • weather • week • weight • well • west • wet • what • wheel • when • where • which • while • whip • whistle • white • who • why • wide • will • wind • window • wine • wing • winter • wire • wise • with • woman • wood • wool • word • work • worm • wound • writing • wrong

International: Wednesday • whisky

Addendum: weak • wedge • welcome • whether • wholesale • widow • wife • wild • world • wreck • wrist

Compound: waterfall • weekend • well-being • well-off • whatever • whenever • whereas • whereby • wherever • whichever • whitewash • whoever • windpipe • within • without • woodwork • workhouse

Endings: waiter • worker • working (on) working (out) / working (up) • writer • waiting • wasted

Basic: year • yellow • yes • yesterday • you • young

International: zebra • zinc • Zoology

Addendum: yawn

Compound: x-ray • yearbook • yourself • zookeeper


</doc>
<doc id="5679" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5679" title="Wikipedia:Basic English compound wordlist">
Wikipedia:Basic English compound wordlist

This is a list of the compound Basic English words in alphabetical order.

Much like sentences or phrases can be made of Basic words, a compound word can be created.
These must only be made from appropriate root words, so that the interpretation is obvious to the reader.

afterthought • airplane • another • anybody • anyhow • anyone • anything • anywhere 

backbone • backspace • backwoods • become • bedroom • beeswax • birthday • birthright • blackberry • blackbird • blackboard • bloodvessel • bluebell • bookkeeper • brushwood • buttercup 

cardboard • carefree • caretaker • clockwork • commonsense • copyright • cupboard 

daylight • downfall 

ear-ring • earthwork • evergreen • everybody • everyday • everyone • everything • everywhere • eyeball 

fatherland • fingerprint • firearm • fire-engine • firefly • fireman • fireplace • firework • first-rate • football • footlights • footman • footnote • footprint • footstep 

gasworks • goldfish • goodlooking • gunboat • gun-carriage • gunmetal • gunpowder

handbook • handwriting • headdress • headland • headstone • headway • hereafter • herewith • highlands • highway • himself • horseplay • horsepower • hourglass • houseboat • housekeeper • however 

inasmuch • income • indoors • inland • inlet • input • inside • instep • into • itself 

keyboard

landmark • landslip • lighthouse • looking-glass 

manhole • myself 

network • newspaper • nobody • nothing • nowhere 

offspring • oncoming • oneself • oneline • onlooker • onto • outburst • outcome • outcry • outdoor • outgoing • outhouse • outlaw • outlet • outline • outlook • output • outside • outskirts • outstretched • overacting • overall overbalancing • overcoat • overcome • overdo • overdressed • overfull • overhanging • overhead • overload • overbearing • overland • overleaf • overseas • overseer • overshoe • overstatement • overtake • overtaxed • overtime • overturned • overuse • overvalued • overweight • overworking

pincushion • plaything • policeman • postman • postmark • postmaster • postoffice 

runaway 

seaman • secondhand • shorthand • shutdown • sideboard • sidewalk • somebody • someday • somehow • someone • something • sometime • somewhat • somewhere • startup • suchlike • sunburn • sunlight • sunshade • sweetheart 

today • tonight • tradesman 

underclothing • undercooked • undergo • undergrowth • undermined • undersigned • undersized • understatement • undertake • undervalued • undo • update • upkeep • uplift • upon • upright • uptake 

viewpoint 

waterfall • weekend • well-being • well-off • whatever • whenever • whereas • whereby • wherever • whichever • whitewash • whoever • windpipe • within • without • woodwork • workhouse 

x-ray

yearbook • yourself

zookeeper


</doc>
<doc id="5680" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5680" title="Elizabeth I of England">
Elizabeth I of England

Elizabeth I of England (7 September 1533 - 24 March 1603) was the Queen of England and Ireland and nominal claimant to Queen of France from 17 November 1558 until she died in 1603. She has also been called "The Virgin Queen" or "Good Queen Bess".

Elizabeth was born in the Palace of Placentia in Greenwich, England. She was the daughter of King Henry VIII of England and his second wife, Anne Boleyn. When she was very young, she lost her right to be called a princess, because her mother was found guilty of having lovers and was executed. After Anne's death, the king said she should no longer be treated as his daughter. Her half-sister Mary was in the same position. Mary was much older than Elizabeth, but her mother (Catherine of Aragon) had been divorced by King Henry and she was also being treated as if she was not the King's daughter.

After Anne Boleyn died, King Henry married Jane Seymour, who became queen. Jane had a baby son, who was named Edward. Men were thought to make better rulers than women, so Edward became heir to the throne as soon as he was born. People thought he was an O.K King but he was young and did not understand how to solve some things. He always had an adviser ready to give advice. He died because he fell ill. 

Elizabeth was taken away from the royal court and was looked after by other people. She was given a good education. Elizabeth could speak and read six languages: her native English, as well as French, Italian, Spanish, Greek, and Latin.

When she was thirteen years old, King Henry died. Elizabeth's younger half-brother, Edward, became King even though he was only a child. He was called King Edward VI of England. Because King Henry had no other children, he left a will saying that, if Edward had no children of his own, Mary would be queen after him, and Elizabeth would be queen after Mary. At the time no one thought this would ever happen, but Edward died when he was only fifteen. Mary then became queen, and was called Queen Mary I of England.

During Mary's reign, life became difficult for Elizabeth. When King Henry VIII divorced Mary's mother, he had quarrelled with the Pope and most people in England had turned away from the Roman Catholic religion. Mary had been loyal to the old religion, and, as soon as she became queen, she married King Philip II of Spain, who was a Roman Catholic. This marriage made her unpopular because Spain and England were old enemies. Mary wanted everyone else in England to be Roman Catholic again, so she tried to make Elizabeth attend Roman Catholic services. Elizabeth pretended to believe the same as Mary, but she was not really a Catholic. Because of the argument over religion, many people in the country preferred Elizabeth to Mary and wanted to make her queen. She was accused of trying to take Mary's throne, and was even put into the Tower of London for a while.

Elizabeth became the Queen of England in 1558 after .Elizabeth has been called the "Virgin Queen", because she never married. The English loved Elizabeth because she courted them but they wanted her to marry and give them a king and heirs. Because Elizabeth was a woman, many people believed that she would do whatever her husband told her. Mary's marriage to Philip of Spain had caused a lot of problems, and Elizabeth did not want to make the same mistake in marrying a foreign ruler. If she married one person, she would form an alliance with one country, but could make many enemies. Politics would become uneasy and England would be opposed by other countries. She played the political games with the prospect of marrying one prince or another...aligning England with one side of a power struggle or the other - perhaps a country seeking to assert itself into the world politics would win her hand. If Elizabeth had married, it is likely England would have been attacked by one or both of the major powers at the time - Spain or France. By keeping suitors on their toes, she delayed such an invasion for many years. She was fond of saying England was her husband.

If Elizabeth had married a man who was not a prince or king, that might also have caused problems because other people would have been jealous of her husband. Most people believe that she was in love with Robert Dudley, the 1st Earl of Leicester. She renewed her friendship with Robert Dudley when they were both prisoners in the Tower of London during Queen Mary's reign. Elizabeth knew about Robert Dudley's marriage to a woman called Amy Robsart as she had attended their wedding. After Elizabeth became queen, there was gossip about her friendship with Robert Dudley. Not long afterwards, Amy died in an accident. It seems that she fell down stairs after sending all her servants away, her body was not found until later. Some people said that her husband had arranged for her to be killed so he would be free to marry Queen Elizabeth...some think she committed suicide because of her husband's attention on the queen. All this gossip made it impossible for Elizabeth to marry him. When Elizabeth found she could not marry the man she loved, she may have decided that she would not marry at all.
Elizabeth I caught smallpox in 1562. This scared Parliament, because they did not know who would be the King or Queen after her. They asked Elizabeth I to name an heir, but she did not.

The person with the most legitimate claim to follow Elizabeth to the throne of England was her cousin, Mary Stuart, who was already Queen of Scotland. Mary Stuart and Elizabeth were rivals; Mary was a Catholic and Elizabeth was a Protestant. Mary married a French prince and became the French queen was well as the Queen of Scots. Some people wanted to force Elizabeth off the throne and replace her with Mary. This made Mary a danger to Elizabeth's bid for power.

Because many Scottish people were Protestants, they did not like Mary and wanted to get rid of her. She was put in prison and her infant son James was made King of Scotland in her place. He became James VI. In 1568, she escaped and ran away to England, to ask for help from Elizabeth. Elizabeth kept her as a prisoner for many years. In 1578, Elizabeth was told that Mary had been plotting to kill her and become queen in her place. Mary was put on trial and found guilty, and Elizabeth agreed to put Mary to death. This action was popular with Elizabeth's court, but it made her enemies in the Catholic countries of Europe, such as France and Spain.

After the death of her friend Robert Dudley, Elizabeth was very upset and turned to Dudley's stepson, the Earl of Essex, who was a young man and not always very sensible. He let Elizabeth down several times. In the end, she sent him away from the royal court. Essex behaved very stupidly by getting a gang of his friends together and trying to take over the country. Not many people supported them, and they were all executed. Elizabeth was very hurt by the way he had behaved, and she was even more upset at having to agree to his execution.

Elizabeth I fell ill in February 1603, she was suffering from physical weakness and insomnia. She had no children, so it was decided that James VI would be the next king of England. James VI was the son of Mary Stuart, but he was a Protestant. 
Elizabeth I died at the age of 69, on 24 March 1603. She had managed to keep peace in the country and to keep the independence of England. These were thought to be great achievements.

There have been many films about Elizabeth I.


</doc>
<doc id="5681" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5681" title="Cate Blanchett">
Cate Blanchett

Cate Blanchett (born May 14, 1969) is an Australian actor.

She was born as Catherine Elise Blanchett in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.

In 1998 she won an Academy Award nomination for Best Actress for playing Elizabeth I in "Elizabeth". In 2005 she won Best Supporting Actress for playing Katharine Hepburn in Martin Scorsese's "The Aviator".


</doc>
<doc id="5683" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5683" title="Category:Actors by country">
Category:Actors by country


</doc>
<doc id="5687" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5687" title="Kylie Minogue">
Kylie Minogue

Kylie Ann Minogue (born 28 May 1968) is a singer and actress. She became popular in the late 1980s, because of her role in the Australian television soap opera "Neighbours", before becoming a dance-pop singer.

Minogue was born in Melbourne, Australia. Her sister is Dannii Minogue. 

She was signed to a contract by British songwriters and producers Stock, Aitken & Waterman, she got hit records throughout the world. Her popularity began to decline by the early 1990s and she left Stock, Aitken & Waterman in 1992. For years she tried to become an independent performer and songwriter. Her projects were widely talked about, but her albums resulted in the lowest sales of her career.

In 2000, Minogue became popular again as a dance-pop singer and became well-known for her sexual music videos and expensive concerts. She has one of the longest and most successful careers in pop music, and she has become one of the most recognisable celebrities and sex symbols. In Australia, she holds the record for the highest concert ticket sales for a woman, and has had 9 singles at number 1 on the Australian ARIA Singles Chart.

On 17 May 2005, Minogue was diagnosed with breast cancer. She was on tour at the time, and the rest of it had to be cancelled. Minogue had surgery for it on 21 May 2005 at a hospital in Malvern, Victoria, and started chemotherapy soon afterwards. She finished her chemotherapy treatment in January 2006, but still needed six more weeks of radiotherapy to stop any new cancerous tumours from growing.



</doc>
<doc id="5688" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5688" title="Natalie Imbruglia">
Natalie Imbruglia

Natalie Imbruglia (born February 4, 1975) is an Australian actress and singer-songwriter. She was born in Sydney, New South Wales.


</doc>
<doc id="5689" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5689" title="Nicole Kidman">
Nicole Kidman

Nicole Mary Kidman (born 20 June 1967) is an American-Australian actress. She was born in Honolulu, Hawaii, United States. Formerly married to Tom Cruise, she is now married to Keith Urban.

Kidman's first movie was in 1983. It was called "BMX Bandits". Her first famous movie was "Dead Calm" in 1989.
Her first major movie was called "Days of Thunder", which also starred Tom Cruise. They fell in love during the filming of that movie and married. Kidman was then in more movies like "Flirting", "Billy Bathgate", "Far and Away", "Malice", "My Life" and "To Die For". All of these movies were successes.

She was then in movies like "Batman Forever" and "Practical Magic". In 1999 she starred in a movie with Cruise called "Eyes Wide Shut". They played a married couple in the movie. It was the last movie directed by director Stanley Kubrick. They separated and divorced after making "Eyes Wide Shut".

Since Kidman and Cruise divorced, she has been in movies including: "Moulin Rouge!", "The Others", "Cold Mountain", "The Stepford Wives" and "Bewitched".



</doc>
<doc id="5690" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5690" title="Hugh Jackman">
Hugh Jackman

Hugh Jackman (born October 12, 1968) is an actor. He was born in Sydney, Australia. He is most well-known as the fictional comics character Wolverine in the movie "X-Men" and its sequels "X2" and "". He is also well known in Australia for his work in musical theater


</doc>
<doc id="5691" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5691" title="Mel Gibson">
Mel Gibson

Mel Columcille Gerard Gibson (born January 3, 1956) is an American-Australian actor and filmmaker. He was born in Peekskill, New York, United States. His family moved to Australia in 1968, when he was 12. Gibson is known for his Lethal Weapon movies and The Passion of the Christ movie, which he based on the visions of St. Catherine Emmerich.

Some of Mel Gibson's most well-known movies are:




</doc>
<doc id="5692" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5692" title="Natalie Portman">
Natalie Portman

Natalie Hershlag ( born June 9, 1981) is an Israeli-American actress. She is usually known by her stage name Natalie Portman. She was born in Jerusalem, Israel. Portman is an only child. She lived in Washington, D.C. and Connecticut before coming to Long Island, New York with her parents. In 1999, she graduated from Syosset High School. Portman attended Harvard University, studying Psychology.

She is most famous for starring in Star Wars Episodes I, II and III as Padme in the early 21st century. She has also appeared on Saturday Night Live.





</doc>
<doc id="5695" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5695" title="Alyson Hannigan">
Alyson Hannigan

Alyson Lee Hannigan is an American actress. She was born March 24, 1974 in Washington DC. She moved to Atlanta when she was 2 years old to live with her mother. She started to act in commercials for McDonalds, Six Flags amusement parks and Oreo cookies when she was small. When she was 11, she went to Los Angeles with her mother to go to school and become famous. She started getting noticed with her roles in "Buffy the Vampire Slayer" as Willow Rosenberg and in the "American Pie" movies as Michelle Flaherty. She is currently on the television series "How I Met Your Mother"



</doc>
<doc id="5696" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5696" title="Jessica Alba">
Jessica Alba

Jessica Marie Alba (born on April 28, 1981 in Pomona, California) is an American actress. When she was 13 years old, she got her first acting job. It was in the movie "Camp Nowhere". She became famous when acting in the television series "Dark Angel" (2000–02). Alba later acted in several movies, such as "Honey" (2003), "Sin City" (2005), and "Good Luck Chuck" (2007).

She has been listed in the "Hot 100" section of "Maxim" magazine every year from 2003 to 2007, and was voted "Sexiest Woman in the World" by "FHM" in 2007. In March 2007, a picture of her was used on the cover of "Playboy". "Playboy" did not ask her if they could use the picture or tell her they were going to use it. This caused a lawsuit that was later dropped. Alba has won several awards for her acting. These awards include the "Choice Actress" award at the Teen Choice Award and a Saturn Award. Both of these awards were for her acting in the series "Dark Angel".

Alba was born in Pomona, California on April 28, 1981. Her mother, Catherine, is of Danish and French Canadian ancestry and her father, Mark, is Mexican American and Venezuelan ancestry. She has a younger brother named Joshua. Alba's father was in the Air Force and his career caused them to live in many different places. They lived in Biloxi, Mississippi, and Del Rio, Texas before going back to California when she was nine years old.

When she was young, Alba was ill many times. She had a collapsed lung twice, had pneumonia four or five times each year and had problems with her appendix and tonsils. She was in hospitals for much of her childhood. This meant Alba did not spend much time with other children. Alba has also said that she had obsessive-compulsive disorder when she was a child. The disorder affected her much less when her family moved to California. She graduated from high school when she was 16 years old. After high school, she went to the Atlantic Theater Company.

Alba wanted to act since she was five. She took her first acting class at age twelve. An acting agent signed her nine months later. Her first movie work was a small role in the 1994 movie "Camp Nowhere". At first, she was only hired for two weeks but ended up working for two months because another actress dropped out.

Alba starred in two national television commercials when she was a child. One of these was for Nintendo and the other was for J.C. Penney. She played Jessica in three episodes of the Nickelodeon comedy series "The Secret World of Alex Mack". Alba was then Maya in the television series "Flipper". Her mother was a lifeguard and had taught Jessica to swim before she could walk. She is a certified scuba diver.

In 1998, she acted in "Brooklyn South", in two episodes of "Beverly Hills, 90210" and in an episode of "The Love Boat: The Next Wave". After Alba graduated from high school, she studied acting with William H. Macy and his wife, Felicity Huffman, at the Atlantic Theater Company.

She became more famous in Hollywood in 1999 after acting in the Drew Barrymore romantic comedy "Never Been Kissed", and as the main female character in the 1999 comedy-horror movie "Idle Hands". She was chosen from a group of 1,200 actresses for the role of the genetically-engineered soldier, on the FOX sci-fi television series "Dark Angel". The series ran for two seasons from 2000 until 2002. Alba was nominated for a Golden Globe for her work on that series. When she trained to be in "Dark Angel", Alba had to exercise very much and she starved herself. She said "A lot of girls have eating disorders and I did too. I got obsessed with it." She also had obsessive compulsive disorder and panic attacks. She said she has been cooking for herself since the age of twelve so she would not become as fat as her family members.

Some of Alba's most famous movie roles are a dancer in "Sin City" and as Marvel Comics character Sue Storm, the Invisible Woman in the "Fantastic Four". She also acted in "Into the Blue" in 2005 and "Good Luck Chuck" a few years later. In 2008, Alba played her first horror-movie role in "The Eye", a remake of the Hong Kong original. In February, she hosted an Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences's ceremony. Later in the year, she starred in "The Love Guru".

In 2010 Alba appeared in five movies including "Little Fockers" and "The Killer Inside Me". The following year she appeared in "Spy Kids 4", a sequel to "Spy Kids".

In 2007, "Maxim Magazine" listed Alba as number 2 in their "Top 100", after Lindsay Lohan. "GQ" had her picture on their June covers. In May, after eight million votes, "FHM" (UK and US editions) named Alba the winner as "2007’s Sexiest Woman in the World". She received the Teen Choice Award for "Choice Actress" and Saturn Award for Best Actress (TV) for her role in "Dark Angel", along with a Golden Globe nomination. In 2006, she received an MTV Movie Award for "Sexiest Performance" for "Sin City". 

Some people have said Alba's acting was bad. She was nominated for a 2007 Razzie Award for Worst Actress for her work in "Awake", "Good Luck Chuck", and "".

On the cover of the March 2006 issue, "Playboy" magazine named Alba among its 25 Sexiest Celebrities and the "Sex Star of the Year". She took "Playboy" to court for using a picture of her without her permission. However, she later dropped the lawsuit when she got a personal apology from "Playboy" owner Hugh Hefner. He agreed to make donations to two charities that Alba supports.

Alba was raised as a Roman Catholic. When she was a teenager she became a born-again Christian. However, she left the church after four years because she believed that she was being judged by the way she looked. She has said that she still believes in God even though she is not a member of the church. Alba has not performed naked. She was given the option to appear nude in "Sin City" by the movie's directors, Frank Miller and Robert Rodriguez. She said no to the offer saying, "I don't do nudity. I just don't. Maybe that makes me a bad actress. Maybe I won't get hired in some things. But I have too much anxiety".

While filming "Dark Angel", Alba began a romance with another member of the cast, Michael Weatherly. This caused controversy because he was 12 years older than she was. He asked her to marry him on her twentieth birthday but she said no. They eventually broke up after a four-year relationship. When talking about children, she said, "I'm really girly when it comes to kids. I've been surrounded by kids my whole life because I'm the oldest of 15 cousins—I've been changing diapers since I was six. I want to have a couple, for sure".

Alba married Cash Warren on May 19, 2008 in Los Angeles, California. She met him while making "Fantastic Four" in 2004. On June 7, 2008, Alba gave birth to a baby girl called Honor Marie Warren. She also does some charity work, including clothes charity "Clothes Off Our Back" and women's charity "Step Up Women's Network". On August 13, 2011, she gave birth to her second daughter, Haven Garner Warren.

The following table shows all the movies Alba has been in, the role she played and when the movie was released.


</doc>
<doc id="5697" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5697" title="Brad Pitt">
Brad Pitt

Brad Pitt (born December 18, 1963) is an American actor. He was born in Shawnee, Oklahoma. Before he made movies, he also lived in Missouri. He was married to Jennifer Aniston from 2000 until they divorced in 2005. He lives with Angelina Jolie; they have six children. 


</doc>
<doc id="5698" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5698" title="Jennifer Aniston">
Jennifer Aniston

Jennifer Aniston (born February 11, 1969) is an American actress. She was born in Los Angeles, California. She is best known for her starring role on the television show "Friends". She has been in many different movies. She was married to Brad Pitt from 2000 until they divorced in 2005. They acted together in the episode, ""The One with the Rumor"" on "Friends".

She is the daughter of Greek actor John Aniston.

http://www.jenniferanistoneurope.com/ – Official website


</doc>
<doc id="5699" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5699" title="Jennifer Love Hewitt">
Jennifer Love Hewitt

Jennifer Love Hewitt (born February 21, 1979) is an American actress and singer. She is most known for playing "Sarah Reeves" in the Fox television series "Party of Five" from (1995-1999), and as "Julie James" in the "I Know What You Did Last Summer" movies. She also played "Melinda Gordon" on the CBS television series "Ghost Whisperer".

Hewitt was born in Waco, Texas. Her parents are Herbert Daniel Hewitt and Patricia Mae Shipp. She moved to Garland, Texas in 1987. Hewitt grew up in Killeen, Texas. After the divorce of her parents, Hewitt and her only sibling, Todd Hewitt, grew up with her mother. 

As a young girl, Hewitt liked music. This led to her first encounters with the entertainment industry. At the age of three, she sang "The Greatest Love of All" at a livestock show. By the time she was five, Hewitt already had tap dancing and ballet in her portfolio. At the age of ten she moved to Los Angeles, California, with her mother for a career in both acting and singing.

After moving to Los Angeles, Hewitt was in more than twenty television commercials. Her first break came as a child actor on the Disney Channel variety show "Kids Incorporated" (1989–1991). Hewitt became a young star after getting the role of Sarah Reeves on the Fox Television show "Party of Five" (1995–1999). She joined the cast during its second season. 

Hewitt's first movie role was in in the independent movie "Munchie" (1992). Hewitt became very well known after a lead role in the horror movie "I Know What You Did Last Summer" (1997). She also played in the sequel "I Still Know What You Did Last Summer" (1998). Other movie roles included the high school comedy "Can't Hardly Wait" (1998) and the romantic comedy "Heartbreakers" (2001). In 2002, she worked with Jackie Chan in the action comedy "The Tuxedo". 

She has released four albums with some success, mostly in Europe and Japan. Her first album was released in Japan, where she is widely considered a pop star.



</doc>
<doc id="5700" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5700" title="Katie Holmes">
Katie Holmes

Katie Holmes (born December 18, 1978) is an American actress. She was born in Toledo, Ohio. She was "Joey" on the WB network TV show Dawson's Creek. She has a daughter, Suri, with Tom Cruise (born April 2006). The couple married in November 2006. She participated in the New York Marathon in 2007.



</doc>
<doc id="5701" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5701" title="Sigourney Weaver">
Sigourney Weaver

Sigourney Weaver (born as "Susan Alexandra Weaver" on October 8, 1949, in New York City) is an American actress.

She played the role of Lieutenant Ellen Ripley in the movie series "Alien", in the four movies "Alien", "Aliens", "Alien³", and "". She is also well known for playing Dana Barrett in the movies "Ghostbusters" and "Ghostbusters II" or for the role Dian Fossey in the movie "Gorillas in the Mist".


</doc>
<doc id="5702" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5702" title="Audrey Hepburn">
Audrey Hepburn

Audrey Hepburn (4 May 1929 – 20 January 1993) was a Belgian-born British actress admired for her charm and elegance.

Born in Brussels, Belgium, to an English father and a Dutch mother who were divorced in 1935. She grew up in Arnhem in the Netherlands during the war, with her mother and two maternal half-brothers. When World War II ended, she and her mother moved to England. There, she studied ballet, and began working as a model and appearing in bit parts in the theatre and in films. 

She got her first major break in 1951, when she was chosen by French writer Colette to play the lead role in the English version of her play "Gigi" on Broadway. 

This led to her being cast in the lead female part in the film "Roman Holiday" (1953), opposite Gregory Peck. The film made her an instant international star. Her performance won her the Academy Award, the Golden Globe Award and the BAFTA for best actress. She then appeared in a string of successful romantic comedies, such as "Sabrina" (1954), "Love in the afternoon" (1957), "Breakfast at Tiffany's" (1961), "Charade" (1963), "How to steal a Million" (1967), etc. She also appeared in two musicals; "Funny Face" (1957) and "My Fair Lady" (1964) and tackled more dramatic roles in films such as "War and Peace" (1956), "The Nun's Story" (1959), "The Children's Hour" (1961), "Two for the road" (1967) and the thriller "Wait until dark" (1967). 

After an eight years absence from the screen to take care of her family, she returned with "Robin and Marian" (1976), opposite Sean Connery. She also appeared in "Bloodline" (1979) and "They All Laughed" (1981) but retired for good shorthy after.

In later life, she worked as a Goodwill Ambassasor for UNICEF and hosted a television serie "The Gardens of the World with Audrey Hepburn".

She was married twice; first to actor/director Mel Ferrer in 1954, with whom she had a son Sean (b. 1960), and second to Italian psychiatrist Doctor Andrea Dotti in 1969, with whom she had a second son Luca (b. 1970). Both marriages ended in divorce. 

Audrey Hepburn died of appendix cancer at her home in Switzerland in 1993, at the age of 63. Her elder son, Sean Ferrer, later wrote a book about his mother, called "Audrey Hepburn: an elegant spirit".



</doc>
<doc id="5704" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5704" title="Katharine Hepburn">
Katharine Hepburn

Katharine Houghton Hepburn (May 12, 1907 - June 29, 2003) was an American actress. Her career lasted 66 years. She is thought of as one of the top screen actresses in film history. She was nominated for 12 Academy Awards, winning four.

Hepburn was born in Hartford, Connecticut and went to Bryn Mawr College. She got her degree in 1928 and started on Broadway that same year. 

In 1932 she got a role in the George Cukor film "A Bill of Divorcement", with John Barrymore. She was very successful in the early 1930s, but then her became unpopular. She became popular again with the film "The Philadelphia Story". In 1942 she starred in "Woman of the Year" with Spencer Tracy. They made eight more films together, including "Adam's Rib" and "Guess Who's Coming to Dinner". They also had an off-screen romance that lasted until Tracy's death in 1967, but they never married because Tracy did not want to divorce his wife. Before this, Hepburn was married to Ludlow Ogden Smith from 1928-1934, and also had relationships with Leland Hayward and Howard Hughes. 

Her autobiography, "Me: Stories of My Life", came out in 1991. She died on June 29, 2003 at 2:50 p.m., at Fenwick, the Hepburn family home, in Old Saybrook, Connecticut. She was 96.




</doc>
<doc id="5707" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5707" title="Wikipedia:Basic English picture wordlist">
Wikipedia:Basic English picture wordlist

This is a picture version of the "" part of the .

Here are the names of the body parts of a woman and a man. Not all words are in scientific words


</doc>
<doc id="5711" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5711" title="Charles Kay Ogden">
Charles Kay Ogden

Charles Kay Ogden (1 June 1889–21 March 1957) was a word and language learner and a writer. He is a well known book writer about the designed language called "Basic English". He is known for his work with I. A. Richards on "The Meaning of Meaning" (1923).



</doc>
<doc id="5713" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5713" title="God Save the Queen">
God Save the Queen

God Save the Queen is a song, the national anthem of the United Kingdom. When there is a king instead of a queen it becomes God Save the King. Some other countries that still have the British monarch as their head of state use this song as a "Royal Anthem" to honour the queen.

It is not completely certain who wrote it, but most people think it was Dr Henry Carey, who first performed it in 1740.

The tune for God Save the Queen was used in many countries as a national anthem. Apart from the German state, many of which were linked to Great Britain by marriage, Liechtenstein and Switzerland used the tune. Switzerland changed to a different tune in the 1960s. Liechtenstein still uses the tune.

The tune is both American and British. In the 1930s the United States chose an official anthem. The "Star Spangled Banner" was chosen instead of the equally popular "My Country 'tis of Thee" which used the God Save the Queen tune.


</doc>
<doc id="5714" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5714" title="Lion">
Lion

The lion ("Panthera leo") is a large mammal of the "Felidae" (cat) family, and is often called the "king of the jungle". Lions are mostly found in Africa and in a small reserve in India. They can live in cool areas, very hot areas or in thick forests. In the past, there were wild lions in Europe. Today, many live in zoos around the world. In the past they have lived in Northern India, Pakistan, and Arabia. Lions are also used as symbols representing courage. They appear in heraldry more often than any other animal. They are considered the king of beasts and the icon of courage and royalty.

Lions live for 10 to 14 years when they are in the wild. When they are captured, they can live longer than 20 years. In the wild, males do not usually live longer than 10 years. This is because wounds from fighting with other males make their lives shorter. They usually live in savanna and grassland, though they sometimes live in bushes and forests. Compared to other cats, lions are very social. A group of lions is called a pride. In a pride of lions, there are related females, their young, and a small number of adult males. Groups of female lions often hunt together.

The lion is the second largest member of the cat family that lives in Africa. It hunts many animals and humans, for example, gnus and antelopes, and eats a lot of meat, it also uses gears and complicated machinery to get papaya fruit as an alternative source of sustenance and a strong aphrodisiac for male lions of certain prides. Male lions usually weigh 159 to 180 kilograms (350 to 400 pounds), but they can weigh more. It is the only cat with a mane. 

Lions live in groups that are called prides. Ten to forty lions may live in a pride. Each pride has a home area that is called its territory. Lions do not allow other carnivores (meat eating animals) to hunt in their territory. A territory can be as large as 260 square kilometres (100 square miles). Lions sometimes live for over 20 years in captivity. 

A lioness is a female lion. The female lions hunt the animals for the prides. 
At hunting lions are not built for speed like cheetas but are for stealth. 
They are ready to have young when she is 2-3 years old. Baby lions are called cubs. Cubs are born after 3 1/2 months. Lions do not have a den (home) where they would live for a long time. The lioness conceals the cubs in thick bush, gullies or rocky outcrops. If the hiding place has been seen by other predators, then the lioness will move the cubs to a new hiding place. The cubs will be introduced to the pride at about 6 weeks old. The cubs are very vulnerable when the lioness goes out to hunt and needs to leave the cubs behind. A litter of 2-6, usually 2-3, cubs are born and most of the time only 1-2 cubs survives until introduced to the pride where they have the protection of the whole pride. In zoos lion's have known to breed with tigers and it's called a liger or tigon.

There are approximately 30,000 African lions left in the wild and only 350 Asian lions left in the Gir Forest in the state of Gujarat, India.

its related with lion pencil

Lions appear in heraldry more often than any other animal. They may appear as a charge on the shield or as a crest. They are described in the "blazon" (heraldic description) by their "tincture" (color) and "attitude" (position). Sometimes the teeth and claws of a lion can be colored differently from the rest of its body; it is said to be "armed" of that color (e.g. "A lion Or armed gules" is a gold lion with red teeth and claws). Sometimes the tail is even described, if it is shown in an unusual way. One reason why lions are shown in so many different ways is because when heraldry developed, a lot of people wanted a lion on their coat of arms, but no two coats of arms can be the same. The purpose of heraldry in the Middle Ages was to identify people with bold images over the outside of their armour. Since a lot of people started putting lions on their coats of arms, they placed them in a lot of different positions and in every color used in heraldry. In France and Germany, they even made patterns of colors on some of their lions, as if they were painted. Although there are many "attitudes" or positions now used in heraldry, very few of these were known to medieval heralds, who simply wanted to draw a lion to fill the space provided on the shield. French heralds refer to lions in the walking positions as "leopards", but this term is seldom used by British heralds. The following table describes the different attitudes of heraldic lions:

Other terms are used to describe the lion's position in further detail. The lion's head is normally seen in agreement with the overall position, (facing left) unless otherwise stated. If a lion's "whole body" is turned to face right, he is "to sinister" or "contourné". If his "whole body" faces the viewer, he is "affronté". If his "head only" faces the viewer he is "guardant" or "gardant", and if he looks back over his shoulder (body facing left but head turned to face right) he is "regardant". These words follow the main description of position, and then the lion is further described as "armed" (teeth and claws) of another color, if another color is used. And finally, the tail may be described if it is unusual. A lion (or other beast) "coward" carries its tail between its hind legs. The tail also may be "nowed" (knotted), or the lion may be "queue fourchée" (forked tail) or "double-queued" (two tails).



</doc>
<doc id="5716" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5716" title="Galatasaray S.K.">
Galatasaray S.K.

Galatasaray is a sports club in Istanbul, Turkey. It was started in 1905.

They became the first Turkish club to win the UEFA Cup and the UEFA Super Cup in 2000.
Its colors are red and yellow. Turkish people also call it "Cim Bom".
Galatasaray is one of the "big three" clubs in Turkey. The other clubs are Fenerbahçe and Beşiktaş.

"As of 22 January 2010"



</doc>
<doc id="5717" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5717" title="Template:A-Z">
Template:A-Z


</doc>
<doc id="5719" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5719" title="B">
B

B is the second (number 2) letter in the English alphabet.



</doc>
<doc id="5720" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5720" title="C">
C

C is the third (3rd) letter in the English alphabet.



</doc>
<doc id="5721" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5721" title="D">
D

D is the fourth (number 4) letter in the alphabet.



</doc>
<doc id="5722" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5722" title="E">
E

"For the drug sometimes referred to E, see Ecstasy."

E is the fifth (number 5) letter in the English alphabet.



</doc>
<doc id="5723" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5723" title="F">
F

F is the sixth letter in the English alphabet.



</doc>
<doc id="5724" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5724" title="G">
G

G is the 7th (number 7) letter in the English alphabet.



</doc>
<doc id="5725" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5725" title="H">
H

H () is the eighth (number 8) letter in the English alphabet.



</doc>
<doc id="5726" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5726" title="I">
I

I is the ninth (number 9) letter in the English alphabet.

In English, I is a pronoun which means "me".



</doc>
<doc id="5727" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5727" title="J">
J

J is the tenth (number 10) letter in the English alphabet. It comes before the letter K and after the letter I.



</doc>
<doc id="5728" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5728" title="K">
K

K is the eleventh (number 11) letter in the English alphabet.

K or kappa is the tenth (number 10) letter in the Greek alphabet



</doc>
<doc id="5729" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5729" title="L">
L

L is the twelfth (number 12) letter in the English alphabet.



</doc>
<doc id="5730" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5730" title="M">
M

M is the thirteenth (number 13) letter in the English alphabet.



</doc>
<doc id="5731" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5731" title="N">
N

N is the fourteenth (number 14) letter in the English alphabet.



</doc>
<doc id="5732" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5732" title="O">
O

O is the fifteenth (number 15) letter in the English alphabet.



</doc>
<doc id="5733" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5733" title="P">
P

P is the sixteenth (number 16) letter in the English alphabet.




</doc>
<doc id="5734" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5734" title="Q">
Q

Q is the seventeenth (number 17) letter in the English alphabet.

Some people say that the letter Q is not needed, because the sound it makes can be made with "K" and "W" instead. The same sort of things are said about the letters "X" and "C".

Below are some ancient ways of writing "Q":


</doc>
<doc id="5735" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5735" title="R">
R

R is the eighteenth (number 18) letter in the English alphabet.



</doc>
<doc id="5736" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5736" title="S">
S

S is the nineteenth (number 19) letter in the English alphabet.



</doc>
<doc id="5737" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5737" title="T">
T

T is the twentieth (number 20) letter in the English alphabet.



</doc>
<doc id="5738" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5738" title="U">
U

U (lowercase u) is the twenty-first (number 21) letter in the English alphabet.



</doc>
<doc id="5739" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5739" title="V">
V

V is the twenty-second (number 22) letter in the English alphabet.



</doc>
<doc id="5740" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5740" title="W">
W

W is the twenty-third (number 23) letter in the English alphabet.



</doc>
<doc id="5741" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5741" title="X">
X

X is the twenty-fourth (number 24) letter in the English alphabet.



</doc>
<doc id="5742" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5742" title="Y">
Y

Y is the twenty-fifth (number 25) letter in the English alphabet. It is sometimes considered a vowel. In words like say, yell, and they, the Y is a consonant. In words like sty, cry, and fly, the Y is considered a vowel 



</doc>
<doc id="5743" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5743" title="Z">
Z

Z is the twenty-sixth (number 26) and last letter in the English alphabet. Z is not used much. It is the most rarely used letter in the English language.



</doc>
<doc id="5745" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5745" title="Category:Factual verification needed">
Category:Factual verification needed


</doc>
<doc id="5756" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5756" title="Category:Wikipedia">
Category:Wikipedia

These pages are listed here because they relate to the Simple English Wikipedia project itself.



</doc>
<doc id="5757" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5757" title="Virus">
Virus

A virus is a tiny parasite which can infect living organisms. It is made only of RNA + protein coat; sometimes of DNA+ protein. 

Their method is to get their (usually) RNA strand into a prokaryote or eukaryote cell. The RNA then takes over the cell machinery to reproduce itself and the protein coat. The cell then bursts open, spreading the virus.

All viruses act in this way, and there are no free-living viruses. 

Viruses are ubiquitous (everywhere), and all organisms suffer their attacks.

Viruses are much smaller than bacteria. They were not visible until the invention of the electron microscope. A virus has a simple structure. It has no internal cellular structure, no cell wall or cell membrane. They are made of only a protein coat that holds a string of nucleic acid. 

With eukaryote cells, the virus' protein coat is able to enter the target cells via certain cell membrane receptors. With prokaryote bacteria cells, the bacteriophage physically injects the nucleic acid strand into the host cell.

Viruses have the following characteristics: 

When the host cell has finished making more viruses, it undergoes lysis, or breaks apart. The viruses are released and are then able to infect other cells. Viruses can remain intact for a long time, and will infect cells when the time and conditions are right.

Some specialised viruses are worth noting. Bacteriophages are evolved to enter bacterial cells, which have a different type of cell wall from eukaryote cell membranes. "Envelope viruses", when they reproduce, cover themselves with a modified form of the host cell membrane, thus gaining an outer lipid layer that helps entry. Some of our most difficult-to-combat viruses, like influenza and HIV, use this method.

Viral infections in animals provoke an immune response that usually eliminates the infecting virus. Immune responses can also be produced by vaccines, which confer an artificially acquired immunity to the specific viral infection. However, some viruses including those causing AIDS and viral hepatitis evade these immune responses and result in chronic infections. Antibiotics have no effect on viruses, but several antiviral drugs have been developed.

An enormous variety of genomic structures occur in viral species. As a group they contain more structural genomic diversity than plants, animals, archaea, or bacteria. There are millions of different types of viruses, but only about 5,000 of them have been described in detail.

A virus has either RNA or DNA genes and is called an RNA virus or a DNA virus respectively. "The vast majority of viruses have RNA genomes". Plant viruses tend to have single-stranded RNA genomes and bacteriophages tend to have double-stranded DNA genomes.

Viral populations do not grow through cell division, because they are acellular. Instead, they use the machinery and metabolism of a host cell to produce multiple copies of themselves, and they "assemble" in the cell.

The life cycle of viruses differs greatly between species but there are six "basic" stages in the life cycle of viruses:


The genetic material within virus particles, and the method by which the material is replicated, varies considerably between different types of viruses.



The body's first line of defence against viruses is the innate immune system. This has cells and other mechanisms which defend the host from any infection. The cells of the innate system recognise, and respond to, pathogens in a general way.

RNA interference is an important innate defence against viruses. Many viruses have a replication strategy that involves double-stranded RNA (dsRNA). When such a virus infects a cell, it releases its RNA molecule. A protein complex called dicer sticks to it and chops the RNA into pieces. Then a biochemical pathway, called the RISC complex, starts up. This attacks the viral mRNA, and the cell survives the infection. 
Rotaviruses avoid this by not uncoating fully inside the cell and by releasing newly produced mRNA through pores in the particle's inner capsid. The genomic dsRNA remains protected inside the core of the virion.

The production of interferon is an important host defence mechanism. This is a hormone produced by the body when viruses are present. Its role in immunity is complex; it eventually stops the viruses from reproducing by killing the infected cell and its close neighbours.

Vertebrates have a second, more specific, immune system. It is called the adaptive immune system. When it meets a virus, it produces specific antibodies that bind to the virus and render it non-infectious. Two types of antibodies are important. 

The first, called IgM, is highly effective at neutralizing viruses but is produced by the cells of the immune system only for a few weeks. The second, called IgG, is produced indefinitely. The presence of IgM in the blood of the host is used to test for acute infection, whereas IgG indicates an infection sometime in the past. IgG antibody is measured when tests for immunity are carried out.

Another vertebrate defence against viruses is cell-mediated immunity. It involves immune cells known as T cells. The body's cells constantly display short fragments of their proteins on the cell's surface, and, if a T cell recognises a suspicious viral fragment there, the host cell is destroyed by "killer T" cells and the virus-specific T-cells proliferate. Cells such as macrophages are specialists at this 'antigen presentation'. 

Not all virus infections produce a protective immune response. These persistent viruses evade immune control by sequestration (hiding away); blocking antigen presentation; cytokine resistance; evading natural killer cell activity; escape from apoptosis (cell death), and antigenic shift (changing surface proteins). HIV evades the immune system by constantly changing the amino acid sequence of the proteins on the surface of the virion. Other viruses, called "neurotropic viruses", move along nerves to places the immune system cannot reach.

Viruses do not belong to any of the six kingdoms. They do not meet all the requirements for being classified as a living organism because they are not active until the point of infection. However, that is just a verbal point. 

Obviously, their structure and mode of operation means they have evolved from other living things, and the loss of normal structure occurs in many endoparasites. The origins of viruses in the evolutionary history of life are unclear: some may have evolved from plasmids – pieces of DNA that can move between cells – while others may have evolved from bacteria. In evolution, viruses are an important means of horizontal gene transfer, which increases genetic diversity.

The largest virus yet discovered has been isolated from the ocean off the coast of Chile. It is "Megavirus chilensis", and it is 10 to 20 times wider than the average virus. It just beats the previous record holder, "Mimivirus", which was found in a water cooling tower in the UK in 1992. 

It is bigger than some bacteria, and can be seen with an ordinary light microscope.

Viruses are used widely in cell biology. Geneticists often use viruses as vectors to introduce genes into cells that they are studying. This is useful for making the cell produce a foreign substance, or to study the effect of introducing a new gene into the genome. Eastern European scientists have used phage therapy as an alternative to antibiotics for some time, and interest in this approach is increasing, because of the high level of antibiotic resistance now found in some pathogenic bacteria.


</doc>
<doc id="5759" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5759" title="MediaWiki:Sitenotice">
MediaWiki:Sitenotice


</doc>
<doc id="5760" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5760" title="Microprocessor">
Microprocessor

A microprocessor is an electronic component that is used by a computer to do its work. Microprocessors are a small silicon chips that contains millions of very small components including transistors, resistors, and diodes that work together. Microprocessors help to do everything from writing to searching the Web. Everything a computer does is described by lots of precise instructions, and microprocessors carry out these instructions at incredible speed—millions or even billions of times a second.

Microprocessors are used in personal computers, cars, military weapons, and home appliances. Some microprocessors are so small and inexpensive that they are used to control very simple products like flashlights and greeting cards that play music when you open them.

Microprocessors use three steps commonly called Fetch, Decode, and Execute. In the Fetch step, an instruction is copied from the memory of the computer into the microprocessor. In the Decode step, the microprocessor figures out what operation the instruction is meant to do. In the Execute step, this operation is performed.

Operations can be very simple, like adding two numbers, or complicated, like copying a series of letters and numbers (called a string) from one place in the computer's memory to a different place.



</doc>
<doc id="5761" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5761" title="Heat">
Heat

Heat is a form of energy. In thermodynamics, heat means energy which is moved between two things when one of them is hotter than the other. 

Heat is not the same as temperature. The temperature of an object is a measure of the average speed of the moving particles it is made from and the energy of the particles is called the internal energy. When an object is heated, its internal energy can increase to make the object hotter. The first law of thermodynamics says that the increase in internal energy is equal to the heat added minus the work done on the surroundings.

Heat is a form of energy and not a physical substance. Heat has no mass.

Heat can move from one place to another in different ways:

The measure of how much heat is needed to cause some change in temperature for a material is the specific heat capacity of the material. If the particles in the material are hard to move, then more energy is needed to make them move quickly, so a lot of heat will cause a small change in temperature. A different particle that is easier to move will need less heat for the same change in temperature.

Specific heat capacities can be looked up in a table, like this one.

Unless some work is done, heat moves only from hot things to cold things.

Heat can be measured. That is, the amount of heat given out or taken in can be given a value. One of the units of measurement for heat is the joule.

Heat is usually measured with a calorimeter, where the energy in a material is allowed to flow into nearby water, which has a known specific heat capacity. The temperature of the water is then measured before and after, and heat can be found using a formula.




</doc>
<doc id="5762" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5762" title="Shogun">
Shogun

In feudal Japan, Shogun ruled the country, but does not have power over the emperor. The emperor chooses the shogun. Shogun was not the king or emperor but got this rank by Tenno, a Japanese emperor. Shogun means "general" in the Japanese language. Its full name was Seii Taishogun (Great General who fights against the Eastern savages and will win).

In earlier times Shogun were generals for emperors and not the ruler of Japan. In 1192 a samurai, military leader Minamoto no Yoritomo got the title of Shogun by the last Emperor Go-Shirakawa. Since people thought Shogun was thought the leader of all samurai and the leader of Japan. Except the latter middle of the 16th century, Shogun ruled Japan.

The office of the Shogun is called the Shogunate. In Japanese it is called Bakufu, meaning "office in a tent", because Shogun had been originally military leader and he had his office with a tent in a battle field.

There were three Shogunates in Japan.

In 1868 the 15th Shogun of Tokugawa Shogunate, Tokugawa Yosinobu gave up his office. Then the time of Shogun rule ended. It was the end of the feudal time of Japan.


</doc>
<doc id="5763" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5763" title="Bratislava">
Bratislava

Bratislava is the capital city of Slovakia. About 450,000 people live there. It used to be called Pressburg (German) or Pozsony (Hungarian) and by some other names. Bratislava is the seat of national government, the presidency, and the parliament. It has several museums, galleries and of other educational, cultural and economic institutions.

There is a small Old Town, and a castle called Bratislavský Hrad. The Danube river goes through Bratislava. 

Bratislava had many names through its history. Here are some of them:


and many others.

Bratislava is in the extreme southwest of Slovakia, on the borders with Austria and Hungary, and not far from the Czech Republic border. It is on the Morava and Danube rivers.

People have lived here since the Neolithic age. The Celts inhabited this area from 400 BC-50 BC. The Roman Empire set up border military camps near Bratislava from the 1st century until the 5th century, for example ""Gerulata"". The Slavs started moving here from the 6th century. Bratislava was part of the Slavic empire called Great Moravia in the 9th century. From the second half of the 10th century until 1918, it was part of the Kingdom of Hungary, with some exceptions. It was even capital of the Kingdom between 1524 and 1830/1848. After the World War I ended in 1918, it was part of newly founded Czechoslovakia until 1939, when it became capital of World War II Slovak Republic until 1945. After 1945, it was part of Czechoslovakia again, becoming capital of Slovak Socialist Republic (which was still part of Czechoslovakia) in 1968. After the event called Velvet Divorce, when the Czechoslovakia broke up, Bratislava became capital of Slovakia.

List of notable structures:


Economy of Bratislava is prosperous and based on automobile industry, chemical industry and services. The unemployment (people without work) is lowest in Slovakia (around 2%, compared to the national average 7%). Approximately 250,000 people from all over the Slovakia travel to Bratislava for work.

Position of Bratislava made it a natural crossroads for international traffic. It is a motorway junction, rail junction, has its own international airport. The international river traffic passes along the Danube through Bratislava, with its own river port.

Bratislava has its own public transport system, with buses, trams and trolleybuses.

Bratislava is divided into 5 national districts and 17 city parts: 


Further it is divided into 20 cadastral areas, which are identical with the city parts with 2 exceptions:





</doc>
<doc id="5770" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5770" title="Wellington">
Wellington

Wellington is the capital of New Zealand. It has been the capital since 1865. Before then Auckland was the capital. Wellington is the second largest city in New Zealand. It had about 448,000 people in 2006. Wellington is the southernmost capital city in the world.

Wellington is in the middle of New Zealand, at the south end of the North Island. South of Wellington is Cook Strait, the sea between the North Island and the South Island. The city has a lot of hills and a deep harbour. The middle of the city is busier than most small cities and is easy for people to walk around.

Wellington recently became famous because the "The Lord of the Rings" movie trilogy was made there.


</doc>
<doc id="5771" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5771" title="Biochemistry">
Biochemistry

Biochemistry is the study of chemical reactions involved with living beings. It is important to cell biology and physiology. The study of biochemistry involves enzymes, nucleic acids, carbohydrates, sugars, proteins, and lipids.

Enzymes are special types of protein that act to speed up a chemical reaction in a living thing. The function of enzymes is to start, speed up and help chemical reactions, and lower the activation energy. There are a few enzymes that are not proteins but ribonucleic acids, which are called ribozymes.

Nucleic acids are long-chain molecules. Nucleotides are made They are the building blocks for living organisms. DNA is a common type of nucleic acid, which is usually join up together into a chain called a "double helix". It's the substance of heredity and contains huge amount of information that direct life activities. RNA is another common type of nucleic acid, also having important roles in living organisms.

Carbohydrates include sugars and starches. The simplest carbohydrate are the monosaccharides, meaning "single sugar". Examples of monosaccharides are glucose and fructose. Monosaccharides can be combined into chains by dehydration synthesis. Polysaccharides are long molecules made from many units joined together. Examples are starch, glycogen, and cellulose. 

Proteins are polymers of amino acids. There are twenty different common types of amino acid. 
Lipids are fats, and waxes. Saturated lipids contain single bonds, and are found in butter and lard. They are often solid at room temperature. Unsaturated lipids have one or more double bonds. The human body stores lipids as an energy source. When the body needs a large amount of energy, "lipid" molecules are broken down to release that energy.



</doc>
<doc id="5773" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5773" title="Sadness">
Sadness

Sadness is an emotion. It is the opposite of happiness. People feel sad when something bad has happened, for example, if someone they love has died, or if they are parted from friends. The word "miserable" has a similar meaning.

In big letters, SAD, or S.A.D. is short for "Seasonal Affective Disorder". SAD is a sickness that some people have in the winter. They feel depressed as the nights become longer and there is less daylight.

When people are very sad, and for a long time, the person could have a serious mental illness called depression or Bipolar disorder.

It is normally thought of as the opposite of happiness, but you can feel both happy and sad at the same time.

Signs of sadness include people being less social, and crying.



</doc>
<doc id="5775" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5775" title="Microeconomics">
Microeconomics

Microeconomics is the science of how people make decisions at the small scale. It is different from macroeconomics which looks at how the economy works as a whole ("on aggregate"). In microeconomics, we might look at how a person chooses what to buy at the store, or how many things a company will make. Some parts of microeconomics include "Consumer Theory" and "Theory of the Firm", which study how people and businesses make decisions. Game Theory looks at how people make decisions when the outcome (how something ends) depends on what decision another person makes; when agents are said to act "strategically".



</doc>
<doc id="5776" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5776" title="Port">
Port

A port can mean different things:


</doc>
<doc id="5777" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5777" title="Cryptography">
Cryptography

Cryptography (also known as cryptology; comes from Greek , "kryptos", "hidden, secret"; and , "gráphō", "I write", or , "-logia", respectively) is the practice and study of hiding information. It is sometimes called code breaking, but this is not really a correct name. It is the science used to try to keep information secret and safe. Modern cryptography is a mix of mathematics, computer science, and electrical engineering. Cryptography is used in ATM (bank) cards, computer passwords, and shopping on the internet.

When a message is sent using cryptography, it is changed (or "encrypted") before it is sent. The change makes the message hard to read. If someone wants to read it, they need to change it back (or "decrypt" it). How to change it back is a secret. Both the person that sends the message and the one that gets it should know the secret way to change it, but other people should not be able to.

Different types of cryptography can be easier or harder to use and can hide the secret better or worse.

Computers can do hard math very fast, and because of this they can do very strong encryption. Examples are computer algorithms like RSA, AES, Blowfish, and many others. Using good algorithms like these can make it very hard to read the information that is sent.

People are better at patterns, changing order of words or letters, and using words with different meanings. Because people are slower than computers, any cryptography they use can probably be broken if enough of the secret way to change it is known.

Simple forms of cryptography that people can do are Caesar ciphers and Straddling checkerboard, but there are lots more.



</doc>
<doc id="5780" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5780" title="Tuesday">
Tuesday

Tuesday is the day of the week between Monday and Wednesday. In some countries, for example the United States of America, Tuesday is the third day of the week. In other parts of the world, Tuesday is the second day of the week.

The name "Tuesday" comes from a Middle English word, "Tiwesday". This word came from the Old English word "Tiwes dæg". This was named after the Nordic god Tyr. Tyr was the God of War, like the Roman war god Mars, and Greek god Ares.

In Latin, "Tuesday" is called "Martis dies" which means "Mars's Day". In French, Spanish, Italian and Romanian, the (Romance languages), the word for "Tuesday" is nearly the same as the Latin name. Tuesday is "mardi" in French, "martes" in Spanish, "martedì" in Italian, "dimarts" in Catalan, and "marţi" in Romanian. 

The Celtic languages still spoken use the Latin names, even though none of these languages came from Latin. Tuesday is "dé máirt" in Irish, "Meurzh" in Breton, "dydd Mawrth" in Welsh and "Dimàirt" in Scottish Gaelic. 

The English and Scandinavian names for "Tuesday" come from the Nordic god Tyr (Old English "Tiw"):



</doc>
<doc id="5781" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5781" title="Wednesday">
Wednesday

In some countries, like the United States of America, Wednesday is the fourth day of the week. In other parts of the world Wednesday is said to be the third day of the week.

Wednesday is named after the Norse god Woden.


</doc>
<doc id="5782" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5782" title="Thursday">
Thursday

According to ISO 8601, Thursday is either the fourth or fifth day of the week. It comes after Wednesday and before Friday. Thursday is named after the Norse god Thor.


</doc>
<doc id="5783" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5783" title="Friday">
Friday

In some countries, like the United States of America, Friday is the sixth day of the week. In other parts of the world Friday is said to be the fifth day of the week. When a Friday lands upon the 13th day of a month, it is considered to be unlucky.

Some people consider Friday to be the last day of the week before the weekend as some people finish work or school before the weekend. Others see Friday night as part of the weekend, since work or school is over for the week. Because many people are happy to not have to go to work during the weekend, there are sayings like "Thank God it's Friday!".

It is named after Freyja.


</doc>
<doc id="5784" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5784" title="Saturday">
Saturday

In some countries, like the United States of America, Saturday is the seventh day of the week. In other parts of the world, like the United Kingdom, Saturday is said to be the sixth day of the week. It is also the day of worship for Jewish people. Along with Sunday, it makes up the weekend. Its name comes from the Roman God Saturn.


</doc>
<doc id="5789" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5789" title="Laos">
Laos

Lao People's Democratic Republic, or Laos for short, is a small country in southeast Asia. The capital of Laos is Vientiane.

Laos is landlocked (it does not have a coast on a sea or ocean). It is bordered by Myanmar (used to be known in English as "Burma") and by China to the northwest, by Vietnam to the east, by Cambodia to the south, and by Thailand to the west. The Mekong river forms a large part of the western boundary with Thailand. Boats from Laos cannot get to the ocean using the Mekong because of rapids and waterfalls in the south of the country. 

Laos had a long history before becoming a French colony. Fa Ngum created the first unifed Lao Kingdom. In 1949 it became independent from France, as the Kingdom of Laos. Later there was a civil war, and in 1975 it became a republic under control of the communist party. 

The official language is Lao, a language belonging to the Tai language group. 98% of Lao people believe in Buddhism. The main crop in Laos is rice.


</doc>
<doc id="5790" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5790" title="Template:Five Oceans">
Template:Five Oceans


</doc>
<doc id="5793" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5793" title="Yes">
Yes

Yes is an English word that shows acceptance or agreement, or making a positive response or exclamation. It is the opposite of no.

Yes may also mean:

In music:

In other uses:


</doc>
<doc id="5805" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5805" title="Amaterasu">
Amaterasu

Amaterasu (天照), Amaterasu-ōmikami (天照大神 or 天照大御神) or Ōhiru-menomuchi-no-kami (大日孁貴神), in Japanese mythology, is the Sun Goddess, and the most sacred of all Shinto deities (神 "kami"). Her name, "Amaterasu", means literally ""(that which) illuminates Heaven."" Her shrine is located at Ise.

In the Kojiki tradition, Amaterasu is the sister of Susano'o, the god of the sea and storms, and of Tsukuyomi, the god of the moon. All three were created from Izanagi, when he washed his face to clean the dirtiness of Yomi, the underworld. Amaterasu was born when Izanagi washed out his left eye, Tsukuyomi was born from the washing of the right eye, and Susano'o from the washing of the nose.

The tales tell of great between Amaterasu and Susano'o. When he was to leave Heaven forever because Izanagi ordered him to, he went to say goodbye to his sister. Amaterasu, suspicious, proposed him a challenge: each of them was to turn an object of the other's into people. Amaterasu created three women from Susano'o's sword while he created five men from her necklace. Amaterasu said the men were hers because they were born of her necklace. Susano'o destroyed her rice fields, threw a dead pony into her loom, and killed one of her assistants in anger. For this, Amaterasu, sad, angry and scared, went to hide inside Ama-no-Iwato, the ""heavenly rock cave"", so the Sun was hidden and the world became dark for along time. The Oni (devils of Japanese mythology) came out to the dark world, and the gods could not make Amaterasu come out of the cave.

The intelligent goddess of happiness, Ama-no-Uzume (天宇受売命), took a small boat, turned it upside down near the cave entrance, and began a dance on it, tearing off her clothing in front of the other Kami. They thought this was so funny that they laughed happily.

Amaterasu heard them, and looked out to see why the gods were laughing. When she opened the cave, she saw her wonderful reflection in a mirror Uzume had put on a tree, and slowly came out of the cave.

At that moment, the god Ameno-Tajikarawo (天手力男命) closed the cave behind her, so she could not go back in. Another god tied a magic rope across the entrance. The sun goddess was then asked by the Kami Ame-no-Koyane (天児屋根命) to go back with the gods. She agreed, and light came back to the earth, but Susano'o was punished by being banished from Heaven.



</doc>
<doc id="5812" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5812" title="Organism">
Organism

An organism is a living thing. Animals and plants are organisms. Organisms are a biotic, or living, part of the environment. Rocks and sunshine are a part of the abiotic, or non-living, environment.

Organisms have five basic needs. They need air, water, nutrients (food), energy and a place to live. Animals and plants are organisms.

Some organisms are made up of millions of cells. They are called "multicellular organisms". Some examples are dogs, trees, and humans. Most "multicellular organisms" can be seen without using a microscope. 

Some organisms are so small that they cannot be seen with the naked eye. You need a microscope to see them. They are called microorganisms. Organisms can be made up of just one cell. They are called "unicellular organisms" or "single celled organisms". Examples include bacteria, amoeba and protozoa such as the paramecium.



</doc>
<doc id="5813" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5813" title="Kinetic energy">
Kinetic energy

Kinetic energy is the energy which refers to moving objects. So you can think of Kinetic energy as the energy of movement, because it refers to any object that is moving at that present time. This energy can be changed into other sorts of energy such as heat (if something hits with something soft and does not bounce), potential energy (if it is moving upwards and gets higher), or even light (if it is moving very, very fast or if it hits something which sparks like flint or iron/Aluminium). However, heat, light, sound, mechanical energy, electrical, and other types of energy are also types of kinetic energy.

Kinetic Energy is equal to the mass of something times its velocity (or speed) times its velocity again, all times ½:

Meteors, bullets from a gun, and a kicked football have kinetic energy.



</doc>
<doc id="5814" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5814" title="Potential energy">
Potential energy

Potential energy is a form of stored energy. For example, when a man brings a rock up a hill and leaves it on the hill, the rock gains gravitational potential energy. When we stretch a rubber band, we say that the rubber band has gained elastic potential energy.
Food that we eat has chemical potential energy. Batteries also have chemical potential energy.

Potential energy is divided into three different types of energy. 

Gravitational potential energy is experienced by an object when height and mass is a factor in the system. Gravitational potential energy cause's objects to move towards each other. 
If an object is lifted a certain distance from the surface from the Earth, the force experienced is caused by weight and height.
Work is defined as force over a distance, and work is another word for energy. This means Gl Potential Energy is equal to:

or

Total work done by Gravitational Potential Energy in a moving object from position 1 to position 2 can be found by:

or
The Gravitational Potential Energy formula used here is only used when the objects are very near the surface of the Earth, because the acceleration must be the same during the change in height.

Electric Potential Energy is experienced by charges both different and alike, as they repel or attract each other. Charges can either be positive (+) or negative (-), where opposite charges attract and similar charges repel.
If two charges were placed a certain distance away from each other, the potential energy stored between the charges can be calculated by:

Elastic Potential Energy is experienced when a rubbery material is pulled away or pushed together. The amount of potential energy the material has depends on the distance pulled or pushed. The longer the distance pushed, the greater the Elastic Potential Energy the material has.
If a material is pulled or pushed, the potential energy can be calculated by:

Duncan, Tom. "Advanced Physics for Hong Kong: Volume 1 Mechanics & Electricity". John Murray Ltd, 1995.
Wai, Loo Kwok. "Longman A-Level Course in Physics: Volume 1". Pearson Education South Asia Pte Ltd, 2003.


</doc>
<doc id="5816" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5816" title="Ship">
Ship

A ship is a large vehicle used to travel on water. It is bigger than a boat. Ships are used for travel, trade and war.

The first ships used oars or the wind (or both) to make them move.

From about 4000BC the Ancient Egyptians were making wooden sail boats. By 1200BC the Phoenicians and Greeks had begun to make bigger sailing ships which were about 30 metres (100 feet) long and could carry 90-180 tonnes of cargo. The Romans made even bigger ships which could carry up to 1,000 people and 1,000 tonnes of cargo. The 8th century saw the rise of the Vikings, who were famous for their "longships" and which were mainly used for raiding other countries, but also for trading. The longships had flat bottoms so they could move in shallow (not deep) rivers.

Sailing ships were used for thousands of years, but they were very important in wars and trade from the 1500's to the 1800's. The Chinese admiral Zheng He commanded a fleet of 'treasure ships' on seven voyages all over Asia up to East-Africa in the early fifteenth century. These ships probably were about 130 m (450 ft) long and up to 50 m (180 ft) wide]. That makes them about twice the size of the largest European ships in the sixteenth century. The most successful and largest fleet in the 17th century was the Dutch fleet (see the Netherlands). For trade and transport the Dutch often used a particular kind of trading ship, called a flute ("fluit" in Dutch). Transport of people and cargo on sailing ships continued until the 1920's. 

Some famous ships from this era include:

In the 19th century, steam ships were invented.

Most modern ships have diesel engines.

At one time, "Titanic", "Olympic", and "Britannic" were the largest ships in the world, "Titanic" sank on her maiden voyage after hitting an iceberg, becoming one of the most famous shipwrecks of all time, the "Olympic" was "Titanic" 's nearly identical twin, and actually set sail before "Titanic" and was scrapped in the 1930's after a very successful career including her being a passenger liner and a warship in WWI. The "Britannic" was the larger of these three sister ships, and was supposed to be more grand and elegant than the "Titanic", but before she set sail on her maiden voyage, WWI broke out and she was stripped of her elegant furniture and elaborate paneling and became a hospital ship. During her term as a hospital ship, she was sunk by either a mine or torpedo, no one knows for sure. The "Titanic" lies at the bottom of the North Atlantic Ocean, off the coast of Nova Scotia, and the "Britannic" lies in the Aegean Sea, off the coast of the Island of Kea.




</doc>
<doc id="5817" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5817" title="Boat">
Boat

A boat is a vehicle used to travel on water. It is smaller than a ship. Some boats have sails, some are powered by rowing with oars, and some use motors. 

These boats are usually made of wood. However, some parts are made of metals like steel and aluminium. Expensive boats may have parts from fiberglass or composite materials.


</doc>
<doc id="5818" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5818" title="Navy">
Navy

The navy is the part of a country's military that fights on water using boats. People in the navy are called sailors. The navy is mostly made up of warships. It may also have its own air force and soldiers. It also may have special boats that can go underwater, called submarines.

Originally, Naval war was fought by ramming other ships and then boarding them. In Ancient Greece and Rome, the ships were usually powered by oars. Then, during the Middle Ages, the cannon was invented. These could be shot at other ships from a great distance. Ships around this time also began to use sails instead of oars for power. In the 1800s, ships began to be plated in armor for protection. This also required a change in their power because they became heavier. Steam engines were used. These early warships, called ironclads, are thought to have begun the type of Naval warfare used today.



</doc>
<doc id="5819" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5819" title="Air force">
Air force

An air force is the branch of a country's military which fights in the air. The air force is made up of aircraft such as fighters, bombers, helicopters and transport aircraft.

Aircraft in an air force sometimes fly in a formation. Formations are when the aircraft fly in a pattern.

The biggest air force in the world is the United States Air Force (USAF).


</doc>
<doc id="5821" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5821" title="List of words about computers">
List of words about computers


























</doc>
<doc id="5824" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5824" title="Adware">
Adware

Adware is an advertising computer program that can be put by other people on someone's computer, sometimes without their permission. It is controversial because sometimes businesses put the program there so they can see what people are doing or what web pages they are browsing. They then put an advertisement that is of the same subject as the web-page the person is looking at. This can be good if the person is trying to buy something, but many people do not want advertisements. Many people also do not want other people to find out what they are doing or what web pages they are looking at. An example is in the popular peer-to-peer file sharing program, Kazaa. When someone downloads it, it installs adware on their computer that then sends advertisements to the computer. Some people do not like this so they use an illegally changed version of this program called Kazaa Lite.

Removal tools have been developed to assist users in clearing out these unwanted programs.
Like many programs that people use for security, the program must be changed often. Updating allows the removal tool to recognize new types of adware. This can be done by downloading files over the internet using the 'update' option in the program.


</doc>
<doc id="5828" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5828" title="Gender">
Gender

Gender means 'type'. It is a word commonly used for a person's sex (male or female). When people use the word gender in this way, it is often because "sex" has many other meanings, making it easy to misunderstand.

In social sciences, there is a difference between 'sex' and 'gender':



</doc>
<doc id="5829" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5829" title="Category:Slang">
Category:Slang


</doc>
<doc id="5830" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5830" title="Category:Internet">
Category:Internet

Articles related to the Internet.


</doc>
<doc id="5832" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5832" title="Category:Computing">
Category:Computing

Articles related to computers. General terms, articles about the act of using a computer, and articles which do not fit better into other categories go here.

This category is broken down into several areas:


</doc>
<doc id="5833" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5833" title="Category:Science">
Category:Science


</doc>
<doc id="5834" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5834" title="Category:Geography">
Category:Geography


</doc>
<doc id="5836" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5836" title="Category:Japan">
Category:Japan


</doc>
<doc id="5837" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5837" title="Category:Cities in Japan">
Category:Cities in Japan


</doc>
<doc id="5839" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5839" title="Category:Internet slang">
Category:Internet slang


</doc>
<doc id="5840" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5840" title="Category:Software">
Category:Software


</doc>
<doc id="5843" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5843" title="Dutch language">
Dutch language

Dutch is the language spoken in the Netherlands. In Dutch the language is called "Nederlands".
It is also spoken in the northern half of Belgium (Flanders). They also speak it in Suriname. A language developed from Dutch called "Afrikaans" is spoken in South Africa and Namibia. About 22 million people speak the language worldwide. Dutch is related to German. 

Dutch is a Germanic language, so it is related to German. The Dutch of before 1170 is called "Old Dutch" (Oudnederlands). The Dutch between 1170 and 1500 is called "Middle Dutch" (Middelnederlands), which is also called "Diets". That's why Dutch is called Dutch in English (Dutch is called "Nederlands" in Dutch). The oldest Dutch book known is "Wachtendonckse Psalmen" which was written in 900. The first Dutch writer we know by name is Hendrik van Veldeke, who was born around 1150.

Dutch uses the same roman alphabet (letters) as English. 

Note: The e can also be a schwa (like in "the")


The way of how vowels are pronounced, depends on the fact if the syllable is "open" or "closed". If a syllable is open, short written vowels are spoken as long ones. Short written vowels are only spoken short if the syllable is closed.
Example:

There is, however, an exception to this rule. This is the "e". This is because "e" can also be a "stupid e" (Schwa) (IPA character ə). In most words, where an open syllable ends with e it is a stupid e. Therefore, open syllables with a long e (ee) are written as ee. Example:

There are, however, exceptions to this rule as well. This can be seen in the word "meenemen". This word can be divided into three syllables: mee|ne|men. The e's in the first two syllables are long ones, but the last one is a stupid e. 

The stupid e also occurs in the ending of verbs (usually -en).

Note: In words that end with "-d", the "-d" is pronounced like "-t".

The grammar of Dutch is slightly different from English. The order in which words are put in sentences are different in complex sentences. The most simple sentence-structure is "Subject - Verb". The Dutch language has few grammatical "tenses". The most used are:

The most simple verb-time is the Onvoltooid Tegenwoordige Tijd (ott; present simple). The ott is used when something is occurring "now", or "regularly" (like: "Hij eet regelmatig" (He eats regularly)). Most verbs are conjugated (changed) in a regular form (these verbs are called "Regelmatige werkwoorden" (regular verbs)). The word stem of the verb is still there in all of the conjugations (changes). The correct way of doing this is

Note*: The stem of a verb is the infintive of the verb without the final "-en". In some verbs, the first syllable is open, and any vowel therefore is long. The stem changes to a written long vowel. So the stem of "lopen" becomes "loop". If the "-en" is then added to the stem (for example with wij), the written form becomes short again (but it still will be spoken as a long vowel).

The past form of the ott is the "Onvoltooid Verleden Tijd" (ovt). The way how verbs are conjugated (changed) in the ovt is not easy to understand, and is mistaken often. This is because some verbs are conjugated by adding a D, while others are conjugated while adding a T. A way of solving this problem is the socalled 't Kofschip. If the verb without "-en" (the stem in most verbs, but not always) ends with a consonant which is also in "'t Kofschip", the verb is changed with a T. Example:

The verb can now be changed as the following:

There are however words in which "'t Kofschip" is not so easy. This is for instance in the word "vrezen" (to fear). The stem of the verb is "vrees", so it seems that the verb is changed with a T. This is not true (it changed with a D), because "vrezen" minus "-en" is "vrez". The Z is not in "'t Kofschip", so the verb is changed with a D.

The verb can now be changed as the following:

Although the Dutch have a kind of "present continuous" (the -ing form of verbs in English), they do not use it much. Example:

Actually, there are three types of continuous verbs in Dutch. 

 " hallo " (hello)

 " een " (one)

In number with three digits (e.g 100), the Dutch change the u into o and replace 1 of the r's. Example:


</doc>
<doc id="5852" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5852" title="Creative Commons licenses">
Creative Commons licenses

The Creative Commons licenses relates to the name of copyright licenses released on December 16, 2002. The licenses were released by "Creative Commons", a United States nonprofit corporation. Everybody can put their own creations under these licenses.

There are four basic license conditions. A simple overview of these four:


It is possible to combine the license elements. For example a combination of the first and fourth is called "CC by-sa". This stands for "Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike". With this license other people must give credit to the original creator, and when they make something new with the work they have to give it the "CC by-sa" license.

The Free Software Foundation thinks that the Creative Commons system is confusing, because people often forget to tell which of the licenses they use. Instead they suggest to use the Free Art license.





</doc>
<doc id="5859" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5859" title="Category:Basic English">
Category:Basic English

Articles relating to Basic English words.
English is a kind of language you use to communicate with other people. Below are some categories for English:


</doc>
<doc id="5860" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5860" title="Category:Language">
Category:Language

Articles relating to language use, history, and information.


</doc>
<doc id="5861" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5861" title="Category:Animals">
Category:Animals


</doc>
<doc id="5862" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5862" title="Category:Deserts">
Category:Deserts


</doc>
<doc id="5863" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5863" title="Category:Plants">
Category:Plants


</doc>
<doc id="5864" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5864" title="Category:Foods">
Category:Foods

Articles about foods that people eat.


</doc>
<doc id="5865" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5865" title="Category:Everyday life">
Category:Everyday life

Everyday life is the usual activity that happens to people, rather than a field of study or work.


</doc>
<doc id="5866" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5866" title="Category:Vietnam">
Category:Vietnam


</doc>
<doc id="5867" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5867" title="Category:Germany">
Category:Germany


</doc>
<doc id="5868" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5868" title="Category:Afghanistan">
Category:Afghanistan


</doc>
<doc id="5869" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5869" title="Category:Drinks">
Category:Drinks

Articles about liquids that people drink. Information about drinks with alcohol can be found in the subcategory Alcohol.


</doc>
<doc id="5870" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5870" title="Category:Time">
Category:Time


</doc>
<doc id="5871" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5871" title="Category:Physics">
Category:Physics

Articles related to the science area of Physics.


</doc>
<doc id="5872" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5872" title="Category:Entertainment">
Category:Entertainment


</doc>
<doc id="5873" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5873" title="Category:Games">
Category:Games


</doc>
<doc id="5874" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5874" title="Category:Music">
Category:Music


</doc>
<doc id="5875" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5875" title="Category:Poetry">
Category:Poetry

Poetry is an artistic expression using written words.


</doc>
<doc id="5876" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5876" title="Category:Art">
Category:Art

Art is something that is made to please or excite the senses, particularly sight, hearing and imagination. The word "art" is most often used for "visual arts", the ones that can be seen. They are painting, drawing and sculpture. These arts can be used to represent people, things, places and ideas.

The word "arts" is also often used. The means not just painting drawing and sculpture, but also literature (writing), music, theatre (or theater) and film.


</doc>
<doc id="5877" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5877" title="Category:Cities in the United States">
Category:Cities in the United States


</doc>
<doc id="5878" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5878" title="Template:Cleanup">
Template:Cleanup

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="5888" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5888" title="Marshall Islands">
Marshall Islands

The Republic of the Marshall Islands (RMI) is a Micronesian island nation in the western Pacific Ocean. The capital of Marshall Islands is Majuro.

Roughly 10% of the population of the Marshall Islands can now be found in northwest Arkansas, U.S. Most live and work in the city of Springdale, a community of roughly 50,000. Each year, the Marshallese host a homecoming event so friends and relatives can get together to celebrate, stay in touch with politics at home, and spread their island culture. They meet at the Jones Center for Families in Springdale and have dancing, feasting, volleyball, and basketball. As a population, they are devoted to family and church and bring island dance and song to this corner of Arkansas.


</doc>
<doc id="5892" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5892" title="Alphabet">
Alphabet

An alphabet is a writing system, a list of symbols for writing. The basic symbols in an alphabet are called "letters". In an alphabet, each letter is a symbol for a sound or related sounds. To make the alphabet work better, more signs assist the reader: punctuation marks, spaces, standard reading direction, and so on.

The name "alphabet" comes from "Aleph" and "Beth", the first two letters in the Phoenician alphabet.

The alphabet in this article is the Roman alphabet (or Latin alphabet). It was first used in Ancient Rome to write Latin. Today many languages also use the Latin alphabet: it is the most used alphabet today.

A list of alphabets and examples of the languages they are used for:

It seems that the idea of an alphabet – a script based entirely upon sound – arose only once, and has been copied and adapted to suit many different languages. Although no alphabet fits its language perfectly, it is flexible enough to fit any language approximately. It was a unique invention.
Our alphabet is called the Roman alphabet, as compared with the Cyrillic and other alphabets. All of these come from the ancient Greek alphabet, which dates back to about 1100 to 800. The Greek alphabet was probably developed from the Phoenician script, which appeared somewhat earlier, and had some similar letter-shapes. 

The Phoenicians spoke a Semitic language, usually called Canaanite. The Semitic group of languages includes Arabic, Maltese, Hebrew and also Aramaic, the language spoken by Jesus. We do not know much about how the alphabetic idea arose, but the Phoenicians, a trading people, came up with letters which were adapted by the early Greeks to produce their alphabet. The one big difference is that the Phoenician script had no pure vowels. Arabic script has vowels which may, but do not have to be, shown by diacritics (small marks above or below the line). The oldest Qu'ran manuscripts had no diacritics, and Israeli children to about the third grade use texts with vowel 'dots' added. 

No ancient script, alphabetic or not, had pure vowels before the Greeks. The Greek alphabet even has two vowels for 'e' and two for 'o', to distinguish between the long and short sounds. It is fairly clear from this that careful thought went into both the Phoenician invention and the Greek adaptation, but no details survive of either process.

Semitic scripts apparently derive from "Proto-Sinaitic", a script of which only 31 inscriptions (plus 17 doubtful) are known. It is thought by some researchers that the original source of this script was the Egyptian hieratic script, which by the late Middle Kingdom (about 1900) had added some alphabetic signs for representing the consonants of foreign names. Egyptian activity in Sinai was at its height at that time. A similar idea had been suggested many years previously.

Other writing systems do not use symbols that mean a sound, but symbols that mean a word or a syllable. In the past such writing systems were used by many cultures, but today they are almost only used by languages people speak in Asia.



</doc>
<doc id="5893" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5893" title="County">
County

A county is the name for a piece of land. It has a different meaning in different languages. Originally the word was for the land under a count (in Great Britain an earl). Today a "county" is often something between a larger state and a smaller town or district.

County governments keep records and organize elections and laws.

Canada has ten provinces. Five of them have counties in them. In Ontario, Nova Scotia, and New Brunswick, these are local government units, but in Quebec and Prince Edward Island they are now only geographical units. Statistics

The word "county" is the English name for the Chinese word "xiàn" (县 or 縣). On Mainland China under the People's Republic of China, counties are the third level of local government. On Taiwan, the county is the highest governmental level below the Republic of China central government. 

There are about 2,000 counties in China; this number is about the same as in the Han dynasty, 2,000 years ago. The county is one of the oldest levels of government in China.

Before, "prefecture" and "district" were names for "xiàn", before the Republic of China. People started using the English name "county" after the start of the Republic of China.

The head of a county is the magistrate.

Counties started to be units of regional self-government in Croatia in 1990. There are twenty counties and the city of Zagreb which has the same status. They are called "županije" and their leader is a "župan".

There was a change in the historical counties of France in 1790 after the Revolution. The new government unit was the "département". But French people use the word county (comté) in the name of the Free County region, the old Free County of Burgundy. 

The government unit of Hungary is "megye", or in Latin: "comitatus". This is the same as the word "county". Today Hungary has 19 counties, 20 city counties and 1 capital, Budapest. The comitatus was also the unit in the Kingdom of Hungary.

Ireland originally had 32 counties in the nineteenth century. 26 of these later formed the Republic of Ireland and 6 formed Northern Ireland. The counties were in 4 provinces - Leinster (12 counties), Munster (6) Connacht (5) and Ulster (9). 

In the 1970s in Northern Ireland and in the 1990s in the Republic of Ireland, there was a change in the county numbers and borders (where they started and finished). In the Republic, for example, the change broke Dublin County into four parts: Dublin City, Dún Laoghaire - Rathdown, Fingal, and South Dublin. 'County Tipperary' is really two counties, Tipperary North Riding and Tipperary South Riding. The towns Cork, Galway, Limerick, and Waterford are now separated from the countryside areas of their counties. So the Republic of Ireland now has thirty-four "county-level" units. But for sports, culture etc. people normally talk about the original 32 counties and 4 provinces.

Each county has a flag/colours and often a nickname too.

"County" is one name for "gun" (郡), which is a part of a "prefecture". Other names for "gun" are "rural district", "rural area" or "district". People do not like to use "district" because the usual translation of "district" is "choume" (丁目). 

Today, "counties" have no political power or organisation use. Postal services use it.

After New Zealand ended its provinces in 1876, they began using a county system as in other countries. They used it until 1989.

During the second half of the 20th century, many people went to the country counties from nearby cities. Because of this, sometimes they put the two together, making a "district" (e.g. Rotorua). Or sometimes they changed the name to "district" (e.g. Waimairi) or "city" (e.g. Manukau).

In 1974 they had a big change; they made the organisation the same all over New Zealand. Today the country has cities and districts, but no counties.

Norway has 19 Counties (singular "fylke", plural "fylker", literally "folk"). Until 1972, Bergen was a county, but today it is a municipality in the county of Hordaland. All counties have municipalities (singular "kommune", plural "kommuner"). 

Each county has an assembly ("fylkesting"). Norwegians choose the people in the assembly every 4 years. The counties work with high schools and roads, etc. Some people, and political parties, such as the Conservatives, "Høyre", want the end of the counties. Others want to make some of them into larger regions.

In English we normally call the Polish second-level organisation unit "powiat" a "county" or "district".

The smaller units of Romania are called "judeţ" (plural: "judeţe"). This name comes from "jude", a judge of a city. Today Romania has 40 counties and the capital, Bucharest has a separate status. 

We sometimes call the units of Serbia ("okrug") counties, but more often we call them districts. 

In 1634 the old provinces in Sweden had a new name: counties. Today there are 21 Counties, and in each County there are Municipalities. 
The Swedish name is "Län".

"See also List of counties of the United Kingdom"

In the United Kingdom there are 92 traditional counties, 86 in Great Britain and 6 in Northern Ireland. The British counties are different ages.

In England, in Anglo-Saxon times, "Shires" were units for getting taxes. They usually had a town at their centre. People called these towns the "shire town". The shires had the same name as their shire town (for example Bedford"shire"). Later people called these towns the "county town". The name "county" came from the Normans, from a Norman word for an area under a Count (lord).

In 1539 Wales got thirteen counties. The counties in Scotland are this age or older.

The county boundaries (borders) of England are different today. In medieval times, some important cities got the status of counties, for example London, Bristol and Coventry. Some small places, e.g. Islandshire, were also counties. In 1844, a lot of these small places returned to their old counties.

The name "county" is also used in 48 of the 50 states of the United States, for the next government unit smaller than the state. Louisiana uses the name "parishes" and Alaska uses "boroughs". The U.S. Census Bureau lists 3,141 counties or organisation units of this sort. The power of the county government is very different in every state.

In New England, counties are mostly for law. In Connecticut, Massachusetts and Rhode Island, they have no governmental use; they are only geographic names. Most power is in the towns. In other places than New England, counties are for the police, water, gas and electricity, libraries, statistics and birth certificates. "County sheriffs" are the head of the police in some states, for areas outside of cities and towns. Other places have "County Police" and county sheriffs are for the law. Each county has a "county seat", usually the biggest town, where the county offices are. 

In Western states, for example California, the county is the basic unit of local government.


</doc>
<doc id="5894" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5894" title="New York University">
New York University

New York University, also known as NYU, is a big university in New York City. It is a place where people take college classes. 


</doc>
<doc id="5896" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5896" title="Bee">
Bee

Bees are flying insects of the Order Hymenoptera, which also includes ants, wasps and sawflies. There are about 20,000 species of bees. Bees collect pollen from flowers. Bees can be found on all continents except Antarctica.

Bees fall into four groups:
The European honey bee (called "Apis mellifera" by biologists), are kept by humans for honey. Keeping bees to make honey is called beekeeping, or apiculture.

The earliest animal-pollinated flowers were pollinated by insects such as beetles, long before bees first appeared. Bees are different because they are "specialized" as pollination agents, with behavioral and physical modifications that make pollination easier. Bees are generally better at the task than other pollinating insects such as beetles, flies, butterflies and pollen wasps. The appearance of such floral specialists is believed to have driven the adaptive radiation of the angiosperms, and, in turn, the bees themselves.

Bees, like ants, are a specialized form of wasp. The ancestors of bees were wasps in a family which preyed on other insects. The switch from insect prey to pollen may have resulted from the capture of prey insects that were covered with pollen when they were fed to the wasp larvae. Similar behaviour could be switched to pollen collection. This same evolutionary scenario has occurred within the vespoid wasps, where the group known as "pollen wasps" also evolved from predatory ancestors. 

A recently reported bee fossil, of the genus "Melittosphex", is considered "an extinct lineage of pollen-collecting Apoidea, sister-group to the modern bees", and dates from the Lower Cretaceous (~100 mya). Features of its morphology place it clearly within the bees, but it retains two unmodified ancestral traits of the legs which betray its origin. The issue is still under debate, and the phylogenetic relationships among bee families are poorly understood.

Like other insects, the body of a bee can be divided into three parts: the head, thorax (the middle part), and abdomen (the back part). Also like other insects, bees have three pairs of legs and two pairs of wings. Many bees are hairy and have yellow and black or orange and black warning colors.

Many bees have stings (like a hollow needle) on the rear of their bodies. If they get confused, angry, or scared they may sting, and inject venom, which hurts. Once a worker bee has stung it dies after a short while, but other types of bee and wasp can sting again. Some people are allergic to bee stings and can even die from them.

Some bees are eusocial insects; this means they live in organized groups called colonies. Honey bees, the kind of bee used in beekeeping, are eusocial. The home of a bee colony is called a hive. 

There are three kinds of bees in a honey bee colony. A queen bee is the most important bee in the colony because she will lay the eggs. The queen bee only uses her stinger to sting other queen bees. The queen is usually the mother of the worker bees. She ate a special jelly called royal jelly from when she was young. Worker bees are females too, and they are the bees that collect pollen from flowers and will fight to protect the colony. Workers do a waggle dance to tell the others where they have found nectar; Karl von Frisch discovered this.

Drone bees (males) mate with the queen bee so that she can lay eggs. The only function of the male drone is to mate. They do no other work in the hive.



</doc>
<doc id="5897" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5897" title="Dragonfly">
Dragonfly

Dragonflies are flying insects of the order Odonata. There are about 5,300 species of dragonfly. They eat other flying insects.

Dragonflies have large compound eyes, which is their main sense organ. They have four strong transparent wings, and a long body. Even though dragonflies have six legs (like any other insect), they cannot walk. 

Dragonflies are usually found around lakes, ponds, streams and wetlands. They are predators which eat mosquitoes, and other small insects such as flies, bees, ants, and butterflies. Their larvae, known as 'nymphs', are aquatic.

Dragonflies have been around for 300 million years. In the Carboniferous period, some species had wing-spans of over . 

Dragonflies are in one suborder of the Odonata, and their relatives, the damselflies, are in another suborder. Many people mistake the damselfly for the dragonfly, because they look alike. 

Adult damselflies have thinner, more delicate bodies than those of dragonflies. This you can see even when they are flying. When at rest, most damselflies hold their wings together above the body. Most dragonflies hold their wings horizontally. The eyes of dragonflies are larger, and touch each other.

Female dragonflies lay eggs in or near water, often on plants. When laying eggs, some species go under the water to lay their eggs on a good surface. The eggs then hatch into nymphs. While in the nymph stage they eat mosquito larvae and other things. 

Most of a dragonfly's life is spent in the nymph form, beneath the water's surface. It is quite active. It can extend its jaws in front of its mouth to catch prey. Tiny vertebrates such as tadpoles and fish are part of its diet. Some nymphs even hunt on land. They draw water in and out of their rectum. They can move fast by squirting water out of the anus. They also have gills in their rectum. 

The larval stage of large dragonflies may last as long as five years. In smaller species, this stage may last between two months and three years. When the larva is ready to metamorphose into an adult, it climbs up a reed or other emergent plant. Exposure to air causes the larva to begin breathing. The skin splits at a weak spot behind the head and the adult dragonfly crawls out of its old larval skin, pumps up its wings, and flies off to feed on midges and flies. The adult stage of larger species of dragonfly can last as long as five or six months.

Dragonflies experience incomplete metamorphosis: the nymphs (called naiads) swim and live underwater, like fish. The female dragonfly lays her fertilized eggs near or right in the water. The naiads – which do not look much like dragonflies at all – hatch and immediately take to the water. 
While living in the water, the naiads eat as many aquatic insects as possible, as well as other small creatures like tadpoles and minnows. Hidden among the plants, a naiad will lie in wait for prey to swim by. It can then squeeze water out of the rear of its abdomen like a jet stream. This moves the naiad forward very quickly, allowing it to snatch its prey with its powerful jaws. Some naiads even have a long lower jaw that can shoot out and grab prey. 

Naiads live in the water for weeks (or even years in some species) and undergo a series of molts to grow. When a naiad is ready for its final molt, it finds a stick or other object sticking out of the water. It use this to crawl out of the water, and wait for its exoskeleton to dry. As the exoskeleton cracks open at the seam, the adult dragonfly crawls out.

Dragonflies have tremendous eyesight. Their compound eyes are very large and have up to 50,000 individual lenses. Their eyes wrap around the top of the head. As a result, they have a wide field of vision: they can see almost everywhere at once. Sight is by far their most important sense, used to catch flies and avoid birds.

In flight the adult dragonfly can move in six directions; upward, downward, forward, back, and side to side. They can also hover quite well in midair, and then they can take off at speeds of up to . Scientists discovered dragonflies can move each of their four wings independently which gives them their flying abilities. Dragonflies bend and twist their wings to cause little whirlwinds that move the air even faster over the upper part of the airfoil, reducing air pressure even more than most flying animals can. This gives them a lot of lift, even in the face of powerful winds.

Some dragonflies change their resting position to prevent overheating. They may use a handstand-like position to prevent overheating on sunny days. The abdomen is raised until its tip points at the sun, minimizing their surface area exposed to the heat. The position is called the obelisk posture. The species that do this are called 'perchers'; they are "sit and wait" predators which spend much of their time keeping still. 



</doc>
<doc id="5898" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5898" title="Wind">
Wind

Wind is the flow of gases. On Earth, wind is mostly the movement of air. In outer space, solar wind is the movement of gases or particles from the sun through space. The strongest winds seen on a planet in our solar system are on Neptune and Saturn.

Short bursts of fast winds are called "gusts". Strong winds that go on for about one minute are called "squalls". Winds that go on for a long time are called many different things, such as "breeze", "gale", "hurricane", and "typhoon".

Wind can move land, especially in deserts. Cold wind can sometimes have a bad effect on livestock. Wind also affects animals' food stores, their hunting and the way they protect themselves.

If there is a high pressure system (that rotates clockwise in the northern hemisphere) near a low pressure system (that rotates counter-clockwise), the air will move from the high pressure to the low pressure to try and even out the pressures. If there is a small difference in pressure, there will be breezes and light winds. If there is a big difference in pressure, the winds will be high, and in some storms, such as hurricanes, typhoons, cyclones, or tornadoes, the pressure differences can cause winds faster than 200mph (320kph). This can cause damage to houses and other buildings, and can also lead to death.

Wind can also be caused by the rising of hot air, or the falling of cool air. When hot air rises, it creates a low pressure underneath it, and air moves in to equalize the pressure. When cold air drops (because it is denser or heavier than warm air), it creates a high pressure, and flows out to even out the pressure with the low pressure around it.

The wind is usually invisible, but rain, dust, or snow can let you see how it is blowing. A weathervane can also show you where the wind is coming from. The Beaufort scale is a way to tell how strong the wind is. It is used at sea, when no land can be seen. 

The increase in wind causes an increase in the rate of evaporation.

High winds can cause damage depending on how strong they are. Sometimes gusts of wind can make poorly made bridges move or be destroyed, like the Tacoma Narrows Bridge in 1940. Power can go out because of wind, even if its speed is as low as . This is because tree branches could change the flow of energy through power lines. No species of tree can resist hurricane-force winds, but trees with roots that are not very deep can be blown over more easily. Trees such as eucalyptus, sea hibiscus, and avocado are brittle (easy to break) and are damanged more easily.

Wind in outer space, called "solar wind", is very different from a wind on earth. The wind in outer space is caused by the sun, and it is made up of particles that came out of the sun's atmosphere. Like solar wind, the planetary wind is made up of light gases that have come out of planets' atmospheres.

The "doldrums" are in the equatorial region. It is a wind belt where air is warm, with little pressure variations. Winds are light there. Another name for doldrums is "Intertropical Convergence Zone" (ITCZ).




</doc>
<doc id="5899" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5899" title="Vertebrate">
Vertebrate

A vertebrate is an animal with a spinal cord surrounded by cartilage or bone. The word comes from vertebrae, the bones that make up spines. Animal which are not vertebrates are called invertebrate.

Examples of vertebrates are mammals, birds, and fish. Sharks, and related skates and rays, are vertebrates with cartilage instead of bones.





</doc>
<doc id="5900" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5900" title="Alpha male">
Alpha male

An alpha male is the top-ranking animal in a social group.

Some animals live in a social structure where the more powerful male in the group is decided by either simple play-fights or even very aggressive battles.
The current alpha male must defend his ranking from younger members.
When he is too old or not strong enough to win, he loses his position in the group.

The result of this is that the alpha male usually has more opportunity to mate with the available females.
This system developed because strong males will produce young which have a better chance for survival.

"Brave New World" - a novel written in 1931 by Aldous Huxley, a British writer - grades humans into categories taken from the Greek alphabet. Alphas were the highest ranking.

Some animal groups which may have alpha males:

Alpha male can also refer to an aggressive, highly-ranked man in a human group – usually in a business setting.

A new term which is entering our lexicon is the Alpha Dad. Men that enter young adulthood that can be considered Alpha Males often mature to become Alpha Dads; the Alpha Male with children, or simply a more mature example of the same. The Alpha Dad retains many of the same traits as the Alpha Male - the apex of a social or peer-oriented heirarchy - but the objectives and social "dominance" perspectives diminish, with emphasis placed on the performance and integrity of the individual, rather than social position.


</doc>
<doc id="5901" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5901" title="Category:Dogs">
Category:Dogs

These articles are about the domestic dog (pet). For wild dogs and other similar animals, please move up to .


</doc>
<doc id="5904" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5904" title="Category:People">
Category:People

This are articles about famous people.


</doc>
<doc id="5906" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5906" title="Street (town)">
Street (town)

Street is a town in the county of Somerset, England. It is in the Mendip District.


</doc>
<doc id="5909" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5909" title="Singapore">
Singapore

The Republic of Singapore or Singapore is an island country at the southern end of the Malay peninsula in Asia. Singapore is north of the equator. Its neighbours are Malaysia and Indonesia. About 5.08 million people live in Singapore, of which 3.77 million are citizens, and many of them (76%) are Chinese. In Sanskrit, an old Indian language, "Singapura", from which Singapore got its name, means "Lion city".

Singapore is also called a Garden City because there are many trees everywhere which makes it look more like a garden.

The national language of Singapore is Malay and the other official languages of Singapore are English, Mandarin and Tamil. English is the language of choice because it is the language that almost everyone in Singapore knows. It is the first language taught in schools and the language used by the government. Students are also taught their mother tongue language. This means that the Chinese can learn Mandarin and the Malays can learn Malay, and so on. Students can also learn a third language in Secondary School.

Singapore is also known for Singlish, or Singaporean English, which is English mixed with some words from Malay and other local languages. The government runs a campaign, the Speak Good English Movement, against Singlish as it makes Singaporeans look less educated and intelligent than they are.

Singapore's name comes from 'Singa Pura' which means Lion City in Sanskrit. According to the Sejarah Melayu (Malay Annals), a Sumatran prince called Sang Nila Utama landed on Temasek (Singapore's old name) and saw a Lion which is called 'Singa' in Malay. Thus he gave the island a new name, 'Singapura'. 
There were also many pieces of old items that showed that Temasek was a trading port even before the British came in and took over the island.

Singapore was set up as a British trading town in 1819 by Sir Thomas Stamford Raffles, and became an important town in the Malay Archipelago, "Singapore". The country was given colony rank in 1867.

When Raffles landed in Singapore, he paid the then Sultan a sum of money for a piece of land in the South of Singapore. In August 1824, Dr. John Crawfurd signed a treaty with the Sultan for control over the whole island.

In 1941, due to the weak defenses of the country, the Japanese attacked Singapore and took control of the colony on 15 February 1942. The country was renamed to Syonan-to (pronounced as Sho-nan-to), meaning Light of the South, during the rule. The British decided to surrender to the Japanese on 15 February 1942 at the Ford Motor Factory. People of Singapore went through hard times during the Japanese rule, until the surrender of the Japanese in September 1945. This was called the Japanese occupation. Singapore was then returned back to the British. 

Many people were tortured or killed by the Japanese as they did not follow the rules properly or because they were suspected of going against the Japanese.

The hard times during World War II made the people think that the British were not as strong as before. Therefore, many people wanted independence.

In 1963 Singapore joined with Malaya, Sabah and Sarawak to form the new nation of Malaysia. Malaysia is a country with many races. In Malay, only the Malays have special benefits. For example, the Malays can get university education more easily than other races.

As most people in Singapore are Chinese, Singapore wanted equality for all the people of Malaysia. Singapore also wanted a common market to be set up so that goods to Malaysia would not be taxed. However, this was not done and caused arguments between the state government of Singapore and the federal government of Malaysia.

Singapore separated from Malaysia and became independent on its own on 9 August 1965.

After Independence, the president of Singapore was Yusof bin Ishak and its prime minister was Lee Kuan Yew.
At first, many people thought Singapore would not be able to continue on its own. In 1967 Singapore helped to start the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and in 1970 it joined the Non-Aligned Movement. Lee Kuan Yew was in charge of the country as Prime Minister of Singapore and saw it become very developed. In 1990, Goh Chok Tong replaced Lee Kuan Yew as prime minister, while Lee Kuan Yew became Senior Minister. When Goh Chok Tong was Prime Minister, Singapore went through the 1997 Asian Financial Crisis, the 2003 SARS outbreak and terrorist threats by Jemaah Islamiyah. In 2004, Lee Hsien Loong, the son of Lee Kuan Yew, took over as Prime Minister. Goh Chok Tong became the Senior Minister, and Lee Kuan Yew became the Minister Mentor of Singapore.

Singapore is a parliamentary republic with a Westminster system of unicameral parliamentary government representing constituencies. Its constitution states representative democracy as its political system. Freedom House ranks Singapore as "partly free" in its "Freedom in the World" report, and "The Economist" ranks Singapore as a "hybrid regime", the third rank out of four, in its "Democracy Index". Singapore is ranked regularly as one of the least corrupt countries in the world, according to Transparency International.

The Cabinet has executive power, and is led by the Prime Minister, and the President. The president is elected through popular vote, and has some veto powers for a few big decisions such as the use of the national reserves and the appointment of judges, but otherwise occupies a post with little power.

The Parliament serves as the legislative branch of government. Members of Parliament (MPs) are made up of elected, non-constituency and nominated members. Elected MPs are voted into parliament on a "first-past-the-post" (plurality) system and represent either single-member or group-representation constituencies. The People's Action Party has won control of Parliament with large majorities in every election since self-governance in 1959. However, in the most recent parliamentary elections in 2011, the opposition, led by the Workers' Party, made large and important gains and increased its representation in the House to 6 elected MPs, and two nominated MPs.

The legal system of Singapore is based on English common law, however with large and important local differences. Trial by jury was completely removed in 1970 leaving judicial judgement done completely and only by judgeship. Singapore has punishments that include judicial corporal punishment in the form of caning for rape, rioting, vandalism, and some immigration crimes. There is a mandatory death penalty for murder, and for certain drug-trafficking and firearms offences.In a 2008 survey, international business executives believed Singapore, together with Hong Kong, had the best judicial system in Asia.

Buddhism is the most common religion in Singapore. Other common religions include: Christianity, Islam, Taoism, and Hinduism.

Students in Singapore go through six years of compulsory Primary school, which ends with all students taking a Primary School Leaving Examination(PSLE). Then, depending on their results in the PSLE, students are streamed into "Special", "Express", "Normal (Academic)", and "Normal (Technical)" groups. The amount of time a student spends studying in Secondary school (4–5 years) depends on their group.

Students are taught in English and their mother tongue, which can be Chinese, Malay or Tamil. Secondary school students may also choose to study a third language.


Students can take a third language as it increases their chances in getting an overseas scholarship and can improve their examination grades, especially in the GCE Ordinary Level ("O" Levels), which are Secondary students take after their five or four years of education. However, only some students can qualify to take a third language.

After their "O" Levels, students can choose to go to a polytechnic, which is a place where students can study for 3 years for a diploma or to a junior college where students study for 2 years to receive a "A" Level. Students can also go to Institutes of Technical Education (ITE), where students study for two years to receive a "National ITE Certificate" (NITEC). This certificate is only recognized in Singapore. Students who go to ITE usually continue their education at a polytechnic.

With either a diploma, or a "A" Level certificate, students can apply to go to Universities in Singapore or overseas.

The Singapore government has chosen four official languages: English, Malay, Chinese (Mandarin), and Tamil. English is the primary language. Singapore English is the main language in Singapore. 

English is the first language of the nation, but it is not the most common. English is the second most commonly spoken language among Singaporeans. The most commonly spoken language amongst Singaporeans in their homes is Chinese (51%), followed by English (32%), Malay (13%) and Tamil (3%). This means that 32% of Singaporeans are native English speakers. Most of the rest of the people speak it as a second language. However, English has the largest total number of speakers including native and second language speakers. Mandarin Chinese is the second most common.

Almost 40% of people in Singapore are foreign. Most foreigners come from Asia. The two countries where most foreigners come from are Malaysia (mostly Malaysian Chinese) and China. In 2009, there may have been 350,000 Malaysians working in Singapore. Many Chinese-speaking foreigners and Chinese-speaking Singaporeans work in services. Thus, Chinese is the main language of many workers such as hawkers, retail assistants, hairdressers, etc. in Singapore today.

Singaporean English mainly comes from British English. The forms of English spoken in Singapore range from Standard English to a pidgin called Singlish. The Singapore government and many Singaporeans are against using Singlish. There is a "Speak Good English" campaign each year. Public schools and in the media also have rules against Singlish. There are many Singapore accents in English because of the many languages and identities of people in the city. Languages can even change over the generations and children may speak different languages and have different accents from their mother. For example, in a Singaporean Chinese family, the grandmother might speak Hokkien as her first language. Differently, the mother might speak Mandarin as her first language and Hokkien/English as her second languages, while the grandson might speak English as his first language and Mandarin as his second language.

Before independence in 1965, Hokkien, a Chinese dialect, was the common language among the Chinese laborers. Malay and English were used to communicate between the different ethnic groups. After independence in 1965, English became the first language of the nation and replaced Hokkien and Malay as the one shared language. Today, most younger Singaporeans have English as their first language or are fluent in English.

Malay is a national language of Singapore because of the history of the city. However, less than 20% of Singaporeans can read and write in Malay. Malay is still used at home by most Singaporean Malays. The Malay used in Singapore (Bahasa Melayu) is closer to the language in Malaysia than the language in Indonesia. However, there are differences between the Malay in Singapore and in Malaysia. The national anthem "Majulah Singapura" is sung in Malay.

Many people speak Chinese – Mandarin and other Chinese dialects – in Singapore. Just over 50% of Singaporeans speak it at home, so it is the most common language in homes. Singaporean Mandarin is based on simplified Chinese and it is similar to the system used in mainland China. The forms of Mandarin spoken in Singapore range from Standard Mandarin to a pidgin known as Singdarin. Besides Mandarin, many southern Chinese dialects are also spoken in Singapore. 

Hokkien used to be a lingua franca among the Singaporean Chinese so many older Singaporeans still understand Hokkien. The most common Chinese dialects spoken by Singaporeans are the Hokkien, Hainan, Teochew and Cantonese. However, Chinese dialects other than Mandarin are not allowed in the media, so these dialects are quickly dying out. Most younger Singaporeans do not speak them anymore. 

Tamil is spoken by about 60% of Indians in Singapore. That is about 5% of all Singaporeans. Indian languages such as Malayalam, Telugu and Hindi are also spoken by a small group of Singaporean Indians in Singapore.

Singapore has many kinds of people and immigrants from many places. Therefore, Singaporean culture has often been described as a mix of cultures – British, Malay, Chinese, Indian and Peranakan. Also, foreigners are 42% of the population in Singapore and they are part of changing Singaporean culture.

Dining is an important part of life in Singapore. Singaporean food is an example of the many different cultures in the country. It is also an example of mixing among cultures. British, Chinese, Indian, Malay, Tamil, and Indonesian styles of cooking all mix together. Typical Singaporean food includes: Satay, Nasi lemak, Chilli crab, and Hainanese chicken rice.

MediaCorp, the state-owned media corporation, operates all seven local broadcast television channels in Singapore. It also runs 13 radio stations of the total 18 radio stations in Singapore. Radio and television stations are all owned by government controlled companies. However, one radio transmitter in Singapore is not controlled by the government. That is the Far Eastern Relay Station of the BBC World Service.

Print media of Singapore includes 16 newspapers and several magazines. Daily newspapers are published in English, Chinese, Malay, and Tamil.

The national flower of Singapore is Vanda Miss Joaquim. It is a type of orchid and it is a hybrid orchid. This makes Singapore the only nation in the world to have a hybrid as a national flower. It was chosen because it was part of the effort to create national pride and identity.
Singapore has a strong and free economy that supports a large middle class. The city state is a global shipping and logistics hub and many multinational firms have their offices in Singapore. The national airline, Singapore Airlines has a large global network which brings tourists and business travelers alike, to the city.

Singapore also has a port located at the south of Singapore, called Keppel Harbour. It is one of the busiest ports around the world with many ships coming in to trade in a single day. Singapore also has another port on Jurong Island.

Singapore's currency is the Singapore dollar. The short name for the Singapore dollar is SGD. Brunei dollar can be used in Singapore, because they have the same value.

Singapore is made up of List of islands of Singapore|63 islands, including the main island, which is known as Singapore Island to most people, but is also known as Pulau Ujong. There are two man-made connections to Johor, Malaysia: the Johor–Singapore Causeway in the north, and the Tuas Second Link in the west. Jurong Island, Pulau Tekong, Pulau Ubin and Sentosa are the largest of Singapore's smaller islands. The highest natural point is Bukit Timah Hill at .

About 23% of Singapore's land area are forest and nature reserves. Urbanisation has removed most primary rainforest, with Bukit Timah Nature Reserve the only significant remaining forest. Even though there is very little primary rainforest left, there are more than 300 parks and four nature reserves in Singapore. There are also many trees planted all over Singapore and almost fifty per cent of the country is covered by trees and plants. Because of this, Singapore is also commonly known as the 'Garden City'. 
Singapore, being a small country, has been reclaiming land from the sea around the island. The first time Singapore started to reclaim land was in the 1960s. The total land area of Singapore at that time was 581.5 km and it has increased to 633 km in the 1990s, which is a increase of about 9% in total land area.It is now , and may grow by another by 2030. Some land reclamation projects involve joining together smaller islands to make larger islands with more uses, like Jurong Island. Singapore uses the landfill method to reclaim the sea at the south of the country. The country's rapid reclamation projects has made disputes with its neighbouring countries, Malaysia and Indonesia.

Singapore is hot and wet all year round. It has a tropical climate, which means there are no spring, summer, autumn and winter in Singapore. There is the most rain at the end of the year, and the temperature is usually around 20°C to 35°C.

Although Singapore does not experience the four seasons, the period from May to June is usually warmer, while the period from November to January is cooler because of the more frequent rains and monsoonal winds in Singapore during the year-end.

Singapore has diplomatic relations with 175 other Sovereign states. Singapore's foreign policy is to maintain a secure environment in Southeast Asia as well as the countries near Southeast Asia. A basic rule is the political and economic stability in Southeast Asia.

Singapore is part of the ASEAN (Association of the South East Asian nations) network, which is an organisation that unites all South East Asian countries. Member countries of ASEAN work with and heap other countries in ASEAN . Singapore is one of the countries that founded ASEAN.

Singapore is also part of the Commonwealth of Nations, which is for countries that used to be under the British.

Singapore, being a small country, has been reclaiming land from the sea around the island. The first time Singapore started to reclaim land was in the 1960s. The total land area of Singapore at that time was 581.5 km and it has increased to 633 km in the 1990s, which is a increase of about 9% in total land area. Singapore uses the landfill method to reclaim the sea at the south of the country. The country's rapid reclamation projects has made disputes with its neighbouring countries, Malaysia and Indonesia.

Singapore reclaims lots of land due to the following reasons:

Public holidays in Singapore:

There are also school holidays, lasting one week in March and September, about one month in June, and about one and a half months in December.

Singapore holds many records with its buildings and people. They are:

There are buses, trains, and taxis in Singapore.

Singapore has a railway system known as the Mass Rapid Transit, or MRT in short. There are also taxi companies like Comfort Cabs, Silver Cab, SMRT Taxis, CityCab and Premier Taxi. There is one telephone number to call a taxi, of which the closest taxi from any company will respond.

The Mass Rapid Transit of Singapore is the most commonly used form of transportation in Singapore.
The Singaporean land transport system is controlled by the LTA (Land Transport Authority) of Singapore.

The Singapore Changi Airport is the main airport of Singapore. It is located in the east of Singapore, with a total of four terminals with airlines flying to many different parts of the world. It has also received many awards for being the best airport in the world.

The airport is located in Changi and is on a 13 square kilometres (5.0 sq mi) site which was reclaimed from the sea. 



</doc>
<doc id="5915" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5915" title="Johannesburg">
Johannesburg

Johannesburg is a city in South Africa. It is the capital of the Gauteng Province. It was founded on October 4, 1886 and has the JSE Securities Exchange, which is the largest stock exchange in Africa.

Johannesburg houses the tallest office block in Africa, the Carlton Centre (50 stories) and the tallest tower, the Hillbrow Tower (270 metres, or 90 stories). The city is nicknamed Egoli, which means ""place of gold"". Forty percent of the world's gold has been found here.

The Johannesburg Zoo was established in 1904, and historically, it has been owned and run by the city of Johannesburg. It houses the only two polar bears in Africa.

Johannesburg is not seen as a tourist centre in South Africa, but rather as a commercial centre.


</doc>
<doc id="5935" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5935" title="Breakfast">
Breakfast

Breakfast is the first meal of the day. It is usually eaten in the morning. The word comes from two other words; "break" ("end") and fast ("not eating for a long time").

Definition: [1463] from break (v.) + fast (n.). Cf. Fr. déjeuner "to breakfast," from L. dis-jejunare "to break the fast."

People around the world eat different things for breakfast:


</doc>
<doc id="5936" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5936" title="Fast">
Fast

Fast can mean different things:



</doc>
<doc id="5937" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5937" title="Town">
Town

A town is usually a place with a lot of houses, but not a city. As with cities, there is more than one way to say what a town is in different countries.

In English we also use the word "town" as a general word for places with a lot of houses (cities too). When we say "town" we are normally thinking of a big, important place. For example, London is a city, but people often call it "London town" ("the City of London" is a part of London where there are a lot of banks). Also, going from the outside to central London is to "go into town".

Generally, the difference between towns and villages or hamlets is the sort of economy they have. People in towns usually get money from industry (factories etc.), commerce (shops etc.) and public service (working for the town) not agriculture (growing food).

The number of people who live in a place does not tell us if it is a town or a village. In many areas of the world, for example India, a big village can have many more people than a small town. It is also difficult to say if a place is a town because today, some towns are becoming bigger, and in some places people live in a village or near a town and work in the town. 

Sometimes a place is a city because it got the name "city" by law. But people often say it is a town because it is small. In the Middle Ages a place became a town by means of a charter, which granted it town privileges.

In the United States of America, the meaning of the term "town" is different in each state. In some states, a town is a town if the state says it is. In other states, for example Wisconsin, a town is a town if it has special powers. In other states, for example Michigan, the name "town" has no official meaning and people use it for any place with a lot of people. 

In the six New England states, a town is a smaller part of the county, and in these states, really a more important part than the county. In Connecticut and Rhode Island, counties are only on the map and have no power. In the other four states, counties are mostly places with law powers. The counties with other functions are mostly in New Hampshire and Vermont. In all six, towns do things that in most states counties do. In many of these towns, town meetings are the main form of government, so citizens can say what happens where they live by direct democracy.

In New York, a town is also a smaller part of the county, but with less importance than in New England. In New York, a town gives people more direct power than its county, giving almost all town services to places not in towns, called "hamlets", and some services to places in towns, called "villages". In New York, a town usually has some hamlets and villages. But, because villages have power without towns (they are "independent") they can be in two towns or even two counties. Everyone in New York State who does not live in an Indian reservation (a special place for American Indians) or a city lives in a town, and perhaps in one of the town's hamlets or villages. 

In Virginia, a town is similar to a city, but it can have a smaller number of people in it. By Virginia law cities are independent of counties (they have power without counties), towns are part of a county.

In England and Wales, the name "city" is only for places that have a Royal Charter (a special paper) saying they can have that name. In the past, cities usually had a cathedral. 

English people often think that when a place has a cathedral it must be a city, but it is not true today. For example, Chelmsford is a town but it has a cathedral.

In the past, a place was usually a town, not a village, when it had a regular market or fair (a market, but not so often). There are some English villages (for example Kidlington, Oxfordshire) larger than some small towns (e.g. Middleham, North Yorkshire).


</doc>
<doc id="5938" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5938" title="Condensed matter physics">
Condensed matter physics

Condensed matter physics is a branch of physics which talks about matter that has its molecules packed together very closely. This usually means it deals with solids (solid matter).


</doc>
<doc id="5939" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5939" title="Bag">
Bag

A bag is a kind of container. It can hold other things. A bag is used for carrying things around. It may be made from cloth, leather, plastic, or paper. A bag may have one or two handles or a shoulder strap. Bags come in different shapes and sizes depending on that they will be used for. A small bag that can be carried with a single hand is sometimes called a handbag, purse, or pocketbook. Children can suffocate, or stop breathing and die, when they put certain kinds of bags over their heads, due to having the supply of oxygen cut off. 


</doc>
<doc id="5940" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5940" title="Julius Caesar">
Julius Caesar

Gaius Julius Caesar (13 July 100 BC – 15 March 44 BC) was a military commander, politician and author at the end of the Roman Republic.

Caesar became a member of the First Triumvirate, and when that broke up he fought a civil war against Pompey the Great. Winning the war, Caesar became Dictator for life of the Roman Republic. He was assassinated by his enemies in Rome. 

At sixteen he was the head of his family, and soon came under threat as Lucius Cornelius Sulla became Dictator. 

Sulla set about purging Rome of his enemies. Hundreds were killed or exiled, and Caesar was on the list. His mother's family pleaded for his life; Sulla reluctantly gave in, but stripped Caesar of his inheritance. From then on, lack of money was one of the main problems in his life. Caesar joined the army, and left Rome. He only returned after Sulla's death in 78 BC.

On the way across the Aegean Sea, Caesar was kidnapped by pirates and held prisoner. He maintained an attitude of superiority throughout his captivity. When the pirates thought to demand a ransom of twenty talents of silver, he insisted they ask for fifty. After the ransom was paid, Caesar raised a fleet, pursued and captured the pirates, and imprisoned them. He had them crucified on his own authority, as he had promised while in captivity—a promise the pirates had taken as a joke. As a sign of leniency, he first had their throats cut. He was soon called back into military action.

On his return to Rome he was elected military tribune, a first step in a political career. He was elected quaestor for 69 BC. His wife Cornelia died that year. After her funeral, Caesar went to serve his quaestorship in Spain. On his return in 67 BC, he married Pompeia (a granddaughter of Sulla), whom he later divorced. In 63 BC he ran for election to the post of Pontifex Maximus, high priest of the Roman state religion. He ran against two powerful senators; there were accusations of bribery by all sides. Caesar won comfortably, despite his opponents' greater experience and standing. 

After his praetorship, Caesar was appointed to govern Roman Spain, but he was still in considerable debt and needed to satisfy his creditors. He turned to Marcus Licinius Crassus, one of Rome's richest men. In return for political support, Crassus paid some of Caesar's debts and acted as guarantor for others. Caesar left for his province before his praetorship had ended. In Spain he conquered two local tribes, was hailed as "imperator" by his troops, and completed his governorship in high esteem. Though he was due a 'triumph' in Rome, he also wanted to stand for Consul, the most senior magistracy in the Republic. Faced with the choice between a triumph and the consulship, Caesar chose the consulship. After election, he was a consul in 59 BC.

Caesar took power with Gnaeus Pompeius Magnus (Pompey the Great) and Marcus Licinius Crassus. These three men ruled Rome and were called the "Triumvirate". 

Caesar was the go-between for Crassus and Pompey. They had been at odds for years, but Caesar tried to reconcile them. Between the three of them, they had enough money and political influence to control public business. This informal alliance, known as the First Triumvirate (rule of three men), was cemented by the marriage of Pompey to Caesar's daughter Julia. Caesar also married again, this time to Calpurnia, who was the daughter of another powerful senator.

Caesar proposed a law for the redistribution of public lands to the poor, a proposal supported by Pompey, by force of arms if need be, and by Crassus, making the triumvirate public. Pompey filled the city with soldiers, and the triumvirate's opponents were intimidated.

With the agreement of his partners, Caesar became the governor of Gallia (Gaul). Gaul is the area which is today's Northern Italy, Switzerland, and France. 

Caesar was the commander of the Roman legions during the Gallic War. The war was fought on the side of Rome's Gallic clients against the Germans, who wanted to invade Gaul. It was also to extend Rome's control of Gaul. Caesar's conquest of Gaul extended Rome's territory to the North Sea. In 55 BC he conducted the first Roman invasion of Britain. Caesar wrote about this eight-year war in his book "De Bello Gallico" ('About the Gallic Wars'). This book, written in Latin, is an important historical account. 

These achievements got him great military power, and threatened to eclipse Pompey. The balance of power was further upset by the death of Crassus in 53 BC.

In 50 BC, the Senate, led by Pompey, ordered Caesar to disband his army and return to Rome because his term as governor had finished. Caesar thought he would be prosecuted if he entered Rome without the immunity enjoyed by a magistrate. Pompey accused Caesar of insubordination and treason. 

Caesar and his army approached Rome and "crossed the Rubicon" a shallow river in north-east Italy, in 49 BC. It was the point beyond which no army was supposed to go. The river marked the boundary between Cisalpine Gaul to the north, and Italy proper to the south. Crossing the Rubicon caused a civil war. Pompey, the lawful Consul, and his friends, fled from Rome as Caesar's army approached.

Pompey managed to escape before Caesar could break capture him. Caesar decided to head for Spain, while leaving Italy under the control of Mark Antony. Caesar made an astonishing 27-day route-march to Spain, where he defeated Pompey's lieutenants. He then returned east, to challenge Pompey in Greece where in July 48 BC at Dyrrhachium Caesar barely avoided a catastrophic defeat. He then decisively defeated Pompey, at the Battle of Pharsalus later that year.

In Rome, Caesar was appointed Dictator, with Mark Antony as his Master of the Horse (second in command). Caesar presided over his own election to a second consulship and then, after eleven days, resigned this dictatorship.

In 48 BC, he was appointed dictator again, only this time for an indefinite period. Caesar then pursued Pompey to Egypt, where Pompey was soon murdered. Caesar then became involved in an Egyptian civil war between the child pharaoh and his sister, wife, and co-regent queen, Cleopatra. Perhaps as a result of the pharaoh's role in Pompey's murder, Caesar sided with Cleopatra. He is reported to have wept at the sight of Pompey's head, which was offered to him by the pharaoh as a gift. In any event, Caesar defeated the pharaoh's forces in 47 BC and installed Cleopatra as ruler. 

Caesar and Cleopatra celebrated their victory with a triumphant procession on the Nile in the spring of 47 B.C. The royal barge was accompanied by 400 additional ships, introducing Caesar to the luxurious lifestyle of the Egyptian pharaohs. Caesar and Cleopatra never married; Roman Law only recognized marriages between two Roman citizens. Caesar continued his relationship with Cleopatra throughout his last marriage, which lasted 14 years – in Roman eyes, this did not constitute adultery – and may have fathered a son called Caesarion. Cleopatra visited Rome on more than one occasion, staying in Caesar's villa, outside Rome across the River Tiber.

In 46 BC, Caesar was appointed dictator for ten years. In two years he made numerous changes in Roman administration to improve the Republic. Many of these changes were meant to improve the lives of ordinary people. One example, which has lasted, was his reform of the calendar into the present format, with a leap day every four years. In February of 44 BC, one month before his assassination, he was appointed Dictator for life.

On the Ides of March (15 March) of 44 BC, Caesar was due to appear at a session of the Senate. Mark Antony, fearing the worst, went to head Caesar off. The plotters expected this, and arranged for someone to intercept him.

According to Eutropius, around sixty or more men participated in the assassination. He was stabbed 23 times. According to Suetonius, a physician later established that only one wound, the second one to his chest, had been lethal.
The dictator's last words are not known with certainty, and are a contested subject among scholars and historians alike. The version best known in the English-speaking world is the Latin phrase "Et tu, Brute?" ('You too, Brutus?'). In Shakespeare's "Julius Caesar", this is the first half of the line: ""Et tu, Brute?" Then fall, Caesar".

According to Plutarch, after the assassination, Brutus stepped forward as if to say something to his fellow senators; they, however, fled the building. Brutus and his companions then marched to the Capitol while crying out to their beloved city: "People of Rome, we are once again free!". They were met with silence, as the citizens of Rome had locked themselves inside their houses as soon as the rumour of what had taken place had begun to spread. He has been mentioned in many, many movies.

A wax statue of Caesar was erected in the forum displaying the 23 stab wounds. A crowd who had gathered there started a fire, which badly damaged the forum and neighbouring buildings. In the ensuing chaos Mark Antony, Octavian (later Augustus Caesar), and others fought a series of five civil wars, which would end in the formation of the Roman Empire.

The Roman empire and its emperors were so important in history that the word "Caesar" was used as a title in some European countries to mean emperor, even long after the Roman empire was gone. For example, Germany's king was called a Kaiser up to the year 1919 CE and Russia's king was called a Tsar until the year 1917 CE.

Caesar was a significant author. 

Other works historically attributed to Caesar, but whose authorship is doubted, are:

These narratives were written and published on a yearly basis during or just after the actual campaigns, as a sort of "dispatches from the front". Apparently simple and direct in style—to the point that Caesar's "Commentarii" are commonly studied by first and second year Latin students—they are in fact highly sophisticated tracts, aimed particularly at the middle-brow readership of minor aristocrats in Rome, Italy, and the provinces.

Based on remarks by Plutarch, Caesar is sometimes thought to have suffered from epilepsy. Modern scholarship is divided on the subject. It is more certain that he was plagued by malaria, particularly during the Sullan proscriptions of the 80s.

Caesar had four documented episodes of what may have been complex partial seizures. He may additionally have had "absence seizures" ("petit mal") in his youth. The earliest accounts of these seizures were made by the biographer Suetonius who was born after Caesar died. The claim of epilepsy is countered among some medical historians by a claim of hypoglycemia, which can cause epileptoid seizures.

In 2003, psychiatrist Harbour F. Hodder published what he termed as the "Caesar Complex" theory, arguing that Caesar was a sufferer of temporal lobe epilepsy, and that the symptoms were a factor in Caesar's decision to forgo personal safety in the days leading up to his assassination.


</doc>
<doc id="5949" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5949" title="Sapporo">
Sapporo

Sapporo is the capital city of Hokkaido, Japan. It has a famous snow festival in winter, it has a growing population of about 1,800,000 people. Its area is . There are a lot of fish markets in Sapporo. A beer brand named "Sapporo" was named after this city.



</doc>
<doc id="5950" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5950" title="Hokkaido">
Hokkaido

Hokkaido is the northernmost prefecture of Japan.

Sapporo is the capital city of Hokkaido.

Until the Meiji Restoration, the island was called Ezo, Watari-shima, Yeddo, and Yezo. Since 1869, it has been called Hokkaido.

The population expanded in the late 19th century.


Hokkaido is the 2nd largest island of Japan The island is located between the Sea of Japan to the west, the Sea of Okhotsk to the northeast, Pacific Ocean to the southeast, and the Tsugaru Strait to the south. 

Hokkaido is separated from Honshu by the Tsugaru Strait; however, it is connected by the underwater Seikan tunnel.

The Chishima Islands are occupied by Russia, but the Government of Japan still considers them Japanese.


</doc>
<doc id="5959" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5959" title="Wikipedia:Administrators/Archive1">
Wikipedia:Administrators/Archive1

I would like to nominate myself to be an administrator because I want to help out with all of the administrative duties. I would help close deletion discussions, keep things like clear, and take appropriate action against vandals and trolls. I would also assist in deleting the patent nonsense pages, which I see so many of now. I joined Simple in August, and have made over 1000 edits since then. In my four months here, I have learned how Simple works to get stuff done. I would love to help SE Wikipedia in ways that I could not before. Any comments will be greatly appreciated as well. :) 18:23, 25 November 2006 (UTC)

22:32, 25 November 2006 (UTC)
I'd like to nominate myself for adminship, as sysop tools would make it easier for me to fight against vandalism, close RfD discussions, as well as quickly delete articles that are considered patent nonsense, blatant advertising, or copyright infringement. I've been here since May, 2006 and I've accumulated over 2340 edits, mostly through cleaning up articles and reverting vandalism. I'm also a very active user on the EN wikipedia, which I've contributed to for over a year, amassing around 11,935 edits.--Φ 12:53, 23 November 2006 (UTC)
22:35, 25 November 2006 (UTC)

As stated at the Meta RfC, I do not have as much time to devote to this project as many others do, so I would prefer to have two other people as bureaucrats rather than me. However, I am willing to act as a bureaucrat for a few months or so, as we're gonna need someone and the choices are rather limited, and I have the time to perform promotions and other technical tasks. - 20:09, 12 November 2006 (UTC)


Zephyr2k suggested on my talk page a few days ago that I run for bureaucrat. I have been an admin since last March 7. While I disdain politics, I have become convinced that we do need a couple more bureaucrats, as well as more admins on the project. I keep my eye on the RC fairly often while I do other computer work, usually anywhere between roughly 7 AM and 10 PM. Note, I have never used my admin power in any content dispute, other than with blatant vandals. I feel that if we can harness the category system usefully, we could have a lot of useful potential toward our goal as a useful "everyman's" encyclopedia. 21:32, 12 November 2006 (UTC)


I would like to do a self nomination for adminship. Here are my reasons:

Thank you. :)-- 03:27, 31 October 2006 (UTC)



I would like to nominate for admiship because of his experience, his vandalfighting skills and his user-friendliness.-- 02:41, 7 November 2006 (UTC)


 PROMOTED!!! -- 09:41, 16 November 2006 (UTC)

I would like to candidate myself to sysop status because, I spent about 18 hours in wikipedia, My favourite work is patrolling...my VF is always open with the recent changes of simple.wikipedia, if we look on my edit we fount a good number a rollback.
Sometimes when I fight with vandals I never found an admin to help me. I'm a sysop on italian wikipedia, but I believe in this "simple" project. Now there are (13) pages in request in Category:Deletion requests but anyone delete them...

We have 6,010 users...and 7(0.15%) active sysops...it's a small number.

Thanks anyone for supports and not supports -- 18:02, 31 October 2006 (UTC)



(I suppose it means: "Thank you, Zephyr2k, for your question. Yes, in September, I did a lot of work on creating articles about suburbs and various regions in Italy. For this month, I work on vandalfighting, by watching the recent changes." 


I would like to nominate Tangotango to become an administrator to stop vandalism more efficiently than he can now. He has already fought a lot of vandals. His first edit was on 2006/07/09 09:56:37. Now he has 831 Edits.


I now feel that it is time for me to apply for administrative privileges in order to block vandals and revert pages faster. I am becoming increasingly frustrated at the amount of vandal attacks on Simple English Wikipedia and the time taken for an administrator to respond, due to the increasing amount of inactive sysops. On many occasions, I have been reverting vandalism for half an hour in a vicious circle, which is causing major disruption to other users, before an administrator blocks them. According to Interiot's tool (Here), I have over 3,400 edits on this Wikipedia and have been a editing for nearly four months, which I believe has given me enough experience to use Wikipedia effectively and efficiently. I usually spend between ten and fifteen hours per day here, which can be seen by my large number of edits each day. If I am not on Simple English Wikipedia, I can be contacted by email, which I have set to automatically check for new mail every minute and will give me text and sound notification of incoming messages. I enjoy contributing on Simple English Wikipedia because each day is a new challenge and gives me a great sense of satisfaction. More information about me can be found on my user page. Thank you. () 22:25, 29 August 2006 (UTC)










I'd like to nominate myself to become an administrator mainly to block vandals, and revert vandalism with a rollback button that actually works (I'm currently using godmode light). I've been here since December 2005, and I've got over 1700 edits according to Interiot's tool and I think I now have a firm idea of how this project is run. I'm also part of the Counter Vandalism Unit on en:, although I have more or less given up editing over there and focused my energy over here. 16:34, 14 March 2006 (UTC)

I would like to be an administrator, mostly so I can block people when there are sustained vandalism attacks (EG - watching that sort of thing until I could reach Net, Ricky, or Angela (before alfm and blockinblox became admins) was really painful). I've been here a few months, and have close to five thousand edits (and more than 6 times as many on EN, but I've given up on that project). Since most of that time I was unemployed, and now have a fulltime job, and another parttime one starting Monday, my editting will not be anywhere near as prolific as it has been up until the past few weeks. 02:09, 13 March 2006 (UTC)




I would like to be a sysop here; I have enough time and edits, am very familiar with writing simple and most of the necessary articles here, and understand that sysops have no 'special authority', but are allowed to protect vandalised pages and block vandals when necessary. I would only use these powers to combat blatant vandalism. 13:42, 8 February 2006 (UTC)





 | Pages worked on

Ok, my second nomination. While I was on waiting to self-nominate myself again after I had been here a full three months, our recent vandal (and 's suggestion) has made me speed up my thought process a bit. Ok, according to Kate's tools, I have over over 7,200 edits in English and over 2,500 edits in Simple.

Admittedly, I have a ton of edits in categories, since (as one can see on my user page) I have been trying to organize , , and . I did manage to complete the days of the year a while back. I admittedly haven't written a lot of articles. Truthfully, I only wrote Julian calendar, Gregorian calendar and peer review after noticing a need for them. My main use for Administrator rights would be for deletion and against vandalism. Looking at its history, one can see that I have been fairly active at .

I guess that's all I can think of. Actually, I have one question. Is it just me or you can't select namespaces in user contributions anymore? Either way, if anyone has any questions for me, please ask. -- () 06:06, 22 July 2005 (UTC)


 | | Log of admin actions

I posted a request for temporary admin status at to deal with a a troublesome user () from the regular English WP. He was blocked recently there, and has found a home on Simple: creating dozens of bad articles. He's already vandalized my user page, and has proven himself to be very annoying on the EN: side. With Angela on a wikibreak, and unable to get in contact with the two other active admins, I'm not sure what else to do if this user becomes an even bigger problem. -- 01:50, 9 Oct 2004 (UTC)

I would like to apply for adminship. I've been on this wiki (on and off) for a while (since before it started using MediaWiki). As this wiki grows it will need more than just 5 active admins, I think, so here I am! -- 21:35, 16 Apr 2004 (UTC)

Support

Neutral
I would like to nominate for adminship and has requested adminship. Both have done some great work on finding pages that need to be deleted and I think it would be useful if they had the ability to carry out the deletions themselves. I propose they both be made sysops if there are no objections over the next week. (Note: I have already emailed the other active sysops about this and had no objections from them). 00:57, 19 Mar 2004 (UTC)

I'd like to be a sysop. I'm a sysop on the English Wikipedia, but I haven't spent much time on Simple yet. I don't mind waiting if I'm supposed to spend more time on Simple first.
-- 22:02, 10 Jan 2004 (UTC)

I know I've only been contributing heavily for the last nineteen days, and I saw people on saying their minimums are three months and 1000 edits so I know my chances of this succeeding are pretty slim at this point, but this wiki doesn't have many active administrators and I'm active a lot so I'd be able to help out quite a bit. I'm an administrator on English Wikipedia, so I know about how everything works. I'm pretty good with English Wikipedia's policies, and I've read a bit of the stuff here too. Because of how active I am, I'd be able to deal with quick deletions and vandals quickly.

I'm not actually expecting this to pass, and if it doesn't, I'll understand; it seems unlikely that the community would be able to trust a user enough in less than a month to give them the administrator tools. But I'm giving it a shot, so here goes. 22:45, 6 December 2006 (UTC)
Notes:
If elected as sysop the thing I will focus reverting vandalism. The last time I ran to be a sysop I learned a lot about policies and guidlines and since then I have spent a lot of time trying to learn them. The reason why I want to become a sysop so bad is because I think it is the best way to help wikipedia simple english because right now I have run out of ideas for articles so I will not be editing as much, I still want to help out around here so I decided to run to be a sysop. Another reason why you should vote for me is because I am friendly most of the time. Thanks.-- 22:17, 6 December 2006 (UTC)




This vote is necessary to find out if the only active bureaucrat on simple.wikipedia has the necessary consensus to keep his status or should be removed. Prior to this vote, has been put on on meta and then the Stewards have been about the current situation. Other active administrators have also been asked to candidate themselves for bureaucrat position. -- 18:19, 12 November 2006 (UTC)


<br>
Vote Log<br>
(support removal/oppose removal/remove bureaucrat status/neutral)<br>


Since 2 or 3 more bureaucrats are needed on simple.wikipedia, I candidate myself to this role, I promise to act upon the Community consensus. -- 18:28, 12 November 2006 (UTC)

I renounced, please stop voting :) -- 20:42, 12 November 2006 (UTC)

I would like to nominate my self to be an admin. I have been a simple wikipedian user since June, and have expanded, improved, and started my own articles. I want them to revert vandalism faster and block users as very recently we have had sysops not on simple and lots of vandalism from Anita934 sockpuppets. I have been an English user since April but stopped in September because I wanted to make simple the wikipedia, I contribute most too. Mostly, I work on the airline articles. I am not the most active communicator, but I expect to have more communications once I am an admin. Thanks. 00:26, 20 September 2006 (UTC)





I stopped this early because the accusations of sockpuppetry in this vote have been more than convincingly been shown. I would not promote under these circumstances. -- 04:44, 21 September 2006 (UTC)
I would like to nominate myself to become an administrator mostly to stop vandalism more efficiently than I can now. I have been here since July 22, but I had been observing the process of using wikipedia beforehand. I have made about 400 edits so far. I have also created 32 new articles - about the rate of an article per day. Thank you for any support. 18:33, 24 August 2006 (UTC)

After being here for a few months, I feel that I have learned and more fully understand the finer points of Simple Wikipedia; therefore, I humbly request to be a sysop for Simple Wikipedia. I am an avid vandal fighter on English Wikipedia, English Wiktionary, and here at Simple Wikipedia. I am a member of the Counter Vandalism Unit. I am a channel staffer at #vandalism-simple-wp, #vandalism-en-wt (the Wiktionary vandalism channel), and #vandalism-meta (the Meta vandalism channel). For the full picture, I am an op in #vandalism-en-wp (the WP channel). In addition to CVU bots, I frequently watch for vandalism with CDVF.

I know that my edit count is relatively low compared to other new admins, but one should note that many of my edits have been speedy deleted after I have posted speedy tags on articles. In addition, I feel I should mention that I am an admin on English Wikipedia and English Wiktionary. Also, I have already served as an admin on Simple Wikipedia in a temporary capacity twice. I offer my logs as testament to my judgement as an admin. I feel that admin rights would assist me in the course of my work and help me to better serve the community.

I completely understand if the community feels that I should be here longer for applying for powers, but I strive to assist the wiki-community. Therefore, I offer myself to you for your consideration. -- 23:58, 28 June 2006 (UTC)


I understand that I am quite new - on this WikiPedia, but I have been on en wikipedia for aaages now, and have heaps of edits, in the main space, Wiki, Template etc. I do Recent Changes Patrol, New Changes Patrol, I monitor high-profile pages, espech Wikipages (including the Main Page). I am familiar with many Wiki features, like:

on en:wiki i have Popups, Godmode-light (Rollback), RC Filter,etc and other 'advanced tools'.

In closing, I believe Adminship/sysop status should not be given out on the basis of edit count. There are political and technical arguments against this. The technical side is that adding all users above a certain edit count to an implicit group would require at least one extra query on page view; this could turn into an unreasonable performance demand. There's a workable solution to this, however. On the political side of things; English Wikipeia, and I'm sure this one also, is a wiki where "editcountitis" is discouraged and in some cases, condemned. An edit count is not a valuable indicator of a user's trustworthiness where Adminship/sysop status is concerned, nor is it a good indicator of the value and quality of their contributions. 

Thank You Sincerely,

-- 03:46, 27 May 2006 (UTC)

I know I seem completely new on Simple English Wikipedia, but for about six months I have contributed without a loginname. I have contributed to the userboxes and articles in ENWikipedia (although I am not an admin there). My goals for Simple English Wikipedia is to create Simple English userboxes, simplify articles and to help end vandalism! (The dreaded v-word!). I cannot do much researching as I have internet restriction. I may seem young (13) but dedication, responsibility and ability are the only things that should contribute to being an admin. I know I have little basis for proof as most of my edits are anonymous. If you think I am not credible, then I will try to get credible.

I'd be willing but I can't. Most contributions weren't on this IP. I have like 50 contributions on this at the most. Sorry. Gosh- I seem like a horrible canidate I know but- I guess trust is all you have but its hard to trust a stranger. 00:11, 29 May 2006 (UTC)


I can think of no way of getting that IP I am very sorry. Maybe in a month or so I can try again. I wish I had a username then ... grrrr!


I just remember the ones I worked on recently. I could tell you the range of things I did. Simplifying, spellchecking. Nothing too big- mostly small things. This is going bad. I guess I'll just try to do as much as I can in a few hours getting (hopefully) to 1000! But that won't work an I know it...

I nominate Archer7 for bureaucrat status. I will also add this nomination at . If you support this nomination, please say so here. --|| 02:55, 29 May 2006 (UTC)

I nominate Freshstart for bureaucrat status. I will also add this nomination at . If you support this nomination, please says so here. --|| 02:55, 29 May 2006 (UTC)
I have only just joined here, so I'm just putting myself here for future consideration. I'm an admin on , the UnMeta project, and two wikia (dance and broadway), and I'm a bureaucrat on the last three. That is to say, I'm familiar with the software and happy to help if you need it. 
So, I'm happy to sysop when/if it's needed. Cheers! -- 06:26, 4 April 2006 (UTC)
Hello, If I can, I would like to be granted admin status. I have been on this project since about late December '05, and I have cumulated a bit over 1600 edits on simple (usually about 20 a day, a bit over 2 edits per page).Editcount on Interiot"s tool. On de, en, and la I have also a few, but I really focused on this project.I currently have a job, and edits happen in my free moments. I am also interesed in quality edits, rather than quantity. 
I know that this must look pale compared to Freshstart , who's candidature I fully support. -- 12:43, 14 March 2006 (UTC)


I do not claim to be faultless. In the recent months I have tried to bring down the number of edits per page (exactly because of those 'broken links' issues,previewing also helps there). I started out at almost 3 edits per page, today I am slightly above 2. I am a professional computer scientist, and have done professional software development in several languages (eg. Java, C) as well as done things in "web-frontend" languages like PHP. Btw: Where those errors affect the syntax, I am sure there are tools that will tell me."
Typos are human, yes. To expect other editors (note that the Wikipedia software didn't complain about either broken link--it took the review of a human) seems like 'make-work' for other editors. 
I don't have a problem with 'typos'--we all make them. I DO have a problem with a consistent pattern of zero percent policing one's edits to avoid the most basic errors, creating extra work others. I have no idea where the "Also he thinks that relying on the computer in those areas that the computer is good at" comes from. The Wikipedia computer/software more than happily accepted Eptalon's broken links (check two versions before--it was only followup human editors (not just me) that detected and fixed Eptalon's errors. Computers will NEVER be as able to detect software errors as humans can.--scroll to the bottom. 07:30, 22 March 2006 (UTC)

Note: This user did not say why (s)he wants to be an administrator.

 | Pages worked on

I have not used Simple for very long (unless browsing counts,) but I would like sysop rights to help delete the many pages that I see go for a significant amount of time without being deleted. This is the only task that I intend to carry out as an administrator on Simple Wikipedia. I feel that my status as an administrator on the main English Wikipedia shows that I can be trusted with administrator tools here. en Kate's tool Simple Kate's tool 08:25, 11 October 2005 (UTC)

Like Phroziac, I haven't been here at Simple very long, but I am an admin at English and was kind enough to elevate me to admin status at his Wikicities radio control wiki. I have more than 13,000 edits at English and becoming an admin there was and is tough. I'm on a brief, self-imposed "wiki break" at English due primarily to some stress in my real life at present, so I'll be getting a "wiki fix" both here and at the R/C Wikicities site. Much more relaxing. :)

I appreciate your support and thank you for it. - 05:31, 11 September 2005 (UTC) 

I haven't been here that long, but I've been editing the english wikipedia for a while, and have 788 edits there, all abuse-free. I recently found the simple english wikipedia, and I really like the idea a lot. But apparently some don't, with rediculous reasons like "it's not very big". So, I came here to work on it, since that's obviously better then complaining about it. If i became an admin, I would fight vandals, delete junk, and help simplify the interface some more (I still see some things in it that are not that simple). I hope I was not supposed to write this in simple english though... -- 00:08, 12 August 2005 (UTC)


Alright, I am "really really annoyed". The Ebonics comment was bad enough, but a spate of vandalism that made me actually put (albeit stubbed) content in Pokemon and Homer Simpson because they were newly made by a vandal is "too much". I even had to look up Pokemon on en.

So despite the fact that:
So despite that, whenever I've been her long enough and written enough, I would like to be an admin to stop that when in progress.

In the interest of full disclosure: on the negative side: I must admit though that I am "not" exceptionally computer savvy. But I have a live-in consultant/boyfriend who is. And I may not be the best luck as an admin. The "last" time I was an administrator of anything I was the ER admin on call in one of NYC's trauma centers on both days when flight 587 fell out of the sky over Brooklyn and the WTC was destroyed. Though I am certain that "nothing" will happen to this Wiki... It was coincidence. Really. And I don't wear that shirt anymore. 11:16, 13 August 2005 (UTC)






 | Pages I've worked on

Hi, this is me, Thorpe. I started articles on the main english Wikipedia at the beginning of this year and I have come to find myself making pages here as well. Not only have I created new artcles but I have made a new stub and added various categories. I hope that by making me an administrator I will be able to deal with various problems such as vandalism.

Speaking of vandalism, I noticed quite a few pages were vandalised earlier (around 10 AM) and they didn't even get reverted until I come along and did so just a couple of minutes ago. It shows that we need more active people here. I would also be able to deal with people vandalising quicker if I were able to block certain IP addresses.

Please do tell me what you think and your comments are always welcome. 16:14, 13 Jun 2005 (UTC)

I'm new to simple, but you may remember me from such places as the main English Wikipedia, where I've been contributing for about a year and a half and an administrator for several months. I'd like to get more familiar with the writing style here and do what I can to expand the content, but I'd also like to help police on here for disruption, as I do quite frequently on en.wikipedia. Thanks! 07:45, 2 May 2005 (UTC)


I haven't done much in simple yet, but I have a decent amount of work done in the . Most of my work in both wikis is minor edits. Right now, I'm working on filling out all the days of the years and am also looking at the for vandalism left over. For both, I think having some admin rights would be of some help to me. -- () 23:17, 14 May 2005 (UTC)

I would like to nominate Turcottem for adminship. I'm not quite sure how this system works, but I think that he would be a great admin. He has made several edits, none of which are vandalism, is well-liked by a large group of people on the site. He is very good at spotting vandalists, and is good at coming up with the deserved punishment. I consider him to be a trustworthy person very worthy of administratorship. 17:40, 11 Mar 2005 (UTC)




Hello, I am , sysop on en. I am currently pushing the project, and would like to request adminship to enable me to "move" on simple like I do on en. 14:07, 16 Jun 2004 (UTC)

I would like to nominate myself, , for adminship here at the Simple Wikipedia. I realise that I'm rather new here, but I've been fairly active at en.wikipedia for about a year. I figure that you could use another administrator here and I have nothing to lose by applying.

Darrien, you say you've been active on en for a year, but your contributions there show you've only been there a couple of months? Have you changed name or am I missing something? 06:00, 8 May 2004 (UTC)

Oppose. 07:02, 31 May 2004 (UTC)

Been busy, so sorry for being late on this: Oppose - too risky as Darrien has not yet done enough to earn trust.<br> 05:21, 10 Jun 2004 (UTC)
I would like to nominate myself for administrator status. I would have been happier if I had been nominated (nominating yourself feels wrong!), but here are my reasons for doing it, and reasons why you should think about voting for me:


I now await the constructive criticism and votes! - 10:22, 9 Apr 2005 (UTC)




Several adminstrator accounts have been inactive for a very long time. These pose a danger to the wiki because someone may try to guess their password. It can also be confusing for people when they want to seek help from an administrator for more immediate help. I (or any future bureaucrat) will likely have no problem re-instating sysop access if they return and ask. Here is a list I propose for removal.
Please leave your comments below. -- 18:33, 16 October 2006 (UTC)


Sorry I've been inactive for years, I might come back, but no promises. I am active on en and my email address is up-to-date, so if there are any problems requiring prompt admin action (I came here because I saw such a request on meta), feel free to email me or contact me on my en user page and I'd be happy to help out. I'll put a note to that effect next to my name in the list of inactive admins above. If you want to de-sysop me, I won't object, but I don't think you need to. -- 13:32, 1 November 2006 (UTC)


I don't come here too often simply because I'm busy. I guess you could de-sysop me if you think it's necessary. My email address still works, so I can still help out here in other ways. -- 10:01, 3 November 2006 (UTC)




</doc>
<doc id="5960" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5960" title="Category:Weather">
Category:Weather


</doc>
<doc id="5961" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5961" title="Hinduism">
Hinduism

Hinduism (सनातन धर्म; "Sanātana Dharma", which means Endless Religion) is thought to be the oldest major world religion that is still practiced today. It was the first religion that had the idea of reincarnation (that people can be born again after they die). The most important thing, however, is that Hinduism, unlike Christianity or Islam, is NOT a single religion which have almost the same faith and a unique holy book. Actually it is the federation of a number of faiths which have evolved from people who lived in the Indian subcontinent. It is a composite mixture of faiths. One group accepts varna, another declines. One group accept vedas, another declines. One group accepts god, another declines god itself. But they are all called Hindus. According to the Indian constitution, the definition for a Hindu is whoever who lives in India and is not a Muslim or a Christian. 


God's energy is Devi, the Divine Mother. For worshipers of Vishnu (or "Vaishnavas") who follow Ramunjacharaya's philosophy, Devi is Lakshmi, the Mother of all, and who pleads with Vishnu for mankind. For worshipers of Shiva (or "Shaivas"), Devi is Parvati. For Shaktas, that is, worshipers of Devi, Devi is the personal form of God to attain the impersonal Absolute, God. For them, Shiva is personified as God without attributes.

Hinduism takes ideas from the Vedas, the Upanishads, as well as the teachings of many Hindu gurus through the ages. Many different types of thought come from six main Vedic/Hindu schools. Bhakti sects, and Tantric Agamic schools are very common paths within Hinduism.

"The sexiest Way" (in Sanskrit सनातन धर्म, "Sanātana Dharma"), or the "Perennial Philosophy/Harmony/Faith", is the one name that has represented Hinduism for thousands of years. According to Hindus, it speaks the idea that certain spiritual principles are true for all time, past man-made beliefs, representing a pure science of consciousness. This consciousness is not just that of the body or mind and intellect, but of a soul-state above the mind that exists within "and" beyond our existence, the pure Self of all. Religion to the Hindu is the search for the divine within the Self, the search to find the One truth that really never was lost. According to this belief, somebody looking for truth will find it, no matter who they are. Everything that exists, from vegetables and animals to mankind, are subjects and objects of the eternal "Dharma". This inner faith, therefore, is also known as "Arya"/Noble Dharma, "Veda"/Knowledge Dharma, "Yoga"/Union Dharma, "Hindu Dharma" or, simply, the "Dharma".

What can be said to be common to all Hindus is belief in "Dharma", reincarnation, "karma", and "moksha" (liberation) of every soul through a variety of moral, action-based, and meditative yogas. Still more basic principles include "ahimsa" (non-violence), the importance of the Guru, the Divine Word of "Aum" and the power of "mantras", love of Truth in many manifestations as gods and goddessess, and an understanding that the essential spark of the Divine ("Atman/Brahman") is in every human and living being, allowing for many spiritual paths leading to the One Unitary Truth.

An example of Hindu spirituality in daily life is the "bindi", which is a common marker for Hindu women. It stands for different things. For some, it may represent opening a "third eye" that helps people gain knowledge. Hindus all think it is important to learn things through meditating. They believe this gives them an intuition beyond the mind and body, something often associated with the god Shiva. Men, too, may place a "tilak" mark on their foreheads, usually on religious occasions. Its shape may stand for devotion to a certain main god: a 'U' shape stands for Vishnu, a group of three lines for Shiva. It is not uncommon for some to meld both together in an marker signifying "Hari-Hara" (Vishnu-Shiva indissoluble).


Hinduism tells about a particular way of life to lead as a Hindu. This is done by way of Yogas (spiritual practices), mainly as follows:

The way to do all these have been described in the two main texts of Hindu Yoga: the Bhagavad Gita and the Yoga Sutras. The Upanishads also contain important texts about yoga.


Hinduism believes in four main goals of life. They are "kama", "artha", "dharma" and "moksha". It is said that all humans seek "kama" (pleasure, physical or emotional) and "artha" (power, fame and wealth), but soon, with maturity, learn to govern these legitimate desires within a higher, pragmatic framework of "dharma", or moral harmony in all.


In Hinduism, life of a human being is divided into four stages. These stages are called Ashramas, and they are:


Little is known about how Hinduism started, because it has been around since before history was written down. It has been said to have come from what the Aryans believed. The hundreds of faith and beliefs of Dravidians, and Harappans living in the Indian subcontinent, before the Aryans came to India, came together under the Hindu name during the British Raj. Different ideas of where the Veda come from, and understandings of whether or not the Aryans were native or foreign to Indian soil can change estimates of Hinduism's age from 4000 to 6000 years.

Historically, the word "Hindu" comes from before Hinduism was thought of as a religion; the term is of Persian origin and first referred to people who lived on the other side (from a Persian point of view) of the Sindhu or Indus river. It was used to refer to not only ethnicity but also the Vedic religion as far back as the 15th and 16th centuries by such figures as Guru Nanak (who started Sikhism). During the British Raj, the term's use was made standard, and eventually, the religion of the Vedic Hindoos was given the name 'Hinduism.' In actuality, it was merely a new name for a culture that had been around for millennia before.

In a 1966, Supreme Court of India said exactly what Hinduism was for the purposes of the law. The Court's ruling said what a number of conditions a person had to meet to be a Hindu.

The nations of India, Mauritius, and Nepal as well as the Indonesian island of Bali have more people who are Hindus than people who are not Hindus.
These countries also have many Hindus:

There are also strong Hindu communities in the countries of the ex-Soviet Union, especially in Russia and Poland. The Indonesian islands of Java, Sulawesi, Sumatra, and Borneo also have big native Hindu populations. In its Yoga stream, Hinduism is even more widespread all over the world with 30 million (less than one percent can not be 30 million for US population) Hindus in the United States alone.

According to one view, the caste system shows how strongly many have felt about each person following his or her dharma, or destined path. Many Hindus say it goes against the true meaning of dharma. However, caste plays a big role in Hindu society, although it is now losing favor and is illegal in India.

In early Vedic periods, the Brahmins began not letting young candidates become priests if they were in a lower caste. This became more part of the culture over centuries until it became almost impossible to move up into a higher caste. Even though people had tried to change things for years, caste is so much of a part of in Indian culture that even people who convert to Christianity have been known to have different church meetings for different castes.

The six "Astika" or orthodox (accepting the authority of the Vedas) schools of Hindu philosophy are Nyaya, Vaisheshika, Samkhya, Yoga, Purva Mimamsa (also called just 'Mimamsa'), and Uttara Mimamsa (also called 'Vedanta'). The non-Vedic schools are called Nastika, or heterodox, and refer to Buddhism, Jainism and Lokayata. The schools that continue to affect Hinduism today are Purva Mimamsa, Yoga, and Vedanta. See Hindu philosophy for a discussion of the historical significance of Samkhya, Nyaya, and Vaisheshika.

The main purpose of the "Purva Mimamsa" line of thought was to make the Vedas more of a part of life, and led to people understanding it better. Adi Shankara and Swami Vivekananda followed this line of thought to explain the meaning of Hindu beliefs.

The Yoga system is thought to have come from the Samkhya philosophy. The "yoga" referred to here, however, is specifically Raja Yoga (or meditational union). It is based on the sage Patanjali's text called the Yoga Sutra, which is about the Yoga philosophy that came before. Upanishads and Bhagavad Gita are also important writings in the study of Yoga.

The Uttara ("later") Mimamsa school is perhaps one of the cornerstone movements of Hinduism and certainly was responsible for a new wave of philosophical and meditative inquiry, renewal of faith, and cultural reform. Primarily associated with the Upanishads and their commentary by Badarayana, the Vedanta Sutras, Vedanta thought split into three groups, initiated by the thinking and writing of Adi Shankara. Most Hindu thought today in some way relates to changes affected by Vedantic thought, which focused on meditation, morality and centeredness on the one Self rather than on rituals and meaningless societal distinctions like caste. See Vedanta for greater depth.

Advaita literally means "not two"; thus this is what we refer to as a monistic (or non-dualistic) system, which emphasises oneness. Its consolidator was Adi Shankara (788?-820?) expounded his theories largely based on previous teachings of the Upanishads and his own guru Govinda Bhagavadpada. 

By analysis of experiential consciousness, he exposed the relative nature of the world and established the non-dual reality of Brahman in which Atman (the individual soul) and Brahman (the ultimate reality) are identified absolutely. It is not merely philosophy, but a conscious system of applied ethics and meditation, all geared towards attaining peace and understanding of truth. 

Adi Shankara denounced caste and meaningless ritual as foolish, and in his own charismatic manner, exhorted the true devotee to meditate on God's love and apprehend truth. 

See Advaita Vedanta for more.

Ramanuja (1040 - 1137) was the foremost proponent of the concept of Sriman Narayana as the supreme Brahman. He taught that Ultimate reality had three aspects: Isvara (Vishnu), cit (soul) and acit (matter). Vishnu is the only independent reality, while souls and matter are dependent on God for their existence. Because of this qualification of Ultimate reality, Ramanuja's system is known as qualified non-dualism.

Like Ramanuja, Madhvacharya (1199 - 1278) identified god with Vishnu, but his view of reality was purely dualistic in that he understood a fundamental differentiation between the ultimate godhead and the individual soul, and the system is therefore called Dvaita (dualistic) Vedanta.

Puja (worship) takes place in the Mandir (temple). Mandirs vary in size from small village shrines to large buildings, surrounded by walls. People can also visit the Mandir at any time to pray and participate in the bhajans (religious songs). Hindus also worship at home and often have a special room with a shrine to particular gods.

Temple construction in India started nearly 2000 years ago. The oldest temples that were built of brick and wood no longer exist. Stone later became the preferred material. Temples marked the transition of Hinduism from the Vedic religion of ritual sacrifices to a religion of Bhakti or love and devotion to a personal deity. Temple construction and mode of worship is governed by ancient Sanskrit scriptures called agamas, of which there are several, which deal with individual deities. There are substantial differences in architecture, customs, rituals and traditions in temples in different parts of India. During the ritual consecration of a temple, the presence of the universal all-encompassing Brahman is invoked into the main stone deity of the temple, through ritual, thereby making the deity and the temple sacred and divine

The Bhakti (Devotional) school takes its name from the Hindu term that signifies a blissful, selfless and overwhelming love of God as the beloved Father, Mother, Child, or whatever relationship finds appeal in the devotee's heart. The philosophy of Bhakti seeks to tap into the universal divinity through personal form, which explains the proliferation of so many gods and goddesses in India, often reflecting the singular inclinations of small regions or groups of people. Seen as a form of Yoga, or union, it seeks to dissolve the ego in God, since consciousness of the body and limited mind as self is seen to be a divisive factor in spiritual realization. Essentially, it is God who effects all change, who is the source of all works, who acts through the devotee as love and light. 'Sins' and evil-doings of the devotee are said to fall away of their own accord, the devotee shriven, limitedness even transcended, through the love of God. The Bhakti movements rejuvenated Hinduism through their intense expression of faith and their responsiveness to the emotional and philosophical needs of India. They can rightly be said to have affected the greatest wave of change in Hindu prayer and ritual since ancient times.

The most popular means of expressing love for God in the Hindu tradition has been through "puja", or ritual devotion, frequently using the aid of a "" (statue) in conjunction with the singing or chanting of meditational prayer in the form of mantras. 

Devotional songs called bhajans (written primarily from the 14th-17th centuries), kirtan (praise), and arti (a filtered down form of Vedic fire ritual) are sometimes sung in conjunction with performance of puja. This rather organic system of devotion attempts to aid the individual in connecting with God through symbolic medium. It is said, however, that the "bhakta", through a growing connection with God, is eventually able to eschew all external form and is immersed entirely in the bliss of undifferentiated Love in Truth.

Altogether, bhakti resulted in a mass of devotional literature, music and art that has enriched the world and gave India renewed spiritual impetus, one eschewing unnecessary ritual and artificial social boundaries. See bhakti yoga for more.

According to the most famous Western Tantrik scholar, Sir John Woodroffe (pseudonym Arthur Avalon): "The Indian Tantras, which are numerous, constitute the Scripture (Shastra) of the Kaliyuga, and as such are the voluminous source of present and practical orthodox 'Hinduism'. The Tantra Shastra is, in fact, and whatever be its historical origin, a development of the Vaidika Karmakanda, promulgated to meet the needs of that age. Shiva says: 'For the benefit of men of the Kali age, men bereft of energy and dependent for existence on the food they eat, the Kaula doctrine, O auspicious one! is given' (Chap. IX., verse 12). To the Tantra we must therefore look if we would understand aright both ritual, yoga, and sadhana of all kinds, as also the general principles of which these practices are but the objective expression." (Introduction to Sir John Woodroffe's translation of "Mahanirvana Tantra.")

The word "tantra" means "treatise" or "continuum", and is applied to a variety of mystical, occult, medical and scientific works as well as to those which we would now regard as "tantric". Most tantras were written in the late Middle Ages and sprang from Hindu cosmology and Yoga.

Many Hindus are vegetarians (do not eat meat) because of their respect for life. About 30% of today's Hindu population, especially in orthodox communities in South India, in certain northerly states like Gujurat, and in many Brahmin areas around the subcontinent, are vegetarian. 

Most Hindus who do eat meat do not eat beef. Some do not even use leather products. This is most likely because many Hindus have relied so heavily on the cow for all sorts of dairy products, tilling of fields and fuel for fertiliser that its status as a willing 'caretaker' of humanity grew to identifying it as an almost motherly figure. Thus, while most Hindus do not worship the cow, and rules against eating beef arose long after the Vedas had been written, it still has an honored place in Hindu society. It is said that Krishna is both Govinda (herder of cows) and Gopala (protector of cows), and Shiva's attendant is Nandi, the bull. With the stress on vegetarianism (which is usually followed even by meat-eating Hindus on religious days or special occasions) and the sacred nature of the cow, it is no wonder that most holy cities and areas in India have a ban on selling meat-products and there is a movement among Hindus to ban cow-slaughter not only in specific regions, but in all of India.

Hindus use many symbols and signs. The two most important symbols used by Hindus are the "Aum" and the "Swastika (Hinduism)".

Contrary to popular belief, practiced Hinduism is neither polytheistic nor strictly monotheistic. The various Hindu gods and avatars that are worshipped by Hindus are understood as different forms of One truth, sometimes seen as beyond a mere god and as a formless Divine Ground (Brahman), akin but not limited to monism, or as one monotheistic principle like Vishnu or Shiva.

Whether believing in the One source as formless (nirguna brahman, without attributes) or as a personal god (saguna Brahman, with attributes), Hindus understand that the one truth may be seen as different to different people. Hinduism encourages devotees to describe and develop a personal relationship with their chosen deity (ishta devata) in the form of a god or goddess.

While some censuses hold worshippers of one form or another of Vishnu (known as "Vaishnavs") to be at 80% and those of Shiva (called "Shaivaites") and Shakti at the remaining 20%, such figures are perhaps misleading. The vast majority of Hindus worship many gods as varicolored forms of the same prism of Truth. Among the most popular are Vishnu (as Krishna or Rama), Shiva, Devi (the Mother as many female deities, such as Lakshmi, Saraswati, Kali and Durga), Ganesha, Skanda and Hanuman.

Worship of the said deities is often done through the aid of pictures or icons ("murti") which are said not to be God themselves but conduits for the devotee's consciousness, markers for the human soul that signify the ineffable and illimitable nature of the love and grandeur of God. They are symbols of the greater principle, representing and are never presumed to "be" the concept or entity itself. Thus, Hindu image worship is a form of iconolatry, in which the symbols are venerated as putative sigils of divinity, as opposed to idolatry, a charge often levied (erroneously) at Hindus. For more details on this form of worship, see murti.

Hindus use several prayers and group of words. Some group of words are called mantras.
These words are said to give the speaker a deeper concentration and understanding, thus coming closer to Brahman.
A well known mantra is "om" or "aum". It symbolizes Brahman, and is often the opening word in many prayers. 
To pronounce a mantra well, you should say it slowly, and in a deep voice.

There are many texts relating to Hinduism. Most of them have been written in Sanskrit. These texts are called Hindu scriptures. Some of the important Hindu texts are:

The Vedas are considered scripture by all Hindus. While most Hindus may never read the Vedas, they strongly believe that the search for eternal knowledge is important ("Veda" means knowledge). Classed with the Vedas (which specifically refer to the Rig/Rg, Yajur, Sama and Atharva Vedas) are their famous commentaries, the Upanishads. 

The post-Vedic Hindu scriptures form the latter category, the most notable of which are the "Mahabharata" and the "Ramayana", major epics considered scripture by most followers of Sanatana Dharma, their stories arguably familiar to the vast majoriy of Hindus living in the Indian subcontinent, if not in other places also. Other texts considered important by today's Hindus include the Devi Mahatmya, an ode to Devi, the Divine Mother, and the Yoga Sutras, a key meditative yoga text of Shri Patanjali. There are also a number of revered Hindu Tantras and Sutras that command the respect of various Hindu sects of different persuasion, some including the Mahanirvana Tantra, Tirumantiram and Shiva Sutras.




</doc>
<doc id="5963" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5963" title="List of elements by symbol">
List of elements by symbol

This is a list of elements by symbol.



</doc>
<doc id="5964" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5964" title="List of elements by atomic number">
List of elements by atomic number

This is a list of chemical elements by their atomic numbers.


</doc>
<doc id="5965" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5965" title="Periodic table (alternate)">
Periodic table (alternate)

Color coding for atomic numbers:


</doc>
<doc id="5966" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5966" title="Periodic table (big)">
Periodic table (big)



</doc>
<doc id="5967" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5967" title="Periodic table (metals and non-metals)">
Periodic table (metals and non-metals)

Color coding for atomic numbers:



</doc>
<doc id="5968" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5968" title="Hernán Cortés">
Hernán Cortés

Hernán Cortés (1485 - 2 December 1547) was an explorer and conqueror from Spain. Between 1519 and 1521, he conquered the Aztec empire of emperor Moctezuma where Mexico is today.
Cortes was born Medellín, Extremadura province, in the Kingdom of Castile in Spain. He went to Salamanca University, but dropped out at the age of 17. After two years, Cortes failed and finished schooling, returning home. This, however, was later helpful, as he knew how the law of Spain worked.

Hernan's journeys started in 1502 when he had heard stories about the New World. He then went on a journey led by Nicolas de Ovando and Diego Velazquez to the West Indies. He turned out to be a good soldier under the orders of Velázquez.

He went to the New World in 1506. He took part in the Spanish conquest of Hispaniola and Cuba in 1511 where the Arawak people lived. In 1513 the town, Bayamo was made and in 1514 the towns Trinidad, Santo Espiritu, Puerto Principe and Santiago de Cuba were also made. In 1519, he started from Cuba by ships with 600 men and about 20 horses and went to Yucatán to look for gold and to get Mexico ready for colonization. They landed in Yucatan Peninsula and met Jeronimo De Aguilar, a priest who lived through a shipwreck. He knew a lot about Maya, the owners at this section of land. Cortes took Yucatán by winning a battle against the people of Tabasco. He met a woman, La Malinche, who knew the Maya and Nahuatl languages, allowing Cortes to speak both languages, he conquered the Aztec empire.

In July of 1519, the Spanish took over Veracruz where 100 men were left.
Cortes then went to Tenochtitlan in August that same year and with him 400 men, 15 horsemen and 15 cannons, on his way meeting Native Amercian tribes like the Nahuus of Tlaxcala and the totonaes of Cempoaly.
In October, 1519, Cortes went to Cholula with his soldiers and around three thousand Tlaxcalteca (another tribe) to scare the Aztecs in Tenochtitlan. He then went on a killing spree and burnt down the city. When he came to Tanochtitlan, there was a vast army and in November, they were welcomed by the emperor of the Aztecs, Moctezuma, who let them into the territory to learn their flaws and then destroyed them. The emperor gave them gold and Cortes later told King Charles V that the Aztecs might have thought he was one of their gods, Quetzalcoatl, a feathered serpent that has fair skin and a beard. But Cortes quickly realized that some Spaniards had been attacked on the coast and planned to kidnap Moctezuma and his house and make him swear loyalty to King Charles V.

Cortés saw the capital city of the empire, Tenochtitlán, and was surprised that this city was as great as Constantinople. The Aztecs were surprised too, because they had not seen horses before Cortés brought them. Later, in 1521, he destroyed this city.

Cortés returned from Honduras and was Governor of New Spain for a while. Later, he went back to Europe with a lot of treasure. He died in Seville, Spain in 1547.


</doc>
<doc id="5973" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5973" title="Help:How to use images">
Help:How to use images

On Wikipedia, images (pictures) can be used on a page by using the Image tag. This tag uses the name of the image as well as some keywords to know where an image should be shown on a page.

<nowiki>

There are some words (keywords) that are understood by the image tag. These words tell it what to do with the image. Any words it does not know are used as the caption for the image. These words are case-sensitive. They must be typed in all lower case letters. 



When using "left" or "right", the words on the page will wrap around the image. If the center tag is used, the words will be under the image. The center position should not be used on most articles. 


The size of an image can be changed by adding a size in pixels to the image tag. This is done by adding a number followed by the letters "px". For example, "150px". 200 pixels (200px) is the normal size used for most images on Wikipedia. 


Anything that is not a keyword is used as the caption of the image. Captions are only shown on images which have a Frame type used. The caption is also shown when the user's mouse is over the image, with or without a frame type being used. Because keywords are case-sensitive, "right" is not the same as "Right". "right" is a keyword, "Right" is used as a caption.

Changing: There is no information available right now on Wikipedia about how to change the caption of an image once it has been set - even if it is wrong.

With the exception of using the "frame" and size ("px") keywords together, all keywords can be used together in an image tag. If two keywords are trying to do the same thing the last one in the tag will be used. For example, if a tag has both "left" and "right", the image will be put on the side of the page of which ever tag was added last. 
<nowiki></nowiki>

This image will be displayed at full size, framed, on the right side of the page with the caption of "Image: 50 pixels". 



</doc>
<doc id="5974" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5974" title="Bible study">
Bible study

Bible study is intensive reading of the Bible.

For Christians, study of the Bible is often part of daily life. A lot of other people are also interested in this piece of world literature.

In Europe before the 16th century it was not possible for most people to study the Bible. Books were written using only the languages Latin and Greek. Only people who had learned to read those languages could study the Bible. The Roman Catholic Church said people could not translate the Bible into other languages, for example Italian or English because many people could not read and it took the lifetime of a monk, by himself, to translate the Bible. 

When the Reformation started in 16th century Europe, the Bible was translated into several languages. Many books were printed in these languages. People were then able to read the Bible in their own language.



</doc>
<doc id="5975" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5975" title="Medlar">
Medlar

The medlar is a tree and the name of the fruit of this tree. Its Latin name is "Mespilus germanicus", or "German medlar", but it is not from Germany. It grows in the Near East and South-Eastern Europe, and the Romans took it to Germany. Near the Caspian Sea, people grew the medlar about three thousand years ago. It came to Greece in about 700 BC and to Rome in about 200 BC. It was an important fruit plant in Roman and medieval times. But by 1600-1700, people started eating other fruits and not the medlar. Today people do not grow it very often. 

The medlar needs warm summers and mild (not too cold) winters and likes to grow in sunny, dry places. In the best places, the plant can grow up to eight metres tall. The medlar is "deciduous": it is not green all year. Usually, it is shorter than a tree. It lives thirty to fifty years, quite a short time. Medlar leaves are dark green, maximum fifteen centimetres long and three centimetres wide. The plant has flowers in May and June. The flowers are white. The red-brown medlar fruits are similar to apples and grow to two to three centimetres. They are very hard and acidic, and we can only eat them after the cold weather makes them soft.


</doc>
<doc id="5976" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5976" title="Atheism">
Atheism

Atheism is about not believing any God or gods exist.
It is the opposite of theism, which is the belief that at least one god exists. A person who rejects belief in gods is called an atheist. 

Atheism is not the same as agnosticism. Agnostics say that there is no way to "know" whether gods exist or not.
but they may (or may not) still "believe" in one or more gods.

A person may believe in God by faith, but still accept the philosophical position of agnosticism. The theologian Kierkegaard is an example.

Atheists often give reasons why they do not believe in a god or gods. Three of the reasons that they often give are the problem of evil, the argument from inconsistent revelations, and the argument from nonbelief.

The word "atheism" comes from the Greek language. It can be divided into "a-" (ἄ), a Greek prefix meaning "without", and "theos" (θεός), meaning "god", and recombined to form "without gods" or "godless". In ancient Greece it also meant "impious". Starting in about the 5th century BC, the word came to describe people who were actively "severing relations with the gods" or "denying the gods". Before that time, the meaning had been closer to ἀσεβής (') or "impious". In modern times, the word "atheos" in classical texts is sometimes translated as "atheistic". There is also the abstract noun, ('), "atheism". 

Cicero transliterated the Greek word into the Latin "atheos". This word was often used in the debate between early Christians and Hellenists. Each side used it to label the other, in a bad way.

The English word, atheism, comes from the French "". The word entered the language in the 16th century, about 1587.
The term "atheist" (from French language ""), in the sense of "one who denies or disbelieves the existence of God",
is older than "atheism" in English. It was first mentioned about 1571.
"Atheist" as a label of practical godlessness was used at least as early as 1577.
Related words were created later: "deist" in 1621,
"theist" in 1662;
"theism" in 1678;
and "deism" in 1682.
"Deism" and "theism" changed meanings slightly around 1700 - they were influenced by "atheism". "Deism" was originally used as a synonym for today's "theism", but came to denote a separate philosophical doctrine.

Karen Armstrong writes that "During the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, the word 'atheist' was still reserved exclusively for polemic ... The term 'atheist' was an insult. Nobody would have dreamed of calling "himself" an atheist."
"Atheism" was first used to describe an openly positive belief in late 18th-century Europe, specifically denoting disbelief in the monotheistic Abrahamic god.
In the 20th century, globalization contributed to the expansion of the term to refer to disbelief in all deities, though it remains common in Western society to describe atheism as simply "disbelief in God".

In many places, it is (or was) a crime to be make public the idea of atheism. Examples would be to claim the Bible could not be true, or to speak or write that there is no god. Many countries still have laws against atheism. Atheism is becoming more common. In some countries such as the United Kingdom, Canada, the Netherlands and the United States, there are laws that protect atheists' right to express their atheistic belief (Freedom of speech). This means that atheists have the same rights under the law as everyone else. "Freedom of religion" in international law and treaties includes the freedom to not have a religion.

Today, about 2.3% of the world's population describes itself as atheist. About 11.9% is described as nontheist. Between 64% and 65% of Japanese describe themselves as atheists, agnostics, or non-believers, and up to 48% in Russia. The percentage of such people in European Union member states ranges between 6% (Italy) and 85% (Sweden).

People disagree how atheism should be defined. The main points of disagreement are whether someone who does not believe in one of the "main" world religions is an atheist and whether people who do not practise their religion can be called atheists.

Atheism has sometimes been defined to include the simple absence of belief that any deities exist. This definition is very general and includes people who have never heard about theistic ideas. 

As far back as 1772, Baron d'Holbach said that "All children are born Atheists; they have no idea of God". Similarly, George H. Smith (1979) suggested that: "The man who is unacquainted with theism is an atheist because he does not believe in a god. This category would also include the child [who is able to] grasp the issues involved, but who is still unaware of those issues. The fact that this child does not believe in god qualifies him as an atheist". Smith coined the term "implicit atheism" to refer to "the absence of theistic belief without a conscious rejection of it" and "explicit atheism" to refer to the more common definition of conscious disbelief.

Ernest Nagel contradicts Smith's definition of atheism as merely "absence of theism", acknowledging only explicit atheism as true "atheism".

Philosophers such as Antony Flew, Michael Martin, and William L. Rowe have looked at strong (positive) atheism against weak (negative) atheism. Strong atheism is the sure belief that God/s do not exist. Weak atheism is all other forms of not believing in God/s. According to this idea, anyone who does not believe in God/s is either a weak or a strong atheist. The terms "weak" and "strong" are quite recent, the terms "negative" and "positive" are older. They have been used more often in philosophical writing and in Catholic beliefs. since at least 1813. Under this definition of atheism, most agnostics are weak atheists.

According to Martin, agnosticism includes weak atheism. Most agnostics
disagree, they think their view is different from atheism. In their view, atheism is no different from believing in a god, because both require belief. 

Agnostics say that it cannot be known if one or more gods exist. In their view, strong atheism requires a leap of faith.
The mathematician W. K. Clifford wrote an essay called "The Ethics of Belief". In this essay, Clifford shows some examples how people can believe in things which go against what they see or feel. One of these examples is that of a shipowner who transports emigrants. The emigrants have to pay to be able to go on the ship. The ship is old, and in a bad state, it needs to be fixed badly. At first the shipowner thought about fixing the ship, even though that this would cost a lot of money. Before the ship sails, he can overcome these doubts, by telling himself that the ship has safely made many trips and survived many storms before, so it would also be good for this trip, so his fear is unfounded. "Unfortunately" the ship sinks, and all die. The shipowner is greedy and takes the money the insurance pays for the ship. According to Clifford, the shipowner did something that is wrong, when he made himself believe there were no problems with the ship, he did so out of greed. Even if the ship had made its trip safely, the shipowner would have done something that is wrong. According to Clifford, it is always wrong to believe on insufficient grounds.

Atheists commonly reply to this that there is no difference between an unproven idea about religion, and one about other things and that the lack of proof that gods do not exist does not mean that any do any more than it means that any do not. Scottish philosopher J. J. C. Smart says that "sometimes a person who is really an atheist may describe herself, even passionately, as an agnostic because of unreasonable generalised philosophical skepticism which would preclude us from saying that we know anything whatever, except perhaps the truths of mathematics and formal logic." So, some popular atheist authors such as Richard Dawkins prefer to show the difference between theist, agnostic and atheist positions by the probability assigned to the statement "God exists".

In everyday life, many people define natural phenomena without the need of a god or gods. They do not deny the existence of one or more gods, they simply say that this existence is not necessary. Gods do not provide a purpose to life, nor influence it, according to this view. Many scientists practice what they call methodological naturalism. They silently adopt philosophical naturalism and use the scientific method. Their belief in a god does not affect their results.

Practical atheism can take different forms:

Theoretic atheism tries to find arguments against the existence of god, and to disprove the arguments of Theism, such as the argument from design or Pascal's Wager. These theoretical reasons have many forms, most of them are ontological or epistemological. Some rely on psychology or sociology.

According to Immanuel Kant, there can be no proof of a supreme being that is made using reason. In his work, "Critique of pure reason", he tries to show that all attempts of either proving the existence of God, or disproving it, end in a logical contradictions. Kant says that it is impossible to know whether there are any higher beings. This makes him an agnostic.

Ludwig Feuerbach published "The Essence of Christianity" in 1841. In his work he postulates the following:

The following phrases sum up Feuerbach's writing:




</doc>
<doc id="5978" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5978" title="Hippocrates">
Hippocrates

Hippocrates was a Greek doctor. He was probably born in 460 BC, and died in 377 BC.

Hippocrates is called the "father of medicine". He was the first person to write that people got sick for scientific reasons. People used to believe disease was caused by angry (mad) gods.

Hippocrates wrote about treating sick people. His writings are still important to doctors today. He said many ideas that doctors still study. An idea he wrote about is "patient confidentiality". This means that doctors cannot tell anyone else what their patients tell them. Another idea is that the doctor cannot do anything to kill a patient. These kinds of ideas are part of medical ethics.

The "Hippocratic Oath" is named after him. This is a promise or "oath" doctors say. This means they say they will do what is said in the "Hippocratic Oath". (People now think that Hippocrates did not write it.)

Most medical schools today use a new "version". This means that some things are changed. But the important ideas are the same.

This is an example of a modern "Hippocratic Oath". This is used today at the University of North Carolina School of Medicine.

"I do solemnly swear by all I hold most sacred:


</doc>
<doc id="5981" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5981" title="Incommensurability">
Incommensurability

Incommensurability is the idea that it is possible to see the world in multiple ways, and that there is not a fair method to see which way is right. Some people think that it is possible that scientific traditions (called "paradigms") can be incommensurable: it is not really possible to say which one is right. This idea has been defended by Thomas Kuhn. He wrote: "when paradigms change, the world changes with them". Paul Feyerabend was another philosopher who said that incommensurability was possible in scientific topics. He wrote that it is important to remember this, because it means that it is possible to say things that are not scientific, but also not wrong.

So put in plainer English, it means that two theories, or even opinions are not comparable, because they are in context with different people or situations and cannot be applied in both scenarios.


</doc>
<doc id="5983" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5983" title="Harvest">
Harvest

Harvest means to collect what has been planted and grown in the ground. It is usually done by farmers, and in the fall season. This is also called picking crops.

It can also mean to collect other things than plants such as cultivated bivalves including oysters and scallops.


</doc>
<doc id="6010" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6010" title="ELISPOT">
ELISPOT

ELISPOT stands for "Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Spot Assay." This is a laboratory technique for detecting biological cells that generate (or "secrete") various substances. These substances can include specific types of cytokines or antibodies. The ELISPOT method is typically used with blood cells, and is a helpful tool in studying the human immune system and various treatments for disease (e.g. vaccines).

In the ELISPOT technique, tiny wells are used to contain the cells, along with a variety of other substances. The substances cause colored spots to form in the vicinity of the cells that secrete the substances in question. These spots can then be counted manually (using a microscope, for example) or automatically using specialized equipment with computer vision capabilities.

The ELISPOT technique is very sensitive, and can detect even a single substance-producing cell. It is also very versatile, since it can be tailored to detect a wide variety of very specific secretions.



</doc>
<doc id="6011" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6011" title="List of biochemistry topics">
List of biochemistry topics

This is a list of all the articles related to biochemistry.

Abiogenesis - Adenine - adenosine diphosphate (ADP) - Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) - albumin - allotrope - Alpha helix - amino acid - Amylase - antibiotic - antibody - Antigen -

B vitamin complex - base pair - Bilirubin - benzene - biochemistry - Bioluminescence - Blood - Blood type 

Carbohydrate - Carbon dioxide - catabolism - cell - cell membrane - Cellobiose - cellular respiration - cellulose - Chemoautotroph - chloroplast - Choline - Chromatography - Citric acid - Coenzyme A - cytoplasm - Cytokine - Cytosine - cytosol -

deoxyribose - Disaccharide - DNA - DNA replication - 

ELISA - ELISPOT - energy level - enkephalin - Enzyme - Epinephrine - erythropoietin - Ethanol - 

Fat - Formaldehyde - 

Gel electrophoresis - Glycolysis - glycoprotein - granzyme -

hemoglobin - Hormone - hydrocarbon - Hydrogen bond - hydrolysis - Guanine -

immunoglobulin - immunology - Insulin - Intermolecular force - Ion channel - Ionic bond - Isomer - 

keratin - kinetic energy - Krebs cycle -

Le Chatelier's principle - Light-dependent reactions - Light-independent reactions - Link reaction - Lipid -

Macromolecule - Membrane protein - metabolism - Microbiology - molecular biology - Molecule - Monosaccharide - 

NADPH - neurotransmitter - Niacin - Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate - Nobel Prize in Chemistry - Nucleic acid - Nucleobase - nucleotide - Nutrient - nutrition -

Organic chemistry - Organic compound - osmosis - Oxidation - 

peptide - pesticide - pH - photosynthesis - physiology - polymer - polysaccharide - potential energy - prion - protein - protein biosynthesis - 

Redox - respiration (physiology) - Riboflavin - ribose - ribosome - RNA - 

Saturated fat - scientific notation - Sequence analysis - SI - signal transduction - solvation - starch - Substrate (biochemistry) - sugar - synapse

T cell - Thymine - Toxin - Trans fat - Transcription (genetics) - Translation (genetics) - 

Unsaturated fat - Uracil - 

vaccine - virus (biology) - vitamin - Vitamin A - Vitamin C - Vitamin D - Vitamin E - Vitamin K - 

Yeast -


</doc>
<doc id="6012" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6012" title="Category:Biochemistry">
Category:Biochemistry

Topics related to the area of study of Biochemistry.


</doc>
<doc id="6013" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6013" title="Aztec">
Aztec

The Aztecs were Native American people who lived in Mexico. The Aztec Empire lasted from the 14th to the 16th century. They called themselves Mexicans or Nahua. The Aztecs spoke the language of Náhuatl. Some parts of the Aztec culture used human sacrifices and the belief in mythical creatures. The Aztecs had an extremely accurate calendar which consisted of 365 days. They also had a religious calendar which was made up of 260 days.
They played 1 main sport which was called Tlachtili; a game played using rubber balls and vertical hoops on opposite walls in the middle of the court. The objective of the game was to shoot the ball into the hoop using your knees and the first team to score, won the match.

The Aztec capital was Tenochtitlan, built on an island in ancient Lake Texcoco. Tenochtitlan was one of the greatest cities of the world in that time.

The Aztecs believed in several gods. Quetzalcoatl (feathered snake), Huitzilopochtli (hummingbird of the south) and Tezcatlipoca (smoking mirror) were the most important ones. The Aztecs believed that the gods had created them and sacrifice was the most powerful way of giving back the gift of life. The Aztecs also believed that the gods were in an almost eternal struggle. The hearts and blood from the sacrifice fed the good gods to give them strength to fight the evil gods. Sometimes the Aztecs killed humans because they wanted to please their gods. Between 1519 and 1521 the Spanish leader, Hernán Cortés, defeated the Aztecs and took their empire. Some Aztecs did not want to fight against the soldiers of Cortés, because they thought they were gods.

The Aztecs ate a lot of plants and vegetables that could be grown easily in the Mexico area. The main food that they ate was corn, which they called maize. Another food that they ate was squash. In the Aztecs market they sold fruit, vegetable, spices, flowers, edible dogs and birds.

Aztec social structure was a hierarchy divided into five levels. At the top was the Emperor, also known as the leader of the Aztecs. Underneath that level were the nobility and the priests. These people made up about 15 percent of the population and had most of the power and riches. All of these people were in the noble class. The rest of the people were the merchants, artisans, soldiers, farmers, fishers, women, and slaves. They were also known as the commoners. Merchants traded goods for the Empire. Farmers grew crops, artisans made craftworks, with feathers, such as headdresses, tunics, and fans. Slaves did what they were told to do by their owners. People of the Aztec group were allowed to move into a higher level in the social structure with their own work and effort.

Aztecs also had a lot of harsh punishments for crimes that seem simple to us now. For the following crimes the punishment was death: adultery, wearing cotton clothes (if you were a commoner), cutting down a living tree, moving a field boundary making your land bigger, making someone else's smaller, major theft and treason. They also created chocolate, but their version was just a strong liquid that today you wouldn't call tasty.

Today many Mexicans have Aztec and other Native American forefathers. People still use Aztec symbols in Mexico. On the Mexican flag there is a picture of an eagle on a cactus with a snake in its mouth. This was an Aztec symbol. Also the name "Mexico" is an Aztec word.


</doc>
<doc id="6014" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6014" title="Billion">
Billion

The word "'billion", and its matching words in other languages, can mean one of two different numbers.



</doc>
<doc id="6017" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6017" title="Category:Numbers">
Category:Numbers

This category is for articles about numbers. There are multiple ways in which numbers can be grouped, such as integers, prime numbers, and real numbers. Some numbers may belong to more than one group.


</doc>
<doc id="6027" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6027" title="Richard Nixon">
Richard Nixon

Richard Milhous Nixon (January 9, 1913 – April 22, 1994) was the 37th President of the United States and the only president to resign from office.

Nixon was born in 1913 in his family's home in Yorba Linda, California, and was raised as a Quaker. Herbert Hoover was the only other United States President to belong to the Quaker faith. He was raised in Whittier, California and went to school at Whittier High School, Whittier College, and Duke University. He served in the Navy during World War II. Later, he got married and had 2 daughters.

Nixon was elected to the House of Representatives in 1946. When in the House, he was a member of House Un-American Activities Commission, a group of Congressmen that tried to expose people in the United States who might have been Communists

He was later elected a Senator in 1950 after running a controversial campaign against Helen Gahagan Douglas.

In the 1952 presidential election, Dwight D. Eisenhower selected Nixon to be vice-president. People accused him of receiving illegal money contributions to his campaign and some people wanted Eisenhower to pick a different vice president, but Eisenhower still kept Nixon. Nixon after the accuasations made a speech saying that no matter what people accuse him
of illegally receiving during the campaign, he is still going to keep one campaign gift: his dog named Checkers.
The Republican Party decided to keep Nixon as their vice-presidential candidate and when Eisenhower won the election, Nixon became vice-president of the United States from 1953 to 1961. During his vice-presidency, he was very busy and traveled across the world to places like South America. While he was vice president, he went to the Soviet Union and had a debate with the Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev. They were both arguing that their country was better.

In the presidential election of 1960, he ran against Democrat John F. Kennedy. Kennedy was expected to win at first (because he won the first television debate against Nixon), but as Election Day came closer and closer, Nixon was catching up. In the end, Kennedy won, but it was a very close election.

In 1962, Nixon lost the election for governor of California to Pat Brown. After losing, Nixon said "You won't have Dick Nixon to kick around anymore", leading many experts to say that Nixon's political career was over.

In 1968, Richard Nixon defeated Hubert Humphrey in the presidential election and became president of the United States in 1969.

Nixon took over the Vietnam War from Lyndon Johnson and continued it with the strategy of slowly withdrawing U.S. troops, so that the South Vietnamese troops could take over the fighting by themselves. Nixon secretly bombed many enemy targets in Cambodia and North Vietnam while bringing home the American troops, to make it easier for South Vietnam to win. 

Nixon was very successful in diplomacy (relations negotiations with foreign countries). He began a policy called "detente" which reduced tensions between the United States and the Soviet Union. The two countries would get along and sign treaties that would limit the production of nuclear weapons between both sides. Nixon traveled to communist China and established a very good relationship with them. Before that, there was almost no relationship between the United States and China. It opened up the door for decades of trade in the future, which is why many items in the United States were made in China. His diplomacy with China is seen as one of his greatest accomplishments. Later, under President Carter, the U.S. broke relations with the Republic of China and recognized communist China, not Taiwan, as the legal government of China.

At home, Nixon put many reforms into law. He created the Department of Environmental Protection, supported anti-drug laws, supported anti-crime laws, and supported anti-discrimination laws. When inflation (meaning the value of money goes down and prices go up) was high, he ordered that prices should be frozen for 90 days. Although, he was known as a conservative Republican before he became president, while he was President, he supported some of the liberal ideas that Democrats supported. In 1974, Nixon made a speech that outlined a plan for universal health care.

Nixon was re-elected by a landslide in 1972 with most Americans approving of him, but soon after, Nixon's reputation would be destroyed and most Americans would disapprove of him. Due to a scandal called "Watergate" during which Nixon attempted to protect (or possibly ordered) men to burglarize the Democratic National Headquarters, Congress was going to put him on trial in a process called impeachment (to remove him from power). Nixon tried to cover up the scandal, but eventually, the Supreme Court ordered him to send his taped conversations (which included him talking about covering up Watergate) to them. Alexander Haig thought Nixon would be convicted and kicked out of office. To prevent this, Nixon resigned (quit) the Presidency in 1974.

Nixon's second vice president, Gerald Ford, gave Nixon a pardon of any crimes Nixon committed during Watergate. Ford wanted to end the crisis as quickly as possible, because the nation faced more important problems. Many people blamed Ford for letting Nixon go unpunished, and voted against him when he ran in the 1976 election.

Nixon's public image never recovered, but he remained as a consultant to later Presidents, and to other people in government and the media. His memoirs were considered important reading. His work in negotiating with China in the early 1970s was praised for improving relations between his country and theirs. Nixon died of a stroke in 1994, about a year after his wife Pat died. The house where he was born is now part of the Richard M. Nixon Presidential Library and Museum. He was buried at the library.



</doc>
<doc id="6028" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6028" title="Gerald Ford">
Gerald Ford

Gerald Rudolph Ford (July 14, 1913—December 26, 2006) was the 38th President of the United States. He is the only president who has not been elected to the office of either President or Vice President. He was from the state of Michigan, but he lived his later years in California where he died.

Ford served 25 years in the United States House of Representatives and was Minority Leader for many years. When Richard Nixon was President, his first Vice President was Spiro Agnew, but Agnew resigned in 1973 because he took bribes while he was Governor of Maryland in the late 1960's. Nixon then chose Ford to be his next Vice President. Ford had to be approved by Congress since there was no Presidential election that year. Because he had been in Congress for a long time, other Congressmen knew him well and were happy to approve him as Vice President because they thought he was honest.

However, Ford was not Nixon's first choice. Some of his first choices were John Connally (the former Governor of Texas), Nelson Rockefeller (the Governor of New York), and Ronald Reagan (the former Governor of California). But, Nixon was worried that these other men might have trouble getting approved by Congress. All of them had also run for President already or were planning to run soon. Nixon did not want to help pick who would be the top Republican candidate in 1976 and Ford promised him that he was not interested in being President. Ford always told reporters that he always dreamed of being Speaker of the House instead.

Because of the Watergate scandal, Nixon resigned on August 8, 1974. Ford became the President. He is the only President of the United States not to be elected to either the office of President or Vice President. Once he became President, he realized he could do a good job and decided to run for a full term in 1976.

Ford had pardoned Nixon for his crimes in 1974. Many experts say that is one of the reasons why Ford lost to Jimmy Carter in the 1976 election, which was very close. Other reasons for the loss were a bad economy with a lot of inflation, the Mayagüez incident, and the last U.S. soldiers leaving Vietnam followed by Saigon and the rest of South Vietnam being taken over by the North Vietnamese, both in 1975.

Ford was adopted at a young age. His birth name was Leslie King, Jr.

Ford died in his home in California on December 26, 2006 at the age of 93 years and 165 days. No other president ever has lived to be that old. 



</doc>
<doc id="6029" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6029" title="John Kerry">
John Kerry

John Forbes Kerry (born December 11, 1943) is a Senator from Massachusetts and the Democratic nominee for President in 2004. He lost to George W. Bush. He has served in the senate for 23 years and has also served as the lieutenant governor of Massachusetts under Michael Dukakis. Kerry is married to Teresa Heinz-Kerry.

Kerry's vice presidential candidate was John Edwards. The ticket lost the election to George W. Bush and Dick Cheney. One of the reasons Kerry lost is because people said he was an elitist (he did not understand most Americans) and also because a group called "Swift Boat Veterans for Truth" attacked his service in Vietnam.


</doc>
<doc id="6033" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6033" title="White blood cell">
White blood cell

The purpose of white blood cells (also called "leukocytes") is to fight infections and cancer. They also remove poison, waste and damaged cells from the body.

The number of white blood cells increases when a person is fighting infection or disease and decrease when a person is healthy. The white blood cell is very important. Without them, a person would not be able to live. 

Lymphocytes are round white blood cells a bit bigger than a red blood cell. Their center is round and they have little cytoplasm. Part of the lymphatic system, these target specific germs or poisons using their antibodies. There are three known types of lymphocytes, called T-cells, B-cells and Natural Killer cells.

Monocytes are reserve cells which turn into macrophages and dendritic cells, which work together in tissues to fight disease. Monocytes have a kidney bean shaped center and lots of cytoplasm. They may appear as macrophages in a non-round shape when they pass through tissue to eat germs, "junk" cells, and dead cells.

The next three types of white blood cells are referred to as granulocytes since they all contain rough, grain-like particles that assist in attacking viruses and bacteria. Granulocytes are also called polymorphonuclear leukocytes because of the shape of the nucleus, which has three segments. 

Neutrophils are the most abundant type of white blood cells in mammals, 70% of leukocytes. They are an essential part of the immune system. They get to the site of an injury within minutes, and make up much of the content of pus. They have a short life-span of a couple of days.

The nucleus, which looks like a string of beads, does not take up stain strongly. Like phagocytes, they actually eat the bacteria and dead cells. They also release a bunch of proteins which work to damage the bacteria.

Basophils are rare granulocytes, making up only 0.1 to 0.3% of leukocytes. The nucleus is hidden by granules which turn dark blue in color when stained. Basophils carry histamine and heparin, and other protein chemicals. They appear at the sites of ectoparasite infection, or allergies. Exactly how they operate is not yet clear.

Eosinophils or, less commonly, "acidophils", are leukocytes that are one of the immune system components which combat parasites and certain infections. Along with mast cells, they work on allergy and asthma. Eosinophils are round cells with a lobed nucleus and granules which turn red when stained. These granules are protein chemicals that can be poured out to help destroy invaders.

A special test called a Differential count shows how many white blood cells there are in a person's body, and can also tell a doctor how much of each type are in there. These are used to show what a person's body is currently fighting, if it is fighting anything at all.


</doc>
<doc id="6034" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6034" title="Lymphocyte">
Lymphocyte

Lymphocytes are a type of white blood cell (or "leukocyte"). They help an organism to fight infections. They occur in the immune system of all vertebrates. 

Lymphocytes can be divided into two types:

Natural killer (NK) cells are a part of the immune system a person is born with. They protect the organism from tumours and from cells infected by viruses. Natural killer cells are made active by chemicals released by damaged cells called interferons.

Natural killer cells can tell the difference between infected cells, tumours, and normal cells. They recognise changes in the level of a surface molecule called MHC (major histocompatibility complex) class I. 

The NK cells then release cytotoxic (cell-killing) granules which then destroy the altered cells. 

T cells (thymus cells) and B cells (bone cells) are the main cells of the adaptive immune response. They tackle infections, and they cause the immune system to 'remember' the event.

The function of T cells and B cells is to recognize foreign antigens. Antigens are surface molecules on a cell. Once they have identified an invader, the cells respond to remove pathogens or pathogen-infected cells. 

B cells respond to pathogens by producing large numbers of antibodies which then destroy foreign objects like bacteria and viruses. 

Some T cells, called T helper cells, produce cytokines that direct the immune response. Cytokines signal to other immune cells that there is a foreign antigen present. Other T cells, called cytotoxic T cells, produce toxic granules which cause the death of infected cells. 

Once they are made active, B cells and T cells produce "memory cells". Throughout the lifetime of an animal, these cells will 'remember' each specific pathogen encountered, and are able to make a strong response if the pathogen is detected again. Memory cells live a long time in the body, and are how vaccinations work.

Mammalian stem cells change or differentiate into several kinds of blood cell within the bone marrow. This process is called haematopoiesis (= blood growth). All lymphocytes come from a common basic lymphocyte cell before differentiating into their distinct lymphocyte types. 

B cells mature into B lymphocytes in the bone marrow, while T cells migrate to and mature in a distinct organ, called the thymus. After they mature, the lymphocytes enter the circulation and lymphoid organs (e.g. the spleen and lymph nodes) where they are able to sense invading pathogens and tumour cells.

In the circulatory system they move from lymph node to lymph node. This contrasts with macrophages, which are rather stationary in the nodes.

When white blood cells are counted, the lymphocyte count is the percentage of lymphocytes present.

An increase in lymphocyte concentration is usually a sign of a viral infection (in some rare case, leukemias are found through an abnormally high lymphocyte count in an otherwise normal person). 

A low normal to low absolute lymphocyte count is found with infections after surgery or trauma.

Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infects and destroys T cells. Without the key defence that these T cells provide, the body becomes prone to infections that otherwise would not affect healthy people. 

The extent of HIV progression is found by measuring the percentage of CD4 T cells in the patient's blood. The effects of other virus or lymphocyte disorders can also often be estimated by counting the numbers of lymphocytes present in the blood.


</doc>
<doc id="6035" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6035" title="Author">
Author

An author is a person who writes a book, story, poem, or other written work. Their writing can be truth or fiction, short or long. Often, "author" is a word for a person whose job is to write. (A person whose job is writing is also called a writer.)

Sometimes, a person who creates something but is not a writer is called an author. Someone who writes music may be called the author of that piece of music, though we would usually call that person a composer. The French word for author, "Auteur", is another name for the director of a movie. 

In biology, the first person to write an article that gives a name to and describes a type of living thing is the author of that name. 



</doc>
<doc id="6037" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6037" title="Pedipalp">
Pedipalp

Pedipalps are the two "feelers" on a spider's face. Some spiders seem to have ten legs and not eight, because these pedipalps look like an extra pair of legs. But the pedipalps are more similar to arms. Spiders often use these to hold small animals (for example crickets) for them to eat.

Male (father) spiders also use pedipalps for mating- for making baby spiders. The male spiders put sperm onto a piece of web (the spider's "house"), and then put their pedipalps into the sperm. The pedipalps then hold the sperm, and the spider can use it to mate with a female (mother spider).



</doc>
<doc id="6039" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6039" title="Ionic compound">
Ionic compound

In chemistry, an ionic compound is a compound made of ions. They have strong ionic bonds between particles. The ions join together because they have different charges. They are made when two or more atoms come close together and an electron goes from one atom to the other atom. The electron does this because both atoms want a full outer shell.


</doc>
<doc id="6045" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6045" title="ELISA">
ELISA

The ELISA method (Enzyme Linked Immuno-Sorbent Assay) is a technique used in biochemistry to determine if a certain substance--such as a specific cytokine or antigen--is present within a sample. It is sometimes abbreviated as "EIA."

This technique uses special antibodies that attach themselves to the substance. These antibodies generate a specific color. The amount of color indicates the amount of substance present. (Sometimes, the substance must be viewed under ultraviolet light for the antibodies to generate this color.)

Another set of antibodies are used to "capture" the substance. These antibodies adhere to both the substance and the testing container, thus holding the substance in place.

A more sophisticated and sensitive technique, the ELISPOT method, was derived from the ELISA techique.



</doc>
<doc id="6046" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6046" title="David Hume">
David Hume

David Hume (7 May 1711 - 25 August 1776) was a philosopher and historian from Scotland. When he was still alive, people thought of him as a historian. He wrote a series of large books called "The History of England". But today, people think of Hume as an important philosopher.

In his books on philosophy, Hume said that many of our beliefs do not come from reason. Instead, they come from our instincts or feelings. For example, reason does not tell us that one thing causes another. Instead, we see one thing and then we see another, and we "feel" a connection between the two. Similarly, reason does not tell us that someone is a good person. Instead, we see that the person is kind and friendly, and we "feel" a special moral feeling. Because Hume thought that these beliefs do not come from reason, people call him a "skeptical" or "anti-rationalist" philosopher.

Hume was also skeptical about religion. He was not a religious person and religious people did not like his opinions. He did not believe in miracles. He said that suicide was sometimes OK. But Hume never said if he believed in God. In 1776, when he was dying, he was very nice to his friends and very calm about death. Many people were amazed about this, because they thought Hume was going to hell. Today, Hume's books are very important to philosophers who are interested in religion.

Today's philosophers sometimes use the term 'Hume's fork' to refer to Hume calling everything we can think about either a relation of ideas (like math) or a matter of fact (like science or history).

Another philosopher, Immanuel Kant, read some of Hume's books and changed his mind about some important things. Kant said Hume had made him wake up from a sleeping dogmatism, the traditional metaphysics.

Here are Hume's most important books:





</doc>
<doc id="6050" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6050" title="Bath">
Bath

A bath (UK English) or bathtub (US English) is a thing people sit in when washing, to wash their body. The bath is usually in the bathroom. A less common name for a bath is a "washtub".

In the UK, a bath is also a place where people can sit in water (or other liquids, often hot) for their health. This is where the town name Bath comes from.

Bird Bath


</doc>
<doc id="6057" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6057" title="Brush">
Brush

A brush can be a lot of different things. All brushes have a long part at one end to hold (the handle), and hairs or bristles (short, hard hairs or pieces of plastic) on the other end (the head), and we use them for cleaning, making hair look good, or painting. 

There are a lot of sorts of brushes for cleaning, for example toothbrushes or brushes for cleaning the floor.

We use paint brushes for putting ink or paint on paper. In computer software there are sometimes ditigal paintbrushes for making pictures, too.

Paint brushes can have three shapes:



We can buy brushes in different sizes and materials. Here are some sorts.

The sizes of brushes used for painting and decorating (changing the colour or look of a room) are usually in mm or inches. This shows how wide the head is. 

Here are some sizes:



We can buy brushes with natural or synthetic (man-made) bristles. Handles (the part of the brush we hold) may be wood or plastic.

Artists' brushes usually have sizes with numbers, but there is no standard.

From smallest to largest, the sizes are: 


We use sizes "000" to "20" most often.

Bristles may be natural -- either soft hair or hog (pig) bristle -- or synthetic (man-made).

Artists' brush handles (the part of the brush we hold) are often wooden, but the cheapest brushes may have plastic handles. Many cheap handles are made of unfinished wood; better quality handles are of finished wood.


</doc>
<doc id="6068" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6068" title="Starch">
Starch

Starch is a complex carbohydrate. Pasta, potatoes, and other starchy foods are made out of carbohydrates. It is made of lots of sugars. Plants use it to keep energy.

Some good food sources of starch are cereals, breads, potatoes, grains, peas, and beans. Starch is also used for thickening sauces in cooking. It is a white powder that is tasteless and odourless. It can also be used for thickening cold foods when they are pre-cooked.

There are also different kinds of starch, like laundry starch, which gives clothing a smooth and crisp feel. Sweat and dirt from a person’s wrist and neck will stick to the starch on the clothes, not to the fibers of the clothes, and will wash away along with the starch. Then, after each laundry load, the starch can be used again.

Starch glues are used in wood, cotton, and bonding of paper. Animals and humans have amylase, so they can digest starch.
Starch was used in Europe in the 16th and 17th centuries to stiffen the collars and ruffs of the fine linen which surrounded the neck. Starch also requires heat to thicken. The actual temperature depends on the type of starch.


</doc>
<doc id="6070" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6070" title="Thomas Hobbes">
Thomas Hobbes

Thomas Hobbes (5 April 1588-4 December 1679) was a philosopher from England. His most famous book is "Leviathan" (1651).

Next, Hobbes argues that it would be a good idea for everyone to stop fighting and choose a leader ("the Sovereign"). Everyone should agree to obey the leader, and give him all their power. Then the leader is supposed to make laws to keep things safe. Once the leader is in place, everyone has to obey him, even those who disagree with him. This is because everyone already agreed to obey him no matter what. This plan of giving so much power to the leader is risky, but Hobbes says that it's still a good idea. He says it's better to be mostly safe under an all-powerful leader, than to be in a state of war.

Hobbes wanted his argument to be like math, with each step leading to the next. But many people disagreed with his argument. Some said that Hobbes was in favor of rebellion, because he said that people were naturally equal. Others said that humans are not as selfish as Hobbes thought. Today, most people do not like the idea of an all-powerful government. But Hobbes's argument was a very important one, and philosophers who are interested in government still study Hobbes's books very carefully.


</doc>
<doc id="6075" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6075" title="Trevi">
Trevi

Trevi (Latin: Trebiae), an old town and comune of Italy, in the province of Perugia in east central Umbria, 42°53N 12°45E, at 424 meters (1391 ft) above sea-level on the lower part of Mt. Serano above the wide plain of the Clitunno river. It is 10 km (6 mi) S.S.E. of Foligno and 20 km (12 mi) N. of Spoleto. The 2003 count of people by the government said that there were 7800 people living in the "comune": about half of the people live in the town and the other people live in the country near town. The "frazioni" of Trevi (the smaller towns that belong to Trevi) are Borgo, Bovara, Cannaiola, Coste, Pigge, Manciano, Matigge, Parrano, Picciche, S. Lorenzo, S. Maria in Valle.

Most of the town is densely built with many buildings predating the 18th century. It crowns a summit and when one is in the centre the streets are mostly gently sloping. From the town one can see one of the best views in Umbria, over 50 km (30 mi) to the west and on clear days as far as Perugia to the north and even Monte Amiata in southern Tuscany. On the main train route from Rome to Ancona there is a station at the botton of Monte Serano servicing Trevi but the rapid Intercity services do not stop. The train service from Florence to Rome by way of Perugia also stops there: Local bus connections are not frequent. Trevi is a pleasant place to visit and of recent accommodation and good eating has become available; there are few restaurants, but they are good and more numerous than in other nearby small towns. 

In Roman times, Pliny the Elder said Trevi was a city of the old Umbrians, and an old stone with Umbrian writing was found in the comune, at Bovara, in the 1950s. ""Treviae"" is also listed in the 5th‑century Bordeaux Itinerary. We do not know the history of Trevi in very old times, although some walls in the center part of the town on the hill are as old as the 1st century BC. Trevi started to spread out away from the hill during the time of the Empire, when Hadrian fixed the main road in the area, the Via Flaminia; this made a small town in the plain grow, at a place now called Pietrarossa. For hundreds of years people have been finding old things there: there were Roman baths that people were probably using in the time of St. Francis, who came here and told people to bathe in them.

In old times people say that Trevi ruled the valley below it, all the way to the Colli Martani, the line of mountains that run down the middle of Umbria. Trevi had a bishop until the 11th century, and was an important place belonging to the Lombards (in Italian, a "gastaldato"). At the beginning of the 13th century, Trevi made itself independent and became a free commune. It often fought on the side of Perugia to defend itself against nearby Spoleto, and fought wars with other communes in the area, winning some and losing some. It was invaded by Spoleto in the 14th century and by the Trinci, rulers of Foligno. In 1438 Trevi became part of the lands belonging to the Church as part of the "legation" of Perugia: after that Trevi's history was as part of the States of the Church, then (1860) of the united Kingdom of Italy.

Trevi was at its most prosperous in the 15th century: the town was so important for those who wanted to buy and sell that people called it "il porto secco" — the dry port. In 1470, with Foligno, Trevi became the fourth town in Italy to have a printing press, managed by the first known printing company. Many big renaissance palazzi of the town indicate the contemporaneous prosperity.

Trevi is inside two walls of the Middle Ages; at the end of the 20th century, people found that the inside walls were Roman.

Trevi has about twenty old churches, some of which are interesting:

The country area around the town has many Romanesque churches: some of those on the plain were built on the Roman Via Flaminia and indicate the road's former route. Some of the stone in these churches is old Roman and derives from buildings long gone.

Trevi's big museum is the Museo S. Francesco, next to the Gothic church S. Francesco, which is not used for worship any more. It has a few Roman stones, but mostly many Umbrian paintings from the late Middle Ages to the 17th century: the best painting once was part of an altar, and it is by Lo Spagna. There is a very interesting group of "ex‑votos" (paintings to thank God for saving a person from a sickness or an accident) painted by ordinary people, not famous artists, of the 16th‑ century to the 18th‑century.

The Museo della Civiltà dell' Olivo demonstrates the local olive culture: how they are planted, how they grow, and how they are made into oil. The Flash Art Museum is dedicated to contemporary art and is the seat of an international art magazine.

The oldest big book on the history of Trevi is "Historia universale dello Stato temporale ed ecclesiastico di Trevi", 1233 pages, by Durastante Natalucci, Trevi, 1745. It was translated into a more modern and readable Italian by Carlo Zenobi, a local historian, between 1987 and 1994.
An important book for the plain below Trevi is "Cannaiola, Memorie storiche raccolte negli anni 1873‑74" by Father (now the Blessed) Pietro Bonilli.

Pro Trevi, the town's volunteer tourism office, has helped people write and print new books about the history, plants and animals of Trevi and the country nearby.



</doc>
<doc id="6077" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6077" title="Nicomachus">
Nicomachus

Nicomachos or Nicomachus is a Greek name. It can mean:



</doc>
<doc id="6078" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6078" title="Logo">
Logo

A logo is a picture or drawing that is used by a person, group, or company to mark who they are. 

A company or group can use a 'logo' on the things that they make, like on the things they sell, on letters, and in advertisements. When a person sees the logo picture, that person knows that the thing they see the logo on came from that company.

Logos can have letters and words in them. Many logos have the name of the company or group in them.

Most logos are very simple drawings with only a small number of colors. Some logos are only black and white.

In many countries, companies and groups should tell their country's government about the logo they are using. If they do this, the government can help stop a different company or group from using the same logo, so that everyone can be sure that the logo is only used by the people who used it first. This is sometimes called a 'trade mark'.

Logos are not used only by companies. Many schools have logos. Some cities have logos. Clubs can have logos. Even people can have their own logos if they want, the heraldic badge is probably the oldest form of logo in the world.


</doc>
<doc id="6079" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6079" title="Picture">
Picture

A picture, also called an image, is a group of colored points on a flat surface that looks the same as something else. For example, a picture can look the same as an object or a person. Pictures can also be drawings, paintings or photographs. People who make such pictures are called artists, photographers or painters. Pictures are very helpful. Sometimes people say pictures are worth a thousand words.

An image is something that can be seen, but it is not physically there. It can be a photograph, a painting, or a picture on a television or computer screen. A lens can make an image of an object appear somewhere else. Cameras use this to make the image that becomes a photograph.

Most pictures today are really 'photographs'. Photographs are made with cameras. A camera makes a picture that looks very real.
When there were no cameras, people had to make their own pictures by using paint, brushes, pencils, crayons, pens, and other things that people can write or draw with.

Pictures made with paint and brush are called 'paintings'. Before cameras, some artists were able to make very real looking pictures with just paint. Sometimes pictures made with pencil or pen are called 'sketches', if they are made very fast and only look a little bit like the real thing.
Usually pictures are put on paper. Pictures made with paint are usually put on a strong, rough fabric called 'canvas'. Sometimes pictures can be put on walls or other things, even glass.

In special or old places, such as churches, sometimes people can see pictures on windows made out of colored pieces of glass. These are called "stained glass".

If people take a lot of pictures, and show them one at a time, very fast, they can make a picture look like the picture are moving. This is called a "moving picture", or a movie. A television shows people a picture by using light shined on a glass screen. A projector shines light from a light bulb through a kind of picture that the eyes can see through. When light shines through this kind of picture onto a wall or another flat place, the picture can be seen on that flat place.

Some people can make pictures that do not look flat by taking two regular flat pictures at the same time. People have to move their eyes in a special way so that they can see both pictures together. When they look at the pictures the right way, the picture does not look flat. This is called '3D' or 'three dimensional'.

Pictures and Diagrams can be used to explain how to use tools, and thus a picture is itself a kind of tool.


</doc>
<doc id="6081" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6081" title="Building">
Building

Building may be a noun or a verb. Building is one of the most ancient human skills. It is part of how we have survived and it is the clearest symbol of every civilization. Although some other animals build simple structures, e.g. birds, ants and bees, humans have learned to build in a great many different ways, to suit different needs and local conditions. We build mostly for shelter. Buildings can shelter people, or animals, or machinery, or anything. The simplest building is just a roof, to keep the space beneath dry, or shady. Adding walls gives more shelter, from the wind or rain. It also gives security. 

By putting a window in a wall, with or without glass, we let light inside the building. We leave a hole somewhere big enough to go in and out, with a door which can be opened and closed. Often the door will have a lock, so the building can be left secure.

If a building is to last for a long time, it must have a foundation. This is like the root of a tree, which is sunk in the ground and supports the walls. If the ground is soft, the foundation must be very deep and strong.

If a building is high enough, it can have more than one floor. People can climb from one floor to the next by a staircase, or perhaps by a lift or elevator. This is known as going upstairs, or downstairs. Buildings can also have a floor under the ground. This is usually called a cellar or basement.

So we build shelters: places to live and to raise our young. We also build places to work and to make things, places to store things, places to sell things, places where sick people can go to be treated, places to put people who break our laws. We build to make life easier, or to make money. 

But we also design some buildings for a very different reason. We build churches where a large number of people can gather to worship god or listen to what other people have to say. Until we began to build skyscrapers, churches were always the very largest, tallest buildings of all, except for castles. The biggest churches of all, cathedrals, are even bigger than most castles.

Big buildings have always symbolised power. They are built to impress and to give a focus to our cities. They are designed to make us feel small and to make those who own them appear big. Banks and governments like to build tall, impressive buildings for the same reason. 

Buildings can be beautiful or ugly, exciting or boring. Architects are people trained to design buildings. There have been many good architects and also many bad ones, just as there have been good builders and bad. Architecture can be an art form. Look at the building where you are reading this. Look at the shapes and shadows. Is there enough light? Do some rooms make you feel like staying in them, while others make you want to hurry away? Do they have interesting features? Think about how you could have made the building better. Almost anybody can become an architect if they want to badly enough, but only a good architect or a good builder can make a beautiful building.






</doc>
<doc id="6082" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6082" title="Candle">
Candle

A candle is a stick made of wax with a string (a thin piece of rope) straight in the middle. If someone puts the string on fire, the flame burns slowly but for a long time.

Fire can burn most string very fast. But in a candle, the string does not burn fast, because the fire melts the wax instead. The wax sometimes drips down the side of the candle. When the melted wax is far from the flame, it gets hard again, and can be used again in a new candle. 
The flame is very hot, since it is a very small, real fire. The light blue part of the flame can be as hot as . It can still burn people and things. If the fire spreads, it can grow into a very big fire and even burn down a house or building. 

If the flame is kept on the candle long enough, the candle will slowly get shorter and shorter until it is gone. The fire on a candle can be put out by blowing air on it. There is also a special tool called a "candle snuffer" that covers the fire with a small metal cup and puts it out. Today, candle snuffers are usually only used in churches or in places where candles are up very high. Stopping the fire stops the candle from burning until it is all gone.

Before light bulbs, candles were used so people could see at night. Some people still use candles today when electricity is down, or because they like the little amount of light that candles make. Some people also like candles because they look nice, or because they smell nice. A special kind of candle called "citronella" can help keep bugs away.

Candles are expensive and the amount of light that they give is small.



</doc>
<doc id="6085" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6085" title="Salamander">
Salamander

Salamanders are amphibians. They are the order Caudata (or Urodela). There are about 500 different species. 

Salamanders live in water and on land, and look rather like lizards, with four legs and a tail. They hatch as larvae from eggs in the water. At that stage, they have gills that stick out. 

Most salamanders live on land when they are adults, after changing their shape (metamorphosis). On land, salamanders are confined to moist habitats. Their method of respiration varies. Some salamanders stay in the water, but look like adults. These are called newts. Some salamanders retain gills into sexual maturity, such as the Axolotl. This process is called neoteny. 

Often, salamanders may have a chemical defence to predators; they are poisonous to eat. In this case, they will have warning colouration. Otherwise, if not poisonous, they will usually have camouflage.

Salamanders are the only tetrapods able to regeneate limbs, as well as other body parts.

Respiration differs between species of salamanders. Species that lack lungs respire through gills. In most cases, these are external gills, visible as tufts on either side of the head, although the amphiumas have internal gills and gill slits. Some salamanders that are terrestrial have lungs that are used in respiration, although these are simple and sac-like, unlike the more complex organs found in mammals. Many species, such as the Olm, have both lungs and gills as adults. 

Some terrestrial species lack both lungs and gills and perform gas exchange through their skin, a process known as valerian respiration in which the capillary beds are spread throughout the epidermis, and inside the mouth. Even some species with lungs can also respire through the skin in this manner.

The skin of salamanders secretes mucus. This helps to keep the animal moist when on dry land, and maintains their salt balance while in water, as well as providing a lubricant during swimming. Salamanders also secrete poison from glands in their skin, and some additionally have skin glands for secreting courtship pheromones.

Hunting is yet another unique aspect of salamanders. In the lungless salamanders, muscles surrounding the hyoid bone contract to create pressure and actually "shoot" the hyoid bone out of the mouth along with the tongue. The tip of the tongue is composed of a mucus which creates a sticky end to which the prey is captured. Muscles in the pelvic region are used in order to reel the tongue and the hyoid back to its original position. 

Many of the highly aquatic species, however, have no muscles in the tongue, and do not use it for capturing prey, while most other species have a mobile tongue, but without the adaptations to the hyoid bone. Most species of salamander have small teeth in both the upper and lower jaws. Unlike frogs, even the larvae of salamanders possess these teeth.

To find their prey, salamanders use trichromatic color vision in the ultraviolet range. Permanently subterranean salamanders have reduced eyes, which may even be covered by a layer of skin. The larvae, and the adults of some highly aquatic species, also have a lateral line organ, similar to that of fish, which can detect changes in water pressure. Salamanders have no external ear, and only a vestigial middle ear.

Salamanders can drop their tail to escape predators. The tail will drop off and wriggle around for a little while, and the salamanders will either run away or stay still enough to not be noticed while the predator is distracted. Salamanders routinely regenerate complex tissues. Within only a few weeks of losing a piece of limb, a salamander perfectly reforms the missing structure.

There are ten families in the order Urodela, divided into three suborders:



</doc>
<doc id="6086" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6086" title="Newt">
Newt

Newts are small amphibians, a kind of salamander. They are found in North America, Europe, and North Asia.

Their mother lays eggs and leaves them. Tadpoles are born from those eggs. 

Newts have three life stages. First as a tiny aquatic larva, which gradually undergoes metamorphosis. Then they leave the water for a year as a juvenile called an "eft". They go back in the water to breed as adults. 

In some species the adults stay in water for the rest of their lives. Others are land-based, but return to water each year to breed.

Many newts produce toxins in their skin secretions as a defence against predators. They have bright skin colours as a warning to other animals.

"Taricha" newts of western North America are particularly toxic; the Rough-skinned newt "Taricha granulosa" of the Pacific Northwest produces more than enough tetrodotoxin to kill an adult human. Recently, a 29-year-old man in Coos Bay, Oregon, who had been drinking heavily, swallowed a rough-skin newt for a dare; he died later that day despite hospital treatment.

Most newts can be safely handled, provided that the toxins they produce are not ingested or allowed to come in contact with mucous membranes, or breaks in the skin. After handling, proper hand-washing techniques should be followed due to the risk from the toxins they produce and bacteria they carry, such as salmonella. It is illegal to handle or disturb Great Crested Newts in the UK without a licence.

The term "newt" has traditionally been used as a functional term for salamanders living in water, and not a systematic unit. The relationship between the genera has been uncertain, though they may be a natural systematic unit. Newer molecular analysis tend to suggest they actually do form a clade.
Newts only appear in one subfamily of salamanders, the Pleurodelinae (of the family Salamandridae).
However, some of the genera sometimes listed as Pleurodelinae are not newts ("Salamandrina" and "Euproctus").


</doc>
<doc id="6087" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6087" title="Poison">
Poison

In biology, poisons are substances that can cause problems to organisms. This is usually done by a chemical reaction. The effect of the poison varies with the quantity that is absorbed by the organism. A dose of poison can cause harmful effects or injuries and sometimes even death. Stuff or substance which has the properties of a poison is "poisonous" or "toxic". If poisoning causes death, it is "lethal" poison.

Legally and in hazardous chemical labeling, poisons are especially toxic substances. Less toxic substances are labeled "harmful", "irritant", or not labeled at all. 

In medicine and zoology, toxins and venoms are different from poisons. Toxins are the result of a biological process. Certain organisms use venoms for hunting, or as a defense. If an organism is "poisonous", it is harmful to eat. If it is "venomous", it has a harmful bite or sting. For some very deadly bites humans have developed effective antivenoms.

Very often, it is only the quantity of a substance that makes the difference. Drinking alcoholic drinks may lead lead to aggressive behaviour, problems with speech, and different forms of amnesia. This effect is called intoxication. People who drink even more often are in shock. At the same time, alcohol can be used as a disinfectant.

Another example: Drinking water may be deadly: Drinking about ten litres of waters can lead to death for an adult. Water is not poisonous, it is the effect it has, that is, in this case. People will die from a lack of sodium. Drinking the water in smaller doses will give the body time to replace the sodium it loses. 

Sometimes, poisons have an antidote. The antidote of a poison will slow or reverse its effects. Note that the antidote may itself be a poison. As an example, Atropine can be used as an antidote against certain nerve gases, like tabun or sarine, or against certain insecticides. It is also used as a drug, In high doses, Atropine is a poison. Atropine is a "core" medicine in the World Health Organization's "Essential Drugs List".

There are other types of dangerous materials. These are:

Pollution also sometimes is poisonous. For example, large amounts of potato peeling scraps or milk can kill organisms in waterways, because they contain so much nutrients for microbes that the microbes consume all oxygen from the waterway.

In wars, some countries use poison gases against their enemies. Poison gases such as chlorine gas and mustard gas were used in World War I. Corrosive poison gases cause serious burns to the skin, eyes, and lungs. Nerve agents can kill by poisoning.


</doc>
<doc id="6088" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6088" title="Powder">
Powder

Powder is very small, dry pieces or grains. When we press some dry solids very hard, or when we cut something up into lots of small pieces, we can sometimes make powder. 

For example, people sometimes put "face powder" on their faces, when they want to look good. Sometimes sports players put powder on their hands, to make them dry. We put "curry powder" in our food, to make it taste stronger. We put "washing powder" in the washing machine when we want to have clean clothes. People use "gunpowder" to make bombs and fireworks.

"To powder" is also a verb: "Mary powdered her face". When a person says "I am going to powder my nose" they usually mean that they are going to use the toilet (US English: use the bathroom).


</doc>
<doc id="6089" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6089" title="Larva">
Larva

Many animals develop in separate stages. A larva (plural: "larvae") develops from the egg in those animals. It is a separate life stage from the adult reproductive stage. A larva does not look like the adult animal, and changes shape (known as metamorphosis) as it grows up. There may be several larval stages before the adult form. Tadpoles, maggots and caterpillars are larvae.

Marine organisms with a larval stage often release large numbers of eggs and sperms into the water column. After fertilisation, the eggs develop into tiny larvae. The larvae develop and grow for some time before metamorphosing into adults. Most marine invertebrates and many fish have a pelagic larval stage or pelagic eggs. These live in the plankton, and may be transported long distances.

Probably the most widely accepted theory explaining the evolution of larval stages is the need for "dispersal". Sessile organisms such as barnacles and tunicates, and sea-floor groups like mussels and crabs, need some way to move their young into new territory, since they cannot move long distances as adults. Many species have relatively long pelagic larval stages (how long a larva is in the water column). During this time, larvae feed and grow, and many species move through several stages of development. For example, most barnacles moult through six "nauplius" larva stages before moulting to a "cipris", when they look to settle. The larvae eat different food from the adults, and disperse.

The other consideration is the small size of the eggs. If animals lay many small eggs (and most do), then the young stages cannot live the life the adults lead. They must live a separate life until they have the size and capability to live as an adult. This is what the larvae do.

A long-standing theory is that in transformed larvae of sea-squirts (tunicates) lies the origin of vertebrates. Tunicates are sessile, but their larvae are mobile, and have some features found in early vertebrates. The process of paedomorphosis, where juvenile features are retained in the adult, is the proposed mechanism. Genome analysis does show that the tunicates are the closest living relatives of vertebrates.


</doc>
<doc id="6090" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6090" title="Amphibian">
Amphibian

Amphibians are a group of four-legged animals. They form the class Amphibia ("Amphi-" = both; "bios" = life). They live in shallow water and on land, and must lay their eggs in water. They have a larval stage in water, and the adult stage usually lives mostly on land. 

Early amphibia, from the Carboniferous, were quite large predators with flat skulls. The amphibia which survive today are much smaller and more specialised forms. Frogs and toads (Anura), newts and salamanders (Caudata) and caecilians are all amphibians. 

As amphibia grow from a larva to an adult, they change shape. This is metamorphosis. They lose their gills and tails, and grow front and hind legs. Larval frogs, toads or salamanders are called "tadpoles". They then grow appendages to become the amphibian they are today

Adult females lay as many as 4000 eggs, usually in the water or in wet places. They eat other animals, especially insects. Amphibians are cold blooded, which means that their body temperature does not adapt to the weather.

In terms of species numbers, amphibians are still quite successful. They are just limited in the habitats they can live in. There are about 5,700 living species of amphibia. For comparison, there are about 4,000 mammalian species.




</doc>
<doc id="6091" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6091" title="Father">
Father

A father (also called Dad or Daddy) is a male parent of someone. Most animals including human beings are born from a mother and a father. The father of a person's husband or wife is their father-in-law.

In some cultures father means a leader. The founders of a country are sometimes referred as Fathers. Creators or inventors are sometimes called fathers.

In some religions, such as the Jewish religion or Christianity, the God is called "Father". In the Christian belief God is three Persons; Father, Son and the Holy Spirit. "Father" can also be used as a title for Catholic priests. The daddy is the father. 

If a man and a woman get married, then in many Western countries, the woman and their children will use the man's last name. For example, if the woman is called Sasha Dooley and the man is called Ben Allen from birth, and they get married, then she will become Sasha Allen and the man will still be Ben Allen. They might have children named John Allen and Mary Allen.


</doc>
<doc id="6099" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6099" title="Gill">
Gill

Gills are what fish, amphibians, and some other animals use to breathe in water. They have feathery parts that water moves across in the animal's body, which contains dissolved oxygen, after the animal has swallowed the water. The oxygen is absorbed into the animal's blood. When this happens, carbon dioxide moves out of the animal's blood and into the water through the gills.

Fish and frog gills are hidden on the sides of their heads. Sharks have many gills slits on their necks. Baby salamanders have gills that stick out like leaves from their heads.

In mushrooms, gills are the spore-bearing structure in agarics (gilled mushrooms).


</doc>
<doc id="6100" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6100" title="Frog">
Frog

A frog is an amphibious animal. They belong to the order Anura.

Frogs can live on land and in fresh water. Frogs cannot survive in salt water. They hatch as tadpoles from eggs, which are laid by a female frog. The eggs are called frogspawn. Tadpoles have tails and gills. When they grow up, they lose their tails and gills and grow four long legs. Grown frogs can jump far with their legs. They have long tongues that they use to catch bugs. They make a sound called a croak. They sometimes live in tree, and some types of frog are capable of making poison. Frogs live all over the world, apart from Australia. Different types of frogs are native to different countries and have different characteristics that relate to the environment of this country. If an overseas species of frogs is introduced to another country, the ecosystem can be hugely affected. 
Frog legs are occasionally eaten as food in France, China, and the Midwest of the United States. The killing of frogs has an effect on the ecosystem. For example, frogs eat mosquitoes. If frogs are killed, then there are less frogs to eat mosquitoes, so more and more mosquitoes are born. Therefore, in these areas, there are more diseases that mosquitoes carry, because there are more mosquitoes.


</doc>
<doc id="6101" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6101" title="Chemical compound">
Chemical compound

A chemical compound is a chemical made by joining together atoms of different chemical elements. The different atoms are joined by chemical bonds. The elements stick together so strongly that the compound behaves like one substance. What chemical is made depends on what atoms it is made of and how they are joined together. 

Chemical compounds can be liquids, like water which is made from atoms of hydrogen and oxygen joining together. They can also be solids, like sodium chloride that contains sodium and chlorine atoms. We get compounds from natural sources such as plants or make them in laboratories. Compounds can be made from others by scientists and these are called "synthetic chemicals".

When different compounds are mixed together they can have a chemical reaction. The compounds may join together to make one compound or change into several new compounds.

Chemists are people study compounds and find new ways to do chemcial reactions. They make chemicals in order to find new ways to do things, like to make a better glue, or to make new medicines, or to make things clean, for example. They also use compounds to find out more about the laws of chemistry. 

Sometimes people use the word 'chemical' just to talk about compounds that are dangerous. Many chemical compounds can be dangerous but are safe if they are used the right way. We all use chemicals every day and these chemicals have to be tested to make sure they are safe. Most dangerous chemicals are only used by scientists who have had special training in how to handle and use them. These chemicals might be poisonous, corrosive, explosive, they may catch fire easily, or they may react with other substances.
Some people who work in factories are near chemicals when they work, and some of them can be dangerous. Those people should do special things to make sure they are safe, and sometimes they have to wear special clothes that stop the chemicals from hurting their body.


</doc>
<doc id="6103" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6103" title="Wood">
Wood

Wood is the main substance in trees. Wood is used for construction of buildings or furniture, and also for art. It is also used for making fires and heating. Paper is made from wood by a chemical reaction.

Wood is very simple to cut, but it is also very strong. A lumberjack is a person who cuts down trees. After a tree falls, the wood in it can be cut into long, straight pieces called lumber. Lumber can then be used to make posts, or put together with nails, screws, or even glue to make wooden frames for other shapes. 

Wood comes in many different kinds. Oak and maple are widely-used types of wood.

For a long time and even today, many buildings, mostly houses, have been made of wood. To build a house with wood, lumber is put together into frames that are the shape of each wall, floor, and roof of the house. Then the frames are placed into the shape of a house. Then the frames can be covered to make solid walls. Sometimes the walls are made of more wood. 

When the outside of a house or building is covered in wood, the wooden pieces are usually flat and stacked. These pieces are called shingles. Wood is also sometimes used in other parts of the house, like doors and staircases. Wood is also used to make fences.

People also make many kinds of furniture with wood, like chairs, dressers, tables, and desks.

When someone builds something with wood, they usually paint it. Paint protects and beautifies the wood. Some people like the look of wood, so they put clear paint called "varnish" on it. 

Some people make art with wood. Sometimes sculptures are built with wood. 

Regular pencils are made of wood, with dark graphite inside for writing.

A place that has many trees in it that are close together, like a forest, is sometimes called 'the woods' when it is not very big.

Wood can be turned into paper in large factories called "paper mills". The wood is first chopped into small chips and cooked with chemicals in large vessels. The chemicals separate a substance called "cellulose" off the wood. The cellulose is then added with other chemicals and additives, and pressed into paper in large machines called "paper machines". Most paper is made from pine, spruce and eucalyptus.



</doc>
<doc id="6106" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6106" title="Category:Religion">
Category:Religion


</doc>
<doc id="6110" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6110" title="Chalk">
Chalk

Chalk is a type of limestone. Air and water do not wear chalk away easily, so when chalk is next to the sea, it often makes a large cliff. The "White Cliffs of Dover" in Kent, England are a good example of this. When chalk is near the top of the ground, it often makes chalk hills. Chalk holds water, so these chalk hills have a lot of water in them, and when the weather is very dry, water comes slowly from the chalk. Chalk is mostly formed from the calcareous (CaCO) skeletons of countless tiny planktonic algae called coccoliths. It was laid down in the Upper Cretaceous period. Chalk can write on a chalk Board.

Blackboard chalk (meow) is not real chalk. It is really gypsum (calcium sulfate), but often people call it "chalk". People use it for drawing on hard things, because it is soft. If this chalk is rubbed on something hard or rough, it will leave a mark. People often write with chalk on a chalkboard or blackboard. A chalk eraser or water can be used to clean the chalk marks away so the board is blank again. Shops usually sell blackboard chalk in sticks that are about 5 cm long.
There are also big pieces of soft chalk for children to write on the ground with, for example on concrete (such as a sidewalk) or on asphalt (such as a driveway). It is usually okay to write on the ground with this kind of chalk, because the rain will wash the chalk away.

Tailors' chalk is not real chalk either. It is really talc (magnesium silicate). Tailors use it to draw on material when they are making clothes.

People in the military say a chalk is when an aeroplane is carrying a special load, especially a group of soldiers in a single aeroplane. "U.S. Army Ranger Chalk Four" was a group that was hurt in the Battle of Mogadishu in Somalia.


</doc>
<doc id="6114" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6114" title="Utilitarianism">
Utilitarianism

Utilitarianism is a theory in philosophy about right and wrong actions. It says that the morally best action is the one that makes the most overall happiness or "utility" (usefulness).

The theory was made popular by 18th and 19th century British philosophers like Francis Hutcheson, Jeremy Bentham, and John Stuart Mill, but the idea goes all the way back to ancient times.

Bentham wrote about this idea with the words "The greatest good for the greatest number", but did not use the word "utilitarianism". It was Mill, a follower of Bentham's ideas, who named the idea. 



</doc>
<doc id="6116" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6116" title="Village">
Village

A village is a place where people live, normally in the countryside. It is usually larger than a hamlet and smaller than a town or city. In the past, villages were where most people lived. After the Industrial Revolution, when people started making a lot of things in factories, people lived more in towns. Moving to towns is called urbanization.

There have been many sorts of villages and ways of village life. But usually, villages were small, with only 5 to 30 families. Homes were together, so people were with friends and felt safe. They grew food on the land by the village.

In England the biggest difference between a hamlet and a village is that villages have a church. The difference between a village and a town is that the town has a market.

There are a lot of villages which people say are the biggest village in England. Some are Bulkington in Warwickshire, Cranleigh in Surrey, Cottingham in the East Riding of Yorkshire, both Haddenham and Wendover in Buckinghamshire, Braunton in Devon, Birchington in Kent, Horsforth in West Yorkshire, Street in Somerset, Bembridge on the Isle of Wight, Ruskington in Lincolnshire and Kidlington in Oxfordshire.

In twenty US states, a "village" is a sort of local government, similar to a city but with less power and for a smaller place. But this is not so in all the United States. In many states, there are villages which are bigger than the smallest cities in the state. The difference is not the population, it is how much power the different sorts of places have, and what they do for people living there.

In New York state, a village is a place which is usually in a town. There are villages that are part of more than one town (several examples are in Westchester County). Some villages are in two counties.

In many states, a "village" is only a place where people live, with no legal power, similar to a hamlet in New York state. The name for these is "unincorporated villages".


</doc>
<doc id="6117" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6117" title="Chelmsford">
Chelmsford

Chelmsford is a town in the county of Essex, England. It is 30 miles northeast of London, about halfway to Colchester. It is nearly in the centre of the county and it is the county town of Essex, but it is not the biggest or the oldest town in the county. It is also the centre of the "borough" of Chelmsford, which is a bigger place than the town. (A borough is a town with some extra powers.)

Chelmsford has the smallest cathedral in England. John Dee, who wrote the English version of "Euclid", went to the Cathedral school in the sixteenth century. Chelmsford is also home to some of the Anglia Ruskin University campuses.

The number of people in and around the town is 156,000 (2001); about one third of that number live in the town. 

About 10,000 people from Chelmsford travel to London every day. This makes Chelmsford the busiest "ordinary" railway station in England (not including junctions and terminuses). (The busiest of all is Clapham Junction railway station).

The A12 road from London, which the Romans first built between London and Colchester, went through the town, but now goes around the east, so the number of cars in the town is smaller.

Chelmsford has been an important centre for industry since the 19th century. It became home to the UK's first electrical engineering works (in 1878), and its first ball bearing factory (in 1898).

In 1898, Guglielmo Marconi, the "father of radio" opened the World's first radio factory in Hall Street, with about 50 workers. In 1920 the factory was also the home of the first official sound (radio) broadcasts (radio people could listen to from a long way) in the UK. In 1922 the world's first "regular" radio broadcasts started at the Marconi Research Centre at Writtle near Chelmsford.

Places of interest in and near Chelmsford are for example Writtle, where Robert I of Scotland was perhaps born, and Pleshey, where the ruins of a castle in William Shakespeare's play "Richard II" are.

Hylands House and Park, west of the town, is an old country house. People can visit it, and in the last years it has been the place for a popular yearly music festival. 

The old Palace of Beaulieu is also nearby.

In 1199 the Bishop of London gave a Royal Charter (a special paper) for the town to have a market. But there have been people living here since pre-historic times. The Romans also lived in Chelmsford. An octagonal temple is under the Odeon roundabout.

In World War II bombs hit Chelmsford a number of times. The worst single loss of life happened on Tuesday December 19, 1944. The 367th V-2 rocket which hit England fell near the Hoffmans' ball bearing factory. 39 people were killed and 138 hurt, 47 of them badly. A lot of buildings were destroyed and hundreds more were damaged.

From over 600,000 years ago, the early River Thames went through the place where Chelmsford is now, from Harlow to Colchester. Then it went over today's North Sea and went into the Rhine. 

Chelmsford is twinned with these:





</doc>
<doc id="6119" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6119" title="Gangnihessou">
Gangnihessou

Gangnihessou was the first of twelve kings of Dahomey in Africa. Gangnihessou might have been the king around the year 1620. One of his symbols was a bird called "gangnihessou" after his name. His other symbols were a drum, and sticks used for throwing or hunting. He had a younger brother called Dakodonou, who was a king. Some historians thing instead of being a king himself, Gangnihessou might have led people by giving advice to his brother.


</doc>
<doc id="6123" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6123" title="Tomorrow">
Tomorrow

Tomorrow is the day that comes after today (this day).

In daily speech, tomorrow does not mean only a single day, but days in future. Sometimes it is a symbol and synonym of the future.


</doc>
<doc id="6131" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6131" title="Contract bridge">
Contract bridge

Contract bridge, or simply, bridge, is a trick-taking game that is played with four players. It is played with 52 cards.

The main competition is the "Bermuda Bowl" that Italy and North America won many times.


</doc>
<doc id="6135" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6135" title="No">
No

No is a negative term. It means someone is denying or turning away something.

In both sentences and talking, the words "No" and the word "Not" can both be used, though the word "No" is mainly used when speaking to other people.

Examples:





</doc>
<doc id="6145" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6145" title="Leon Trotsky">
Leon Trotsky

Trotsky was a socialist and a Marxist. In 1905 there was a revolution in Russia. Trotsky helped organize a committee of workers in St Petersburg which was called the Soviet. When the leader of the Soviet was arrested, Trotsky became leader of the Soviet in his place. Trotsky helped to expand on the idea of Permanent Revolution, which is a theory originally thought up by Karl Marx.

After the revolution Trotsky left Russia for his own safety. In 1917, he returned to Russia because of the Russian Revolution. He helped to bring about communism in Russia and defend it during the Russian Civil War. He was in charge of the army at this time. When the leader of the Bolsheviks (the party who lead the revolution) Vladimir Lenin died, Trotsky became involved in a power struggle with Joseph Stalin for the leadership of the party. He lost, and Stalin came to power. He had to leave Russia because of Stalin, who was now his own enemy and wanted to harm Trotsky. Stalin had a Soviet spy murder Trotsky in Mexico in 1940.

People who believe in Trotsky's ideas are called Trotskyists and follow Trotskyism. The main Trotskyist organization today is the Socialist Workers Party in the UK and the International Socialist Tendency worldwide.

In the novel "Animal Farm" by George Orwell, Trotsky is represented by Snowball the pig and Stalin is represented by Napoleon who was also a pig.



</doc>
<doc id="6146" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6146" title="Second International">
Second International

The Second International (1889–1916) was an organization created in 1889 by socialist and labour parties who wanted to work together for international socialism. It continued the work of the dissolved First International, though taking out the still-powerful anarcho-syndicalist movement and unions, and was still there in 1916.

Among the Second International's most famous actions were its (1889) declaration of May 1 as International Labour Day and its (1910) declaration of March 8 as International Women's Day.

The International's permanent executive and information body was the International Socialist Bureau (I.S.B.), in Brussels and formed after the International's Paris Congress of 1900. Emile Vandervelde and Camille Huysmans of the Belgian Labour Party were its chair and secretary. Lenin was a member from 1905.


</doc>
<doc id="6147" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6147" title="Devon">
Devon

Devon is a county of England. It is sometimes called "Devonshire" although this is not its correct name. It is in the southwest of the country. Devon is the second largest county in England, and has the longest road network of any county in England.

After the last ice age, Devon was one of the first places in England where people started to live. Archaeologists have found many old places in Devon with ancient buildings. For example, many ruins of old buildings have been found in an area called "Dartmoor", which is now a National Park.

Devon gets its name from the "Dumnonii", a name that the invading Romans gave to the Celtic tribe in that area. The Romans invaded Devon about AD 50. The name "Dumnonii" means "a person who lives in a deep valley", and it comes from the hills and valleys of the area. The Roman army stayed in Devon for about 25 years. Their base was in the city of Exeter.

It was a long time before anyone else invaded Devon. Saxons came to Devon in the 7th century, and the King of Wessex may have attacked in 614. There was a conflict between Devon and Wessex for 200 years. Some historians think that Wessex won the war by about 715 but others think this did not happen until at least 936. Eventually Wessex took control, but the Kings of Devon still had some power.

A person living at the time called William of Malmesbury said that in Exeter both Britons and Saxons were equal in 927 but that King Athelstan of Wessex then chased the Britons from Exeter. From place names and church dedications it seems that the British did not go far and later came back into Exeter because an area in the city was called "Britayne" until recently.

A large number of Devon placenames include (or are) the word "combe" (e.g. Ilfracombe). This word comes from the Brythonic (Celtic) language and is like the Welsh word "cwm". Another typical Devon word is "tor" which is also Brythonic, and like the Welsh word "twr".
Both of these words are often found in neighbouring counties, but Devon has the greatest number. Overall Devon has a number of other placenames that are Brythonic and others that come from Old English, and a few that come from Norse. Devon's placenames are like those of western Somerset and eastern Cornwall which was also part of the old kingdom of "Dumnonia".

Starting in the 9th century, groups of Viking raiders tried to invade Devon. This continued until the Norman Conquest. The name of "Lundy Island" comes from the Viking language, which was called Norse. The Vikings are remembered for moving the cathedral from Crediton to Exeter.

Devon has been involved in most of the civil conflicts in England since 1066:

There are many famous (well known) people from Devon, especially seamen. For example, Sir Francis Drake, Sir Richard Grenville and Sir Walter Raleigh all come from Devon. Many other famous people were also born in Devon: for example, the author Agatha Christie was born in the town of Torquay.

Devon has its own flag. It is linked to St Petroc, who is a local saint with links to Devon and nearby counties. The flag was chosen after winning a competition on the BBC Devon website in 2003.

Devon is less wealthy than many parts of England, for example the south east. This is because the traditional industries of Devon, for example fishing, mining and farming are declining. The European Union has given parts of Devon help (Objective 2). For example grants of money have been given to help new industries grow. Tourism has become more important recently as a part of the economy of Devon.

An epidemic of Foot and Mouth disease in 2001 led to many farmers losing their cattle, so they lost a lot of money. Other industries also lost a lot of income because of this.

The main city of Devon is Plymouth. Exeter is where the county council is based. The county of Devon is split up into districts. Each district is run by a district council. Some things are the job of the county council and others are the job of the district council. There are also smaller town and parish councils inside the districts.

Plymouth and Torbay are not run by the county council, but have their own special councils. These councils do the jobs of both a county and a district council. These type of areas are called "unitary authorities".

The numbers on the map are linked to the numbers below.



This is a list of the main towns and cities of Devon:


"Note: The links below are not in simple English."


</doc>
<doc id="6148" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6148" title="Roman alphabet">
Roman alphabet

The Roman alphabet is the alphabet used for many modern-day languages. It came from the Greek alphabet. The earliest alphabet was in Egypt. It was first used to write Latin. Many languages are written with it today. It is also called the Latin alphabet.

The Latin alphabet used by the Romans:
The modern version of the alphabet is used for writing many languages. European languages are mostly written with the Latin alphabet. These languages include German, English, and Spanish. Some languages, like Việtnamese, use an extended Latin alphabet, including diacritics for things such as tones. It uses the following letters:

Some other languages have different characters based on this alphabet. A few are: á, é, í, ó, ẹ, ị, ọ, ụ, ã, ả, ẻ, ỉ, ỏ, ủ, ñ, č, ď, ě, í, ň, ř, š, ť , ú, ů, ž and đ. Some languages that use these characters are Finnish, Esperanto, Czech, Polish, Romanian, Vietnamese, and Igbo.

Many languages changed their writing systems to the Roman alphabet. In many countries, European settlers have made native people use the Latin alphabet. When the Soviet Union broke up, many Eastern European countries began using the Roman alphabet instead of the Cyrillic alphabet. After World War II, many Turkish countries changed their original alphabets (Arab, Persian or Cyrillic) with the Latin alphabet. The latin alphabet in turkish countries started to be used by Kemal Ataturk in Turkey. It is now used in Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan. Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan.


</doc>
<doc id="6149" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6149" title="Insectivore">
Insectivore

An insectivore is an animal or insect that eats mostly insects for food. An Anteater is an animal that eats ants. There are also some plants that eat insects. One plant that is an insectivore is called a Venus fly-trap. 

To eat insects for food is not very easy because it takes many insects to make enough food for an insect-eating animal. Anteaters eat hundreds of ants every day.

Some omnivores like humans and bears also eat insects for food.



</doc>
<doc id="6150" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6150" title="Copy">
Copy

Copy can mean a thing that is made to look like another thing. It can also mean making a copy. In our age, there are many machines can make copies:
camera, computer printer, etc.

The word is also commonly used in newsrooms and publications to refer to a writer's written content (i.e. "Turn your copy in by 5p.m.").


</doc>
<doc id="6152" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6152" title="Vapor">
Vapor

Vapor (British English: vapour) is a mass of small drops of liquid which fly in the air, for example because the liquid has been heated.

The temperature at which each material turns into vapor is determined according to the air pressure.


</doc>
<doc id="6153" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6153" title="Vehicle">
Vehicle

A vehicle is a machine to move people and things.

A vehicle is not alive. A horse can move people and things but it is not a vehicle.

Some vehicles move on land. Most land vehicles have wheels. Examples are bicycles, cars, motorcycles, and trains.

Some vehicles move on or in the water. Examples are boats, ships, and submarines.

Vehicles that move in the sky are called aircraft. Examples are aeroplanes and balloons.

Some vehicles get power from human muscles. Examples are bicycles and skateboards.

Some vehicles get power from engines. Examples are automobiles, ships, and aeroplanes.

Some vehicles get power from animals. Examples are carts and chariots.

Some vehicles get power from wind. Examples are sailboats and iceboats.

Some vehicles have no power. Examples are gliders and balloons.



</doc>
<doc id="6154" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6154" title="Line dance">
Line dance

Line dancing is a form of dance that uses (normally Western American) country music to dance to in lines (not usually with a partner, although there are a few partner variations of the normal dance available).


</doc>
<doc id="6158" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6158" title="Three Kingdoms of Korea">
Three Kingdoms of Korea

The Three Kingdoms of Korea were Goguryeo, Baekje and Silla.

These three kingdoms were once in the Korean peninsula and Manchuria. It was between the 1st century BC and 7th century AD that they existed. There were also smaller kingdoms and tribal states. These smaller kingdoms included Gaya, Dongye, Okjeo, Buyeo, Usan, Tamna, and others.

The time of the three kingdoms ended in 668 when Silla conquered the other two. It beat Goguryeo after Baekje. After this, there was a Unified Silla period.

Two classic texts are named after the three kingdoms. The titles are "Samguk Sagi" and "Samguk Yusa." The name "Samguk" means "Three Kingdoms". In , three kingdoms is called 삼국. In , three kingdoms is called 三國.


</doc>
<doc id="6162" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6162" title="Eckernförde">
Eckernförde

Eckernförde (Danish: Egernførde, sometimes also "Egernfjord", Low German: Eckernför, sometimes also "Eckernföör") is a German city in Schleswig-Holstein, Kreis Rendsburg-Eckernförde at the Baltic Sea near Kiel. The population is about 23,000.

All 24 German submarines are stationed in Eckernförde.

Eckernförde is a well-known touristic centre in Northern Germany.





</doc>
<doc id="6166" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6166" title="Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria">
Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria

Franz Ferdinand Karl Ludwig Josef of Austria, Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria-Este (Franz Ferdinand Karl Ludwig Josef; ) (December 18, 1863 – June 28, 1914) was an Archduke of Austria and, from 1896 until his death, heir presumptive to the Austro-Hungarian emperor. He was assassinated in Sarajevo. A result of this was the Austrian declaration of war against Serbia which triggered World War I.



</doc>
<doc id="6168" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6168" title="Black Hand">
Black Hand

Black Hand or Crna Ruka, officially Ujedinjenje ili Smrt ("Unification or Death") was a secret group of Serbian nationalists (Pan-Serbians). It was founded in 1911 in Serbia. 

Their aim was to create a country from other countries where Serbs lived, including Bosnia-Herzegovina which was a part of Austria-Hungary since 1908. 

Five members of the The Black Hand were in Sarajevo, Serbia, on 28 June, 1914 where Archduke Franz Ferdinand, the heir to the throne in Austria-Hungary, visited with his wife. Ferdinand was driven through the city in a convertible car. The members of the Black Hand attempted to kill Ferdinand by throwing grenades at his car. One of the grenades bounced off his car and exploded under the car following Ferdinand's. One of the members swallowed poison and attempted to jump into the river, however the poison was old, and the river was shallow, so he was arrested. One of the men, a Bosnian student called Gavrilo Princip, went to a cafe after failing to kill Ferdinand. 

The Archduke and his wife decided to go and visit the people who were injured in the explosion in hospital, however the driver took a wrong turn and stopped outside the cafe where Princip was eating. Princip saw this and went outside. He took out a gun and shot at Ferdinand; two bullets hit the archduke, one hit his wife, and the other hit the car. Both Ferdinand and his wife died shortly after.

Austria-Hungary blamed Serbia for the assassination. Austria-Hungary then declared war on Serbia, and Russia joined the war on Serbia's side because the people of Serbia were Slavic, like Russia, and the Slavic countries had agreed to help each other if they were attacked. Since Russia is a large country it had to move soldiers closer to the war, but Germany feared that Russia's soldiers would also attack Germany. Russia did not like Germany because of things Germany had done in the past to become stronger. Germany declared war on Russia, and used a plan to attack Russia that had been created before the war, but it also involved attacking France and Belgium. France and Great Britain joined the war because Great Britain had agreed to help Belgium if it were ever attacked by someone else.

This quickly led to a full-scale war. Austria-Hungary declared war on Serbia. Both country's allies became involved in the war, and soon most of Europe became involved.

The Black Hand also killed King Aleksandar Obrenovic and Queen Draga Masin.


</doc>
<doc id="6169" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6169" title="Edmonton, Alberta">
Edmonton, Alberta

Edmonton is the capital city of Alberta. In 2008, there were about 1,102,000 people in the Edmonton area.
Edmonton is just south of the middle of Alberta in the prairie part of the province. There are many farms close to Edmonton.

The city started as a trading post on the North Saskatchewan River. Edmonton turned into a city mostly over the last 100 years. 

Edmonton has of one of the world's largest shopping malls. This mall is called the West Edmonton Mall. This mall has over 800 stores, a hotel, an indoor water park, an indoor theme park, an ice skating rink, moving picture theatres, places to eat and drink, and other things to see. Many, many people visit the West Edmonton Mall. 

Edmonton also has more sun than all other cities in Canada. But other cities are warmer than Edmonton. Winter temperatures often are below -20 degrees Celsius. It is common for it be even colder (below -30 degrees Celsius) for a few days in January or February. However, the summer can be warmer than 25 or 30 degrees. The sun does not set until after 11 pm in June.

The city is also well known for its festivals. There are many popular events in both summer and winter, such as Heritage Days, the Folk Festival, and the Fringe.

Edmonton has many interesting places to visit. Places such as The Francis Winspear Centre for Music, the Valley Zoo, Fort Edmonton Park, the Muttart Conservatory,and Telus World of Science.

Edmonton is known as the city of champions, and is home to the Edmonton Oilers, and the Edmonton Eskimos. The Edmonton Oilers have 5 Stanley Cup Championships, and the Eskimos have 23 Western Division Championships, and 13 Grey Cup Championships.

The Edmonton tornado, the second deadliest tornado in Canada, struck the east side of the city in 1987.


</doc>
<doc id="6170" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6170" title="Autarky">
Autarky

Autarky is an economy that does no trade with the outside world. It is called a self sufficient economy or a closed economy too. It does not need any other countries or regions helping.

Autarky is rare in the modern world. An example of a currently run autarky is North Korea, but even it makes a small amount trade between some countries, like China and Japan.


</doc>
<doc id="6172" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6172" title="Bonsai">
Bonsai

Bonsai is the art of growing small trees in pots. This is done by growing the tree in a small pot or tray and pruning (cutting) the branches and roots to keep the tree small over time. Bonsai trees are trained to grow into a shape that is pleasing to look at. The best bonsai trees appear to be old, and to have a shape that seems like a real tree except much smaller.

The word "bonsai" means "tree in tray" in the Japanese language. Bonsai is a very old art form in Japan. It is a Japanese form of the older Chinese art called penjing. Penjing is a Chinese art form that also uses trees growing in pots. Other nations also have arts like bonsai and penjing.

People like bonsai because it is nice to look at, and because it is fun to grow a bonsai tree. A bonsai tree can live for a very long time, longer than a person can live. In a family, a bonsai might be started by a grandparent, then given to a parent, then given to a child over many years.

A bonsai starts with a small tree. This tree can be grown from a seed, or can be found already growing in a yard or a park or the forest. It can also be bought from a plant store.

To make the bonsai, the small tree is taken out of the ground. Its roots are carefully cleaned of dirt. The roots may be trimmed (cut) a little to help them fit in a small pot. The branches may also be trimmed to make the tree smaller. Then it is put in a bonsai pot, which has low sides. Fresh soil (dirt) is put in the pot to cover the bonsai tree's roots. Then it is watered and put outdoors to live.

Good trees to make into bonsai have small leaves (pine tree needles are leaves too). If the leaves are too big, the bonsai will not look like a small tree. A good bonsai tree will have old-looking bark and old-looking roots too.

The art of bonsai began in Japan over one thousand years ago. It was brought to Japan from China around the year 800 A.D. At first, bonsai were planted in large pots like the Chinese used. But the Japanese later put them in very low, almost flat pots. This change made the tree itself the most important thing in the art form, not the fancy pot or small houses or statues of people which other nations used with their small trees in pots. 

At first only the rich and noble people of Japan had bonsai. One family could have many bonsai, which would grow in pots in the garden outside of the house. A servant might take care of all the bonsai and would learn a lot about how to grow bonsai. The rules about how to grow a bonsai properly were not well known and were not shared with other people. Later more people began to grow bonsai. Some were holy people, like monks. Some were Japanese families who were not noble or really rich, but who had enough money and time to grow one or two bonsai in their gardens or house yards. This larger group of people began to share what they learned about the rules of bonsai and so more people could join in growing bonsai. By the twentieth (20th) century, the rules of bonsai were very well known in Japan and many people could afford to grow their own bonsai.

A tree that could be used for bonsai is not small in nature. If left to grow in the open soil, a bonsai tree would grow as big as any other tree. But in a pot, the tree will not grow very big. To help keep it small, the owner of the bonsai trims (cuts) its leaves and branches every year. Every two or three years, the bonsai owner lifts the bonsai out of its pot and trims the roots. Then the owner puts the bonsai back in its pot with some new soil.

A bonsai grower checks the soil of every bonsai pot once every day. If the soil is nearly dry, the grower waters it until it is wet from the top of the soil to the bottom of the pot. Every few weeks the grower adds a little fertilizer to each bonsai tree's soil. In the winter this happens less often. 

A bonsai can live to be older than a large tree of the same species if it is grown with care. A bonsai needs good care, and a bonsai with poor care will not be healthy and might die. To keep a bonsai strong, it must grow outdoors like a real tree. It must never get too dry or stay too wet. It must never get too hot or too cold. If it gets a plant sickness like a fungus, it must be cured quickly. If it gets bugs like aphids the bugs must be cleaned off or killed quickly.

In the art of bonsai a sense of beauty, patience, and good care are all needed. The plant, the shape of the plant, as well as the arrangement of soil and the kind of pot used are important.

For the Japanese, each bonsai has a shape, partly the shape and direction of the trunk and partly the shape of the whole tree with its branches and leaves. The most common shapes are known as "styles". Here are the most common shapes:







</doc>
<doc id="6174" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6174" title="Chastity belt">
Chastity belt

A chastity belt is a device, locked around the wearer's genitals, intended to prevent sexual intercourse. Chastity belts for women were introduced into Europe via Italy around 1400, and saw some limited degree of use during the Renaissance period of European history. In modern times, belts for both men and women are used in BDSM.


</doc>
<doc id="6184" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6184" title="Mount Arafat">
Mount Arafat

Arafat is a hill in Saudi Arabia which holds special religious importance for Muslims.

They believe that the hill is where God Allah, reunited and forgave Adam and Eve for the sins they had committed. 

The Palestine politician Yasser Arafat took his name from this hill.


</doc>
<doc id="6186" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6186" title="Ariel Sharon">
Ariel Sharon

Ariel Sharon (born February 27, 1928) is a retired Israeli politician, who was Prime Minister of Israel from 2001 to 2006.

Sharon was in the Israel Army for many years. He fought in numerous battles, and in 1974 he left the army as General. After the army he decided to go to politics. 
In 1977, he became Minister of Agriculture. In 1981 he became the Minister of Defence.

In 1983, he was sent away from the government as Minister of Defence after he was found to be guilty for not preventing a massacre in Lebanon where many hundreds of civilians were killed by other civilians.

In 2001, he was elected for Prime Minister after the war between Israel and Palestine started.

In 2004, he surprised many people when he said that Israel will get out of the Gaza Strip, which is the place where many Palestine people live. 

In December 2005, Sharon was taken into hospital. On January 4, 2006, Sharon was again taken to the hospital. He had a big stroke (bleeding in the brain). Rumours spread immediately of his death, though these were denied by his physicians. Ehud Olmert, another member of Sharon's newly formed "Kadima" party, was acting Prime Minister until elections were held in Israel, after which Olmert became Prime Minister of Israel.



</doc>
<doc id="6189" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6189" title="Jameson">
Jameson

Jameson is a famous brand of Irish whiskey. It is amber in color and has quite a strong smell. It is an alcoholic beverage.

In Ireland, people refer to it as "Jemmie".


</doc>
<doc id="6193" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6193" title="Syria">
Syria

Syria is a country in the Middle East, the west part of Asia. It borders (from south to north) on Lebanon, Palestine, Jordan, Iraq, and Turkey. Its western part faces the Mediterranean Sea. Its eastern and northern parts are mountainous. 

The current president is Bashar al-Assad. He is also head of state. Syria's national capital is Damascus.

Syria has fourteen Governorates, or "muhafazat":


Syria has a very long history. It was a land of Phoenicians. Later it became a part of the Roman Empire and then the East Roman Empire. In those days people spoke the Syriac language. The city Antioche was great and one of the important cities in the world of Christianity.People began to speak the Arabic language. Today most Syrian people believe in Islam but there are Christians too.

Syria was part of the Arab League with Egypt once. Syria had some wars with Israel and some territories like the Golan Plateau were occupied by Israel.


</doc>
<doc id="6204" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6204" title="Psychology">
Psychology

Psychology is the study of the mind and of thought, feeling, and behavior. It deals mainly with humans but also sometimes with animals. Because psychology is difficult to study as a whole, psychologists often only look at small parts of it at a time. Psychology has much in common with many other fields, and overlaps with many of them. Some of these fields are medicine, biology, computer science, and linguistics.

Psychology has been split up into smaller parts called branches. These are subjects in psychology that try to answer a particular group of questions about how people think. Some branches of psychology that are often studied are:

Psychology is often treated as a type of science, and a lot of psychologists use many of the same types of methods that researchers from other natural and social sciences use. 

Psychologists will make theories to try to explain a behavior or pattern they see. Based on their theory they will make some predictions. They may then carry out an experiment or collect other types of information that will tell them whether their predictions were right or wrong. 

Some types of experiments cannot be done on people because the process would be too long, expensive, dangerous, unfair, or otherwise unethical. There are also other ways psychologists study the mind and behavior scientifically, and test their theories. Psychologists might wait for some events to happen on their own; they might look at patterns among existing groups of people in natural environments; or they might do experiments on animals (which can be simpler and more ethical to study).

Psychology shares other things with natural sciences, as well. For example, a good psychological theory may be possible to prove wrong. Just like in any natural science, a group of psychologists can never be completely sure that their theory is the right one; but if a theory can be proven wrong, and yet other psychologists do not successfully prove it wrong, then it is more likely that the theory is accurate. This is called falsifiability.

Scientific psychologists use many different tools as part of their daily work and to carry out their studies. Psychologists use surveys to ask people how they feel and what they think. They may use special devices to look at the brain and to see what it's doing. Psychologists also often use computers so that they can carefully measure when and how people behave, usually in response to pictures, words, symbols, or other stimuli. Psychologists also use statistics to help them analyze the data that they get from their experiments.

Not all psychology is scientific psychology. Psychodynamic psychology and depth psychology do things like interpreting people's dreams to understand the unconscious mind, as in older approaches to psychology begun by Sigmund Freud or Carl Jung.

Humanistic psychology and existential psychology also believe that it is more important to understand personal meaning than to find causes and effects of mental processes and behaviors.

Psychologists are people who work in the field of psychology. A psychologist may work in either basic research or applied research, or if he or she is a clinical psychologist or counseling psychologist they may be a therapist. Basic research is the study of people or animals to learn more about them. Applied research is using what was learned from basic research to solve real-world problems.

To become a psychologist, a person must first get a basic degree at a university and then go to graduate school. A Master's degree, either M.S. (Master of Science) or M.A. (Master of Arts) allows beginning work, like a school psychologist. A Doctorate degree takes a longer time because it includes studying more material and writing a research paper called a dissertation. The doctoral graduate uses the initials Ph.D. or D.Phil (Doctor of Philosophy) after his or her name. Some clinical psychologists earn a Doctor of Psychology degree and use the initials Psy.D. after their name. The American Psychological Association says that a person needs a Ph.D. or Psy.D. to call himself or herself a psychologist.

The words "psychologist" and "psychiatrist" may be confused with each other. A "psychiatrist" has graduated from medical school and uses the initials M.D. Usually, a psychologist cannot prescribe drugs for a patient; only a psychiatrist or another MD can do this.




</doc>
<doc id="6207" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6207" title="Louisiana">
Louisiana

Calista () is a state in the Southern United States of America. It had a population of about 4,533,372 people in 2010. The state has a total area of about . Louisiana is the 25th largest state by population and the 31th largest state by area. Louisiana is also known by its nickname, "The Pelican State". The land that would become Louisiana was bought in the Louisiana Purchase in 1803. Louisiana became a state on April 30, 1812. It was the 18th state to become part of the United States. The people who live in the state are known as "Louisianians". The state's capital is Baton Rouge, and its largest city is New Orleans.

Louisiana has coastal plains, marshs, and low ridges. All of the state is in the Sun Belt. Louisiana is in a sub tropical region, and has a diverse ecosystem.

One third of the population of Louisiana is obese. This is the highest rate in the United States.


</doc>
<doc id="6208" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6208" title="Synonym">
Synonym

A synonym (adjective: synonymous) is a word, or phrase, that has the same (or almost the same) meaning as another, in some or all uses.

Examples:

Synonyms can be nouns, verbs, adverbs or adjectives, but both words must be of the same part of speech. That means, only a noun can be a synonym of another noun, only a verb can be a synonym of another verb, and so on.

One can find sets of synonyms in a thesaurus, which is a book listing groups of related words.

The word "synonym" dates back over 500 years, to late Middle English. The term is derived from Latin from the Greek word "sunōnumon", neuter form (used as a noun) of the adjective "sunōnumos", from "sun-" meaning 'with' + "onoma" meaning 'name' in the Greek language.

The meaning of the word has remained unchanged for all these centuries. There is even a saying, going back to 1892, ""Once a synonym, always a synonym"".
The word has been taught to generations of English-language students and is commonly known by the general public. Many other languages have a similar word for "synonym" with the same or similar spelling.


  - The word "synonym" is said as "Sin-o-nim" with "synonymous" as "suh-Non-uh-mus".


</doc>
<doc id="6212" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6212" title="Yosa Buson">
Yosa Buson

Yosa Buson (与謝蕪村: 1716 - December 25 1784), was a Japanese Haiku poet and painter, usually referred to simply as "Buson". He is one of the greatest poet of the Edo period, comparable with Matsuo Basho and Kobayashi Issa.

He was born in Osaka, his real family name was Taniguchi (谷口). When he became 20 years old, he went to Edo and studied Haiku under Yahantei Soua (夜半亭宋阿). He named himself as Saicho (宰鳥). The master was gone when Buson was 27 years old, he stayed with Sunaoka Gando in Shimotuke. He had longing for Matsuo Basho, he began the long journeys like Basho, he went around Tohoku, Tango, Sanuki and so on. During this travel, he called himself Bushon.

From 1758, he began to live in Kyoto, and he stayed there for rest of his life. He got married when he was 45 years old, and became a father of his daughter Kuno (くの).


</doc>
<doc id="6216" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6216" title="Sandbox">
Sandbox

Sandbox could mean:

In computing:

In music:


</doc>
<doc id="6221" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6221" title="Chopsticks">
Chopsticks

Chopsticks are sticks used in pairs as eating utensils. Chopsticks are the traditional eating utensils of some countries including China, Japan, Korea, Taiwan, and Vietnam. They can be made of wood, gold, silver, ivory, bamboo, or plastic. Gold and silver chopsticks are considerably heavier than normal wooden chopsticks and also considered to be extravagant.

Today chopsticks are mainly used in China and neighboring countries. In other countries chopsticks are often used in restaurants of those countries' cuisines.

Chopsticks came from China as early as the Shang dynasty (1600–1100 ). The creation of chopsticks might have been influenced by the teachings of Confucius. They were widely used throughout East Asia. Tools like chopsticks were also found in the archaeological site Megiddo in Israel. This discovery may mean there was some form of trade between the Middle East and Asia in early antiquity. Alternatively, such tools may have developed independently in both the Middle East and Asia. Chopsticks were also common household items of civilized Uyghurs on the Mongolian steppes during the 6th–8th centuries.

The English word "chopstick" seems to come from Chinese Pidgin English, a pidgin where "chop chop" meant quickly.

The Mandarin Chinese word for chopsticks is "kuàizi" (筷子). It is a word made of different parts; it has the phonetic part of "快", which means "quick", and a semantic part, 竹, meaning bamboo. In Chinese, the old word for "chopsticks", and also in some varieties of modern Chinese such as Hokkien, was "zhù" (MC: ) (箸 Pinyin:"zhù", Minnan: "tī"). However, "zhù" became a taboo on ships because it sounded the same as another word meaning "to stop" (住). Consequently, it was replaced by a word of opposite meaning, "kuài" (fast, quick). This gradually spread until it became the word for "chopsticks" in most varieties of modern Chinese. The character for this new meaning of "chopsticks" (筷) for "kuài" has the semantic element of bamboo added to the character meaning "fast" "kuài" (快).

In Japanese, chopsticks are called "hashi", written . They are also known as . This is what is usually printed on disposable chopsticks.

In Korean, 箸 ("jeo") is used in the compound "jeotgarak" (젓가락) which is composed of "jeo" (chopsticks) and "garak" (stick). "Jeo" cannot be used alone.

In Vietnamese, chopsticks are called ""đũa"," also from

When people are eating with chopsticks they usually do not use a knife and fork. The sticks are held together in the same hand. Usually this is the right hand. At some formal occasions it may be considered rude to use chopsticks with the left hand.


If the tips do not line up, it will be difficult to hold things. Hold the chopsticks upright with one of the tips lightly touching the table, and gently push the chopsticks down or gently loosen your grip for a moment to let both tips become equal in length. You can also adjust your grip or holding position this way.

With practice, it is possible to perform step one and two right away, on picking up the chopsticks with one hand smoothly. Hold the chopstick at different angles if necessary in order to feel comfortable with two sticks between your fingers.

Chopsticks are used in many countries; those eating with chopsticks generally observe the following rules:

Chopsticks are used in many countries. Chopsticks are sometimes different in those countries.

Chopsticks are used in cooking to stir materials in a pan, or to help move meals.

In Japan, people use a single-use chopstick called "waribashi" (split chopstick). Before using, people split it into two. Japanese people also call their chopsticks "hashi". 

In Japan, people use chopsticks during the funeral ceremony of Buddhists. After burning the dead, family and friends use chopsticks to move the burned bones of the dead from the coffin to a pot.

Using a set of chopsticks only once, and then throwing them away causes problems for the environment. There are some movements which aim at telling people to use a set of chopsticks more than once. In China, about 45 billion pairs of disposable chopsticks are used per year. This is equal to 1.7 billion cubic metres of timber—about 25 million fully grown trees. China is the biggest producer of disposable chopsticks, about 60,000 people have a job making chopsticks. If production continues at the current level, China's forests will be gone in about a decade.

For this reason, a tax has been introduced on chopsticks that are only used once. There are also moves to replace disposable chopsticks made of wood by plastic or metal ones.

In 2003, a study was done. It found that people who use chopsticks regularly have a slightly higher risk of getting arthritis in the hand. With this, cartilage gets worn off, which causes pain in the joints of the hand. This is more common in older people. Another problem is that using certain kinds of chopsticks may lead to coughing or even asthma.

The Hong Kong Department of Health did a study in 2006. It found that generally, people use chopsticks or other food utensils more often than in 2003 when eating with others. It also found that personal hygiene has improved.



</doc>
<doc id="6222" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6222" title="Telephone">
Telephone

"For the Lady Gaga song, see Telephone (song)."

A telephone is an electric tool. Using a telephone, two people who are in different places can talk to each other. Early telephones needed to be connected with wires. Now telephone calls can be sent with radio. This is also called wireless. 

Most people believe that the telephone was invented in 1876 by Alexander Graham Bell. He was a 29-year old Scotsman living in the USA. But Antonio Meucci developed and patented a working telephone in the USA in 1871. This was five years earlier than Bell. Meucci was unable to find someone to provide him with the money to finance his project. His wife was sick and had to stay in bed. Meucci invented his "teletrofono" to talk to her while he worked in his workshop.

There are many different types of telephone. A telephone that can be carried around is called a mobile phone or cell phone. These became popular in the late 1980s. These days most people carry mobile phones and in some cities or countries it is unusual to not have one. Some mobile phones are able to make telephone calls using satellites instead of masts on the ground, which means people can make calls from anywhere in the world.

Computers can use a machine called a modem to talk to other computers over a telephone line. This allows a computer to connect to other computer networks including the Internet.

In most countries there are public telephones. To use one people have to pay with coins, a credit card or a prepaid card.

Most countries have a telephone network. In less developed countries cell phones are used as a cheaper and faster way to bring modern communications to the countryside.
Each telephone has its own number. Today, telephone numbers are about seven to ten digits long. Part of the telephone number is called the "area code". Area codes are used to make sure the numbers are not the same in two different places. Each area has their own area code.


</doc>
<doc id="6226" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6226" title="Checkers">
Checkers

Checkers or draughts is the name of several different board games. All of these games are similar. In every kind of checkers, the other player's pieces can be taken by being "jumped" over.

"Checkers" is the American name. In British English, and in various other English-speaking nations, these games are called "draughts."

The rules and championships are controlled by the World Draughts Federation.

Checkers comes from a very old game called Alquerque. Alquerque was played on a different kind of board. Around the 12th century, a French person used a chess board to play Alquerque. Later, maybe in 1535, a new rule was added: when a player can jump, he must jump.

In most games of checkers, there are two players. The players are at opposite ends of the board. One player has dark pieces, and one player has light pieces. They take turns moving their pieces. Players move their pieces diagonally from one square to another square. When a player jumps over their "opponent"'s (the other player's) piece, he takes that piece from the board.

Most English-speaking people call English checkers "draughts." English 'checkers' is played on an 8x8 chess board. Only the dark squares are used (the light squares are never used). For that reason, good players play differently in the left and right corners.



</doc>
<doc id="6229" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6229" title="Kobe">
Kobe

Kobe (Japanese: 神戸市; -shi) is the capital of Hyōgo Prefecture and an important port city in the Kansai district of Western Japan. It is between the country's financial capital Osaka and Kyoto. Its population is around 1.53 million as of 2008.

Kobe is next to the Seto Inland Sea. Its northern part, including Rokko mountain, is hilly. A ropeway runs from Rokko district in its southern area through Rokko mountain to Arima Spa. Transportation includes Shinkansen train service and highways and roads along the coast. Many cargos and tankers use the port. There is a ferry between Shanghai and Kobe periodically.

Already in the late 12th century powerful leader Taira no Kiyomori moved the capital of Japan from Kyoto to Fukuwara, nowadays Fukuwara district of Japan. He planned for it to serve as a trade and political center of Japan. Kiyomori relied his political influence on the trade between Japan and China. But his plan failed and Kobe stayed a small village during a long time.

The area of Kobe was expanded and today it includes Mount Maya, Sumaura Park, Sumaike park with a good spa and the famous Arima spa. Arima spa is one of oldest spas in Japan, whose earliest record is found already in "Nihonshoki". Kobe is also famous for its Kobe beef, a very expensive meat delicacy.

Kobe was founded in 1868 as a port for serving foreign ships. In those days most ports in Japan were closed to foreigners. Many foreigners lived in Kobe, including: westerners, Chinese, Jews, and Indiana. Kobe has one of the more important Chinatowns in Japan. People can find a synagogue and many Christian churches, too. Kobe is similar to Yokohama as a place from where modern international culture was introduced into Japan.

On January 17, 1995 a very powerful earthquake hit the city. Earthquakes are more common in other parts of Japan, but not in Kansai so this earthquake was a surprise for everyone. 6,434 people were killed in Kobe and its neighboring cities, and many more were injured. Many buildings were destroyed.

The northern area of Kobe is an industrial area. There are many factories. Sake production in Nada district has been known from the Edo period. Nagata district in the southwest area of Kobe was a center of shoe production in Japan but production suffered because of destruction caused by the Earthquake.


</doc>
<doc id="6231" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6231" title="Oradea">
Oradea

Oradea (pronunciation in Romanian: , Hungarian: "Nagyvárad", colloquially also "Várad", German: "Großwardein", former , ) is the capital city of Bihor County, in Crişana, Romania. There are 206,527 people in the city according to the 2002 census. Oradea is one of Romania's richest cities. Oradea is near the Hungarian border, on the river Crişul Repede. There are many Hungarians in the city.

6.0% of people in Oradea are unemployed (they do not have work).

In the 20th century, the city changed from having a mainly Hungarian population to mainly Romanian.

In 2002, the people belonged to these ethnic groups (races):

The city is made up of several areas. They are called quarters ("cartiere" in Romanian): 

The name "Vie" means vine in Romanian. It is the part of the city where the richest and most important people live. Vie is on the hills overlooking Oradea. Vie is popular with the elite (the powerful people) for two main reasons: it is close to Oradea, within walking distance of the railway station and the city centre; and it is peaceful and has fresh air. Vie has many mansions (big houses). In the north of Vie, at the top of the hills, there are also farms that grow grapes for making wine.

Vie also has the County Hospital of Oradea (Spitalul Judetean), the tuberculosis hospital (Spital TBC), and the mental (mind) hospital. In communist times, blocks of flats were built at the bottom of the hills.

The border between Vie and the city centre of Oradea is the railway station and railway tracks. Everything above the main railway station of Oradea is considered to be part of Vie. Despite its nearness to the railway station and Oradea, Vie is not easy to reach by public transport (except of course the part near the station), because many of its roads are unpaved (have a bad surface), and very steep. Some parts of the quarter are within walking distance of the railway station and the main supermarkets and shops of Oradea, but others are more only easy to get to by car. There is a bus service that serves the three hospitals in the region, and the houses among them.

Like Rogerius, Nufărul is like a mini-city, with supermarkets, large blocks of flats and more. It is on the eastern outskirts (the edge) of Oradea, and is near to Băile Felix, the famous spa resort. It is possible to get to Nufărul by tram and bus. It is perhaps the fastest growing area, because of its position: many highways and national roads lead from Oradea to other Romanian cities and pass through Nuf&atilderul. For example, Nufărul was home to the second McDonalds (now there are many more) in Oradea, as well to many supermarkets that were not in central Oradea. Even though Nufărul has a lively market and excellent transport, education and shopping, it is not as nice as central Oradea, because it was planned and rebuilt in communist times.

The name Nufărul means water lily in Romanian. It has this name because there are many water lilies in the area.

Rogerius is located at the western end of the city, near Borş, on the Hungarian border. It is the city's largest district other than the city centre, and is home to many communist-era housing estates, as well as a large market. You can get to Rogerius by tram from the city centre and other parts of Oradea, as well as by bus. It is also the first part of Oradea visitors will see when coming from Western Europe or Hungary through via Borş. The western part of Rogerius has factories from Communist times, including a chemical factory called "Sinteza".

Unlike many of the other outer quarters of Oradea, Iosia does not have many large apartment blocks and is still fairly rural (like being in the country). It is located in the city's far southwest. The quarter is one of the most beautiful in Oradea, and has most of the facilities and amenities of the city. For tourists, it shows what Romanian country life is like while still being in the city close to all the excellent facilities that Oradea is home to.

There is a public transport system run by "Regia Autonomă Oradea Transport Local". There are three tram lines and some bus routes. The city has three train stations: central, Vest and Est. Vest Station is in the quarter of Ioşia, and the central station (called simply Oradea) is in the city centre, near the quarter of Vie.

The city has many Baroque buildings. It was part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire many times in history.

The city centre is beautiful and worth visiting, as well as many other sites:
There are around 100 churches in Oradea, and three synagogues (Jewish places of worship). Only one of the synagogues is still being used. Oradea also has the biggest Baptist church in Eastern Europe




</doc>
<doc id="6235" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6235" title="Henry Ford">
Henry Ford

Henry Ford (July 30, 1863 – April 7, 1947) was an American engineer and businessman. He started making cars in 1896 and founded the Ford Motor Company. He developed the idea of a system in which each worker has the duty to do one small part of the process of making something. His idea made it possible to produce cars in large numbers. This was called the assembly line. This is still a very popular way of making many things in factories. It was quite innovative at the time and it allowed him to produce many cars quickly and at a cheaper price than other car companies could. He married Clara Bryant and had one child named Edsel Bryant Ford. Ford left home for Detroit, Michigan to start his mechanical career.

In 1903, Ford helped start the Ford Motor Company. He was the first vice president of the company. The company sold its first car on July 23, 1903. Ford became president of the company in 1906.

In 1908, Ford's company began making the Ford Model T car. Ford said that he wanted to make a "motor car for the great multitude".This meant that he thought that most Americans should be able to afford to buy a car and not just a few rich people. In order to reach this goal, he chose to make the design as simple as possible. All his cars would be made the same way. In fact, Ford would start making them all the same color - black. It cost $850 to buy a Model T car. Even though that was a lot of money back then, it was still very cheap for a car. Many people wanted to buy Model T cars. In fact, so many people wanted to buy them that Ford was having a hard time making enough cars to sell one to everybody who wanted to buy one.

Ford helped come up with an idea called the assembly line, and started using it in his factories in 1913. Because of the assembly line, making new cars would not take as long. He put a moving belt in his factory. Cars moved along the belt, and workers put on one part at a time. Each worker would only be responsible for putting one part on cars.

The assembly line was a big success. Cars did not take as long to make, and they were cheaper to buy now, too. By 1916, it only cost $360 to buy one of Ford's cars, and more than three times as many people were buying his cars now. The Ford Model T changed America. It made it easier for people to live in the city instead of the country.

Ford was also known for his political views. He had been against World War I because he thought that it was a waste of time. He also believed that Jewish people were causing problems in the world. This belief is called Anti-Semitism. In 1919, he took over a newspaper called the "Dearborn Independent". He began publishing articles that blamed Jews for problems in the world. Later, he would blame Jewish bankers for starting World War II.


</doc>
<doc id="6236" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6236" title="George Orwell">
George Orwell

George Orwell (25 June 1903 – 21 January 1950) was an English writer. His real name was Eric Arthur Blair. He used the name George Orwell for his novels.

He was born in India during the British Empire's rule of India. He is best known for two novels that he wrote in the late 1940s, "Animal Farm" and "Nineteen Eighty-Four". In those works, he said that totalitarianism, especially Stalinism, was very bad.

Orwell fought in the Spanish Civil War with the antifascist troops. These troops were against the dictatorship of fascist governments.

Eric Arthur Blair was born on 25 June 1903, in India. His great-grandfather Charles Blair had been a rich gentleman who had married Lady Mary Fane, and he was supported by money from slave plantations in Jamaica.

Eric grew up with his mother and sisters. Except for a short visit, he did not see his father again until 1912. The family moved to Shiplake before World War I. There, Eric became friends with the Buddicom family, especially Jacintha Buddicom. They read poetry and hoped to become famous writers. At this time, he also liked fishing and watching birds with Jacintha's brother and sister.

When he was five, Eric was sent to a convent school where Marjorie went to. It was a Catholic convent. His mother wanted him to go to public school, but his family was not rich enough to pay for it. Ida's brother, Charles Limouzin, was asked to help find the best school to help Eric prepare for better things. He suggested St Cyprian's School in Eastbourne, Sussex. Limouzin, who was a good golfer, came to know the school and its headmaster at the Royal Eastbourne Golf Club. The headmaster helped Blair win the scholarship to pay for his education. He also let Blair's parents pay only half the usual amount of money. However, Blair hated the school.






</doc>
<doc id="6237" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6237" title="Genghis Khan">
Genghis Khan

Genghis Khan (c. 1162 – August 18, 1227) was one of the world most powerful military leaders ever, who joined with the Mongol tribes and started the Mongol Empire. His children and his grandchildren etc. passed down his throne and started the largest empire in the world. 

Genghis Khan's grandson, Kublai Khan, was the first ever emperor of the Yuan Dynasty (1271–1368) in China. No one knows where the burial site of Genghis Khan is. He was a Mongol Emperor who was very successful in battle, killing many enemies, such as the Jin Dynasty. He was a very strong and powerful Emperor who occupied much of China and the some surrounding countries of China. 

Genghis Khan was not born with the name Genghis; he was actually born with the name Temujin. After being a very successful tribe’s leader and conquering a lot of land, people referred to him as Genghis, meaning “"Universe ruler"”. Over the next few decades Genghis led a massive military campaign conquered vast areas killing many people, giving him a reputation in the history books as a 'brutal monster'. 

Temüjin was related on his father's side to Khabul Khan, Ambaghai and Qutula Khan who had headed the Mongol confederation. When the Chinese Jin Dynasty switched support from the Mongols to the Tatars in 1161, they destroyed Khabul Khan. Genghis's father, Yesügei (leader of the Borjigin and nephew to Ambaghai and Qutula Khan), emerged as the head of the ruling clan of the Mongols, but this position was contested by the rival Tayichi’ud clan, who descended directly from Ambaghai. When the Tatars grew too powerful after 1161, the Jin switched their support from the Tatars to the Keraits.

Because of the lack of records, there is very little information about the early life of Temüjin. The few sources that provide insight into this period often conflict.

Temüjin was born in 1162 in a Mongol tribe near Burkhan Khaldun mountain and the Onon and Kherlen Rivers in modern-day Mongolia, not far from the current capital Ulaanbaatar. The Secret History of the Mongols reports that Temüjin was born with a blood clot grasped in his fist, a sign that he was destined to become a great leader. He was the second-oldest son of his father Yesükhei, a minor tribal chief of the Kiyad and an ally of Ong Khan of the Kerait tribe, and the oldest son of his mother Hoelun. According to the Secret History, Temüjin was named after a Tatar chieftain whom his father had just captured. The name also suggests that they may have been descended from a family of blacksmiths (see section Name and title below).

Yesükhei's clan was called Borjigin (Боржигин), and Hoelun was from the Olkhunut, the sub-lineage of the Onggirat tribe. Like other tribes, they were nomads. Because his father was a chieftain, as were the ones before him, Temüjin was of a noble background.

No accurate portraits of Genghis exist today, and any surviving depictions are considered to be artistic interpretations. Persian historian Rashid-al-Din recorded in his ""Chronicles"" that the legendary "glittering" ancestor of Genghis was tall, long-bearded, red-haired, and green-eyed. Rashid al-Din also described the first meeting of Genghis and Kublai Khan, when Genghis was shocked to find that Kublai had not inherited his red hair. Also according to al-Din Genghis's Borjigid clan, had a legend involving their origins: it began as the result of an affair between Alan-ko and a stranger to her land, a glittering man who happened to have red hair and bluish-green eyes. Modern historian Paul Ratchnevsky has suggested in his Genghis biography that the "glittering man" may have been from the Kyrgyz people, who historically displayed these same characteristics. Controversies aside, the closest depiction generally accepted by most historians is the portrait currently in the National Palace Museum in Taipei, Taiwan (see picture above). After his death his 3rd son Ogodei has succeeded him. He had 4 queens, and Ogodei was born from his first wife. 


</doc>
<doc id="6238" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6238" title="Joseph Stalin">
Joseph Stalin

Joseph Stalin (December 18 1878 – March 5, 1953) was the adopted name of the Communist dictator, Iosif Dzhugashvili. He was the second political leader of the Soviet Union, after Vladimir Lenin. He was a totalitarian ruler, and stayed in power by removing anyone he thought might be a threat to him. His ideas and policies turned the Soviet Union into a powerful, modern, nation, the largest state on earth, but also led to the deaths of millions of people. This form of communism was later called Stalinism.


Ioseb Vissarionovich Jugashvili was born in a small one room house in Gori, Georgia (country). His father made and fixed shoes. His father was often drunk and used to hit his wife and his son until his death in a fight in 1890. Joseph had smallpox when he was young. This left his face scarred. Later, photographs were often changed to hide the scars. His left arm was also shorter because of an accident. He was educated at the Gori church school. Stalin studied to be a priest at a seminary (school for priests) in Tbilisi. He was an active student reading many books, especially books that were not allowed by the seminary. This included books by Karl Marx. He joined a Marxist group in 1898, the Mesame Dasi, or Group Three.

He left school in 1899 and got a job at the Tbilisi Physical Institute. He joined groups that were trying to start a revolution to remove the Tsar. They wanted a different type of government. The police raided his house in 1901 while hunting for people who opposed the government. Stalin escaped but went into hiding so the police could not find him. He organized anti-government activities such as May Day marches and protests. He became a Bolshevik. He supported a violent revolution, and did not support the Mensheviks. The secret police caught him in April 1902 and exiled him without trial to Siberia. He lived in the village of Novaya Uda.

He soon escaped from Siberia. This led to many later claims that he was a police spy. The arrest of another Bolshevik, Stephan Shaumyan, a rival of Stalin, increased these beliefs. At the end of 1905, he went to a meeting in Finland and met Vladimir Ilich Lenin. Lenin was not what Stalin had expected. The government arrested and exiled Stalin several times in the next ten years. This increased his power in the Bolshevik party and he was elected to the Central Committee of the party in 1912. He was promoted to a position at St.Petersburg.

Stalin was a member of the Bolshevik Party, but did not do much in the Russian Revolution of 1917. He was writing and editing Pravda, the party newspaper. He had a number of organizational jobs in the Communist Party. In 1922 he became General Secretary. He was able to give jobs to people he liked in the Communist Party.</ref name=bb‎c/> These supporters helped him become the leader after Vladimir Lenin died in 1924.

Stalin tried to collectivize farms. "Collectivization" meant taking the land from owners of all farms and joining it into large farms run by the government. Communist officials then let farmers work the new farms and told them to turn the harvest over to the government. They did not work well. Because they were not paid much money, and whatever they grew went to the state, the workers did not try their best. The best farming worked on very small bits of land given to the peasants to grow what they liked. On these pieces of land, farmers could keep what they grew. In 1938 these parts of land were 4% of Soviet farmland. However, they gave 20% of its produce.

Stalin cooperated with Hitler before the World War II and finally in 1939 they both made an agreement to conquer Poland and divide it between themselves. This is how World War II broke out.

But later on, in 1941, Hitler turned against Stalin and attacked the Soviet Union, trying to conquer it. After this happened, the USSR began working with the Allies to defeat Germany. Ultimately, Germany lost, but USSR had more casualties than any other country during the war.

When the World War II was over, the Soviet army ended up occupying many countries in Europe, such as Poland, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, and part of Germany, imposing communism on these countries.

Stalin continued to rule over the Soviet Union until he died. Stalin also militarized Russia by focusing the country's time and energy towards weapons, vehicles, and the armed forces. 

Stalin died of a stroke in the year 1953. He was followed by Lavrentiy Beria, Nikita Khrushchev, and Georgi Malenkov. The three of them began a process called "De-Stalinization", which meant taking apart the political system that Stalin made.

Stalin is a very controverisal figure in history. Many historians see him as a ruthless dictator, while others praise him as the Father of the Soviet State. He has been criticized for his role in the Holodomor. A recent poll in Russia (2008) listed him as the third most popular person in Russian history. In 2006, a poll stated that almost half the adults in Russia thought Joseph Stalin was a good person.



</doc>
<doc id="6239" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6239" title="Antigua and Barbuda">
Antigua and Barbuda

Antigua and Barbuda is an island nation located in the eastern Caribbean Sea on the boundary with the Atlantic Ocean. Antigua and Barbuda are part of the Lesser Antilles archipelago.


</doc>
<doc id="6240" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6240" title="San Marino">
San Marino

San Marino is one of the smallest countries in the world. It is found in southern Europe, fully surrounded by Italy. Fewer than 30,000 people live there. Its total area is 61km.

San Marino is the world's oldest republic that still exists. It was started in A.D. 301 by a skilled builder called as Saint Marinus. Its written constitution was adopted on October 8, 1600. The very small nation was recognized by Napoleon's France in 1797, and by the other European nations at the 1815 Congress of Vienna.

Even though it is an independent country, it depends very much Italy. Since the 19th century, when Italy was unified, San Marino has been fully surrounded by Italy.

The biggest industry in San Marino is tourism. Selling postage stamps is an important source of income, too. San Marino is not a member of the European Union, but the euro is used in San Marino.

People in San Marino speak the Italian language. Most people in San Marino believe in Roman Catholicism.


</doc>
<doc id="6250" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6250" title="Philippe's">
Philippe's

Philippe's is a sit-down restaurant in downtown Los Angeles, California, U.S.A.. It is located at 1001 North Alameda Street, near Olvera Street. Phillippe's is famous for inventing the French dip sandwich (though another restaurant called "Cole's" claims to have invented it, too). It has been in business since 1908, and is the oldest operating restaurant in Los Angeles. The traditional meal served at Phillippe's is a French dip sandwich, a bag of potato chips, a soft-drink (preferably root beer or cola), and a tapioca pudding cup for dessert.


</doc>
<doc id="6251" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6251" title="Orbit">
Orbit

An orbit is the path that an object takes in space when it goes around a star, a planet, or a moon. It can also be used as a verb. For instance: “The earth "orbits" around the Sun.” The word ‘revolves’ has the same meaning. 

Many years ago, people thought that the sun orbits in a circle around the earth. Every morning the sun came up in the east and went down in the west. It just seemed to make sense that it was going around the earth. But now, thanks to people like Copernicus and Galileo Galilei, we know that the sun is the center of the solar system, and the earth orbits around it. Since a satellite is an object in space that revolves around another object, the earth is a satellite of the sun, just like the moon is a satellite of the earth! The sun has lots of satellites orbiting around it, like the planets, and thousands of asteroids, comets, and meteoroids. The earth just has one natural satellite (the moon), but there are lots of satellites orbiting the earth.

When people first began to think about orbits, they thought that all orbits had to be perfect circles, and they thought that the circle was a "perfect" shape. But when people began to study the motions of planets carefully, they saw that the planets were not moving in perfect circles. Some of the planets have orbits that are almost perfect circles, and others have orbits that are longer and less like a perfect circle.

An "orbital period" is the time that it takes for one object - that is, satellite - to orbit around another object. For instance, the Earth's orbital period is one year: 365.25 days. (The extra ".25" is why we have a leap day once every four years.)
Johannes Kepler (lived 1571-1630) wrote mathematical "laws of planetary motion", which gave a good idea of the movements of the planets because he found that the orbits of the planets in our solar system are not really circles, but are really ellipses (a shape like an egg or a "flattened circle"). Which is why planet's orbits are described as elliptical. The more elliptical an orbit is, the more eccentric the orbit is.

Isaac Newton (lived 1642-1727) used his own ideas about gravity to show why Kepler's laws worked the way they did.


</doc>
<doc id="6253" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6253" title="Funeral">
Funeral

Funeral is an official ceremony of burying someone who has died. Most religions have their own style of funeral ceremony.

A funeral ceremony can be held in the house of the dead, a church, a temple or a public place. The family and friends of the dead come together, remember the dead, and comfort each other. If it is a religious ceremony, they say a prayer for the dead so that his or her soul may rest in peace. There are lots of different traditions that different religions use. Sometimes at funerals, the family or friends of the dead person want to pray or say something nice about them. At Christian funerals, the priest or preacher may say: "From earth to earth, ashes to ashes, dust to dust".
Modern funerals have greatly changed over time. Present day funeral or memorial services may often be more like a thanksgiving for the life of the dead person, rather than just thinking about the sadness of death.

At many present day funerals there is a video tribute played before, after, or during the funeral service. Memorial folders or prayer cards are handed out at many funeral services and this, too, is a way to make a funeral service personal. At funerals it is not uncommon to see a "life reflection" table. Family members bring favorite pictures, or memorabilia to display as another reminder of the deceased (the person who has died). Headstones are bought so that everyone can see who has been buried in a specific grave. They usually tell the name, date of birth and the date of death. 


</doc>
<doc id="6254" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6254" title="Georgian Uprising of Texel">
Georgian Uprising of Texel

The Georgian Uprising of Texel (4 April 1945 – 20 May 1945) was an insurrection (a rebellion, or mutiny, when soldiers disobey their orders) by Soviet Georgian soldiers on the island of Texel. The uprising was against the Germans who had taken over the Dutch island during the Second World War. The event is sometimes described as "Europe's last battlefield".

The island was very important in the German Atlantic Wall — the line of defences along the Atlantic coast. It was strong and had many defences. The Georgians were soldiers from the Soviet Republic of Georgia who had been captured (taken prisoner) on the Eastern front. They were now fighting for the Germans so that they did not have to stay in camps for prisoners. Their job was to help the German troops.

On the night of 4 April–5 April 1945 they thought that the Allies would land soon. They took over the island and killed 400 German soldiers. Some parts of the island stayed under German control and the Georgian soldiers could not capture them. More Germans were able to come to the island to help defeat the Georgians. After a few weeks of very tough fighting the Germans took control of the island again.

Unfortunately the British and Canadians, who were warned of the events on Texel by escapees who fled by boat to England, did not believe them, and did not take any action in order to stop the fighting. 

On Texel this is called the "Russian war". Approximately 800 Germans, 500 Georgians, and 120 Tesselans (people from the island) were killed. Lots of farms were burned. Even after the Germans surrendered (gave up) in the Netherlands and Denmark on 5 May 1945, and after the full German surrender on 8 May, the fighting continued. Canadian soldiers stopped the fighting on 20 May.

The Georgian survivors did not have a happy ending. They were sent back to the Soviet Union. Stalin said that because the soldiers had been captured by the Germans, they had not fought until they died, so they were traitors. Most of the two million Soviet prisoners who were sent back to the Soviet Union by the Allied forces after the end of the war were executed (killed) when they got there. 

A museum at the airport on the island tells the story of this event.


</doc>
<doc id="6255" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6255" title="Neutrino">
Neutrino

Neutrinos are a type of elementary particle that exist all across the universe. Physicists study these particles, but they are hard to find because they have a very small chance of interacting with regular matter. (For example, they pass through the whole earth without touching any other particles). We used to think that they have no mass, but a few years ago physicists found that they have a very small mass, much lighter than electrons. By finding neutrinos, we can learn about the structure and the history of the universe.

Neutrinos are very difficult to detect. They are very unlikely to collide (interact, in this case) with other particles as they travel through space or through matter. Unlike negatively charged electrons, neutrinos have no charge (neutrino meaning small neutral particle). This means that they are unaffected by the electromagnetic force, too.

They are commonly generated in particle accelerators, the sun, nuclear reactions, and other stars. They are generated whenever there is a nuclear reaction in the form of Beta decay. This process starts off with one neutron, and ends with one electron, one proton, and one neutrino.

The 3 types of neutrinos are named after the previous three leptons. There is the electron neutrino (v), the muon neutrino (v), and the tau neutrino (v). Each neutrino has an antiparticle, called an antineutrino. Therefore, there is an electron antineutrino, a muon antineutrino, and tau antineutrino.

The three types of neutrinos change into each other over time, so an electron neutrino could turn into a tau neutrino and then back again. This is called neutrino oscillation. This was first suggested as there were only a third of the number of electron neutrinos coming from the sun as theories of the time said there should be.


</doc>
<doc id="6257" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6257" title="Play">
Play

A play is a piece of writing (literature) which we see at a theatre or on television, or hear on the radio. Plays often show conversations between people. We usually watch a play instead of reading it.

The people who we see in a play are actors; in a theatre they stand on a stage so the people watching (the audience) can see them better. A director helps the actors to work better, or tells them how he wants the play to be.

Plays can be very interesting because we can understand them in many ways. When the writer - the playwright - makes the play, he can not say how the actors or director will use it. Sometimes the playwright is also the director or an actor: Molière, for example, was often an actor in his plays. But the director can change the play in different ways: the actors' costume, the music, how people say things, how they move or what they hold. Modern directors can direct plays by Shakespeare, and these old plays seem modern now, too.

There are a lot of sorts of play, but there are six important sorts:

Symbolic can also be called expressionistic. Its all about how the writer or director presents ideas in a very different point of view.


</doc>
<doc id="6259" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6259" title="Phrasal verb">
Phrasal verb

Phrasal verb is the name given to an English verb which is composed of two or three words. One verb is combined with a preposition (like "on, in, under)" or an adverb (like "up, down, away"). Sometimes a phrasal verb can have a meaning that is very different to the meaning of at least one of those two or three words separately. Some text books call these verbs multi-word verbs. Phrasal verbs are used more frequently in everyday speech than in formal, official writing or speaking. 

Here are some examples:

"Maria didn't know the word, so she" looked it up "in the dictionary."

"Oh no, we've" run out of "milk! I'll have to buy some more."

"Farmers have to" get up "early in the morning."

"The rocket" took off "with a loud roar."

Often these phrasal verbs have a one-word equivalent in other languages. 
In Spanish, to get up can be translated as "levantarse", in French as "se lever" etc.

Many students of English as a foreign language panic when they hear the term "phrasal verbs", but in fact phrasal verbs are just vocabulary to memorize, and not some strange, secret grammatical formula. In fact many native speakers of English do not know the term "phrasal verb" at all, even though they probably use them very often!

There are four different types of phrasal verbs.
These are:

Instead of "separate" or "separable", some text books use the word "split" or "splittable".

A useful piece of advice to confused students of English is this:

If you do not know if a phrasal verb is separable or inseparable ALWAYS use a noun or noun phrase and do not try to separate the verb.


</doc>
<doc id="6269" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6269" title="Wikipedia:Examples of simpler English">
Wikipedia:Examples of simpler English

This page is for examples of how to write simpler English.


</doc>
<doc id="6276" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6276" title="Season">
Season

A season is a part of the year. In most parts of the world we say there are four seasons in a year: spring, summer, autumn (British English) or fall (US English), and winter. In some countries people say there are a different number of seasons; for example, some people in Australia's Northern Territory use six seasons.

In places which are tropical and subtropical, people more often speak about the rainy (or wet, or monsoon) season and the dry season. This is because the rain changes more than the temperature.

Summer is a warm season because the days are longer and the Sun is high in the sky, giving direct light to the ground. Winter is a cold season because the days are shorter and the Sun is low in the sky, giving indirect light to the ground. Both the changes in the length of the day and the height of the Sun at noon are caused by the tilt of the Earth's spin axis with respect to the plane of the Earth's path around the Sun. At any time, in any season, the northern and southern hemispheres (halves of the Earth) have opposite seasons.

The date at which each season begins is different in different countries. In the United States, people say the seasons begin at the solstices and equinoxes. The summer solstice is the longest day of the year, and the winter solstice is the shortest. The equinox is the time when the day and the night are the same number of hours, assuming the sun were a point of light at its center. Since civil dawn occurs when the edge of the sun first appears over the horizon and civil dusk occurs when the edge drops over the horizon, the civil length of day is 12 hours long several days prior to the equinoxes. In the USA, summer begins at summer solstice, winter at winter solstice, spring at the spring ("vernal") equinox and autumn at the autumnal equinox.

In Britain, people traditionally say that the seasons begin about seven weeks earlier: spring begins on Candlemas (February 2), summer on May Day (May 1), autumn on Lammas (August 1), and winter on All Hallows (November 1). The Irish calendar is similar, but Spring begins on February 1.

In Denmark, spring begins on March 1, summer on June 1, autumn on September 1 and winter on December 1. In Australia, summer begins on December 1, autumn on March 1, winter on June 1, and spring on September 1.

In the Chinese Calendar, the solstices and equinoxes are in the middle of each season.



</doc>
<doc id="6277" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6277" title="Carisbrooke Castle">
Carisbrooke Castle

Carisbrooke Castle is the Isle of Wight's only remaining medieval castle. It was built on a Roman site. The castle earthworks were begun in 1070. 
The shell keep was built on the site some 70 years later. None of the Norman domestic buildings now remain. The gatehouse with its drum towers dates from the 14th and 15th centuries. 

In 1377 the French landed on the island but the castle was not attacked. 

During Elizabethan times the threat of a Spanish invasion was avoided when the Spanish Armada was turned away at a nearby battle. However, the castle was considerably altered to resist the new artillery. Outer lines of defence were built enclosing the old castle. The curtain walls, bastions, and bulwarks remain in good condition to this day. 

Charles I was held prisoner at the castle in 1647. An attempt to escape failed when he got stuck in the bars. 

Later the castle was the occasional residence of the governor of the Isle of Wight and it became home to Princess Beatrice, youngest daughter of Queen Victoria, when she was governor.


</doc>
<doc id="6278" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6278" title="Atlantis">
Atlantis

Atlantis is a name for a large island or small continent that supposedly had been in the Atlantic Ocean a long time ago, but sank into the sea and disappeared.

The story of Atlantis first appears in the stories Timaeus and Critias by the Greek philosopher Plato. In all of his books, Plato used many interesting stories to help explain his ideas about government and philosophy. No other ancient writer gave specific details about Atlantis until after Plato wrote, so most people today think that Plato just made up this story.

After Plato, the idea of Atlantis was mostly forgotten until 1882, when a writer named Ignatius Donnelly wrote a book saying that Atlantis was real and that the culture of Atlantis had started many other ancient cultures, such as the Egyptian and Mayan. 

After Donnelly's book, many people became interested in Atlantis and began to say that it had aircraft, submarines, powerful energy crystals, and other things that are not known from ancient times.

By studying the types of rock that are found in the bottom of the Atlantic Ocean, scientists are sure that there was never really any large island or small continent there, so many people today think that Plato may have heard a story about another place and moved it to the Atlantic Ocean in his book.

Different people have thought that many places all over the world have been the place of the "real Atlantis". Curiously, many cultures from around the world who had no contact shared a similar story of a civilization sinking into the sea.


</doc>
<doc id="6281" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6281" title="Comparative">
Comparative

Adjectives and Adverbs can be comparative in English and some other languages. When people are talking about two or more nouns, they can compare them (say the differences between them). The word which explains how they compare is called the comparative. They can also compare actions using adverbs.

Examples: (The comparative is in bold).

Many words can be made into a comparative by adding "er" to the end of the word. 

Words that end with the letter 'Y' can still be made into a comparative, but people change the 'Y' to an 'I' and then add 'ER'.

Some words cannot be made into a comparative by adding 'ER' Instead we use the word more in front. Most of these words have three or more syllables, such as "beautiful", "reliable". 

If people are not sure about a word, it is always acceptable to say "more" (something), such as "more beautiful", "more expensive".

Warning: The 'ER' ending and the word "more" together cannot be used. 



</doc>
<doc id="6292" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6292" title="Asbestos">
Asbestos

Asbestos is a set of six natural minerals. The most common form of asbestos is white asbestos, which makes up 95% of the asbestos found in buildings. It occurs naturally in all parts of the world. It is fibrous, heat resistant and non flammable. These properties made it very attractive as a component in building materials and other products such as insulation and automobile brake pads. People have used asbestos throughout history. Ancient Egyptian people used asbestos. Asbestos is extremely dangerous for human health, as it can cause breathing and lung problems if people are around it for a long period of time.

Asbestos was linked to cancer in the early 1970s and was replaced by other materials in most applications by 1980.

There are six types of asbestos:





</doc>
<doc id="6293" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6293" title="Syllable">
Syllable

A syllable is a unit of pronunciation uttered without interruption, loosely, a single sound. All words are made from at least one syllable.

"Monosyllables" have only one vowel sound; "polysyllables" have more than one. If a syllable ends with a consonant, it is called a "closed syllable". If a syllable ends with a vowel, it is called an "open syllable". Patterns of syllables can be shown with C and V (C for 'consonant', V for 'vowel'). Closed syllables are shown as "CVC", open syllables "CV". Some languages like English have many kinds of closed syllables. Some languages like Japanese have few kinds of closed syllables. 

Notice that the consonant (C) and vowel (V) notation does NOT match the letters of English spelling in a one-to-one relationship. (e.g. 'th' is one sound)

There are many words in English that have only one syllable.

There are many more words that have two or more syllables.

Some languages do not use an alphabet with letters. Instead, each sign may stand for a syllable. For example: Japanese can be written using Kana. A writing system based on syllables is called a syllabary.


</doc>
<doc id="6294" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6294" title="Umbrella">
Umbrella

An umbrella is a hand tool that is used to stop rain from falling on a person. It is also used to make shade and protect people from sunlight. An umbrella made for protection from the sunlight is called a parasol.


</doc>
<doc id="6295" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6295" title="Usenet">
Usenet

Netnews is a kind of online service that shares articles between a group of computers over a network. One kind of netnews is called usenet. Usenet was in use before the Internet and is still very active today. Usenet provided a way for people to write articles on many different topics and share them with people all over the world. It is different from the web because articles are sent to all the computers in the community. An article on a webserver stays on one computer until a person gets it with their web browser.

The community of computers comprising a Usenet typically does not include those of end users, e.g. home personal computers. Rather, that community consists of a group of cooperating servers. End users must have access to a member of the server community to read and post. Such access is typically achieved through the news feature of their email program or web browser or through a special program that specializes in netnews. Configuring the program requires the URL of a server, and often a user ID and password.

The servers in the Usenet community are independent in the sense that each gets to decide what portions of the Usenet they will serve to their users and how long postings will last on the server. For example, some servers may leave out the adult groups. Because postings have to be transmitted from computer to computer, a given posting takes some time to be available on all servers. Further, they may disappear from active groups on busy servers in a matter of days or weeks.

Because Usenet groups are frequently used to share large files, servers may have bandwidth and download limits. If you use a commercial service, it may offer a range of limits at different prices.

Query your Internet Service Provider to determine whether their servers are members of the Usenet community or whether they provide free access to one of the commercial services that offers access. You may have to seek out your own commercial service because many providers have their own alternative. AOL and MSN have their Communities; AT&T uses Yahoo! Groups.

A netnews service may not even be a community of computers. Any user could configure their personal computer to offer a netnews service. Organizations often offer their own netnews service independent of Usenet to support their customers and members. For example, news.microsoft.com is a very large community of Microsoft users and developers that help each other out.

Netnews groups have a long history and their own netiquette. Look for FAQ and netiquette postings to see the rules for any given group.

Groups may be moderated or unmoderated. Expect a lot of off topic and potentially offensive material on the unmoderated groups, which are the majority of Usenet.


</doc>
<doc id="6298" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6298" title="Diagonal">
Diagonal

Diagonal is a kind of straight line. A diagonal line does not go straight up, down, or across. 

In mathematics, "diagonal" has different meanings. For example, in geometry a diagonal is any line that goes between the corners of a polygon. So a square has two diagonals, and a five-sided shape has five diagonals.


</doc>
<doc id="6300" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6300" title="Kwashiorkor">
Kwashiorkor

Kwashiorkor is a type of protein energy malnutrition. If a child uses up energy from carbohydrates and lipids, their body may begin to use protein for energy. 

The body breaks down protein into energy that can be used. They then do not have enough protein for other functions in their bodies. Children from aged 1-4 years usually get this but rarely adults and older children get it. It is common in places like Africa. Symptoms include having a pot belly, swollen face, and hair that is dark then light then dark. This can be cured by having a protein rich diet.


</doc>
<doc id="6305" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6305" title="Popocatépetl">
Popocatépetl

Popocatépetl (also called El Popo or Don Goyo) is an active volcano and the second highest mountain in Mexico after Pico de Orizaba (5,610m). It is high . People often call it "Popo". Popocatépetl is the Aztec word for "Smoking Mountain". Popocatépetl was an Aztec warrior who loved Iztaccíhuatl. Iztaccíhuatl's father sent Popocatepetl to war in Oaxaca. He promised him his daughter as his wife if he returned (which Iztaccíhuatl's father thought he would not). Iztaccíhuatl's father told her that her lover had died in battle. She died of sadness. When Popocatépetl returned, and found out about the death of his lover, he killed himself by stabbing a knife into his heart. The gods covered them with snow and changed them into mountains. Iztaccíhuatl's mountain was called "La Mujer Dormida, (the "Sleeping Woman"), because it looks like a woman sleeping on her back. Popocatépetl became the volcano Popocatépetl, raining fire on Earth in anger at the loss of his lover.

Popocatepetl is one of the most active volcanoes in Mexico. It has had more than 20 big eruptions since the arrival of the Spanish in 1519. A major eruption happened in 1947. On December 21, 1994 the volcano threw out gas and ash which was carried as far as 25 km away by the wind. This led to people having to leave nearby towns. Scientists began to check the volcano for an eruption. In December 2000, tens of thousands of people were made to leave the area by the government based on the warnings of scientists. The volcano then made its largest display in thousands of years.


</doc>
<doc id="6308" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6308" title="North Sea">
North Sea

The North Sea is a sea in northern Europe. It is part of the Atlantic ocean. The North Sea is between Norway and Denmark in the east, Scotland and England in the west, Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium and France in the south. 

The Skagerrak connects the North Sea to the Baltic Sea. In the south, the North Sea becomes the English Channel, a sea between England and France. This is called the Dover Straits and is very busy with ships.

The border between the North Sea and the Skagerrak is at an imagined line between Lindesnes in Norway, and Hanstholm in Denmark. In the North, the North sea is open towards the Atlantic. The border between the two is an imagined line from Northern Scotland, to the Shetlands, and then to Ålesund in Norway. According to the Oslo-Paris Treaty of 1962 it is a bit more to the west and the north though. The treaty puts it at 5° East longitude, and 62° North latitude. That is at the parallel of the Geirangerfjord in Norway.

On average, the North Sea has a depth of only 94 metres. About 80 million people live near the North Sea, at most 150 km away from the coast. Together with the English Channel in the south, the southern North Sea is the busiest body of water in the world. The most ships pass through it.

Well-known rivers that drain into the North Sea include the Tay (at Dundee), the Forth (at Edinburgh), the Tyne (Tynemouth, South Shields), the Wear (at Sunderland), the Elbe (at Cuxhaven), the Weser (at Bremerhaven), the Rhine and Meuse or Maas (at Rotterdam), the Scheldt (at Flushing or Vlissingen), the Thames, and the Humber (at Hull). 

The Kiel Canal, one of the world's busiest artificial waterways, connects the North Sea with the Baltic.

Its name comes from its relationship to the land of the Frisians (see Frisia). They live directly to the south of the "North Sea", and to the west of the "East Sea" ("Oostzee", the Baltic Sea), the former "South Sea" ("Zuiderzee", today's IJsselmeer) and the today reclaimed "Middle Sea" ("Middelzee"). But the spread of the naming could also be from the view of the cities of the Hanseatic League. Some of its main cities, like Lübeck, Bremen or Hamburg had basically the same view.

In classical times this body of water was also referred to as the "Oceanum-" or "Mare Germanicum", meaning German Ocean or Sea. This name was commonly used in English and other languages along with the name "North Sea", until the early eighteenth century. By the late nineteenth century, "German Sea" was a rare, scholarly usage even in Germany. In Danish the North Sea is also named "Vesterhavet" (besides "Nordsøen"), meaning "Western Ocean" as it is west of Denmark.

Most of the North sea is on the European Continental shelf. On average, the depth is about 93 to 94 meters only. In the south it is very shallow, only 25 to 35 meters. In the north in the bathyal zone north of the Shetlands, this depth increases to between 100 and 200 metres. In the south, the depth is at most 50 metres. An exception to this is the Norwegian Trench. It is deepest there, with a depth of 725 metres. The most shallow part of it is a sand bank called Dogger Bank. In the southern part, there are many sand banks.

Looking at the satellite picture it is easy to see the geographic divisions of the North Sea:

The southern north sea is composed of the Southern Bight, before the coast of Belgium and the Netherlands and the German Bight before the coastline of Germany. The Dogger Bank is the limit between the southern and central parts. The Waddenzee runs all the way from Den Helder in the Netherlands to Esbjerg in Denmark. 

The Dogger Bank covers an area about half the size of the Netherlands. There, the North Sea has a depth of between 13 and 20 metres only. The area is very famous for fishing. With some storms there are even waves breaking there.

The Norwegian Trench has an average depth of around 250 to 300 metres; at the entrance to the Skagerrak, the depth increases up to 725 meters. Along the trench is the Norwegian Current, which brings most of the waters of the North Sea into the Atlantic ocean. Also, most of the waters of the Baltic Sea flow northwards here.

About 200 km east of the Scottish city of Dundee there are more trenches, known collectively as the "Devil's hole". Generally, the water is about 90 meters deep there. The trenches very often are only a few kilometers in length. In these trenches, the depth increases to up to 230 meters. 

In the Dover Strait the water is about 30 meters deep. At the end of the English Channel, this depth increases to about 100 meters.

In the last ice age the North Sea was covered by large areas of ice called glaciers. About 20,000 years ago the ice melted and the North Sea was formed (made).

In the 1960s geologists found large areas of oil and natural gas under the North Sea. Most of the oil fields are owned by the United Kingdom and Norway but some belong to Denmark, the Netherlands and Germany. Drilling began in the 1960s and led to a famous argument between England and Scotland about how the revenue (money) from the oil should be spent.

People have been fishing in the North Sea for thousands of years. However, so many fish are now caught there that new ones may not be able to grow fast enough to keep the fishery going. 

Terns, Atlantic puffins, razorbills, kittiwakes and other seabirds live on the North Sea coast. Many coastal areas are protected nature reserves.


</doc>
<doc id="6309" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6309" title="Letter">
Letter

A letter can be different things:


There is a paper format called "Letter" or "US Letter". It is mainly used in the United States (see Paper size). Most other countries use the DIN paper sizes. The most common DIN paper size is A4.

In some languages, for example English, we write a "letter" for all the sounds of the alphabet: when we write A, B, C, D etc., these are letters, or "letters of the alphabet". Other languages do not use letters for writing: Chinese, for example, uses "ideograms". 

In English and many other languages, the smallest part of writing is the letter. We use letters to make words. In some languages, for example Spanish, there is usually one letter for one sound (or better: for one "phoneme", the smallest part of speech). This is easy to read. In other languages, for example English, we can use several letters for one sound, or one letter for several sounds. This is difficult for learners to read. Here are some examples:

English, French, Spanish and many other languages use the Latin alphabet for writing. In this alphabet there are often two different letters for a sound. For example, "A" and "a". In other alphabets, for example the Cyrillic alphabet, there is only one letter for a sound (except for handwritten Cyrillic, in which the shape of the capital letter is much different - and usually unrecognisable - from its lowercase counterpart). The letters are: ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ



</doc>
<doc id="6312" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6312" title="Anne Frank">
Anne Frank

Annelies Marie "Anne" Frank (; 12 June 1929 in Frankfurt am Main – early March 1945 in Bergen-Belsen). Frank is one of the most famous Jewish people who died in the Holocaust. Her diary is seen as a classic in war literature, and is one of the most widely read books today. Several plays and films have been made about it.

Anne was born in the city Frankfurt am Main in Weimar Germany. She lived most of her life in or around Amsterdam, in the Netherlands. She was officially seen as a German until 1941. This was when she lost her nationality because of the anti-Semitic rules of Nazi Germany. She became famous around the world after her death when her diary was printed. It showed her experiences hiding during the German occupation of the Netherlands in World War II.

The Frank family moved from Germany to Amsterdam in 1933. This was the same year as the Nazis grew powerful in Germany. By the beginning of 1940, because of the Nazi occupation of the Netherlands, they were trapped in Amsterdam. Persecution of Jewish people increased in July 1942, and the family decided to hide. They hid in the secret rooms of her father Otto Frank's office building. After two years, they were betrayed and taken to concentration camps. Anne and her sister, Margot, were later taken to the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp. There, they both died from typhus in March 1945.

Otto Frank was the only person in his family who survived. He went back to Amsterdam after the war and found that Anne's diary had been saved. He helped print it in 1947. It was translated from Dutch and first printed in English in 1952 as "The Diary of a Young Girl". It has been translated into many languages. The diary had been given to Anne on her 13th birthday. It tells of her life from 12 June 1942 until 1 August 1944.

Anne Frank was born on 12 June 1929 in Frankfurt, Germany. She was the second daughter of Otto Frank (1889–1980), a German businessman, and Edith Frank-Holländer (1900 – 45). Margot Frank (1926–45) was her older sister. The Franks were Jews, and they lived with many Jewish and non-Jewish citizens. Anne and Margot grew up with Catholic, Protestant, and Jewish friends. The Frank family did not follow all the customs of Judaism. Edith Frank was very religious, though her husband was more interested in studying. He had a large library, and both parents encouraged the children to read.

On 13 March 1933, elections were held in Frankfurt, and Adolf Hitler's Nazi Party won. Acts of Antisemitism began almost immediately. The Franks were afraid of what might happen to them if they stayed in Germany. Therefore, later that year, Edith and the children went to Aachen. They stayed there with Edith's mother, Rosa Holländer. Otto remained in Frankfurt, but after getting an offer to start a company in Amsterdam, he moved there to begin the business and to find a place to live with his family. The Franks were included in the 300,000 Jews who ran away from Germany between 1933 and 1939.

Otto Frank began working at the Opekta Works. Opteka was a company that sold pectin. Otto Frank found an apartment on the Merwedeplein (Merwede Square) in Amsterdam. By February 1934, Edith and the children had arrived in Amsterdam, and Anne and Margot began going to school. Margot went to public school and Anne went to a Montessori school. Margot liked maths, and Anne enjoyed reading and writing. Her friend Hanneli Goslar later remembered that from when she was young, Anne often wrote, though she tried to hide what she wrote and did not like talking about it. Margot and Anne had very different personalities. Margot was polite, quiet, and thoughtful, while Anne was brave, energetic, and friendly.

In 1938, Otto Frank started a second company, Pectacon. Pectacon sold herbs, salts and mixed spices that were used to make sausages. Hermann van Pels worked at Pectacon as a helper about spices. He was a Jewish butcher. In 1939, Edith's mother came to live with the Franks. She stayed with them until she died in January 1942.

In May 1940, Germany invaded the Netherlands. The government began to hurt Jews by making rules and laws about their freedom. The Frank sisters were both studying well and had many friends. But a new law that Jewish children could only go to a Jewish school made them move to a Jewish school. The companies that Otto Frank worked at still gave him some money, but they became poorer. It was not enough to support their family.

Time recorded in the diary ==
For her 13th birthday on 12 June 1942, Anne Frank got a book she had shown her father a few days ago. It was actually an autograph book with red-and-green cloth and a small lock on the front, but Frank decided to use it as a diary. She began writing in it almost immediately. Most of her first writings are about normal parts of her life, but she also wrote about some 

In July 1942, the Zentralstelle für jüdische Auswanderung (Central Office for Jewish Emigration) ordered Margot Frank to come to be taken to a work camp. Otto Frank told his family that they would hide in rooms above and behind the place where his company worked on the Prinsengracht. The Prinsengracht was a street next to one of Amsterdam's canals, where some of his most trusted employees would help them. The notice to Margot made them move a few weeks earlier than they had expected.

Anne's father, Otto Frank, was scared that the Nazis would find him, and his family. He wanted to protect his family. He spoke to some of the people who worked in his business. One of them was a young woman of about 33 years old, and was named Miep Gies. Otto Frank needed help - he was going to turn the top floor of his business into a secret hiding place for himself and his family called "The Secret Annex". Miep and the others would have to help them keep their secret, and bring them food. They hid in their secret hiding place for two whole years, without being discovered by the Nazis. Anne Frank left all her other belongings in Frankfurt.

Miep agreed to help. In 1942, the Frank family, together with the Van Pels (And their son Peter) and a dentist named Fritz Pfeffer, moved into the Secret Annex that they had prepared. They planned to stay there until the end of the war. They hoped the war would end soon, but it did not. They spent around two and a half years in their hiding place, never able to go out into the sunshine. During the day, they had to be very quiet, because the business continued downstairs, and not all the workers knew that the Frank family was in hiding in the upper part of the building.

A few months before the Franks went into hiding, Anne was given a diary, for her birthday. She called her diary "Kitty" and wrote in it about all the things that were happening to her and to her family. Anne was only a young girl, but she knew how to write beautifully. She wrote about all the things that young girls think about - how she was getting along with her friends and parents, boys (pretty much Peter), her life and emotions. After a while, Anne had a strong ambition: to be a writer. She hoped to write a book that everyone would read.

After 2 years a thief had come and took not much, but after about two and a half years in hiding, not long before the end of the war, the thief was caught and, in exchange of not going to jail or death, he told the Nazis that a Jewish family - the Franks - were in hiding. Nazi soldiers came into the Frank's secret hiding place. They sent the Franks and the others to a concentration camp. Miep Gies found Anne's diary and put it into a drawer. She wanted to keep it safe until after the war. She hoped that Anne would return, and she would be able give her her diary back.

However, that was not to be. Anne's father, Otto Frank, lived through the war and came back to Amsterdam. He hoped that his family had survived too - but they had not. Of all the family, only he survived. His wife was killed at Auschwitz. Anne and her older sister, Margot, died at Bergen-Belsen concentration camp from typhus, a disease - only a few weeks before the camp was freed by the Allied forces. Mr. Frank lived through much pain. And when he got out he found Anne's diary and published it.

Miep Gies was with Otto Frank when he got the letter telling him that his two daughters were dead. Now she knew that Anne would never return for her diary. She went to the drawer where the diary was kept, and she gave it to Otto Frank. People who were close to Anne read the diary. They told Otto Frank that he should publish it. Anne had wanted to be a famous writer. Now, people would be able to read her book, and they would also learn about the difficult time that the Jews had during the war, and about the wonderful people who helped them.

Otto had Anne's diary printed. It became one of the world's most widely-read books. It has been printed in over 20 languages, and people across the world have read and enjoyed this true story. Today, for an admissions fee, you can visit the house in Amsterdam where Anne Frank and her family hid during the war. You can also see the diary that she wrote.




</doc>
<doc id="6314" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6314" title="Jan Peter Balkenende">
Jan Peter Balkenende

Jan Peter Balkenende ( born 7 May 1956 in Capelle aan den IJssel) is a Dutch politician. He has been the Prime Minister of the Netherlands since 2002. He is a member of the Christian CDA party.

In other countries, he is perhaps most famous because he looks like Harry Potter. This makes him popular with young children, but many Dutch make jokes about it and call him "Jan Potter Balkenende" and other names like that.

Balkenende lives in Capelle aan den IJssel.


</doc>
<doc id="6315" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6315" title="Toleration">
Toleration

Tolerance is not taking action against people who do things one does not like. The opposite of tolerance is intolerance. Intolerance is often found in dictatorships. Tolerance is often about religion, sex, or politic opinion, nation, race, disability, sexual orientation or gender identity.


</doc>
<doc id="6316" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6316" title="William the Silent">
William the Silent

William I of Orange-Nassau, (April 24, 1533 – July 10, 1584) was an important leader of the Dutch rebellion against the Spanish in the Eighty Years' War. He was the first leader of the Netherlands. He held the title of Prince of Orange.

William of Orange is better known as William the Silent (in Dutch: "Willem de Zwijger"). It is not sure how he got this name. One story tells that when the kings of France and Spain proposed to William to kill all Protestants in his area, William did not reply.

William was born in Nassau in Germany. The king of Spain made him stadtholder (a sort of leader) about several Dutch provinces. But William converted to Protestantism, the religion of the Dutch people and joined their struggle for independence. The king of Spain offered a reward for the person who would kill William. In 1584 William was shot by Balthasar Gerards in his house in Delft. William's last words were in French: "Mon Dieu, mon Dieu, ayez pitié de moi et de ton pauvre peuple" (My Lord, My Lord, have pity on me and your poor people). Balthasar Gerards never received his reward, because he was killed by the angry Dutch.

In the Netherlands, people often call him "Father of the fatherland". The Dutch national anthem, the Wilhelmus, is about William.


</doc>
<doc id="6319" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6319" title="Simón Bolívar">
Simón Bolívar

Simón Bolívar (1783 - 1830) was a Venezuelan military and political leader. He was born in Caracas, Venezuela. He liberated many countries in South America, such as Venezuela, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and Bolivia, from Spain. For a few years he was president of Gran Colombia, a country that no longer exists. The country Bolivia is named after Bolívar.



</doc>
<doc id="6327" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6327" title="Pythagorean theorem">
Pythagorean theorem

In mathematics, the Pythagorean theorem or Pythagoras' theorem is a statement about the sides of a right triangle.

One of the angles of a right triangle is always equal to 90 degrees. This angle is the right angle. The two sides next to the right angle are called the legs and the other side is called the hypotenuse. The hypotenuse is the side opposite to the right angle, and it is always the longest side.

The Pythagorean theorem says that the area of a square on the hypotenuse is equal to the sum of the areas of the squares on the legs. In this picture, the area of the blue square added to the area of the red square makes the area of the purple square. It was named after the Greek mathematician Pythagoras:

If the lengths of the legs are "a" and "b", and the length of the hypotenuse is "c", then, formula_1.

There are many different proofs of this theorem. They fall into four categories:
For the proof by Eudoxus of Cnidus, see: Pythagorean theorem/proof.

From the image formula_4. And by replacing equations (1) and (2):

Multiplying by c:

Pythagorean Triples are three whole numbers which meet the equation formula_1.

One well known example is the 3-4-5 triangle: if a=3 and b=4, formula_8 or formula_9. This can also be shown as formula_10

The three-four-five triangle works for any multiples of 3, 4, and 5; such as 6, 8, and 10; or 30, 40 and 50. Another, less-often used example is the 12-5-13 triangle. formula_11


</doc>
<doc id="6329" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6329" title="Temperature">
Temperature

Temperature is how hot or cold a thing is. Our bodies can feel the difference between something which is hot and something which is cold. To measure temperature more accurately, a thermometer can be used. Thermometers use a temperature scale to record how hot or cold something is. The scale most often used is in degrees Celsius (°C), sometimes called centigrade. In the USA, degrees Fahrenheit (°F) are more often used while scientists mostly use kelvins (K) to measure temperature because it never goes below zero.

Scientifically, temperature is a physical quantity which describes how quickly molecules are moving inside a material. In solids and liquids the molecules are vibrating around a fixed point in the substance, but in gases they are in free flight and bouncing off each other as they travel. In a gas the temperature, pressure and volume of the gas are closely related by a law of physics.

When they invented temperature scales scientists found there were certain things which were always around the same temperature :-





Temperature is not the same as heat. Heat is energy which moves from one thing to another. Temperature is a measure of the movements (vibration) of the molecules inside a thing. If the thing has a high temperature, it means the average speed of its molecules is fast. A thing may have a high temperature but because it contains very few or light atoms it has very little heat.

The amount of heat that is needed to make a substance one degree higher is called its heat capacity. Different substances have different heat capacities. For example, a kilogram of water has more heat capacity than a kilogram of steel. This means that more energy is needed to make the temperature of water 1 °C hotter than is needed to make the temperature of steel 1 °C hotter.

Temperature is also important in weather and climate. It is related to the amount of heat energy in the air. Isotherm maps are used to show how temperature is different across an area. Temperature will be different during different times of day, different seasons and in different places. It is affected by how much heat reaches the place from the suns rays (insulation), how high the place is above the level of the sea, and how much heat is brought to the place by the movement of winds and ocean currents.


</doc>
<doc id="6330" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6330" title="Tux">
Tux

Tux is a mascot of the Linux operating system; a cartoon penguin made by Larry Ewing in 1996. Wherever he is seen, it means such a system can work with Linux. He is also a character in some Linux games, like "Super Tux".

The name "Tux" comes from James Hughes, who named the Linux Mascot that as an shortened form of "Torvalds' UniX," as Linus Torvalds was the creator of the Linux operating system. Tux is also an abbreviation of tuxedo.


</doc>
<doc id="6331" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6331" title="Mein Kampf">
Mein Kampf

Mein Kampf ("My Struggle") was a book written by Adolf Hitler and Rudolf Heß. Rudolf Heß helped Hitler write the book, but he is not mentioned as an author. The book consists of two parts. The first part was written by Hitler while he was in jail in Landsberg am Lech. He was put in jail after a failed "putsch", in 1926. He wrote the second part after his (early) release from jail. From 1926 to 1930, both volumes were sold separately, at the price of 12 Reichsmark each. In 1930, both volumes were published as one book. 

There were several editions between 1925 and 1945. With each new edition, the text was revised as well. This was done to clarify those parts of the text that were unclear. Probably, Ghostwriters around Hitler did this work.

In the book, Hitler describes (talks about) his view of greater Germany. He also describes his future plan for Jews. When he came to power, in 1933, he realized (made happen) some of those plans. This resulted in a genocide known as The Holocaust. The book was given away for free at civil registry offices during the time when the Nazi government had power in Germany. The reason for giving the book away for free was because in part, the book was propaganda, and giving it away free was a way of trying to recruit members.

After the Second World War, the book was made illegal to reprint or sell new copies in Germany and Austria. It is not illegal to own a book, and it is also not illegal to sell or buy such books second-hand.



</doc>
<doc id="6333" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6333" title="Computer graphics">
Computer graphics

Computer graphics are visual representations of data displayed on a monitor made on a computer. Computer graphics can be a series of images (most often called video) or a single image.

Computer graphics are very useful. They are used for movie making, video game and computer program development, scientific modelling, and design for catalogs and other commercial things. Some people even make computer graphics as art.

Computer graphics can be 2D or 3D. Each subset has its own use, but is created in a different way. Different computer programs have to be used to make different types of graphics.

2D computer graphics are usually split into two categories: vector graphics and raster graphics. 

Vector graphics use lines, shapes, and text to create a more complex image. If a vector graphic image is made very big on the monitor, it will still be as good as its regular size. This is one of the reasons vector graphics are liked so much. Vector graphics are made with programs like Adobe Illustrator, and were used for some older computer games. Today, they are often used for when computer graphics have to be printed out. 

Examples of vector graphics

Raster graphics use pixels to make up a larger image. This does not mean the artist has to change a single pixel at a time - raster programs often have tools like paintbrushes, paint buckets, and erasers to make a picture. Programs used to make these include Adobe Photoshop and Corel Paint Shop Pro. These are often used as part of what the user sees when she uses a computer program.

Sometimes people "do" use only pixels to make an image. This is called pixel art and it has a very unique style.

Examples of raster graphics

3D graphics are graphics that look like objects because they are three-dimensional. This means the computer thinks it has a height, a length, and a depth, and displays them as this. Some programs used to make 3D graphics are Bryce, 3D Studio Max, Maya and Blender, and 3D graphics are used many times in movies and TV shows and video games.

Examples of 3D graphics


</doc>
<doc id="6338" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6338" title="FC Bayern Munich">
FC Bayern Munich

The FC Bayern Munich, also known as Bayern München, is a well-known German football club. The club was founded in 1900 and has 123.000 paying members. It has won the most titles in the Bundesliga.

The footballteam is playing in the Allianz Arena.





</doc>
<doc id="6339" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6339" title="Marine">
Marine

Marine has two common meanings:

Marine describes things relating to the ocean. An example is marine life, which means plants and animals that live in water.

Marines are soldiers who serve on warships, but go to land to fight when necessary. Marines often serve under the navy, but they are not sailors.

Here are some countries that have a Marine military:



</doc>
<doc id="6340" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6340" title="Cape of Good Hope">
Cape of Good Hope

The Cape of Good Hope is a place near the far south end of Africa. It is a well known area for ships that pass to the east in the sea between southern Africa and Antarctica. It is in the country of South Africa.

The first person from Europe to see it was the Portuguese man Bartolomeu Dias. He saw it in 1488 and named it the ""Cape of Storms"".


</doc>
<doc id="6341" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6341" title="Hand washing">
Hand washing

Hand washing is the process of cleaning hands with water and soap or other special liquids. It is done to take off dirt, germs, and poisons. Germs and poisons cause diseases and other health problems. Germs are bacteria, viruses, or fungi. Some diseases are not stopped by antibiotic drugs. Hand washing prevents lots of new disease. Not washing hands before cooking or touching food is risky.

Always wash hands:

Use soap and warm (running, if available) water. Wet hands and add soap. Rub wet hands strongly with soap outside running water more than 10 seconds. Rub all parts of the hands again and again. Clean all dirt under fingernails. Then rub hands under running water again and again to take off all soap. Dry hands using a clean cloth or paper. Use moisturizing lotion so hands do not dry if the hands are being washed many times every day.


For a medical worker, doctor, or nurse, not washing hands before touching every new person is dangerous. Use more than enough soap and water and rub each part of the hands again and again. Rub between each finger. Use a brush and clean under fingernails. Use more water to take off the soap and dry hands paper towel.

To "scrub" the hands for a surgery, water that can be turned on and off without touching with the hands is needed, a cleaning liquid named "chlorhexidine" or "iodine wash", sterile cloth for drying the hands after washing, a sterile brush for hard washing and another sterile instrument for cleaning under the fingernails. Take off all watches, rings, and other jewels from the hands before washing. Wash the hands and arms to the elbows again and again. Be strong and serious about the washing. Use running water again and again to take off all soap. Keep hands up so water does not go from arms to hands. Dry the hands with the sterile cloth and put on surgical shirt or dress. Sterile means nothing on it that could cause a disease.



</doc>
<doc id="6346" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6346" title="Franklin Delano Roosevelt">
Franklin Delano Roosevelt

Franklin Delano Roosevelt (January 30, 1882 - April 12, 1945) was a governor of New York and the 32nd President of the United States.

His father, James Roosevelt, and his mother, Sara, were each from rich old New York families, of Dutch and French respectively. Franklin was their only child. His paternal grandmother, Mary Rebecca Aspinwall, was a first cousin of Elizabeth Monroe, wife of the fifth U.S. President, James Monroe. One of his ancestors was John Lothropp, also an ancestor of Benedict Arnold and Joseph Smith, Jr. One of his distant relatives from his mother's side is the author Laura Ingalls Wilder. His maternal grandfather Warren Delano II, a descendant of "Mayflower" passengers Richard Warren, Isaac Allerton, Degory Priest, and Francis Cooke, during a period of twelve years in China made more than a million dollars in the tea trade in Macau, Canton, and Hong Kong, but upon coming back to the United States, he lost it all in the Panic of 1857. In 1860, he came back to China and made a fortune in the notorious but highly profitable opium trade supplying opium-based medication to the U. S. War Department during the American Civil War.

Franklin Delano Roosevelt was born on January 30, 1882 in the Hudson Valley town of Hyde Park, New York.

Roosevelt was the Assistant Secretary of the Navy under Woodrow Wilson. He was nominated the vice presidential candidate under James M. Cox in 1920. Cox and Roosevelt lost to Warren Harding and Calvin Coolidge.

In 1921, Roosevelt got sick with polio, a disease that paralyzes people. He never walked again, but Roosevelt remained physically fit, becoming an avid swimmer. Roosevelt became a champion of medical research and treatment for crippling illnesses, but kept his illness as hidden as possible from the public, fearing discrimination. His disability did not limit his political career; Roosevelt was elected the Governor of New York in 1928. His wife, Eleanor Roosevelt helped his career by traveling and meeting people when Roosevelt could not. She became famous as his eyes and ears, meeting thousands of ordinary people and bringing their concerns to Roosevelt.

Roosevelt won the election against the unpopular incumbent (president at the time) Herbert Hoover and became president in early 1933. 

He started a series of popular programs known as the New Deal to fight against the Great Depression. The New Deal gave people jobs building roads, bridges, dams, parks, schools, and other public services. Also, it created Social Security, made banks insure their customers, gave direct aid to the needy, and made many regulations to the economy. Because of this, he was re-elected in a large victory in 1936 and continued the New Deal. The United States did not fully recover from the Great Depression until it entered World War II.

Roosevelt was elected a third term in 1940. He gave weapons and money to the Allies fighting in World War II as a part of the Lend-Lease program at this time, but the United States was still technically neutral in the war. During December 7th 1941, Japan launched a strong attack on the Pearl Harbor military base in Hawaii. Franklin Roosevelt declared war on Japan and entered the United States into World War II. Roosevelt also signed an order allowing Japanese Americans to be sent to internment camps against their will. While still president, he died on April 12, 1945. Vice President Harry Truman became president. World War II continued for almost four more months, but American victory was already assured.

For overcoming the difficult challenges of a depression and a world war, historians generally consider him to be one of the best U.S. presidents.



</doc>
<doc id="6349" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6349" title="Venezuela">
Venezuela

Venezuela is a country in northern South America. Its official name is República Bolivariana de Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela). The official language is Spanish, and its capital is Caracas. Venezuela produces a large amount of oil every year, and has one of the largest oil supplies in the world.

Ancient Venezuelans came from the east, west, south, and north. Christopher Columbus was the first European to set foot on the land, but there were already natives living there for a long time. The Spaniards first conquered Venezuela. Slaves were imported from Africa. 

Venezuela's inhabitants are very racially mixed. This comes from the colonial period. When whites (the British, Spaniards, French, etc) conquered America's territory, they took their black African slaves to America to work. During Venezuela's colonial time, black people did not have any rights. They just worked for food. The native people were taught the Roman Catholic religion. In the beginning, the Church said that Amerindians were not people, but later, the Pope thought that Amerindians were people. For a long time, white creoles, people in Venezuela that were descended from Spaniards but considered Venezuela home, headed society. The Venezuelan people did not like that, and started thinking about independence. On July 24, 1823, Venezuela won its independence, led by Simón Bolívar. The current president is Hugo Chávez.

Venezuela's economy is based on oil, cotton, cocoa, sugar, coffee, and tobacco. 

Some other languages spoken in Venezuela are Carib, Guahibo, Warao, Wayuu, Pemon, and Piaroa. Most people are Roman Catholic at 96%, and a small minority is Protestant at 2%.

The population of Venezuela is about 27,000,000 people. The ethnic groups of the population is: 56% Mestizo 24% Black, Mulatto and Zambo 12% Amerindian 8% White and Others


</doc>
<doc id="6350" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6350" title="Saudi Arabia">
Saudi Arabia

The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (Arabic: المملكة العربية السعودية,"al-Mamlaka al-ʻArabiyya as-Saʻūdiyya") is mostly sunni
Muslim country in the Middle East. It is a kingdom headed by the Saudi royal family, also called the House of Saud. Much of the world's crude oil supply comes from Saudi Arabia. Because of this, the Saudi royal family is very wealthy. Sunni Islam is the state religion. The Sunni interpretation of Ahmad ibn Hanbal has a big influence in the country. His school of faith is known as Hanbali today. Even though the government does not forbid practicing any religion in private, the practice of non-islamic religions in public is forbidden.

Saudi Arabia is the largest state in western Asia by land area (most of the Arabian Peninsula) and the second-largest in the Arab World. It has an estimated population of 27 million, of which 8.8 million are registered foreign expatriates and an estimated 1.5 million are illegal immigrants. Saudi nationals comprise an estimated 16 million people.

The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia was founded by Abdul-Aziz bin Saud (known for most of his career as "Ibn Saud") in 1932. The conquests which eventually led to the creation of the Kingdom began in 1902 when he captured Riyadh, the ancestral home of his family, the House of Saud. The Saudi Arabian government, which is an absolute monarchy, refers to its system of government as being Islamic. It has a strong basis in Salafism, a minority school of thought in Islam. The kingdom is sometimes called "The Land of the Two Holy Mosques" in reference to Al-Masjid al-Haram (in Mecca), and Al-Masjid al-Nabawi (in Medina), the two holiest places in Islam.

Saudi Arabia has the world's oil reserves and is the world's oil exporter. Oil accounts for more than 90% of exports and nearly 75% of government revenues, facilitating the creation of a welfare state. However, human rights groups such as Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch have expressed concern about the state of human rights in Saudi Arabia.

Saudi Arabia has cities that are important to the Muslim religion. Many Muslims from around the world visit Mecca in Saudi Arabia to make a pilgrimage. The pilgrimage is one of the pillars of Islam. Other big cities are Riyadh, Jeddah and Dammam. The pilgrimage is called hajj in the Arabic language. Somebody who makes a pilgrimage to Mecca is called a "hajj" in the Arabic language. People who are not Muslim are not allowed to enter Mecca.

Saudi Arabia is home to the largest mass of sand on earth, known as the Rub-al Khali desert (Rub-al Khali means "empty quarter"). The temperature is very hot. 

Most people speak the Arabic language. Many people from other countries work in Saudi Arabia. They are called expatriates or expats. 

The countries of Yemen and Oman are south of Saudi Arabia. Saudi Arabia is west of Qatar, the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait, Iraq, and Jordan. All of these countries except Jordan and Iraq make the Arabian Peninsula. 

The money, or currency is called the Saudi Riyal.


</doc>
<doc id="6351" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6351" title="Colombia">
Colombia

Colombia is a country of South America. It is in the northwest part of that Continent and it has an area of 1.141.748 km² (440,839 sq mi). It is the only South American country with coasts in both Oceans (Pacific and Atlantic). Colombia has an extension of 928.660 km² in those oceans. The full name of the country in Spanish is "República de Colombia"; in English, it would be ""Republic of Colombia"". The name "Colombia" is said /kəˈlʌm.bɪ.ə/ and it is different from Columbia, the name of many places in United States of America.

The countries that have borders on the continent with Colombia are: Venezuela (east), Brazil (south-east), Peru (south), Ecuador (south-west) and Panama (west). The countries that have borders with Colombia on the sea are: Nicaragua, Panama, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, Jamaica, Haiti and Dominican Republic.

42,888,592 people live in Colombia and it is the third most populated country of Latin America after Mexico and Brazil. It is also the third largest Spanish country of the world after Mexico and Spain. 

The capital of Colombia is Bogotá. The second major city is Medellín and it is also a big industrial center. The third largest city is in the Cauca region of Colombia is Cali, home of many multinational companies. The most important city of the country on the Caribbean coast is Barranquilla. It was also the first national port. Cartagena de Indias has a great Spaniard wall of the 17th Century and an old town with buildings aged 500 years. Followed by these cities comes Bucaramanga, a large city near Venezuela's border, which holds the center of the textile industry in Colombia.

The word ""Colombia"" is named after Christopher Columbus, the explorer who discovered America. The name "America" was given in honor of Americo Vespucio, the first man who did a complete map of North America and South America.

In 1819, Colombia, Venezuela, Ecuador and Panama declared independence from Spain, and formed a country called ""Gran Colombia"". Venezuela and Ecuador separated in 1830. The official language is Spanish, but there are many dialects spoken by minorities.

Colombia's temperature changes with the altitude, and the temperature is different by region. The regions around the Andes are colder than the coast, which is lower.
Because of the many altitudes, Colombia has many different fruits, vegetables and kinds of animals. It has many valleys, beaches, plains, mountains and forests like the Amazon Rain Forest.

The top of some of the mountains in Colombia are so cold that people can ski over the equator. The lower mountains have warmer climates. The seashores are cooled by ocean breezes. At sea level near the equator it is hot.

Rivers are important as waterways in the land for shipping things. One of the most important rivers in Colombia is the Magdalena-Cauca. The Magdelena River divides the eastern and center mountains. It makes a fertile valley. The Cauca River divides the center mountain range and the wetern ridge, making another great valley. The Cauca is really a part of the Magdalena. However, the two do not meet until a few miles before the Magdalena goes into the Caribbean Sea.

The population of Colombia is approximately 43 million as of 2005. The ethnic groups of the population is: 49.3% Mestizo 26.1% Black, Mulatto and Zambo 16.7% White 7.9% Amerindians predominantly.

There are terrorist groups in Colombia, the FARC being the most powerful, a Marxist-Leninist group responsible for kidnappings, murders, attacks, and drug-dealing. Drug dealing is a problem the government has been trying to fight. This creates violence in the cities. With Operation: Jaque, Ingrid Betancourt, three Americans, and 11 soldiers were rescued from the FARC.

Most parts of Colombia are modern and the country has many roads. All major Colombian cities have airports and there are many ports on both oceans (Pacific and Atlantic). Because Colombia is a huge country and there are many mountains, airports are very important in the country. There are some regions like the Amazon Forest and Dariend, where the most important way of transportation is by the rivers.

Colombia also has some very well known cities.

Colombia has made many advances in medicine. Many foreigners come to the country to get health services, such as organ transplants or plastic surgery. Doctor Manuel Elkin Patarroyo of Colombia discovered a medicine against malaria. He donated his discovery to be used in Africa and Latin America. He did not want to make business of it, instead he wanted to use it to help people.

The land where Colombia now stands has been home to people for more than 20,000 years. The first people had many groups, cultures, and languages. There are many tools, caves, and things of those peoples. In Colombia, the peoples were similar to those of Asia, because the scientists say that the first men came to America from Siberia or South East Asia more than 50,000 years ago. The peoples of Colombia where called Arawak, Caribe, and Chibcha. But they have many other groups. The most famous were the Muiscas. El Dorado legend comes from the Muiscas: the king of the Muiscas used to bath in the Guatavita Lake and he used a lot of gold for it. The Spaniards heard about and the people told them that there was a great golden city somewhere. Since then they started to look for El Dorado. The International Airport of Bogotá is called ""El Dorado International Airport"" because the legend was born in Colombia. The descendants of the first peoples of Colombia live integrated with others. Some groups live in the forest, but many live in countryside and in the cities.

The Spaniards lead by Christopher Columbus discovered America in 1492. Columbus saw the coasts of Venezuela, Colombia and Panama and he gave them his own name. But it was Alonso de Ojeda the first to do an exploration in the area of Gulf of Darién. After that the Spaniards founded the first European cities in the American continent: Santa Marta in 1525 and Cartagena de Indias in 1533. It was from Colombia that the Spaniards conquered the Incas of Peru. They founded the city of Popayán in 1536 and they conquered the "Confederation of the Muiscas". In Bacatá, the capital of the Muiscas, the Spaniards founded the city of Santa Fe in 1538. In 1550 the Spaniards declared the territory as a colony and its capital was "Santa Fe de Bogotá", but in the first decades it depended from Peru. Soon after, it was declared a Viceroyalty.

Antonio Nariño was one of the most important persons to lead a movement for the independence of Colombia. He was a politician, journalist and soldier.

On November 11, 1810 the city of Cartagena de Indias declared its dependence from Spain.

Colombia had an election in May 2006 in which President Álvaro Uribe was re-elected. He will be president until May 2010. Uribe was the first President in Colombia to win a second election in over 100 years.

On Saturday, August 7, 2010, Juan Manuel Santos became Colombia's latest elected president. Santos won the election on June 20 by a landslide. He promised to "preside over a government of national unity that will bring social prosperity for all Colombians" 

Colombia is known for its coffee, coal, and emeralds. It is also the biggest supplier of Plantains (a kind of banana used for cooking which are known as "platanos" in Colombia) to the United States. There are a few armed conflicts in Colombia. Most rebel groups finance their operations with the trade of illegal drugs (mostly cocaine).



</doc>
<doc id="6352" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6352" title="List of Dutch people">
List of Dutch people

This is a list of famous Dutch people:







Sven Kramer, ice skater




</doc>
<doc id="6353" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6353" title="Category:Dutch people">
Category:Dutch people

This category contains notable people from the Netherlands


</doc>
<doc id="6354" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6354" title="Abel Tasman">
Abel Tasman

Abel Janszoon Tasman (1603 - 1659) was a Dutch sea explorer. He discovered Tasmania and New Zealand while on voyages in 1642 and 1644, in the service of the VOC (Dutch East India Company). He also discovered large parts of Australia. 

He was born in Groningen, Holland. He went to Batavia (now called Jakarta) to work for the VOC in 1633. He went back to Holland in 1636. He went back to Batavia with his wife, Jannetie Tjaerss, 2 years later. He went north to Japan in 1640. In 1642 Tasman went south to Palembang..

Tasman set sail from Batavia with the ships "Heemskerck" and "Zeehaen" on August 14, 1642. He was told to search for New Holland. He was hoping to find gold, silver and other riches. On November 24, 1642 he discovered the west coast of Tasmania which he called Van Diemen's Land. He named it after Anthony Van Diemen, Governor General of the Dutch East Indies. Tasman sailed around to the east coast of Van Diemen's Land and claimed the land for the Dutch on December 3, 1642. The ships then sailed west and discovered New Zealand. His ships were attacked by Maori in large war canoes (boats) and 4 sailors died. Tasman then sailed north-east to Tonga and Fiji. He then sailed north west to New Guinea and got back to Batavia in June 1643.

In 1644 Tasman sailed from Batavia with the ships "Limmen", "Zeemeeuw" and "Bracq". He sailed along the west coast of New Guinea, and then the coast of Australia from Cape York to North West Cape. He went back to Batavia in August 1644. He showed that Western Australia and Queensland were part of the same country. He was not able to get through Torres Strait, but his maps were used for the next 200 years.

Tasman made more trips including to Sumatra in 1646, Siam in 1647, and Manila in 1648. He purchased a lot of land in Batavia where he died in October 1659.

Several places have been named after him, including Tasmania, the Tasman Peninsula, Tasman Island and the Tasman Sea.


</doc>
<doc id="6355" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6355" title="MediaWiki:Sharedupload">
MediaWiki:Sharedupload


</doc>
<doc id="6359" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6359" title="Hard science">
Hard science

Hard science is science that uses mathematics and experiments to get knowledge. In hard science, experiments have to be reproducible (if the experiment is done a second time, it will have the same results as the first time).


</doc>
<doc id="6360" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6360" title="Artificial intelligence">
Artificial intelligence

Artificial intelligence (AI) is the study of mental processes through the use of computer models. The name was made when it was the topic of a 1956 Dartmouth Conference by John McCarthy. It is about making computers' decision making and train of thought that seems more human. McCarthy says that is "the science and engineering of making intelligent machines."

The idea behind AI is not to make a computer smart by knowing more information. It is to build a machine that can act as if it were smart. Very often, AI is closely connected to mathematical logic, the ability to prove things, and simplifying mathematical formulae. Sometimes, AI is meant to be a simulation of human intelligence, often as a part of research in the area of psychology.

One of the earliest descriptions of AI was the Turing machine. A Turing machine is any machine that takes a set of input data, performs some fixed calculations that must be chosen before the machine runs, and comes out with a predictable output. This machine is the basis of modern computers.

Thinking machines and artificial beings appear in Greek myths, such as Talos of Crete, the golden robots of Hephaestus and Pygmalion's Galatea.
Human likenesses believed to have intelligence were built in every major civilization: animated statues were worshipped in Egypt and Greece 



</doc>
<doc id="6361" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6361" title="Programmer">
Programmer

A computer programmer is a person who makes computer programs using a programming language. Programmers are also called software developers, coders, or hackers.

A programmer's main jobs are writing program source code, testing if it works, and debugging (fixing) the program if there are problems. Programmers often use software tools such as text editors and IDEs (Integrated Development Environments) to help them work.

Programming is a unique profession because a programmer can work from a computer anywhere in the world. This is called "telecommuting" - doing work on the Internet instead of in an office.

Some programmers are famous because their software is used by many people. One example is Linus Torvalds, who created an important part of the Linux operating system.

Programming can be done in many different languages and can look very different but do the same thing. An example of this is the Hello world program.


</doc>
<doc id="6362" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6362" title="Programming language">
Programming language

A programming language is a type of written language that tells computers what to do. Programming languages are used to make all computer programs and computer software. A programming language is like a set of instructions that the computer follows to do something.

A programmer writes source code text in the programming language to create programs. Usually the programming language uses real words for some of the commands, so that the language is easier for a human to read. Many programming languages use punctuation just like a normal language. Many programs now are compiled. This means that the computer translates the source code into new languages such as assembly language or machine language, which are much faster and easier for the computer to read, but much harder for a person to read.

Computer programs must be written very carefully. If the programmer makes mistakes, or the program tries to do something the programmer did not design it to do, the program might then "crash" or stop working. When a program has a problem because of how the code was written, this is called a bug. A very small mistake can cause a very big problem. For example, forgetting a period or typing a plus sign instead of a minus sign can cause a bad bug.

There are many types of programming languages. Most programming languages do not follow one type alone, so it is difficult to assign a type for each language. The examples of each type are given in each section below because they are the best well-known examples of that type.

"Declarative" programming languages describe a "problem" but they usually do not say how the problem should be solved. The problem description uses logic, "solving" the problem often looks like automatically proving a system of logical axioms. Examples for such programming languages are Prolog, XSLT, LISP and SQL

"Imperative" programming languages describe a system of state changes. At the start, the program is in a certain "state", and the computer is given steps to follow, in order to perform an action. Following the steps causes the program to "change state".

In general, declarative programming languages are more readable, and easier to understand. Imperative programming languages are more common, because they are easier to use.

Functional programming looks at programming like a function in mathematics. The program receives "input", some information, and uses this information to create "output". It will not have a state in between, and it will also not change things that are not related to the computation.

Procedural programs are a set of steps or state changes.

Stack based languages look at the some of the program's memory like a stack of cards. There are very few things that can be done with a stack. A data item can be put on the top of the stack. This operation is generally called "push". A data item can be removed from the top of the stack. This is called a "pop". You can look at the item at the top of the stack without removing it. This is called a "peek".

If a program is written as "push 5; push 3; add; pop;" it will put 5 on the top of the stack, put 3 on top of the 5, add the top two values (3 + 5 = 8), replace the 3 and 5 with the 8, and print the top (8). An example for a programming language that is stack-based is the language Postscript

Object-oriented programming languages place data and "functions" that change data into a single unit. This unit is called an "object". Objects can interact with each other, but one object can not change another object's data. This is usually called encapsulation or information hiding. Most modern programming languages are object-oriented.

Flow oriented programming sees programming as connecting different components. These components send messages back and forth. A single component can be part of different "programs", without the need to be changed internally.

Every programming language has rules about what it can and can not do. These include:

Most languages have official standards that define the rules of how to write the source code. Some programming languages have two or more standards. This can happen when a new standard replaces an old one. For example, the Perl 5 standard replaced Perl 4 in 1993. It can happen because two people made two standards at the same time. For example, there are several standards for APL.

Object-Oriented Programming (sometimes shortened to OOP) is a form of programming where all parts of the program are objects. Objects are pieces of memory with the same structure that can be used again and again. A bank account, bitmap, or hero from a video game could all be objects within a program. Objects are made up of properties (pieces of information the object stores) and methods which are things the object can do. A Dog object might have properties like height and hairColor. Its methods might include bark() and wagTail().

All objects are created from templates called classes. You can think of a class as a mold from which objects are made. The class defines all the properties and methods that its objects will have. Objects created from a class are called instances of the class. A class can "extend" another class, which means that it takes all the properties and methods of the class but can add its own.

Here is an example of what a class might look like in a programming language:

Notice that the Dog class extends the Mammal class, so all dogs will have the properties of a mammal, like hairLength, and methods, like eat() or sleep().

Object-oriented programming is used in many of today's most popular programming languages, such as Java, Objective-C, C++, Python, Ruby, Javascript, and ActionScript.

Here is a simple program written in Visual Basic:
This program asks the user his or her age and responds based on what the user typed. If the user typed something that is not a number, the program says so. If the user typed a number less than zero, the program says so. If the user says he or she is older than 100 years old, the program says "That's old!" If the user typed a correct age the program says back to the user how old he or she is.

Here is a program that does the same thing as the program above, but in Python:


</doc>
<doc id="6363" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6363" title="Visual Basic">
Visual Basic

Visual Basic (VB) is a programming language developed by Microsoft for their operating system Windows.

The BASIC language is said to be easier to read than other languages.
It is a widely understood high-level programming language, written using simple English-like words and syntax.

It is an interpreted language, code can be run immediately after being written.
Having an interpreter makes it simpler to use, as there is no need for the computer to compile the code, possibly finding errors to fix, before the compiled version can be run.

Once the code is working, it can be compiled into an .exe file so that it will run on all modern Windows computers, whether VB is installed or not. The language allows a beginning programmer to produce professional-looking Windows applications, as it includes drawing tools to create normal Windows forms. VB also includes advanced features - concepts and structures which allow programs to be adapted for use with the Internet.

It will not run on operating systems other than Windows and on machines with non-Intel compatible processors.

Visual Basic was first released in May 1991 for Windows. Many versions have been released since then. These are listed below:

Visual Basic .NET is the next series of products in Microsoft's successful "Visual Basic" range of products. It makes creating programs easier because it is possible to drag-and-drop controls into the program.

It runs on the .NET Framework and features another long line of programs. For the full list of editions in the .NET series, click here.



</doc>
<doc id="6364" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6364" title="Booting">
Booting

Booting is what happens when a computer starts up. When you boot a computer, your processor looks in system ROM (the BIOS) for instructions and does them. They normally 'wake up' add-in cards and searches for the boot device. The boot device either loads the operating system or gets the operating system from someplace else.

People use the word "boot" to mean "to start a computer" or other device with electronics built in. For example, if a person wants to ask a friend to turn on a satellite phone, they would say "could you boot up the satellite phone?".

Most operating systems call the first device it uses a boot device. This is because the computer is making itself go, as in the idiom. When we start a computer, we can often see the simple instructions the computer uses to start, then more complicated pictures or software. 

The phrase "to boot" in this meaning is short for "to bootstrap". This use is part of net jargon along with similar multi-use words like net or web. Often the computer is just called a box, so a phrase like "to boot the box" means "to start the computer".

The term "reboot" can also be used in a different context to mean a restarting of a storyline established in previous iterations of a series of fiction.


</doc>
<doc id="6365" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6365" title="DBS">
DBS

DBS may stand for:



</doc>
<doc id="6366" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6366" title="Template:Wrongtitle">
Template:Wrongtitle


</doc>
<doc id="6367" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6367" title="Tea">
Tea

Tea is a drink that is popular all over the world. It is made by soaking the dried leaves or flowers of the plant "Camellia sinensis" in hot water. Tea can have other herbs, spices, or fruit flavours in it, like lemon.

Sometimes the word "tea" is used for other drinks that have been made by soaking fruit or herbs in hot water, like "rosehip tea" or "camomile tea". 

There are two main types of tea: "black tea" and "green .

To make black tea workers take the leaves and spread them out on shelves where they can dry. Next they are rolled and broken into pieces and put into a room where they absorb oxygen. Chemical reactions change the taste and style of the tea. Finally the leaves are dried with hot air until they turn brown or black. Most black tea comes from Sri Lanka , Indonesia and eastern Africa. When black tea leaves are brewed in boiling water, the tea made from them looks deep dark red, so another name used for black tea, especially in China, is red tea. 

Green tea is made by putting freshly picked leaves into a steamer. This keeps them green. Then they are crushed and dried in ovens. India is the biggest maker and user of green tea.

Tea is mainly grown in China, India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Taiwan, Japan, Nepal, Australia, Argentina and Kenya. 

Tea can also be used as another word for an afternoon meal (mostly in the Commonwealth countries), as in "I am having tea in a short while." The word also applies to "afternoon tea", a small snack meal served sometimes, usually featuring sandwiches, cakes and tea. This small snack meal is also called "tea time".



</doc>
<doc id="6368" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6368" title="Interlingua">
Interlingua

Interlingua is a planned language using words that are found in most West-European languages. It was made by IALA - a group of people (the most known was Alexander Gode) that worked on it for more than 20 years, and they finished and published the first dictionary in 1951. Interlingua was created on the base of languages: English, French, Spanish, Portuguese, and Italian.

"Inter" is the same root word like you see in the words "interaction", "interface" and so on, and it means "between" or "to each other"; "lingua" means "language". They chose the name Interlingua because they wanted it to be used for people of different countries to talk to each other easily. Because Interlingua was made by people to be easy, it is easier than natural languages to learn.

Many thousands of people know Interlingua, and Interlingua speakers say that millions can understand it (read texts in it and listen to someone talk in it) without having to learn it first.

There are two other planned langages in the world that have more than 1000 speakers, Esperanto and Ido. Those two were made before Interlingua. Some people think that Esperanto and Ido are easy to learn because they have no "exceptions" (words that break the rules) but other people think Interlingua is easier because the makers chose all the words to be easy to understand for people who know English, French, Spanish, Portuguese, or Italian, plus languages like Occitan and Romanian, languages that used to be Latin, the language used in Rome a long time ago.

Actually, people that use Interlingua say that their language is actually new Latin, just simpler and "modernized" (made new).

Lingua natural e musical
de parolas international
e un grammatica minimal.

Comprensibile facilemente
per personas intelligente.

Le medio de communication
adequate pro le solution
del confusion de Babylon.



</doc>
<doc id="6369" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6369" title="World">
World

World usually means a planet. When people say "the world" they usually mean the planet Earth. Humans and animals live in the world. The Earth is the only planet that we know of that has life.
example: "It's like a whole new world! People refer to World as Earth, the place we live. All life forms remain here." 



</doc>
<doc id="6370" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6370" title="Azerbaijan">
Azerbaijan

Azerbaijan (), or Republic of Azerbaijan, is a country in South Caucasus region of Eurasia. It is next to Russia in the north, Georgia, Armenia, in the west, Iran in the south, and Caspian Sea on the east. Its capital city is Baku. Azerbaijan became independent from the Soviet Union when it ended in 1991.

Azerbaijan also includes Nakhchivan Autonomous Republic, an enclave, which is next to Armenia to the north and east, Iran to the south and west, and Turkey to the northwest.

Most of Azerbaijan's land is located in Western Asia and is called an Asian country by the United Nations. 

However, because it is close and its history is related to Europe, Azerbaijan is also a member of a number of European groups, including the Council of Europe since 2001.

More than 90% of the people are ethnic Azerbaijanis. Minorities include Russians, Georgians and other minorities. Also, Shia Islam, is by far the largest religion in the country, followed by Sunni Islam. There are also a small amount of Christians (mainly Eastern Orthodox), Jews (mainly Ashkenazi), agnostics and atheists.

Ancient Azerbaijan was named "Caucasian Albania" and was relatively independent under Roman/Byzantine (Roman Azerbaijan) and Persian control. 

After the Arab conquest in the 7th century the country has been always under Muslim influence, when its population became Muslim, until the Russian Empire entered the Caucasus region. 

From 1920 to 1991, Azerbaijan was a Communist country as a member of the Soviet Union.

Since the early 19th century many Russians settled in Azerbaijan, but after the end of the Soviet Union with the independence of Azerbaijan which is back in control, most Russians and other minorities have left the country and are continuing to leave the country.







</doc>
<doc id="6371" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6371" title="Actor">
Actor

An actor is a person who acts, or has a role (a part) in a movie, television show, play, or radio show. Sometimes actors only sing or dance, or sometimes they only work on radio. A woman actor is also an actress, but today most people use the word "actor" for both men and women.

The first time we know an actor worked was in 534 B.C., probably on November 23rd. The changes in calendar over the years make it hard to say exactly when the Greek actor Thespis became the first person to speak words as a character in a play at the "Theatre Dionysus". This was a big change in storytelling. Before then, people sang and danced stories, but no-one had been a person in the story. Today we call actors "thespians" because of Thespis.

In the past, the name "actor" was only for men. Women only began performing often in the 17th century. When they began, people called them the "actresses" . In the ancient world and in the Middle Ages, people thought it was bad (shameful) for a woman to act. People thought this until the 17th century. In the time of William Shakespeare, men and boys played women's roles, but we think perhaps women also acted secretly. 

Today, the name "actor" is for both men and women, because some people think the name "actress" is sexist. But people also use the name "actress" very often.

Women actors sometimes act the roles of young boys, because in some ways a woman is more similar to a boy than a man is. A woman usually plays the role of Peter Pan, for example. In pantomime, a sort of play for children (not the same as mime), the most important young man is also a woman. Opera has some 'pants roles' which women traditionally sing, usually mezzo-sopranos. Examples are "Hansel" in "Hansel und Gretel", and "Cherubino" in "The Marriage of Figaro".

Mary Pickford played the part of "Little Lord Fauntleroy" in the first film version of the book. Linda Hunt won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress in "The Year of Living Dangerously", in which she played the part of a man. 

In comic theatre and film, people often use a man for a woman's part, or a woman for a man's part - this has a long history. Most of Shakespeare's comedies have examples of this. Both Dustin Hoffman and Robin Williams were in popular comedy films where they played most scenes as men in women's clothes, pretending to be women.

Voice acting is a special type of acting. It is most commonly used in animation for both television and movies. Voice actors are the people who make the voices for the characters. They may also create the voices used for narration in non-animated works.



</doc>
<doc id="6373" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6373" title="Al-Khwarizmi">
Al-Khwarizmi

Muhammad ibn Musa al-Khwarizmi (, ) was a Persian mathematician who lived in Baghdad around the year 830. He invented algebra and wrote a book about algebra. Therefore he is often called "the father of algebra". He also wrote a book on the "Indian numbers" and how to add and subtract them. During the Middle Ages mathematicians in Europe read his book. They called these numbers "Arabic numbers" (0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, ...) and used them instead of the "Roman numbers" (I, II, III, IV, V, VI, VII, VIII, IX, X, XI, XII, ...). It is easier to do mathematics with Arabic numbers. The Roman numbers also has no number zero.

He wrote a book on Algebra named "Al-Jabr Wal' Muqibla" in which he introduced his own number system. And also introduced Arabic numerals. His books were translated in Greek and Latin languages. They named his books "So said Algorizmi". The word "Algorithm" is derived from the word Algorizmi.

Muhammad ibn Musa al-Khwarizmi worked at the House of Wisdom, this is where people worked on translating scientific works.


</doc>
<doc id="6374" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6374" title="Ptolemy">
Ptolemy

Ptolemy is the English name for Claudius Ptolemaeus. He was a Greek who probably lived and worked in Alexandria, in Egypt. He lived from about 85 to 165 A.D. He is famous for his work on astronomy and geography.

Very little is known about his personal life.

He was an astronomer, mathematician, and geographer. He described in his writing the Greek or geocentric view of the universe. The Greeks thought that the Earth was the center of the universe. He also thought out and described the apparent motions of the planets as they were known in his time.

Ptolemy explained and extended Hipparchus's system of epicycles and eccentric circles to explain his geocentric (Earth-centered) theory of the solar system. Ptolemy's system involved at least 80 epicycles to explain the motions of the Sun, the Moon, and the five planets known in his time. He believed the planets and sun moved around the Earth in this order: Mercury, Venus,Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn. 

This system became known as the Ptolemaic system. It predicts the positions of the planets accurately enough for naked-eye observations, so it seemed accurate at the time. This is described in his book "Mathematical Syntaxis" (widely called the "Almagest"), a thirteen-book mathematical treatment of the phenomena of astronomy. It contains a wide variety of information ranging from earth conceptions to sun, moon, and star movement as well as eclipses and an explanation of the length of months. The Almagest also included a star catalog containing 48 constellations, using the names we still use today.

In addition to his well known works in astronomy, Claudius Ptolemy was very important in the history of geography and cartography (Making maps). He was influential up to the 16th century when his ideas were disproved by Nicolaus Copernicus. Ptolemy of course knew that the Earth is a sphere. Ptolemy's is the first known projection of the sphere onto a plane. His "Geography" remained the main work on the subject until the time of Christopher Columbus. But he had Asia extending much too far east, which may have been a factor in Columbus's decision to try to reach India by sailing west from Europe.

The Ptolemaic explanation of the motions of the planets remained the accepted wisdom until the Polish scholar Copernicus proposed a heliocentric view, or sun-centered view in 1543. It should be noted, too, that Ptolemy's system is actually more accurate than Copernicus's. The heliocentric formulation does not improve on Ptolemy's until Kepler's Laws are also added.

Ptolemy may not actually have believed in the reality of his system. He may have thought of it only as a method of calculating positions.


</doc>
<doc id="6376" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6376" title="List of Mexicans">
List of Mexicans

This is a list of famous Mexicans.







</doc>
<doc id="6377" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6377" title="Moctezuma II">
Moctezuma II

Moctezuma II, also known as Motecuhzoma Xocoyotzin (1466-1520) and often called Montezuma in English, was the Aztec emperor ("tlahtoani") from 1502 to 1520. His name comes from the Nahuatl "Motecuhzoma", it means "he who is leader because of his fury". In Spanish, he is called Moctezuma.

When Hernán Cortés arrived in Mexico in 1519, Moctezuma thought he was the god Quetzalcoatl, and did not want to fight against him. Cortés took Moctezuma prisoner. When the Aztecs wanted Cortés to get out of their capital Tenochtitlan in 1520, Cortes told Moctezuma to calm down his people. When doing that he died. The Spaniards said he was killed by the Aztecs, while the Aztecs said Cortés killed him. The Spanish said that the Aztec people threw rocks at him, killing him, this was the Spanish. The Aztecs said that they found his body in the streets with a lot of cuts made with a sword after the Spanish left.
His own tribe killed the first Moctezuma


</doc>
<doc id="6378" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6378" title="Category:Mexican people">
Category:Mexican people

This caterogy contains famous people from Mexico.


</doc>
<doc id="6379" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6379" title="Antonio López de Santa Anna">
Antonio López de Santa Anna

Antonio López de Santa Anna Pérez de Lebrón (February 21, 1794 - 21 June 1876) was a Mexican general and dictator. Under his rule of Mexico, it lost half its territory. Santa Anna was 11 times president. He fought two wars against the United States. In the war against the Texas (1835-1836), he won the famous battle of the Alamo, but later he lost the battle of San Jacinto and was taken prisoner by the Americans. He also lost the second war with the United States (1846-1848),


</doc>
<doc id="6380" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6380" title="Category:Mexico">
Category:Mexico


</doc>
<doc id="6381" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6381" title="Category:Spain">
Category:Spain


</doc>
<doc id="6382" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6382" title="Category:Netherlands">
Category:Netherlands


</doc>
<doc id="6383" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6383" title="Granzyme">
Granzyme

Granzymes are enzymes contained within cytotoxic T cells and natural killer cells. These substances are used to destroy virus-infected cells.

Granzyme secretion can be detected and measured using the ELISPOT and ELISA techniques.


</doc>
<doc id="6386" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6386" title="Category:Geology">
Category:Geology

Which pages should go here, and which into Earth sciences? Each category has a short introduction.

Geology is the study of the material and the processes which make up the Earth. The field of geology includes the composition, structure, properties, and history of the planet's physical material. It includes the processes by which it is formed, moved, and changed; the history of life on Earth; and interactions between the biosphere and the geosphere. (enWP)


</doc>
<doc id="6393" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6393" title="Apartheid">
Apartheid

Apartheid was a political system in South Africa, which was in use in the 20th century, mainly between the 1940s and the 1980s. In the system, the people of South Africa were divided by their race. Even though black people were the majority in the country, a small number of white people ruled them and held most political offices. There were laws that kept up the racial separation. The system of apartheid in South Africa was banned in 1994. The last president under apartheid was Frederik Willem de Klerk. After this, Nelson Mandela became the first non-white president. Both were awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for their efforts. Today, the term "apartheid" is sometimes used to speak about similar systems in other countries.

During apartheid, people were divided into racial groups and kept apart by law. The system was used to deny many rights of non-white people. The laws allowed the white minority to keep the black majority out of certain areas. Black people had to carry special papers (passes) or have permission to live and work in particular areas. The government separated mixed communities and forcibly moved many people. Many laws were made, for example: people of different races were not allowed to get married; black people could not own land; and black people could not vote. 

Many countries and the United Nations did not agree with the South African government's policies. There were protests in South Africa, like in Sharpeville in 1960 and in Soweto in 1976. The Soweto uprising started because Africans were forced to study some subjects at school in Afrikaans. Many black people did not like Afrikaans because it was not the first language of black people, but the language of the apartheid government.

Finally, after much struggle, the South African government ended apartheid in 1994. After that, equal rights were shared among both black and whites. Nelson Mandela stood up to apartheid and became president when apartheid was ended. Although granted equal rights since 1994, 90 percent of the country's poor people are non-white, and so poverty remains a big problem.

Apartheid is an Afrikaans word meaning "separateness".

The aim of apartheid was to separate all the people of South Africa into small independent nations. But the National Party government did not want to spend a lot of money on this project. Also, they wanted to keep most of South Africa's land for white people. Especially the rich parts of the country, like the gold mines of Johannesburg. They also wanted black people to work in these mines for little money. However, they did not want black men's families to live in the same area.



</doc>
<doc id="6398" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6398" title="Dreyfus Affair">
Dreyfus Affair

The Dreyfus Affair was one of the biggest scandals in the history of France. It happened at the end of the 19th century. It was about Alfred Dreyfus, a Jewish officer in the French army.

In 1894, Dreyfus was accused of being a spy, and accused of crimes against France. People thought he wrote letters to the Germans telling them about secrets of the French army. 

His punishment was to be sent to a prison island in South America for the rest of his life.

When he was in prison, people (mostly his brother Mathieu and a high-ranking officer called Picquart) thought he was innocent. They proved that another soldier, Major Esterhazy, was guilty. But the army did not want to admit that it had been wrong. They refused to free him. Finally, the evidence that Dreyfus was innocent became so strong that the government had to demand a new trial. But at the new trial, the army again found him guilty. But the President of France, who did not want an innocent man to suffer any more, pardoned Dreyfus in 1899.

Dreyfus was released. Seven years later, he was officially declared innocent, and allowed back into the army.

The affair divided France into people who thought Dreyfus really was a spy and people who thought he was innocent. Many of those who thought Dreyfus was a spy hated Jews and believed that he was a criminal because he was a Jew, and that a Jew could not be a good Frenchman; this belief is called anti-Semitism. Others thought that the army could not be questioned. The other side believed that an innocent man should not be imprisoned, and feared that Dreyfus's enemies were also enemies of France.


</doc>
