<doc id="87052" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87052" title="Horace">
Horace

Quintus Horatius Flaccus (December 8, 65 BC - November 27, 8 BC), known to English speakers as Horace, was a famous poet in the Roman Empire.

Horace was born in the small Italian town of Venosa. His father used to be a slave, but was known as a freedman because his master had freed him. They moved to Rome a short time later. Horace's father had a job taking items from the seller to the buyer. He received money from these sales. His father became more wealthy and was able to send Horace to the best schools in Rome. He was also able to send him to Athens (Greece) to study the Greek language and philosophy. Horace's native language was Latin. Horace was incredibly proud of his father, and said he felt no shame in being the son of a freedman.

In his early adult life, Julius Caesar, the Roman dictator, was killed. War was declared against the people who killed him. Horace joined the army. When the war was over, Horace returned to Italy to find that other people were living in his apartment. His father was also gone. Horace became very poor. Eventually, he found a job in the treasury. This involved sorting the country's money.

His friends, Lucius Varius Rufus and Virgil, who were also writers, introduced him to Maecenas. Maecenas was a close friend of Augustus, the emperor of Rome. Horace lived in Tivoli, an area of Rome. When he died, he gave the land he owned to Augustus, to increase the land the state owned. Today, other writers visit the land to remember him.

Horace wrote many famous quotes in his poems. These lines are still spoken today, by speakers of every language, in the original Latin.

Some of Horace's poems are difficult to translate because of their syntax, grammar and structure, which is sometimes very different to modern languages.

Horace is viewed by many people, including experts, to be one of the best Latin poets.



</doc>
<doc id="87053" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87053" title="Space (disambiguation)">
Space (disambiguation)

Space in simple understanding is an area or volume.

Space or spacing may also refer to:

In science:


In music:


In media:

People:

Television:

In other fields:


</doc>
<doc id="87054" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87054" title="Physical body">
Physical body

In physics, a physical body (sometimes called simply a body or even an object) is a collection of masses, when you look at them as one object only.

For example, a cricket ball can be understood as an object but the ball also consists of many particles (pieces of matter). 

A human's, animal's or vegetable's physical body is made up of organs and tissues and is a part of the total living being which in the human being may also include a psychological or spiritual component.


</doc>
<doc id="87055" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87055" title="Body (disambiguation)">
Body (disambiguation)

Body may mean:



</doc>
<doc id="87057" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87057" title="Ebisu">
Ebisu

Ebisu (恵比須, 恵比寿, 夷, 戎), also known as Yebisu or Hiruko (蛭子) or Kotoshiro-nushi-no-kami (事代主神), is the Japanese god of fishermen, good luck and working men, and also the guardian of the health of children. He is one of the Seven Lucky Gods. 

Ebisu was first named "Hiruko", meaning "leech child". He was the first child of Izanagi and Izanami, born without bones (or, in some stories, without arms and legs) because of his mother's mistake in her marriage. Hiruko tried hard to survive but he was thrown to the sea in a boat made out of reeds. He was eventually washed ashore and was cared for by the Ainu people "Ebisu Saburo" (戎三郎).

The weak child overcame many problems, grew legs, and became the god Ebisu. He remains slightly crippled and deaf, but is still joyful (which is why he has the title, "The Laughing God"). He is often shown wearing a tall hat — the "Kazaori Eboshi" (風折烏帽子) — holding a fishing rod and a large sea bass. 

The brand name Evisu is named after Ebisu.


</doc>
<doc id="87064" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87064" title="Dominican peso">
Dominican peso

The Dominican peso is the money of the Dominican Republic. Its official name is "Peso oro" and its symbol is "$" with RD in front of it ("RD$") to differentiate it from other "pesos" or "dollars". The ISO 4217 for the Dominican peso is DOP. Each peso is divided into 100 "centavos" (English, "cents").

The first Dominican peso was introduced in 1844. It replaced the Haitian money. In 1905, the peso was replaced by United States currency. The peso oro was introduced in 1937, although the US dollar continued to be used alongside the peso oro until 1947.

Coins were introduced in 1937 in denominations of 1, 5, 10, 25 and 50 centavos. Since 1991, coins of denominations 1, 5, 10 and 25 pesos have been introduced. However, due to inflation, coins below 1 peso are now rarely found. Banknotes in use are 10, 20, 50, 100, 500, 1000 and 2000 pesos.



</doc>
<doc id="87065" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87065" title="Proprioception">
Proprioception

Proprioception is the sense that people have of knowing where the parts of their body are. It is also called kinesthetic sense . 

Proprioception is used when a person touches the tip of their nose while keeping their eyes closed. Even though they cannot see their finger or their nose, they can sense how to touch them together.


</doc>
<doc id="87068" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87068" title="Permutation">
Permutation

A permutation is a single way of arranging a group of objects. It is useful in mathematics. 

A permutation can be changed into another permutation by simply switching two or more of the objects. For example, the way four people can sit in a car is a permutation. If some of them chose different seats, it would be a different permutation.

The factorial has special application in defining the number of permutations in a set which does not include repetitions. The number n! is precisely the number of ways we can rearrange n things into a new order. For example, if we have three fruit: an orange, apple and pear, we can eat them in the order mentioned, or we can change them e.g. an apple, then a pear and finally an orange. The exact number of permutations is then formula_1. The number gets extremely large as the number of items (n) goes up.


</doc>
<doc id="87073" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87073" title="1 E6 m²">
1 E6 m²

To help in showing the sizes of different geographic regions, areas between 1 km² (100 hectares) and 10 km² (1000 hectares) are listed below.



</doc>
<doc id="87074" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87074" title="Lipid">
Lipid

A lipid is a type of molecule useful in biology. It is also oily or waxy. Fats are made from lipid molecules. Sources of lipid can be found in algae, seeds, meat, cheese, butter and fish. Lipids are long chains of carbon and hydrogen molecules. Lipids are classified as simple and complex. Examples of complex molecules could be steroids or phospholipids.The function of the lipids is to serve as an energetic reserve.


</doc>
<doc id="87075" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87075" title="Category:Orders of magnitude">
Category:Orders of magnitude


</doc>
<doc id="87077" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87077" title="Group theory">
Group theory

In mathematics and abstract algebra, group theory studies a type of algebraic structure called a group. Group theory is often used in mathematics as a starting point for the study of many algebraic structures, and of addition and multiplication of numbers. Because group theory is also useful for studying symmetry in nature and abstract systems, it has many applications in physics and chemistry.

A group is a set (collection) "G" whose members are called "elements". The elements can be numbers of some kind, or other abstract objects. The elements can even be material objects. There is also a "binary operation" which combines any two elements of "G" and results in another element of "G". This new element may be different from either of the original two, but it does not have to be. It only has to be an element of "G". To be a group, the following four conditions must be true of "G" and the operation defined over "G":


An important fact about groups is that when two elements are combined using the operation, the order of the elements matters. Switching the order of two combined elements typically gives a different result. This means that "a" • "b" = "b" • "a" does not hold. If the order does not matter and the previous equation does hold, the group is called an abelian group.

One example of a group is the set of integers (called Z) with the addition operator +. This group is called "G" = (Z, +). Each required condition is true of "G", so "G" is a group.

The addition operator is also commutative – the order of "a" and "b" does not matter. For any two integers "a" and "b" in G, "a" + "b" = "b" + "a". Thus, "G" is also an abelian group.


</doc>
<doc id="87079" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87079" title="Wikipedia:Administrators' noticeboard/Current issues and requests archive 7">
Wikipedia:Administrators' noticeboard/Current issues and requests archive 7

New user is currently a banned user on EN. Looking at the admin noticeboard discussion, I think this ban should be extended over here.

The default policy for this is that we choose which bans to enforce from other wikis, unless it's a formal ban from Jimbo Wales. I think this should be one to enforce over here. This involved creating sockpuppets and using meatpuppets, and showing off to admins that he was evading their blocks etc etc. This was only a short time ago, so I think it's a bit early to ignore it. My other concern is that the other people involved are gonna be over here before long as well.

I am usually in favour of second chances for banned users on EN, but in this case I think we should ban over here too. - 18:25, 1 January 2008 (UTC)

Ok firstly, the disputes with that are still ongoing.. and actually the reason I am banned is because people hacked onto my account... and secondly, i was TOLD to come here to edit until I am unblocked on the other one. All my edits have been constructive... you have not reason to ban me .. 18:28, 1 January 2008 (UTC)

This only proves that you haven't learned anything from en:WP 18:48, 1 January 2008 (UTC)

What do you expect me to do? you are telling me you want to block me simply because someone hacked into my old account??? and omg, Jeff isnt replying... if you look at my edits, not one of them has been disruptive! you are all creating more disruption by doing this! rather than let me get on with my edits... .. 18:49, 1 January 2008 (UTC)
I found the thread which proves my account was hacked! Wikipedia says its ok... so i don't see why you dont: http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:Administrators%27_noticeboard/Incidents&oldid=180702107#Apology

.. 18:58, 1 January 2008 (UTC)


Still for ban. 20:02, 1 January 2008 (UTC)

What is wrong with you????? are you all just homophobes or something????????????? i have been editing here in good faith... NOT ONE single bit of trouble! just let me get on with my editing! that is what I am here for! NOT to suffer homophobia from you lot! .. 20:04, 1 January 2008 (UTC)

If you are saying you are going against what both I AND Jeff say, even though he is a notable wikipedian, then simply by drawing a link between us, the only reason you could want to be opposed to both of us would be a homophobic one. However, EconomicsGuy, a user from wikipedia, also gave me persmission to edit here. I do not want to cause trouble here, and my friends dont know about my account this time, so they wont bother trying to hack onto this, or impersonate me... so basically the same things wont happen again. All I want is to be part of the community and work towards a common goal - building an encyclopedia... not argue about whose fault it was that I got banned last time, we are living in the present, not the past... i am not doing anything wrong... if I do do anything wrong, then deal with it as you will then, but there is currently nothing suggesting that I am a problem here... .. 20:30, 1 January 2008 (UTC)


.. 20:47, 1 January 2008 (UTC)

But if you have "allies" like Jeff and EconomicsGuy, who presuming what you said is true, are respectable editors at en, why can't they root for you? <br>

The whole wikipedian (well most of it) believe me now anyway... but in order to completely prove that I do want to edit constructively, they want me to edit on here to show that... because they have no way of knowing whether I am the same person as my friends... so they want me to prove that I am the one that edits constructively... and that my friends were not me.. 20:57, 1 January 2008 (UTC)

Do you take the trouble to read what I write?? <br>
I'm saying that if ever you do, you'll be blocked! It's a hypothetical situation and I'm not being prejudice! <br>
If you want me to lay it out any less complicated then ask and I'll write it out for a fourth time using words of maximum 2 syllables. <br>

If you'd taken just 5 minutes out of your busy busy schedule, you would have seen in my past three messages that I told you excactly what you should do. <br>
I'm not going to type it out again, read my other messages to see what I think you should do or keep asking the same questions over and over to which you already have the answers <br>

Yes Im going to continue with my contributions. however, what I am talking about is the fact that archer is saying how I cannot be trusted from what happened on EN... and it doesnt have anything to do with what Ive done on here... I shall continue with my edits on here... 21:34, 1 January 2008 (UTC)



Here's a nifty little thing to help (add your name to it, where you think it should be) Iamandrewrice can't vote. Sign your name where you think you belong. Support means for banning. Against means against banning.:

Support:

Against:
Comments:

Why has this article been locked from editing? .. 10:26, 2 January 2008 (UTC)

we have a new choise :D. ? --" " 13:28, 2 January 2008 (UTC)

Text referring to "recent changes" (, , , etc) should be changed to refer to "new changes". There may be other changes to be made, is there a place [other than here] to discuss simplification/changes to the interface? —//) 15:14, 2 January 2008 (UTC)

In general the preferences/settings interface doesn't seem to be in simple english at all. Some of these things (such as math rendering) are highly specialized anyway, but a lot of them aren't —//) 15:24, 2 January 2008 (UTC)

eful for finding these (there are probably others mentioning "Recent changes" that I didn't list) - the specific one you just mentioned is , and if you're going to standardize on "small change" instead of "minor edit" you may want to change (which is the m in lists of changes like history etc) to "s" as well (and there are, again, numerous places in the interface that talk about these that will need to be changed. The list of all messages is very helpful for this). —//) 15:34, 2 January 2008 (UTC)

The math settings could include examples; will images or math tags render in the option labels? And, I've never understood what "Recommended for modern browsers" means anyway, simple english or otherwise (or, at least - it's clear what it means, but not what the option _is_). —//) 15:26, 2 January 2008 (UTC)

Messages visible to ordinary users (mostly, I've left out references to "recent changes" in checkuser and bureaucrat [e.g. makebot] pages) that
—//) 15:51, 2 January 2008 (UTC)

Hello everybody, we have a new type of protection, a create protection. I have just all the pages and now are in this :-D --" " 20:20, 2 January 2008 (UTC)

I just noticed that several of the pages here, including Homer Simpson, Maggie Simpson, Ned Flanders, The Simpsons shorts, List of The Simpsons Treehouse of Horror episodes, Marge Simpson and Lisa Simpson are pretty much EXACT copies of pages that I wrote for the English Wiki. Is there some kind of rule against this? -- () 20:51, 4 January 2008 (UTC)

Instead of saying what should not be allowed please find any actual violation of copyright and then bring them back to us-- 21:26, 4 January 2008 (UTC)

I would just like to take a second to apologize to everyone for my rather spastic behaviour. I suppose I did overreact a tad, and I will let the users here sort out the issue without my further interference. -- () 21:37, 4 January 2008 (UTC)

This article is frequently vandalized. Could it be protected? 23:09, 4 January 2008 (UTC)

TO ALL ADMINS: <br>
This is to notify all admins (and any other users) that Ben evaded his block by editing several talk pages including mine, Barliner's and his own through a total of 4 different IP addresses. 

After having each one blocked consecutively, he finally stopped. But we must take into consideration that evading a block with no less than 4 different IP addresses is a serious affair. Here is a list of the IP addresses he used.

I have blocked each IP address for 48 hours and Barliner was trying to organize a block over a range (here), but I think that this is a serious matter in that he: 
-- 00:36, 6 January 2008 (UTC)

It is a known issue from the checkuser over at enwiki that a) the school IP is a known source of vandalism at should at the very least be soft blocked here and b) there are at least two different people involved, one of which is using the same IP range as that which per your own checkuser here was unrelated to Ben. I have asked Jeffpw to take over as I can't be online for very long periods of time today. I cannot encourage you strongly enough to do a checkuser on IuseRosary to determine if any sleepers are being created and to look for similarities in the userstring. For crosswiki checkuser requests consult a steward on Meta. I've done what I could here - he was doing fine when I left last night and I can't quite figure out what went wrong here. () 12:49, 6 January 2008 (UTC)

What has been decided on this issue? 17:46, 7 January 2008 (UTC)

Other wikipedias have been hard blocking open proxies, I was wondering whether we should be hard blocking or soft blocking. 04:08, 6 January 2008 (UTC)

Just blocked as a suspected spambot - it's another one like , which posts rubbish onto the wiki and emails people with nonsense emails. I'm not exactly a spambot expert so I can't say for certain if it is or not, but just in case folks: if you have already received an email from User:Flamestar, do not respond. Whatever it is, it's a robot and it's intentions aren't good. - 23:52, 6 January 2008 (UTC)

Moved to . 03:02, 8 January 2008 (UTC)

moved to simple talk -- 14:37, 8 January 2008 (UTC)

Hi all. I blocked IuseRosary due to some confusion I was experiencing due to heavy traffic on my talk page. He has been unblocked but, through IamAR, says he cannot edit still because of the autoblock. Anyone have any idea what the trouble could be? · 18:46, 8 January 2008 (UTC)

He keeps posting the same message on mine and IuseRosary's talk page. He has posted it 3 times on mine, and twice on IuseRosary's. The comment is completely irrelevant, as in it, you will see that he asks something about 'sarcasm' and 'whit', which have no benefit to the encyclopedia. I have informed IuseRosary of what was going on on his talk page through email, and he requested that I delete it. Can you please help to stop Gwib harrassing us? Thank you everyone ^^ ...im trying to deal with this in the most appropriate way, i've never dealt with someone quite like this 19:02, 8 January 2008 (UTC)

He has now also protected my talk page to stop me removing his persistent messaging. I'm not sure what's got into him, but I am not in a position to do anything about this, and in his current state of mind he will probably try and block me soon, probably just for posting this... something is really up with him, and i don't know what to do. Can my talk page be unprotected everyone too please? 19:05, 8 January 2008 (UTC)

I have now reverted the same message from gwib in what seems to have become some form of edit war.-- 19:20, 8 January 2008 (UTC)


I think this dispute needs to end now. Bickering back and forth is not conflict resolution and the veiled attacks in explanations etc. do nothing but make the situation worth. I would like to see no further conversation on this matter. This is just more of everyone's time being wasted on an argument. - 19:35, 8 January 2008 (UTC)


I think this issue is resolved. I don't think they'll have any more problems with Gwib. - 19:54, 8 January 2008 (UTC)

OK razorflame I will wait it out and see what you can conclude. I would like to point out that Gwib's angry outbirsts appeared to start when I removed Gwib's mention in my 'wikifriends' on my userpage. Perhaps this is the reason for Gwib's temper, and if it is, I sincerely appologize for the tantrum it may (or may not) have caused Gwib to have. However, my reason for removing him was in fact to do with his religious interrogations of IuseRosary which I found unprofessional and un-administor like. So thank you everyone, I will check up on this some time later or tomorrow. 19:57, 8 January 2008 (UTC)

General point on the policy relevant here: 

We do have a problem in this area with some admins following practice over policy. Usually this is because they only see the practice and never knew the policy. -- 03:12, 9 January 2008 (UTC)

I don't think there is much else that can be gained from continuing this conversation. If any admins would like to brush up on policies, here's a helpful link: . · 16:17, 9 January 2008 (UTC)

The page history serves as a record, nothing else is needed. - 17:10, 9 January 2008 (UTC)

Hello fellow admins. I have permanently blocked the address given above from adding things anonymously; Account creation remains possible. The address in question has regularly contributed (few things). As far as I can tell, all contributions from 2007 have been vandalism; there are no "non-vandalism" contributions. I have therefore blocked anonymous users from that address from editing. In the unlikely case that there will be any good edits from this address, these can now only be by named editors. -- () 10:31, 10 January 2008 (UTC)

Why has my school IP been blocked with the reason as 'IamAR and friends'? Oo 14:45, 10 January 2008 (UTC)

They "bothered" to do it an EN Wiki, they bothered to create over 50 accounts to vandalize and pose as sockpuppets of you. IuseRosary also found out about this site, and if you and him plan on editing during school time whilst surrounded by classmates I don't think that our "splendid isolation" would survive much longer. -- 17:59, 11 January 2008 (UTC)

This page here doesn't seem to be associated to a user page and has been created by an IP. I thought I should mention it here () 18:10, 10 January 2008 (UTC)

I wanted to notify all admins that IamAR has new restrictions. He can edit the following pages, and "only" the following pages:
This restriction is in hope that he will stop his excessive disruption. I have said that if he breaks this restriction that it will result in a one-week block. If anyone sees a violation, please issue the block. If problems continue despite the restrictions, I think it will be time for a ban. · 19:23, 11 January 2008 (UTC)

Assuming good faith is all well and good, but when two users are seemingly using their talk pages as a social network, and have almost identical signatures (which may not be against policy, but common sense suggests it shouldn't be allowed) and then go out of their way to insult admins by constantly referring to them as he/she/it then surely enough is enough? I ask you to consider how much of your time has been spent trying to deal with these two users (iamandrewrice especially). Despite his claims of superior intelligence the user quickly reverts to, after being given a very easy piece of advice to comprehend, claiming he doesn't understand it.

A game seems to be being played, and while I have the utmost of respect for the admins and other users who are going out of their way to help iamandrewrice - and while his terrible behaviour at EN Wiki arguably has nothing to do with here - there has to come a time when enough is enough. Users on EN tried to help, or at least thought they were trying to help, before eventually realising they were being gamed. Fortunately there were enough people over there to sort the situation out, whereas here the lesser number of users means there is more potential for disruption.

So I'd just like to urge you all to be very cautious because the longer the minor niggles and gaming og the system goes on, the more annoyed you will be when you eventually decide to act upon it. () 14:55, 12 January 2008 (UTC)

Just noticed this edit and it just doesn't seem to read correctly. Is there a chance the account has been compromised, as it seems strange for someone self-identified as 13 to described another user who is self-identified as 16 to as "young". And the message is somewhat rambling. I wouldn't normally worry too much but, given the circumstances, thought it worth mentioning () 21:43, 11 January 2008 (UTC)

Ps. Thank you for explaining that to me, Mr.Gwib.

I am sorry, I will keep all my personal messages or messages that can be deemed as Insulting, even though I assure you it was not meant as that to emailes. I'm Sorry! 22:06, 11 January 2008 (UTC)

Not sure if this is the right place to post this, but Freddy might be back. -- 23:34, 11 January 2008 (UTC)

Ionas has violated his ban again, with recent sockpuppets:
see . 05:26, 12 January 2008 (UTC)
Ionas you have been extened every opportunity. One sockpuppet is enough to be banned. Just because you admitted to them means aboslutely nothing. Don't respond and don't make another edit or you ban will be permanent. (BrownE34, September 20 last year). (posted by 08:05, 12 January 2008 (UTC)) <br>
Keep in mind that there is still about half a year block left for him; so at the moment we do not have to do anything about this (except blocking sockpuppets, which we do anyway). -- () 14:17, 12 January 2008 (UTC)

I have reset the block for one year(account creation disabled, email blocked). 19:08, 13 January 2008 (UTC)

What is the policy/guideline on signatures?. Particularly in view of -- 15:26, 12 January 2008 (UTC)

After this item in his user change log:

15:10, 12 January 2008 (hist) (diff) Wikipedia:Administrators/Archive5‎ (→Support - removing my vote. I no longer support it gathering the uncivility of THE GWIB)

I have blocked Iamandrewrice for one week for failing to comply with the restrictions under which he should be working.-- 15:40, 12 January 2008 (UTC)

I would not extend Ben's block as he only requested being unblocked, which is what one template suggests. Any further use of that or any other IP is a candidate for further blocking-- 16:41, 12 January 2008 (UTC)

Iamandrewrice has requested an unblock. I have post template, and ask another admin to review my reasoning and reply to the request. 

Does anybody know if blocked users can edit their talk page when their blocked? 21:22, 12 January 2008 (UTC)

Hmmm. Interesting part is, I read some bugs in MediaWiki Bugzilla about "preventing" blocked users from editing their own talk pages! Anyways, the latest version of MediaWiki doesn't allow blocked users to edit their talk pages any more. Changing this is not a hard task to do (can be done in a couple of minutes indeed). - 11:08, 13 January 2008 (UTC)

I am against IamAR coming back to this Wikipedia. He's been given a last chance opportunity and he blew it. As was stated on his talk page that if he was to act disruptively in the future, then we could ban him. Therefore, ban him. 20:35, 13 January 2008 (UTC)

Hello,
rather than changing all the templates would it not be better to let blocked users edit their talk page (as the only page they can edit); if it is just a matter of minutes to change, how much work would it be to make this settable (as in the block user template?) -- () 14:53, 13 January 2008 (UTC)

</doc>
<doc id="87085" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87085" title="Wikipedia:Administrators' noticeboard/archives">
Wikipedia:Administrators' noticeboard/archives


</doc>
<doc id="87086" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87086" title="St. Vartan Cathedral">
St. Vartan Cathedral

St. Vartan Cathedral is the first cathedral of the Armenian Apostolic Church to be constructed in North America. It is located in New York City on the corner of Second Avenue and Thirty-fourth street and was built to resemble the St. Hripsime Church in Echmiadzin.


</doc>
<doc id="87088" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87088" title="Margherita of Savoy">
Margherita of Savoy

Margherita di Savoia or "Margaret of Savoy" (born November 20, 1851 in Turin, died January 4, 1926 in Bordighera), was an Italian queen of the Kingdom of Italy during the reign (1878-1900) of her husband, Humbert I.

She was a daughter of Ferdinand, Duke of Genoa and Elizabeth of Saxony. Her paternal grandparents were Charles Albert of Sardinia and Maria Theresa of Austria and Tuscany. Her maternal grandparents were John of Saxony and Princess Amalie Auguste of Bavaria.

She married her first cousin Humbert (Umberto) on April 21, 1868. On November 11, 1869, Margherita gave birth to Victor Emmanuel, Prince of Naples.

On January 9, 1878, Humbert succeeded as the new King of Italy. She became his Queen consort and remained by his side for the rest of his reign. Humbert was assassinated by anarchist Gaetano Bresci on July 29, 1900.

Margherita supported artists and writers,and the Red Cross, and founded cultural institutions, like the Società del Quartetto, and the Casa di Dante.

In 1889 the pizza "Margherita" was named after her. It is the colors of the Italian flag. Red sauce, green basil and white cheese. After the pizza, a Peak was named like the queen, and then in 2007, the third highest mountain in Africa.

Politically she supported the Fascism.


</doc>
<doc id="87090" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87090" title="Consonance and dissonance">
Consonance and dissonance

In music, consonance and dissonance are words which are used to describe certain musical intervals or chords. The adjectives are consonant and dissonant. 

A consonant interval or chord is one which sounds stable and pleasant. It could, for example, be the end of a piece of music. For example: C and E sound well together, or the chord C, E and G (a C major chord).

A dissonant interval or chord is one which sounds unstable. It may even sound harsh by itself. The notes seem to clash. It cannot be the end of the piece of music (if the music is a normal, traditional tonal piece). It sounds as if it wants to move on to a consonant interval (this is called "resolving" onto a consonant chord). The notes C and Fsharp together make a dissonant interval. The chord C - Dsharp - Fsharp is a dissonant interval: it is full of tension, and it sounds as if it wants to "resolve" onto C - E - G.

Scientifically a consonant interval is one in which the two notes vibrate at frequencies which have a simple mathematical relationship, e.g. in two notes which are an octave apart the higher note vibrates exactly twice as fast. If they are a fifth apart the top note vibrates 1 1/2 times as fast as the lower note. The more complicated mathematically the interval, the more dissonant it will sound.


</doc>
<doc id="87098" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87098" title="Carpe diem">
Carpe diem

Carpe diem is a famous phrase from one of the poems of Horace. It means "seize the day" in Latin. 
The poem is originally from "Odes" 1.11. It is given in Latin and English below.

Especially during the Baroque era, the phrase was important. In the 17th century there was the Thirty Years' war, which lasted roughly from 1618 to 1648. For the people of the time, death was present almost everywhere. To compensate for that there were the concepts of "Carpe diem" (There is little time left, use it as best you can), "Vanitas" (Vanity; things are not what they seem), and Memento mori (Remember you will die). 

A better translation of the phrase would probably be "pluck the day" (as a fruit might be plucked from a tree).


</doc>
<doc id="87100" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87100" title="Category:Phrases">
Category:Phrases


</doc>
<doc id="87101" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87101" title="Gustav Heinemann">
Gustav Heinemann

Dr. Dr. Gustav Walter Heinemann (born 23 July 1899 in Schwelm; died 7 July 1976 in Essen) was a German politician. He was Interior Minister under Chancellor Konrad Adenauer. He resigned when Adenauer started getting ready to set up the German Army. He later resigned from the CDU and joined the SPD. He also served as Justice Minister before he was elected Federal President in 1969. He served for one term, and left office in 1974.


</doc>
<doc id="87105" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87105" title="Template:Uw-tilde">
Template:Uw-tilde


</doc>
<doc id="87107" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87107" title="Schwelm">
Schwelm

Schwelm is a town in the district of Ennepe-Ruhr Rural District the state of North Rhine-Westphalia.

Schwelm is situated in the southeast of the ""Ruhrgebiet"", the Ruhr Area of Germany, between Westphalia and the ""Bergisches Land"". Schwelm is commonly known as the ""Pforte Westfalens"" ("Gate to Westphalia").

The history of Schwelm goes back to the ninth century, where it is first mentioned as "Suelmiu". The city of Schwelm was officially established in 1496 and became seat of the Ennepe-Ruhr district in 1929. According to its area, Schwelm is the smallest town in North Rhine-Westphalia.

Schwelm is home to the ""Brauerei Schwelm"", the Schwelm Brewery, one of the few remaining private breweries in Germany. It was started in 1830 by Haarmann & Kathagen, the brewery was one of the first worldwide to switch from wooden to metal barrels. The original office building of the brewery, the "Rietz'sche Haus" built in 1701, is still in use today.

The oldest piano manufacturer in the world is located in Schwelm. Since 1794, ""Rud. Ibach Sohn"" has been building pianos and, until 1904, organs in Schwelm.




</doc>
<doc id="87110" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87110" title="Bundesarbeitsgericht">
Bundesarbeitsgericht

The Bundesarbeitsgericht or "Federal Labour Court" is the German federal supreme court of appeals for cases of labour law. This includes "individual" labour law (mostly about contracts of employment) and "collective" (more than one) labour law (e.g. cases about strikes and collective bargaining). The court hears cases from the "Landesarbeitsgerichte" (Superior State Labour Courts), which, in turn, are the courts of appeals against decisions of the "Arbeitsgerichte" (ordinary State Labour Courts).

The "Bundesarbeitsgericht" is in the city of Erfurt.



</doc>
<doc id="87112" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87112" title="Bundessozialgericht">
Bundessozialgericht

The Bundessozialgericht (German for "Federal Social Court") is the German federal supreme court of appeals for social security cases. The court was created on 11 September 1954 to hear cases about public health insurance, long-term care insurance, pension insurance and occupational accident insurance plans. These cases usually start in the "Sozialgerichte" ("Social Courts"), then the "Landessozialgerichte" ("Superior State Social Courts"), before the cases wind up at the "Bundessozialgericht".

The "Bundessozialgericht" is located in the city of Kassel.



</doc>
<doc id="87113" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87113" title="Bundesverwaltungsgericht">
Bundesverwaltungsgericht

The Bundesverwaltungsgericht or "Federal Administrative Court" is one of the five federal supreme courts of Germany. It is the federal court of appeals for generally all cases of administrative law. These cases are mainly arguments between people and the government, but sometimes are disputes between two different parts of government. 

The Federal Administrative Court was set up on 8 June 1953 . It was based in Berlin, but in 2002 moved to the city of Leipzig in Saxony

It hears appeals from the "Oberverwaltungsgerichte", or Superior Administrative Courts, which, in turn, are the courts of appeals for decisions of the "Verwaltungsgerichte" (Administrative Courts).

Although cases about social security law and tax law are arguments between a person and the government, there are special courts for these matters. The Bundessozialgericht is federal court of appeals for social security law, cases about tax and customs law are decided by the "Finanzgerichte" (Finance Courts), and lastly by the Bundesfinanzhof.

The "Bundesverwaltungsgericht" has its headquarters at the former "Reichsgericht" (Reich Court of Justice) building in Leipzig.



</doc>
<doc id="87119" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87119" title="Santa María de Iquique School Massacre">
Santa María de Iquique School Massacre

The Santa María de Iquique school Massacre was on December 21, 1907. At that time Chile's government was lead by Pedro Montt. Hundreds of workers died in the front of the school "Santa María de Iquique". 

The workers had been walking from saltpetre mines of Tarapacá, striking to get better life conditions. 

The strikers first went to San Lorenzo, and then to Iquique. They arrived in Iquique on December 16. They stayed peacefully in the school. Military forces arrived, and without provocation General Silva Renard give the order to shoot the people there in front of school. Hundreds of people were killed.


</doc>
<doc id="87130" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87130" title="Grid">
Grid

Grid may mean:

Meaning an array of squares or rectangles:


In science, mathematics and technology:


Places:


In popular culture:


Other:


GRID may stand for:



</doc>
<doc id="87140" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87140" title="Category:Health problems">
Category:Health problems


</doc>
<doc id="87144" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87144" title="Skype">
Skype

Skype () is a software program that uses the internet to make telephone calls. The software was created by the Swedish and Danish Niklas Zennström and Janus Friis. It is for Microsoft Windows (2000, XP, Vista and Windows Mobile), Mac OS X and Linux. By using VoIP to make the calls, it is very cheap to call another phone. It does not cost money to call another Skype user. Every Skype user has a unique username which other users can use to talk with them.


Skype has an encryption system for security. This system cannot be turned on or off. Skype provides an uncontrolled registration system for users. People can use the system safely without revealing their real-life identity to other users of the system, but there is no way to know that the person they communicate with is the one they say they are.




</doc>
<doc id="87146" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87146" title="Wookieepedia">
Wookieepedia

Wookieepedia (the "Star Wars" Wiki) is an online encyclopedia for information on the "Star Wars" fictional universe—including information of six films, as well as Expanded Universe. It is a more specialized and useful wiki for those who wish to go farther than the basics in the "Star Wars" universe, and is almost entirely in-universe. The name Wookieepedia is a mix of Wookiee and encyclopedia, being a based on on name of Wikipedia. Wookieepedia is hosted by Wikia.


</doc>
<doc id="87152" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87152" title="Chianti">
Chianti

Chianti is a kind of red wine. It is producted in Tuscany in the famous area of "Chianti" inside the provinces of Arezzo, Florence, Pisa, Pistoia, Prato and Siena.

There are many types of Chianti:


</doc>
<doc id="87166" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87166" title="Maxïmo Park">
Maxïmo Park

Maxïmo Park (sometimes spelled Maximo Park) are an English indie rock band who formed in 2000.

Maxïmo Park formed in in 2000 (with frontman Paul Smith coming from Billingham in Teesside). To Start off with, the four founding members played only a little amount small shows, with Archis Tiku on vocals, constantly switching the instruments he played. Almost about to split up, but instead they decided to look for somebody else to sing vocals. Singer Paul Smith was discovered by the then-girlfriend of drummer Tom English in a pub while he was singing along to a Stevie Wonder song. Having found someone with a stage presence, they started to write their first songs together, all despite the fact that the frontman never imagined himself as a frontman of a band. Paul Smith had never sung on stage before.

Around March 2004, a friend of the band's paid for 300 copies of a 7" red vinyl single "Graffiti" and later released a vinyl of their tracks ("The Coast Is Always Changing"/"The Night I Lost My Head") that they’d recorded in their house in Fenham. After some time of doing shows around their home town, Steve Beckett of the dance-electronic label Warp Records found one of these records and decided to sign Maxïmo Park to his record label.


A Certain Trigger

Missing Songs

Our Earthly Pleasures



</doc>
<doc id="87170" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87170" title="Wikipedia:No personal attacks">
Wikipedia:No personal attacks

In Simple English Wikipedia, many people work together to make an encyclopedia. Sometimes, users do not agree on what is written in an article, or on a talk page. Rather than commenting on what is wrong with the article or talk page, they make a bad comment about the user, the person who wrote the comment. This is called a personal attack, and will not be tolerated. Personal attacks help no one. They will not help people make a point about an issue. There are some users who wanted to help making this Wikipedia better, but who no longer want to because the personal attack scared them away. People who make bad comments about other people must show these comments are true (by giving some kind of evidence) - If they can not or do not want to do this, making bad comments about another user is considered to be a personal attack.

People who make personal attacks may be blocked, so they can no longer change this Wikipedia. - People who make personal attacks over and over again may be blocked indefinitely.

With some comments, it difficult to say if they are personal attacks. Some kinds of comments are almost always personal attacks:

in a bad way.

"Disagreeing over what is the most important aspect of a religion, sexual orientation or preference, race, etc. is no excuse."

Other behaviour that is considered a personal attack includes:

It does not matter if the threat is made on-wiki, or if a link to another website is given where the threat is made. 

These are only examples. Often, a personal attack fits more than one of these examples. Insulting a user is a personal attack "regardless of how it is done". 

When you are not sure, comment only on what is written, not on who wrote it, especially if you disagree with the user.

Here is a set of warnings you can give to users who attack other users:


</doc>
<doc id="87173" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87173" title="Math Rock">
Math Rock

Math rock is a guitar-based style of indie rock which has complex rhythms. This genre started in the late 1980s. A closely-related genre is post-rock, into which some of the same bands are classified. Post-rock is usually characterized by a stronger jazz influence.


</doc>
<doc id="87174" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87174" title="Template:Uw-npa1">
Template:Uw-npa1

Welcome to Wikipedia. Everyone is welcome to make helpful changes to the encyclopedia. However, please do not other editors. If you disagree with changes, please talk about the changes and not the editors who made them. Take a look at the to learn more about changing Wikipedia. Thank you.

</doc>
<doc id="87175" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87175" title="Template:Uw-npa2">
Template:Uw-npa2

Please see "". Talk about "changes" editors have made, not the editors. Personal attacks damage the community and scare away users. Please note that more personal attacks will lead to you being for disruption. Thank you.

</doc>
<doc id="87176" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87176" title="Template:Uw-npa3">
Template:Uw-npa3


</doc>
<doc id="87177" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87177" title="Template:Uw-npa4">
Template:Uw-npa4

This is the last warning you will get for your disruptive comments.If you keep making personal attacks on other people, you will be for disruption. Talk about the changes editors have made, not the editors. 

</doc>
<doc id="87182" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87182" title="Middle Kingdom of Egypt">
Middle Kingdom of Egypt

The Middle Kingdom is the period in the history of ancient Egypt stretching from the establishment of the Eleventh Dynasty to the end of the Fourteenth Dynasty, roughly between 2030 BC and 1640 BC.

The period had two phases, the 11th Dynasty, which ruled from Thebes and the 12th and the following dynasties which were centred around el-Lisht. These two dynasties were originally considered to be the full extent of this unified kingdom, but historians now consider the 13th Dynasty to at least partially belong to the Middle Kingdom.



</doc>
<doc id="87183" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87183" title="Thebes, Egypt">
Thebes, Egypt

Thebes (, "Thēbai") was a city in Ancient Egypt about 800 km south of the Mediterranean, on the east bank of the river Nile (). It was the capital of "Waset," the fourth Upper Egyptian nome. 




</doc>
<doc id="87185" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87185" title="Politics of Germany">
Politics of Germany

The Politics of Germany is based on a federal parliamentary democratic republic

The Federal Chancellor is the head of government, and of the majority group in the legislature (law making body) which is called the Bundestag.

Executive power is exercised by the government.

The power to make federal law is given to the government and the two parts of parliament, the Bundestag and Bundesrat.

From 1949 to 1990, the main political parties were the Social Democratic Party of Germany (SPD) and the Christian Democratic Union (CDU), with its "sister party", the Christian Social Union of Bavaria (CSU).

After the reunification of Germany the Green Party and Alliance '90(Bündnis 90/Die Grünen) became more important and was in government between 1999 and 2005.

Other important political parties after reunification have been the PDS (Party of Democratic Socialism) which was based on East Germany's Socialist Unity Party of Germany. It joined with The Left Party (Die Linkspartei) of western Germany. In 2007 Die Linke and WASG joined together under the leadership of Oskar Lafontaine

The political system is set out in the 1949 constitution, the "Grundgesetz" (Basic Law), which stayed in effect after 1990's German reunification.

The constitution puts freedom and human rights first. It also splits powers both between the federal and state levels and between the legislative (law-making), executive (government), and judicial (courts) branches. The 1949 "Grundgesetz" was written to correct the problems with the Weimar Republic's constitution. The Weimar Republic collapsed in 1933 and was replaced by the dictatorship of the Third Reich.

The courts of Germany are independent of the government and the lawmakers. Senior judges are appointed by the Bundestag for a fixed term.

The "Bundeskanzler" (Federal Chancellor) heads the "Bundesregierung" (Federal Cabinet) and thus the executive branch of the federal government. He or she is chosen by and must report to the "Bundestag", Germany's parliament. Germany, like the United Kingdom, can thus be said to have a parliamentary system.

The Chancellor cannot be removed from office during a 4-year term unless the "Bundestag" has agreed on a successor. This Constructive Vote of No Confidence () is stop what happened in the Weimar Republic. There the government did not have a lot of support in the parliament. The small parties often joined together to vote against the government, but could never stay together and choose a new government.

Except in the periods 1969-72 and 1976-82, when the social democratic party of Chancellor Brandt and Schmidt came in second in the elections, the Chancellor has always been the candidate of the largest party. Usually the largest party is helped by one or smaller more parties to get a majority in the parliament. Between 1969-72 and 1976-82 the smaller parties decided not to help the largest party, but the second biggest party instead.

The Chancellor appoints a Vice-Chancellor (Vizekanzler), who is a member of his cabinet, usually the Foreign Minister. When there is a coalition government (which has, so far, always been the case, except for the period of 1957 to 1961), the Vice-Chancellor usually belongs to the smaller party of the coalition.

The Chancellor is responsible for policy guidelines. This means he, or she, sets the broad ideas of what the government will do. To help carry out these ideas the Chancellor can change the make-up of the federal ministries whenever they want. For example, in the middle of January 2001, the Federal Ministry of Agriculture was renamed to Ministry of Consumer Protection, Food and Agriculture. This was to help fight the "Mad Cow Disease" BSE problem. At the same time some of the jobs ("competences") of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Health were moved to the new Ministry of Consumer Protection.

Reporting to the cabinet is the Civil service of Germany.

The duties of the "Bundespräsident" (Federal President) are mostly representative and ceremonial; The power of the executive is exercised by the Chancellor.

The President is elected every 5 years on May 23 by the Federal Assembly ("Bundesversammlung"). The Bundesversammlung only meets to elect the President. Its members are the entire "Bundestag" and an equal number of state delegates selected especially for this purpose in proportion to election results for the state parliaments.
In May 2004, Horst Köhler of the CDU was elected. The reason that the President is not directly elected by the people is to stop him from claiming to be more powerful than the government and the constitution, which happened in the Weimar Republic.

Germany has a bicameral legislature, that means that the parliament has two houses. The "Bundestag" (Federal Diet) has at least 598 members, elected for a four year term. Half of the members (299) are elected in single-seat constituencies according to first-past-the-post. The other 299 members are chosen from statewide party lists.

The total percentage of constituency members and regional list members a party has should equal the percentage of votes that a party gets. This is called proportional representation.

Because Voters vote once for a constituency representative, and a second time for a party Germany is said to have mixed member proportional representation.

Sometimes a party already has more constituency seats in a "land" (state) than it should have to keep the percentage of votes and seats equal. The party does not lose seats. Instead it gets no land seats. This means that the Bundestag sometimes has more than 598 members. In the current parliament there are 16 overhang seats, giving a total of 614.

A party must get 5% of the national vote or win at least three constituency seats to be represented in the "Bundestag". This rule, often called the "five percent hurdle", was made to stop lots of small parties being in the Bundestag. Small parties were blamed for the problems of the Weimar Republic's Reichstag.

The first "Bundestag" elections were held in the Federal Republic of Germany ("West Germany") on August 14, 1949. Following reunification, elections for the first all-German "Bundestag" were held on December 2 1990. The last election was held on September 18 2005, the 16th Bundestag met on October 18 2005.

The "Bundesrat" (Federal Council) is the representation of the state governments at the federal level. The Bundesrat has 69 members who are delegates of the 16 "Bundesländer". Usually the 16 Ministers President are members, but they do not have to be. The "Länder" each have from three to six votes in the "Bundesrat", depending on population. "Bundesrat" members must vote as their state government tell them.

The legislature has powers of exclusive jurisdiction (it can make laws by itself) and concurrent jurisdiction with the "Länder" (the länder can also make laws). What laws and what type of laws are set out in the Basic Law.

The "Bundestag" does most law making.

The "Bundesrat" must concur (agree) to laws about money shared by the federal and state governments and those making more work for the states. Often this means that the "Bundesrat" often needs to agree to a law, because federal laws are often carried out by state or local agencies.

Since the political make-up of the "Bundesrat" is often different from that of the "Bundestag", the Bundesrat is often the place for opposition parties to put their point of view, rather than for the states to look after their interests, as the constitution intended.

To limit, members of the Bundestag and the Bundesrat form a Vermittlungsauschuss which is a joint committee to try to reach agreement when the two chambers can not agree on a certain piece of legislation.

"More info: 16th German federal election, 2005"
The Federal Council is composed by representatives of the State governments.
Germany has had a court system that was free of government control for longer than it has had democracy.

This means that the courts have traditionally been strong, and almost all state actions are subject to judicial review (being looked at by the court).

There is the "ordinary" courts system that handles civil and criminal cases

This has four levels

There is also a system of specialist courts, that deall with certain areas of the law. These generally have a state court and state appeals court before coming to the federal supreme court for that area of law. The other federal supreme courts are

Unlike the United States, all courts are state courts, except for the top level supreme courts.

Germany also has another supreme court, the Bundesverfassungsgericht Federal Constitutional Court. The "Grundgesetz" says that every person may complain to the Federal Constitutional Court when his or her constitutional rights, especially the human rights, have been violated by the government or one of its agencies, and after he or she has gone through the ordinary court system.

The Bundesverfassungsgericht hears complaints about laws passed by the legislative branch, court decisions, or acts of the administration.

Usually only a small percentage of these constitutional complaints, called "(Verfassungsbeschwerden)" are successful. Evenso, the Court is often angers both the government and the law-makers. The judges even say that they do not care about the reactions of the government, the Bundestag, or public opinion or about the cost of one of the court's decisions. All that matters is the constitution.

The Bundesverfassungsgericht is very high popular with ordinary people, because it protects them from government wrong doing.

Only the Constitutional Court can handle some types of cases, including arguments between government bodies about their constitutional powers.

Only the Constitutional Court has the power to ban political parties for being unconstitutional. However so far the Constitutional court has only used this power twice, outlawing the KPD (Communist Party of Germany) and the SRP (Socialist Reich Party, a successor to the NSDAP) because both parties ideas went against the constitution.

In the 1998 election the SPD said they wanted to reduce high unemployment rates and said new people were needed in government after 16 years of Helmut Kohl's government.

Gerhard Schröder said he was a centrist "Third Way" candidate like Britain's Tony Blair and America's Bill Clinton.

The CDU/CSU said people should look at how well off they were because of Kohl's government, and that the CDU/CSU had experience in foreign policy.

But the Kohl government was hurt at the polls by slower growth in the east in the previous two years, which meant the gap between east and west widened as the west got richer and the east did not.

The final seat count was enough to allow a "red-green" coalition of the SPD with Alliance '90/The Greens ("Bündnis '90/Die Grünen"), bringing the Greens into a national government for the first time.

The first months of the new government had policy disputes between the moderate and traditional left wings of the SPD, and some voters got fed up. The first state election after the federal election was held in Hesse in February 1999. The CDU increased its vote by 3.5 %. The CDU became the largest party, and replaced a SPD/Green coalition with a CDU/FDP coalition. The result was seen in part as a referendum on the federal government's ideas for a new citizenship law, which would have made it easier for long-time foreign residents to become German citizens, and also to keep their original citizenship as well.

In March 1999, SPD chairman and Minister of Finance Oskar Lafontaine, who represented a more traditional social democratic position, resigned from all offices after losing a party-internal power struggle against Schröder.

In state elections in 2000 and 2001, the respective SPD- or CDU-led coalition governments were re-elected into power.

The next election for the "Bundestag" was September 22 2002. Gerhard Schröder led the coalition of SPD and Greens to an 11 seat victory over the CDU/CSU headed by Edmund Stoiber (CSU). Two factors are generally cited that enabled Schröder to win the elections despite poor approval ratings a few months before: good handling of the 2002 European floods and firm opposition to the USA's 2003 invasion of Iraq.

The coalition treaty for the second red-green coalition was signed October 16, 2002. There were a lot of new ministers.

In February 2003, elections took place in the states of Hesse and Lower Saxony, were won by the conservatives. In Hesse, the CDU minister president Roland Koch was re-elected, with his party CDU gaining enough seats to govern without the former coalition partner FDP.

In Lower Saxony, the former SPD minister president Sigmar Gabriel lost the elections, leading to an CDU/FDP-government headed by new minister president Christian Wulff (CDU).
The protest against the Iraq war changed this situation a bit, favouring SPD and Greens.

The latest election in the state of Bavaria led to a landslide victory of the conservatives, gaining not just the majority (as usual), but two thirds of parliamentary seats.

In April 2003, chancellor Schröder announced massive labour market reforms, called Agenda 2010. This included a shakeup of the system of German job offices (Arbeitsamt), cuts in unemployment benefits and subsidies for unemployed persons who start their own businesses. These changes are commonly known by the name of the chairman of the commission which conceived them as Hartz I - Hartz IV. Although these reforms have sparked massive protests they are now credited with being in part responsible for the economic upswing and the fall of unemployment figures in Germany in the years 2006/7.

The European elections on June 13, 2004 brought a staggering defeat for the Social Democrats, who polled only slightly more than 21 %, the lowest election result for the SPD in a nationwide election since the Second World War. Liberals, Greens, conservatives and the far left were the winners of the European election in Germany, because voters were disillusioned by high unemployment and cuts in social security, while the governing SPD party seems to be concerned with quarrels between its members and gave no clear direction. Many observers believe that this election marked the beginning of the end of the Schröder government.

In September 2004, elections were held in the states of Saarland, Brandenburg and Saxony. In the Saarland, the governing CDU was able to remain in power and gained one additional seat in the parliament and the SPD lost seven seats, while the Liberals and Greens re-entered the state parliament. The far-right National Democratic Party, which had never got more than 1 or 2 % of the vote, received about 4%, although it failed to earn a seat in the state parliament (a party must obtain at least 5% of the vote to achieve state parliamentary representation).

Two weeks later, elections were held in the eastern states of Brandenburg and Saxony: once again, overall, the ruling parties lost votes and although they remained in power, the right to far-right parties made the big leaps. In Brandenburg, the Deutsche Volksunion (DVU) re-entered the state parliament after winning 6.1% of the vote. In Saxony, the NPD entered a non-competition agreement with the DVU and obtained 9.2% of the vote, thus winning seats in the state parliament. Due to their losses at the ballots, the ruling CDU of Saxony was forced to form a coalition with the SPD. The rise of the right to far-right worries the ruling political parties.

On May 22, 2005 as predicted the SPD was defeated in its former heartland, North Rhine-Westphalia. Half an hour after the election results, the SPD chairman Franz Müntefering announced that the chancellor would clear the way for premature federal elections by deliberately losing a vote of confidence.

This took everyone by surprise, especially because the SPD was below 25% in polls at the time. On the following Monday the CDU announced Angela Merkel as conservative candidate for chancellorship.

Whereas in May and June 2005 victory of the conservatives seemed highly likely, with some polls giving them an absolute majority, this changed shortly before the election at September 18, 2005, especially after the conservatives introduced Paul Kirchhof as potential minister of the treasury, and after a TV duel between Merkel and Schröder where many considered Schröder to have performed better.

New for the 2005 election was the alliance between the newly formed Electoral Alternative for Labour and Social Justice (WASG) and the PDS, planning to join into a common party (see Left Party.PDS). With the former SPD chairman Oskar Lafontaine for the WASG and Gregor Gysi for the PDS as prominent figures, this alliance soon found interest in the media and in the population. Polls in July saw them as high as 12 %.

After success in the state election for Saxony, the alliance between the far right parties National Democratic Party and Deutsche Volksunion (DVU), which planed to leapfrog the "five-percent hurdle" on a common party ticket was another media issue.

The election results of September 18, 2005 were surprising. They were very different from the polls of the previous weeks. The conservatives lost votes compared to 2002, reaching only 35%, and failed to get a majority for a "black-yellow" government of CDU/CSU and liberal FDP. The FDP polled a 10 % of the votes, one of their best results ever. But the red-green coalition also failed to get a majority, with the SPD losing votes, but polling 34 % and the greens staying at 8 %. The left party alliance reached 8.7 % and entered the German Parliament, whereas the NPD only got 1.6 %.

The most likely outcome of coalition talks was a so-called "grand coalition" between the conservatives (CDU/CSU) and the social democrats (SPD), with the three smaller parties (liberals, greens and the left) in the opposition. Other possible coalitions include a "traffic light coalition" between SPD, FDP and Greens and a "Jamaica coalition" between CDU/CSU, FDP and Greens. Coalitions involving the Left Party were ruled out by all parties (including the Left Party itself), although the combination of one of the major parties and any two small parties would mathematically have a majority. Of these combinations, only a red-red-green coalition is politically even imaginable. Both Gerhard Schröder and Angela Merkel announced that they had won the election and should become next chancellor.

On October 10, talks were held between Franz Müntefering, the SPD chairman, Gerhard Schröder, Angela Merkel and Edmund Stoiber, the CSU chairman. In the afternoon it was announced that the CDU/CSU and SPD would begin formal coalition negotiations with the aim of a Grand Coalition with Angela Merkel as the next German chancellor. </br>

Angela Merkel is the first woman, the first East German and the first scientist to be chancellor as well as the youngest German chancellor ever. On November 22 2005 Angela Merkel was sworn in by president Horst Köhler for the office of Bundeskanzlerin.




</doc>
<doc id="87186" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87186" title="Musical notation">
Musical notation

Music notation or musical notation is a way of writing down music so that anyone can play it. Many systems have been used in the past to write music. Today most musicians in the Western world write musical notes on a stave: five parallel lines with four spaces in between them. However, there are many others, some of which are in use today in different cultures.

Writing music down makes it possible for a composer who makes up (composes) a piece of music to let other people know how he wants his music to sound. That music can then be played or sung by anybody who can “read music”. If music is not written down, then people can only learn other people’s music by listening to it and trying to copy it. This is how folk music was traditionally learned.

The earliest kind of musical notation was written on tablets using a way of writing called cuneiform. Music from Nippur from about 2000 B.C. has been found which seems to give an approximate idea of how the music should be played. A tablet from 1250 B.C. has musical notation which shows the names of the strings of a lyre. They are the earliest records we have of written music.

Musical notation from Ancient Greece showed the notes in more detail than the earlier cuneiform. It shows the pitch (how high or low the note is) and how long it lasts. It sometimes give an idea of the harmony. It was used from at least the 6th century BC until about the 4th century AD.
When music started to be written down in Europe it was music for the Roman Catholic church. The monks who wrote it down used a system of dots and strokes called neumes. They gave an idea of how high or low the notes were, but did not show the length of the notes. They may have been used by people who knew the music already and just needed a reminder of when to go up and down.

People gradually realized that it was necessary to find a system which showed the exact pitch of the note. The first stave was just one single horizontal line. Gradually this increased to four lines. Guido d’Arezzo, an Italian Benedictine monk who lived in the 11th century developed this system which soon led to the way of writing music that we know. By the 16th century everybody was using the 5 line stave. A system of bars (measures) was used everywhere by the end of the 17th century. At first the bar lines where there to show which notes should be played or sung together. Gradually the system we know today was developed in which each bar lasted the same length of time, and has a particular number of beats (counts) for each bar. By the end of the 17th century this was used by most musicians in European classical music.

Today we use a five-line staff. The pitch (high or low) is shown by where the note is put on the stave. There may also be sharps or flats in front of some of the notes. The music is read from left to right.

A staff of written music usually has a clef in front. This shows exactly which notes are to be played. Notes which are very high or low can be put on extra lines called ledger lines above or below the stave.

After the clef there is usually a key signature which shows the key of the piece: it shows which sharps or flats are to be used regularly.

After the key signature is the time signature. Bars (measures) divide the piece into regular groupings of beats , and the time signatures show these groupings.

Above the music there is usually a word, or words, to show the tempo (speed) At various places in the music there will be dynamic marks to show how loud or soft to play.

For vocal music, words are written underneath the notes.

When music is played by a large group of instruments such as an orchestra the music is written in a "score". This shows the music played by all the instruments, so there are many staves written underneath one another. The conductor will need to have a score, but the players will play from a “part” which has just the notes that they play. All the parts needed for a piece of music is called a “set of parts”. 

Instruments such as guitars often play from a chord chart or just the names of the chords (C7, Em etc) written underneath the music or under the words of a song.

A system called tonic sol-fa was used by amateur musicians a century ago. This showed the names of the notes of a scale (doh, ray, me etc).

Lute music in the Renaissance and Baroque periods used to be written in a system called tabulature. Some 20th century composers have also used tabulature.

Some modern composers such as John Cage have written music by making drawings called graphic notation.

Music can also be written in Braille for blind musicians.

Today computers are often used for making music. This has led to other forms of music notation which are used in different systems of software. The MIDI file format, stores information about the pitch, duration, speed, volume etc of notes and can be used to control a MIDI instrument.

There are other systems in use today for some non-Western music.



</doc>
<doc id="87188" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87188" title="Musicology">
Musicology

Musicology means the study of music by a scholar. A scholar is an academic person, often a professor or lecturer at a university. Someone who studies musicology is a Musicologist.

Musicologists study all kinds of music. They study the history of music and learn about all the composers and how they developed their ideas and learned from one another. They can do this by studying music scores, or by looking for historical documents which tell us about musicians from the past. Musicologists may also study the philosophy of music (thinking about what music means). 

They write articles in musical journals or books on music. This can help us to know and understand more about the music we play or listen to.


</doc>
<doc id="87189" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87189" title="Group 0">
Group 0

Group 0 in the periodic table is the group where the noble gases are arranged. It is the last group in the table. 

All the elements in this group are not reactive, because they already have a full outer shell of electrons. This means they will not create new compounds or create chemical reactions when they mix with other elements.


</doc>
<doc id="87192" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87192" title="Armenian-Tatar massacres 1905-1907">
Armenian-Tatar massacres 1905-1907

The Armenian-Tatar massacres (also known as the Armenian Tatar War and the Armeno-Tatar War) refers to the inter-ethnic conflict between the Armenians and the Caucasian Tartars (modern Azeris) in the Caucasus in 1905—1907.

The massacres started during the Russian Revolution of 1905, and claimed hundreds of lives. The most violent clashes occurred in 1905 in February in Baku, in May in Nakhichevan, in August in Shusha and in November in Ganja.


</doc>
<doc id="87199" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87199" title="Category:Chinese singers">
Category:Chinese singers


</doc>
<doc id="87205" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87205" title="C-pop">
C-pop

C-pop is short for Chinese popular music (Traditional Chinese: 中文流行音樂; simplified Chinese: 中文流行音乐). Most of today's C-pop artists are from Hong Kong, Taiwan and mainland China, as well as from other countries where Mandarin or Cantonese language is used, such as Singapore and Malaysia. However, Taiwanese music has some origins from the Japanese enka so Taiwanese pop is sometimes said to be a different genre from C-Pop.

Cantonese pop, or colloquially known as Cantopop, is a subgenre of C-pop, sung in Cantonese language. Most Hong Kong-born singers start off as Cantonese pop singers before starting a career as a Mandarin pop singer. Cantonese pop artists include:


"The Four Heavenly Kings" of Cantonese pop are Leon Lai, Andy Lau, Aaron Kwok and Jacky Jeung.

In the early 1990s, many major Cantonese pop stars (such as Alan Tam, Leslie Cheung, Samuel Hui, Priscilla Chan and Joseph Koo) decided to retire because of the protests in China in 1989. Cantonese pop needed new talent to fill the gaps left by these retired stars, this led to the beginning of "the Four Heavenly Kings" or "四大天王" ("lit." Four Great Kings of Heaven): Jacky Jeung, Andy Lau, Aaron Kwok and Leon Lai. They were dominated the media in all forms, from magazines, TV, cinema to music.

Mandarin pop () is a subgenre of C-pop. Also known as Mandopop and Mandapop, Mandarin pop songs are performed in Mandarin. Most Cantonese pop stars also expand their music career into the Mandarin pop scene.



</doc>
<doc id="87207" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87207" title="Stefanie Sun">
Stefanie Sun

Stefanie Sun ( a multi-award-winning C-Pop singer and songwriter. She was born on 23 July 1978. Stefanie has sold over 10 million copies in Asia. After her release of her tenth album, she is said to be the most popular Mandarin female singer in Asia and the most successful singer from Singapore.

Stefanie Sun has an elder sister Sng Yee Kia and a younger sister Sng EeMei.

Stefanie wen to school at Saint Margaret's Secondary School, Raffles Girls' School and went on to attend Saint Andrew's Junior College. She later attended Nanyang Technological University, where she got a degree in Marketing. Her abilities were discovered by her music teacher at his music school.

Among Mandarin-speakers, Stefanie is known by her Mandarin name, Sun Yan Zi. She speaks the Teochew dialect, and in Teochew her name is pronounced as "Sng Ee Tze," which is her official name. Most of her songs are sung in Mandarin, with several in English. Stefanie's ability to speak many dialects is shown in the songs she sings. 

In the song "Cloudy Day" (called 天黑黑 in Chinese), she sings in both Mandarin and Min Nan (Taiwanese). "Cloudy Day" is an adaptation of a traditional Taiwanese folk song.

Her album START! contains 6 songs in English: "Venus", "That I Will Be Good", "Sometimes Love Just Ain't Enough", "Silent All These Years", and "Hey Jude"; and a song she wrote called "Someone".

Stefanie does most of her recording and performing in Taiwan, where most of her fans are. She also visits China, Hong Kong, Malaysia and Singapore, where many of her fans are.

Her first music album was released in June 2000, the self-titled YanZi, published by Warner Music. The album sold over 330,000 copies in Taiwan. Her next album, which was released in December of the same year was titled My Desired Happiness or 我要的幸福 in Chinese. My Desired Happiness sold over 380,000 copies in Taiwan. Both albums achieved great success – each album sold over 1,000,000 copies in mainland China.

Her third album was released in early 2001, titled Kite, which sold successfully with 300,000 copies in Taiwan and more than 950,000 in China.

In January 2002 she released START, which was titled 自選集 in China. START was a collection of songs and cover versions. START! sold over 250,000 copies in Taiwan alone in less than a month and overall 1,000,000 copies sold in mainland China.

In 2002 and 2003, Stefanie sang the official theme songs for Singapore's National Day Parade: We Will Get There (一起走到 in Chinese) and One United People (全心全意 in Chinese). One United People was included on the album Leave.

In early 2003, she released the album To Be Continued… which like her previous releases, was a success. It sold more than 250,000 copies in Taiwan and more than 1,000,000 in China. Only a few months later, she released her seventh album with six new songs mixed with fifteen of her old songs. By the end of 2003, Stefanie had sold over 7,000,000 copies in Asia with just seven albums.

In late 2003, she decided to take a one-year break from making music, because she wanted to find again her direction in her career. She returned in late 2004 with a new album titled Stefanie, which was meant to reflect her debut album (self-titled as well, but in Chinese). This was to symbolise her return with a fresh attitude. This album sold more than 2,300,000 copies in Asia; making it her most successful album. She also started her own company called Make Music.

A Perfect Day was released on 2005, almost one year later. Reviews of this new album were mixed, but Stefanie said that all she wanted was to make quality music, instead of releases that sell well but have a lower level of artistic quality. This album was not her highest-selling, but it had still managed to sell over 1,000,000 copies in Asia.
In 2006, Stefanie had 4 full-house concerts at the Hong Kong Coliseum. The performances were praised by the media as well as fans. Stefanie also returned to Singapore in a much-anticipated homecoming concert. However, at The Golden Melody Awards 2006 in Taiwan, while performing songs that were meant to be for male singers, she went off-key, due to having not enough sleep, jet lag, and not having enough time to practice. The media said she had shattered her image of a pop diva with great singing skills. Though she had been heavily criticized by the media, many think that she did not perform as bad, instead the media had over-emphasized on her singing that night.

Stefanie’s first album under the Capitol brand is entitled Against the Light or 逆光 in Chinese. It was released on 22 March 2007. Her decision to leave Warner after 9 albums was partly due to music executive Sam Chen, who now works at EMI. He had collaborated with Stefanie on 8 of her 9 albums.

On 26 February 2007, Stefanie returned from Cairo where she and her team were extorted by suspected local gangsters. Stefanie was in Egypt to shoot a PV for her new album. Two men disguised as government officials followed her and the crew and asked for money and even showing a handgun. The crew tried calling the police but the police didn’t believe them. The crew had to hand over a total of over 200,000 yuan in order to continue shooting.

Stefanie’s tenth album Against the Light, has been a major success in Asia. In Taiwan, it sold over 60,000 copies in the first 3 days it was released. In addition, over 500,000 copies were sold within a week in China. Stefanie was also the number one spot in the Taiwanese Music Charts for 4 weeks.

In 2007, Stefanie sang the offcial theme song for ASEAN's 40th anniversary celebrations: Rise. 


</doc>
<doc id="87208" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87208" title="Template:Office-table">
Template:Office-table

! Office
! Name 
! Party
! Since

</doc>
<doc id="87210" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87210" title="Template:German federal election, 2005">
Template:German federal election, 2005

!style="background-color:#E9E9E9" align=left rowspan=2 colspan="2" valign=top| Parties
!style="background-color:#E9E9E9" align=center colspan="5"| Constituency
!style="background-color:#E9E9E9" align=center colspan="5"| Party list
!style="background-color:#E9E9E9" align=center colspan="5"| Total seats
! Votes
! +/−
! Seats
! Votes
! +/−
! Seats
! Total
! %
!align=left| Totals

</doc>
<doc id="87211" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87211" title="Template:Germany Bundesrat composition">
Template:Germany Bundesrat composition

Composition of the Bundesrat after the last State elections, 13 May 2007

</doc>
<doc id="87213" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87213" title="Template:Election Table">
Template:Election Table

<includeonly>{| class="wikitable"

</doc>
<doc id="87214" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87214" title="Template:German politics/party colours/Green">
Template:German politics/party colours/Green

bgcolor="#99CC33"

</doc>
<doc id="87215" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87215" title="Template:Electiontable">
Template:Electiontable

<includeonly>{| border="1" cellpadding="4" cellspacing="1" style="margin: 1em 1em 1em 0; background: #f9f9f9; border: 1px #aaa solid; text-align:right; border-collapse: collapse; font-size: 95%;"

</doc>
<doc id="87217" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87217" title="Mudra">
Mudra

In Indian religions, a mudra (Sanskrit, literally "seal") is a gesture made with the hand or fingers. Along with "asanas" (body postures), they are used in yoga. Each mudra has a meaning. They are a central part of Hindu iconography. Mudras are also used in Buddhism. There are hand gestures in both Hindu and Buddhist iconography. An example would be the outward-facing open palm known as "Abhay" (without fear) mudra, a gesture meant to dispel fear.




</doc>
<doc id="87224" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87224" title="Aaron Kwok">
Aaron Kwok

Aaron Kwok is a popular Hong Kong singer and movie actor. He is one of the "Four Heavenly Kings" of Cantopop. He has been dubbed "Hong Kong's Michael Jackson" for his onstage dancing.

Aaron Kwok is one of Hong Kong and Asia's most important pop stars. Over the last decade or so, Kwok has won over a hundred music awards. As a solo performer, he has played in over 200 concerts around the world.

After graduating from secondary school, Kwok worked as a junior staff in King Fook Gold and Jewellery Co. Ltd., as his father, who owns a gold retail store wanted Kwok to gain experience in the business and eventually taking over the family business.

In 1984, Aaron Kwok joined a dancer training course at HK-TVB, where his talent for dancing was shown. There, Kwok performed in PVs and a variety of TV shows. In 1985, Kwok's outstanding performance in a pageant show was spotted. He was transferred to the acting department of the talent training course and became a TV actor, where he played a few roles in Chinese television drama shows.

In the early 1990s, a Taiwanese motorcycle CM gave him instant fame and he burst onto the music scene with his now-famous song Loving You Forever (called 對你愛不完 in the Chinese and original release) and the dance moves for the song. In the next few years, his popularity reached fever-pitch and he was soon ranked alongside the most popular artists of the time.

Over the years, Kwok has also taken part in other mediums such as CMs and acting, especially with director-cinematographer Andrew Lau. Kwok has also done extensive public service and charity work, which is why he was amongst the winners of the Ten Most Outstanding Young Persons Award 2003.

In 2004, a string of concert dates earned Kwok a Hong Kong Dance Award presented by the Hong Kong Dance Alliance. Due to this success, Kwok toured again in 2005, receiving much praise.

At the Taiwan's forty-second Golden Horse Awards ceremony on 13 November 2005, Kwok won Best Leading Actor award for his role in the movie "Divergence". It was Kwok's first Golden Horse nomination and beat veteran Hong Kong star Tony Leung to win the honour.

Aaron won the Best Actor Award again at the forty-third Golden Horse Awards on 24 November 2006 for his role in the movie "After This Our Exile". He became the second actor in the history of the Golden Horse Awards to win the Best Actor Award year after year. Jackie Chan first achieved this back in the 1990s.



</doc>
<doc id="87225" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87225" title="Styrene">
Styrene

Styrene is a certain organic chemical compound having the chemical formula CH. Its chemical structure is made up of a vinyl group bonded onto a benzene ring. This benzene ring makes styrene an aromatic compound. At room temperature and pressure, styrene is a clear, colorless liquid. Other names for styrene can be "styrol", "vinylbenzene", "phenylethene", or "phenylethylene". 

Styrene is used in the chemical industry as a monomer. This means many styrene molecules can bond together to make a larger molecule called polystyrene. Polystyrene is a kind of polymer often used as a plastic. This kind of chemical reaction is called polymerization. 
Styrene can also bond with other kinds of monomers to make other kinds of polymers called "copolymers". For one example, styrene has been mixed with another monomer called 1,3-butadiene to make a copolymer which is a kind of synthetic rubber. For another example, styrene is mixed with acrylonitrile and 1,3-butadiene to make a copolymer plastic called ABS (Acrylonitrile-Butadiene-Styrene).

In industry, styrene is made from ethylbenzene by this chemical reaction: 

This kind of reaction is called dehydrogenation. Hydrogen is also made by this reaction.


</doc>
<doc id="87227" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87227" title="Template:Uw-bite">
Template:Uw-bite


</doc>
<doc id="87228" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87228" title="Para Para Sakura">
Para Para Sakura

Para Para Sakura is a 2001 romance-comedy movie directed by Jingle Ma, starring Aaron Kwok and Cecilia Cheung. It was filmed and produced in Hong Kong. It runs for 107 minutes and is in the language Cantonese.

Kwok plays the role of Phillip Wong, a colour-blind dance instructor who holds a class devoted to the latest dance craze, the Japanese Para Para. While in Shanghai, Phillip meets Yee (Cheung), a spoiled rich girl who is running away from her up-coming arranged marriage. Soon, Yee begins using Phillip's dance studio as a sanctuary from her responsibilities, and an attraction begins to form between the two. However, Yee is called back to Japan to be married before long, and Phillip must use more than his dance skills and charisma to prevent her from taking her vows.




</doc>
<doc id="87233" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87233" title="JJ Lin">
JJ Lin

Wayne Lin, born on 27 March 1981, is more commonly known as JJ Lin. He is a Singaporean singer and songwriter of Chinese Fujian descent, and he came to musical prominence in the Greater China region and Taiwan. He was awarded the "Best New Artist" award in the Taiwan Golden Melody Awards.

He has written songs for various artists, notably "Ji De (Remember)" for Taiwanese pop diva A-Mei and fellow labelmate A-do's "Fang Shou".

In Singapore, he was chosen to perform a version of "Home", the theme song of the National Day Parade in 2004. His career and notability began to rise in Singapore with the aid of his music being used in television shows. He was the guest performer in the finals of Channel U's Project SuperStar.

After winning the Gold award in the Best New Act category in the 2004 Singapore Hit Awards, he went on to sweep the 2005 edition with four awards. These were the Best Local Male Artiste, Best Composing Artiste, Best Male Vocalist and Best Local Music Composition awards. His album "Cao Cao" sold 2,000,000 copies in just 2 weeks.



</doc>
<doc id="87237" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87237" title="Category:Singaporean people">
Category:Singaporean people


</doc>
<doc id="87243" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87243" title="Zhang Li Yin">
Zhang Li Yin

Li Yin Zhang (simplified Chinese: 张力尹; traditional Chinese: 張力尹; pinyin: Zhāng Lì Yǐn; Korean: 장리인), also known in Korea by her Korean name RiIn Jang, is the first and currently only Chinese solo singer to break into the Korean music industry. Li Yin has been nicknamed the "Chinese BoA". She speaks both Mandarin and Korean, and has released music in both Korea and China. She also speaks English language but has not yet released any records fully in English.

Li Yin was born on 18 February 1989 in Sichuan, China. She grew up in a musical family, as both of her parents were professional violinists. As a child, her parents took her to their rock concerts and exposed her to a variety of music. At three years old, she began to learn the violin. Li Yin liked classical, American and European music so much that she says she never sang children's songs when she was a child.
As she grew older, Li Yin became more into pop music than rock music. She had to secretly listen to pop music because her parents were against it. When she was twelve, she went to a middle school founded by the Sichuan Music College after scoring the highest with her violin-playing, but she chose to become a singer instead. She was selected as one of the top-ten teenage singers in a national singing competition in Beijing. Eventually, her parents began to support her dream to become a singer.

Li Yin was discovered by SM Entertainment. She started training in 2003 at the age of 13 and for 3 years, she special singing and dance training under SM Entertainment. While doing so, she discovered her R&B talent.

Li Yin's debut was greatly anticipated not only in Korea, but the whole of Asia because of the promotion of her being "The Next BoA" and "The Chinese BoA." Before her official debut, it was already known that her song was a duet with popular TVXQ-member Xiah Junsu, which caused even more excitement and anticipation among the general public.

On 8 September 2006, Li Yin released her first single, Timeless . On the first day of release, she ranked #2 on the online charts of SBS Inkigayo. The song was placed #1 on Daum's Music Video chart as well as hitting the highest search number on the famous Korean search engine Naver . The PV was ranked #1 on Melon's Video Chart for 30 days .

In early 2007, Li Yin promoted the second track of her debut single called Y (Why...), which is a power ballad. SM Entertainment also released a Timeless documentary version of her Y (Why...) PV. It featured her hardships while training, as well as many behind-the-scenes clips of her promotion of Timeless, including never-before-seen footage of her and Xiah Junsu.

She also performed with boy-band TVXQ at their second Korean concert in Seoul, South Korea on 23 February 2007. She sang BoA's part in the song Try-Angle, previously performed by BoA, TVXQ and The TRAX.

She also performed Timeless with Xiah Junsu at the Hallyu Expo in Korea on 8 March 2007. In July, along with Kangta, TVXQ, The Grace and Super Junior, she performed in Korea for the SMTown Summer Concert 2007.

After a long year of absence without releasing any records, Zhang Li Yin announced during an interview early December 2007 that her long-awaited debut album will be released in February 2008 . The album is titled 星愿 - I WILL ("lit. Star Wish: I Will" ) and has been released in Korea, China, Japan, Singapore and Malaysia.


</doc>
<doc id="87249" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87249" title="Nyingma">
Nyingma

Nyingma is the name of one of the four major schools of Tibetan Buddhism. The Nyingma school is made up of several different lines that start with Padmasambhava, the legendary founder of Tibetan Buddhism. The word "Nyingma" means "ancient". Nyingma followers see themselves as holding the oldest teachings of Vajrayana. Some of these teachings can be found in the local Bön religion of Tibet.

Notable modern Nyingma teachers include Kyabje Dudjom Rinpoche (c. 1904–1987), Sogyal Rinpoche, Dilgo Khyentse Rinpoche, Khenpo Choga Rinpoche, filmmaker Khyentse Norbu (also known as Dzongsar Jamyang Khyentse Rinpoche), and Penor Rinpoche.


</doc>
<doc id="87265" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87265" title="433 Eros">
433 Eros

433 Eros is the first found Near-Earth asteroid named after the Greek god of love, Eros (Greek Ἔρως). It is an S-type asteroid about 13 × 13 × 33 km in size, the second-biggest near-Earth asteroid (NEA) after 1036 Ganymed, belonging to the Amors. It is a Mars-crosser asteroid and was the first asteroid that was known to come within the orbit of Mars. Eros is one of the few NEAs with a maximum diameter higher than 10km. It is thought to be bigger than the impactor that created Chicxulub Crater in the Yucatán, which has been linked to the extinction of the dinosaurs.

On January 31, 2012, Eros is expected to pass Earth at 0.1787 astronomical units (16.6 million miles) with a visual magnitude of +8.1. But during rare oppositions, every 81 years, such as in 1975 and 2056, Eros can reach a magnitude of +7.1, which is brighter than Neptune and brighter than any main belt asteroid except 4 Vesta and, not usually, 2 Pallas and 7 Iris. Under this condition, the asteroid actually appears to stop, but unlike the normal condition for a body in heliocentric conjunction with the Earth, it never appears to be retrograde. Its synodic period of over 846 Earth days is among the biggest of any body in the Solar System.

Eros was visited by the NEAR Shoemaker probe, which orbited it, taking many pictures of its surface, and, on February 12 2001, at the end of its mission, landed on the asteroid's surface using its maneuvering jets.

Objects in an orbit like Eros can exist for only a few hundred million years before the orbit is perturbed by gravitational interactions. Simulations suggest that Eros may evolve into an Earth-crosser within 2 million years (Michel et al., 1996).

The adjectival form which is not used a lot of the name Eros is "Erotian".

Surface gravity depends on the distance from a spot on the surface to the center of a body's mass. The Erotian surface gravity changes a lot, since Eros is not a sphere but a stretched peanut-shaped (or potato- or shoe-shaped) object. The daytime temperature on Eros hovers at about 100 °C and nighttime measurements at −150 °C. Eros's density is 2,400 kg/m, about the same as the density of Earth's crust. It rotates once every 5.27 hours.

NEAR scientists have found that most of the bigger rocks strewn across Eros were blown off from a single crater in a meteorite collision approximately 1 billion years ago. This impact may also be responsible for the 40 percent of the Erotian surface that is devoid of craters smaller than 0.5 kilometers across. It was first thought that the debris thrown up by the collision filled in the smaller craters. An analysis of crater densities over the surface indicates that the areas with lower crater density are within 9 kilometers of the impact point. Some of the lower density areas were found on the opposite side of the asteroid but still within 9 kilometers.

As one of the bigger Near Earth Asteroids (NEAs), Eros has played a significant role in history. It was found on the same night (13 August 1898) by Gustav Witt in Berlin and Auguste Charlois at Nice. Witt was taking a 2 hour exposure of beta Aquarius to secure astrometric
positions of asteroid 185 Eunike.

In 1975, Eros became the first asteroid to be detected by radar.

Eros was one of the first asteroids to be visited by a spacecraft, and the first to be orbited and soft-landed on. NASA spacecraft NEAR Shoemaker entered orbit around Eros in 2000, and came to rest on its surface in 2001.



</doc>
<doc id="87272" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87272" title="Thelema">
Thelema

Thelema is the English spelling of the Greek noun : "will", from the verb "θέλω": to will, wish, purpose. Early Christian writings use the word to refer to the will of God, the human will, and even the will of God's opponent, the Devil.

Thelema is also a way of life first written about by François Rabelais (16th century) in his famous books of fiction, Gargantua and Pantagruel. The core of this way of life was summed up in the phrase ""Do what thou wilt"" ("fay çe que vouldras" in the original French). This idea was later put into practice in the mid 18th century by Sir Francis Dashwood at Medmenham. 

This Thelemic Law of Rabelais was revived by Aleister Crowley in 1904 when Crowley wrote "The Book of the Law". This book contains both the word "Thelema" in Greek as well as the phrase "Do what thou wilt." From this, Crowley took Thelema as the name of his own religion. Thus Shri Gurudev Mahendranath wrote that Rabelais, Dashwood, and Crowley must share the honor of perpetuating Thelema.

The core of Thelemic thought is "Do what thou wilt." However, people understand and apply this in different ways. For example, some people accept Crowley as a prophet. Other people regard Crowley's system to be only one form of Thelema. Crowley himself shared this view:

Many followers of Thelema are learn and use other systems of spiritual thought, blending them according to their own will with Thelema. Most borrow freely from other traditions. For example, Nu and Had are thought to be the same as or similar to the Tao and Teh of Taoism, Shakti and Shiva of the Hindu Tantras, Shunyata and Bodhicitta of Buddhism, Ain Soph and Kether in the Qabalah. Like Crowley, other followers of Thelema make free use of the methods and practices of other traditions, including alchemy, astrology, qabalah, tantra, tarot, and yoga, according to their own wills.

Some groups say that they are true to Crowley's system (such as A∴A∴ and Ordo Templi Orientis). Some groups build upon his teachings, expanding upon and extending them. For example, the Fraternitas Saturni (Brotherhood of Saturn), founded in 1928 in Germany, accepts the Law of Thelema, but extends it with the phrase "Mitleidlose Liebe!" ("Compassionless love!"). The Thelema Society, also located in Germany, accepts Liber Legis and much of Crowley's work on magick, while also including the ideas of other thinkers, such as Friedrich Nietzsche, Charles S. Peirce, Martin Heidegger, and Niklas Luhmann. In America, the writings of Maggie Ingalls (Nema) have started a movement called Maat Magick, along with a group called the Horus-Maat Lodge, founded in 1979. This movement combines elements of Thelema with Nema's system based on the Egyptian goddess Ma'at. She wrote her own holy book titled "Liber Pennae Praenumbra." The HML aims to combine the current Aeon of Horus with the future Aeon of Ma'at in which mankind will achieve balance.

Most of Thelemic writing was written by Aleister Crowley. He wrote many books. Many of them were on the subject of Thelema. During his time, there were a few other people who wrote on the subject, including Charles Stansfeld Jones and J.F.C. Fuller. Since his death in 1947 only a few new writers have written on the subject, such as:

Thelema has been attracting more attention in recent years from scholars of religion, especially those interested in new religious movements, contemporary Gnosticisms and Hermeticisms. References at the end of this article supply a few such sources. Perhaps the most unusual attempt was made by bishop Federico Tolli, in his German book "Thelema — Im Spannungsfeld zwischen Christentum, Logentradition und New Aeon" For Tolli, Thelema is to be regarded as the dialectical consequence of Christianity. Christianity for Tolli exists as a community in Christ, whereas Tolli sees Thelema as a necessarily individualistic response to the world. 

Taken from a 1938 theological dictionary (to the New Testament), the concept of 'salvation history' "(Heilsgeschichte)" has a great effect on Tolli's thought, and it is in this context that he discusses Crowleyan Thelema. Tolli regards Crowley's "Heilsgeschichte" as one in which the whole Universe (ergo the Will of God) is to combine (analogous to the Alchemical formula 'coagula'). "Love", in the form of combinatory attraction ("Love is the law, love under will"), is a universal principle — therefore akin to the concept of Natural religion. The main difference (for Tolli) is that in Christianity salvation of the entire Universe ("Ganzheit") cannot be made by 'solipsistic' man. The bishop sees Crowley as a failed – however talented – artist or "Mystagogie", but not as a "Satanist". The merit and contribution of bishop Tolli to Thelemic studies lies in the fact that it was he who first expresses that the genuine meaning and idea of Thelema does not necessarily contradict the teachings of Jesus, as Crowley himself affirms.




</doc>
<doc id="87273" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87273" title="Svecchachara">
Svecchachara

Svecchachara is the Sanskrit equivalent of the Greek word Thelema, interpreted by Aleister Crowley as "Do What Thou Wilt."

In the first volume of the TWILIGHT YOGA, "Ecstasy, Equipoise, and Eternity", Shri Gurudev Mahendranath wrote,



</doc>
<doc id="87275" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87275" title="Ole Nydahl">
Ole Nydahl

Ole Nydahl (born 19 March 1941 in Copenhagen, Denmark) is the founder and leader of Diamond Way Buddhism, an organisation in the Karma Kagyu school of Tibetan Buddhism. Since the 1970s he has travelled the world teaching and founding meditation centres.
Ole Nydahl’s first teacher was the Drukpa-Kagyu master Lopon Tsechu Rinpoche. In December 1969, Ole Nydahl and his late wife, Hannah Nydahl met the 16th Karmapa, Rangjung Rigpe Dorje, a renowned yogi and the head of the Karma Kagyu lineage. They were among the first Western students of the 16th Karmapa. Ole Nydahl is also a student of Shamar Rinpoche.

Ole Nydahl has written several books in either English or German which have been translated into several European languages. 

Most popular English titles:



</doc>
<doc id="87277" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87277" title="Tank (singer)">
Tank (singer)

Tank (real name 呂建中 Lǚ Jiàn Zhōng, born February 6 1982) is a Taiwanese singer-songwriter. He is currently signed to HIM International Music, which also manages famous singers and groups like S.H.E, Fahrenheit and Power Station. Tank's first album, "Fighting 生存之道" was released on 23 February 2006.

Tank was born in Taitung, Taiwan. He is an aboriginal Taiwanese. Before releasing his debut album, Tank helped write songs for Vic Zhou and S.H.E, among many other famous C-Pop artists. By the age of 21, he was already well-known for composing more than 200 songs.

He bloomed into fame when two songs he composed, "三國戀" ("Romance of Three Kingdoms") and "給我你的愛" ("Give Me Your Love"), were used as theme songs for Taiwanese TV shows. Another song, titled as "千年淚", was used as an ending theme for the drama serial 天外飛仙. His second album "Keep Fighting!" ("延長比賽") was released on 19 January 2007. His single, "My Angel", was used for an ending theme of romantic-comedy series Hana Kimi.

In 2010, he was announced to be down with lung cancer.

Tanks has released two albums.
Tank is currently writing his third album. It is set to be released later in 2008



</doc>
<doc id="87284" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87284" title="Mayday">
Mayday

Mayday (五月天 Wǔ Yuè Tiān) is one of the biggest alternative rock bands in the Taiwanese pop culture. Mayday sing songs mostly in Mandarin and sometimes in Taiwanese language.

Before Mayday's official debut in 1998, the band sung in local restaurants and clubs. Mayday became famous with their 1999 single 志明與春嬌. In the same year, on 28 August, they held a concert at the Chungshan Soccer Stadium, gaining fame in other countries such as Singapore, Hong Kong and Malaysia.

In 2001, they took a break from performing. In the August of 2003, Mayday was reunited and they held a reunion concert the Chungshan Soccer Stadium, the very place where they held their debut concert. 40,000 fans attended the concert, breaking Taiwan's record for the largest number of fans at a concert, a record previously held by pop star Michael Jackson.

Near the end of 2006, on 29 December, they released their 6th studio album, "Born to Love". They made a surprise announcement not long after the album's release, that they would not hold autograph sessions but instead, would hold concerts in Taiwan. The tickets were included in albums which the fans bought. They held ten concerts to let all the fans see them. On the night after the concert, despite saying that they will not hold any autograph sessions, they did - the sessions lasted for 11 hours from New Year's Eve to New Year's Day, making that autograph session to be the first of the year 2007.

Ashin
Ashin is well-known for his unique vocals and his insightful lyrics. He has composed and written songs for other artists, such Fish Leong, Wang Lee Hom and Twins (band). In 2006, Ashin wrote a book titled "Happy.Birth.Day", a collection of "rock poems." Ashin also designs Mayday's concert shirts. In addition, he has also designed a perfume.

Monster
The leader of Mayday, Monster is in charge of daily operation of the band.

Stone
The first married member of Mayday, Stone is well-known for his love for his wife to whom he proposed to at their 2001 concert. He claims he would leave Mayday if his wife asked him to.

Masa
Masa is known for being outspoken. His is also well-known for his eccentric words and wit. He has also been romantically linked to Fish Leong.

Ryan
He is the 4th drummer of Mayday. His birth name is Yan Ming, but he changed his name to Guan You because of a fortune-teller to be luckier. However, according to him, it does not seemed to have worked. He proposed to his girlfriend during a Mayday concert in Beijing in November 2005 and was married in June 2006. His daughter was born in October 2006. He became the first father among the five members of Mayday.



</doc>
<doc id="87293" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87293" title="Category:Singaporean musicians">
Category:Singaporean musicians


</doc>
<doc id="87294" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87294" title="Category:Singaporean singers">
Category:Singaporean singers


</doc>
<doc id="87300" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87300" title="Der Dativ ist dem Genitiv sein Tod">
Der Dativ ist dem Genitiv sein Tod

Der Dativ ist dem Genitv sein Tod (German: "the dative case is the genitive case's death") is a book series written by Bastian Sick which deals with doubtful cases of grammar, orthography, and punctuation. Because of that, the writer wants to fight against unthinking habit and what he believes to be a change to a lower state of the language. The book came from a collection of Zwiebelfisch-collumns of Bastian Sick, which appear weekly in the Spiegel Online. At present, the second and third volumes are available. The volumes are from one time to another at the top of book sales lists.

In several states of Germany, writings from the books have been officially recognized as teaching documents after Sick's foreword was used in Saarland in August 2005.

"Eats, Shoots & Leaves" written by Lynne Truss is a book which in a similarly popular style discusses punctuation in English. In Sweden, a similar book, which is based on Lynne Truss' book, has come out, describing the interesting aspects of the Swedish pronunciation.



</doc>
<doc id="87308" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87308" title="Template:User vi">
Template:User vi


</doc>
<doc id="87309" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87309" title="Template:User grc-1">
Template:User grc-1


</doc>
<doc id="87310" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87310" title="Category:User vi">
Category:User vi


</doc>
<doc id="87314" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87314" title="Made of Bricks">
Made of Bricks

Made of Bricks is the first album by the British singer-songwriter, Kate Nash. It was released on 6 August, 2007 on Fiction Records and reached number one in the UK album charts. 

The album was released five weeks earlier than first planned due to the popularity of the single "Foundations". In its opening week of sales the album sold over 56,000 copies, and was certified gold. 
The album has now been certified Platinum in the UK for sales of over 300,000. It has sold over 450,000 copies worldwide.




</doc>
<doc id="87316" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87316" title="Matinée (album)">
Matinée (album)

Matinée is the first album from British singer-'songwriter Jack Peñate. It was released on October 8 2007 on XL Recordings.



</doc>
<doc id="87321" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87321" title="Radio 1's Live Lounge">
Radio 1's Live Lounge

Radio 1's Live Lounge is an album of live tracks played on Jo Whiley's Radio 1 show. It contains both covers and the bands' own songs.





</doc>
<doc id="87322" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87322" title="Sula Sgeir">
Sula Sgeir

Sula Sgeir is a small, uninhabited Scottish island in the North Atlantic. One of the most remote of the British Isles. The island is inhospitable to humans. There is a ruined stone house called Taigh Beannaichte (Blessed House) on the east headland Sgeir an Teampall, the island is formed by pieces of rocks, where are often hard to walk on. Sula Sgeir is a National Nature Reserve since 1956. It is an important place for birds.

The most famous part of island are the caves, which can be explored.

There are 5,000 breeding pairs of gannets on Sula Sgeir, which they share with other bird species such as Black-legged Kittiwakes, guillemots, puffins and fulmars.


</doc>
<doc id="87330" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87330" title="Template:Uw-spellcheck">
Template:Uw-spellcheck

This message is not meant to discourage you from changing Wikipedia but rather to encourage the best possible writing from our authors. Please take a look at the and the to learn more about changing this encyclopedia. Thank you.

</doc>
<doc id="87332" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87332" title="Antiderivative">
Antiderivative

Antidifferentiation (also called indefinite integration) is a part of mathematics. It is the opposite of differentiation. Antidifferentiation is integration with no limits (which is why it is called indefinite). The answer to an antiderivative is an equation.

It is written as formula_1


To integrate formula_6


This can be shown as:

formula_13

When there are many formula_3 terms, integrate each part on its own:

formula_15

Changing fractions and roots into powers makes it easier:

If you want to integrate a bracket like formula_21, we need to do it a different way. It is called the chain rule. It is like simple integration. It only works if the formula_3 in the bracket has a power of 1 (it is linear) like formula_3 or formula_24 (not formula_25 or formula_26).

To do formula_27


formula_35

formula_36



</doc>
<doc id="87343" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87343" title="Category:Christian denominations">
Category:Christian denominations


</doc>
<doc id="87344" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87344" title="Category:Calvinism">
Category:Calvinism


</doc>
<doc id="87345" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87345" title="Category:Eastern Orthodox Church">
Category:Eastern Orthodox Church


</doc>
<doc id="87346" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87346" title="Category:Protestantism">
Category:Protestantism


</doc>
<doc id="87350" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87350" title="Baucau">
Baucau

Baucau is a city in East Timor (Timor Leste). It is located east of the capital, Dili. The city has a population of about 16,000 people, which makes it the second biggest town in East Timor. It is served by the Cakung Airport. The town was first started by Portugal as a trading centre.


</doc>
<doc id="87352" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87352" title="Category:Catholicism">
Category:Catholicism


</doc>
<doc id="87354" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87354" title="1 BC">
1 BC

Year 1 was a leap year starting on Thursday of the Julian calendar.




</doc>
<doc id="87357" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87357" title="Category:Eastern Christian denominations">
Category:Eastern Christian denominations

The Eastern Catholic churches, in communion with Rome are in the category:Eastern Catholic churches


</doc>
<doc id="87358" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87358" title="Data Protection Act">
Data Protection Act

The Data Protection Act (DPA) is a law passed by the British government. 

It sets out rules for people who use or store data about living people and gives rights to those people whose data has been collected. The law applies to data held on computers or any sort of storage system, even paper records. 

The law covers personal data which are facts like address, telephone number, e-mail address,job history etc. 

People who use the information are called data users. People who the data is about are called data subjects.

This is a brief simplified summary of the main principles of the U.K. Data Protection Act

Please note that this summary leaves out a lot of detail. 

If you are looking for legal advice about the DPA then you should check this web site Information Commissioner’s Office 

The newest version of the DPA was released in 1998.



</doc>
<doc id="87359" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87359" title="Nontrinitarianism">
Nontrinitarianism

Nontrinitarism is a movement within Christianity. Nontrinitarians reject the idea of Trinity. That idea says that god is three different persons in one being. 

There are several movements which can be classified as Nontrinitarian. Some of them were before the trinity was defined in the year 325 Nontrinitarianism was later renewed in the Gnosticism of the Cathars in the 11th through 13th centuries, in the Age of Enlightenment of the 18th century, and in Restorationism during the 19th century.

Modern-day versions are usually called Unitarianism. 


</doc>
<doc id="87365" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87365" title="Daegu">
Daegu

Daegu (대구, also spelled Taegu, officially called Daegu Metropolitan City) is a city in South Korea. It is located between Seoul and Busan, but is closer to Busan. Daegu is the fourth largest city in South Korea. The city has a population of about 2.4 million people (about 2.4 million people live in Daegu).

Palgong Mountain is located to the north of Daegu. It is famous for Donghwa Temple and Gatbawi. Gatbawi is a statue of Buddha. 
Apsan(Ap Mountain), also called Daedeok Mountain has many well known restaurants. It is a good place to hike. Many hikers visit the Apsan Mountain. The downtown area of Daegu is Dongseongro. There is a festival every year in June. It also is the shopping center of Daegu. Woobang Tower Land is an amusement park with many rides and roller coasters. Daegu is also famous for having Daegu Stadium where the World Cup tournament was held in 2002.

Daegu has a climate that is a lot like most of Korea. Summer in Daegu is hot and humid. And Daegu has a rainy season from mid-June to July. Daegu is one of the hottest cities in Korea. It is also considered cold in the winter time compared to other cities. This type of climate is made by many mountains that go around the city like a wall.

Daegu was the known for apples in Korea before 1990. Daegu has a famous herbal medicine market. It is located downtown. The textile (cloth) industry has flourished since the 1960s. People in Daegu enjoy spicy food. One example is ddeokbokki. Ddeokboki is a Korean rice cake with spicy red pepper sauce and vegetables. Foods in Daegu are usually more spicy and salty than in other cities.


</doc>
<doc id="87367" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87367" title="Category:Nontrinitarianism">
Category:Nontrinitarianism


</doc>
<doc id="87368" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87368" title="Interstate 10">
Interstate 10

Interstate 10 (or I-10) is a long Interstate Highway which the west side ends at Santa Monica, California (near Los Angeles), and the other side ends at Jacksonville, Florida. In Texas, it is one of the routes which the speed limit is per hour. The route is long and travels through 8 states.



</doc>
<doc id="87373" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87373" title="Ranked list of Dominican Provinces">
Ranked list of Dominican Provinces

These are ranked lists of the Provinces of Dominican Republic. Population figures are from the 2002 census.



</doc>
<doc id="87374" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87374" title="Miranda Cosgrove">
Miranda Cosgrove

Miranda Taylor Cosgrove (born 14 May 1993) is an American child actress and singer. She was born in Los Angeles, California. She first started her career in 1998 in various commercials. She is best known for her roles as Megan Parker in "Drake and Josh", Summer Hathaway in "School of Rock" and as Carly Shay in Nickelodeon's "iCarly". She has also guest-starred in shows like "Zoey101". She also had her debut soundtrack album called "sparks fly" in April 2010 and "High Maintenance" in March 2011. 


</doc>
<doc id="87376" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87376" title="Old Believers">
Old Believers

In the context of Russian Orthodox church history, the Old Believers () became separated after 1666 - 1667. They split from the hierarchy of the Russian Orthodox Church as a protest against church reforms introduced by Patriarch Nikon. Old Believers continue liturgical practices which the Russian Orthodox Church maintained before the implementation of these reforms. 
Russian-speakers refer to the schism itself as "raskol" (раскол - etymologically indicating a "cleaving-apart").

Patriarch Nikon (1605-1681; 1651-1658 as patriarch) wanted to bring the Russian Orthodox Church and the Greek Orthodox Church closer together. For this reason, he changed a few rituals and texts in 1651. These changes were made to the Russian rituals to be closer to the Greek ones of Nikon's time. According to the Old Believers, Nikon did this without the support of the clergy. and without a council. When the changes were done, people who still practised the old rites were persecuted. 


</doc>
<doc id="87379" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87379" title="81 (number)">
81 (number)

Eighty-one is a number. It comes between eighty and eighty-two, and is an odd number. It is also a square number.

81 has 5 factors:


</doc>
<doc id="87380" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87380" title="Province of Florence">
Province of Florence

The Province of Florence (in Italian: "Provincia di Firenze") is a province in the Tuscany region of Italy. The province has an area of 3,514 sq. km and a population of 933,860 (2001) in 44 "comuni".

Much of the province is in the plain of the Arno river that became an urban centre around the city of Florence. 

The city (in Italian "comune") of Florence is the capital of both the province and the region of Tuscany.


In Florence:

In Empoli:

In Castelfiorentino:

In Fucecchio:

In Bagno a Ripoli: 




</doc>
<doc id="87381" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87381" title="Province of Arezzo">
Province of Arezzo

Province of Arezzo (Italian: Provincia di Arezzo) is the eastern most province in the Tuscany region of Italy. The capital of province of Arezzo is the city of Arezzo.

The province has an area of 3,232 km², and a total population of 323,288 (2001) in 39 "comuni" (singular: "comune").



</doc>
<doc id="87382" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87382" title="Province of Grosseto">
Province of Grosseto

Province of Grosseto (Italian: "Provincia di Grosseto") is a province in the Tuscany region of Italy. The capital of the province is the city of Grosseto. In the province, there is the The Natural Park of Maremma. It is in the famous area of Maremma.

The province has an area of 4,504 km² and a total population of 211,086 (2001). There are 28 "comuni" (singular: "comune") in the province 

As of June 2005, the main comuni by population are:



</doc>
<doc id="87383" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87383" title="Old Catholic Church">
Old Catholic Church

The Old Catholic Church is a name for a group of Christian churches. Most of them are from German-speaking countries. Their beliefs are close to that of the Anglican Church.

They split from the Roman Catholic Church in the 1870s. This was because the First Vatican Council had said the pope was infallible. The Council was from 1869 to 1870. The word Old Catholic was first used in 1853 for the See of Utrecht (who was not under the authority of the pope). Usually, these churches are part of the Union of Utrecht. 


</doc>
<doc id="87386" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87386" title="Province of Livorno">
Province of Livorno

The Province of Livorno (Italian: "Provincia di Livorno") is a province in the Tuscany region of Italy. The capital of the province is the city of Livorno.

The province has an area of 1,218 km², and a total population of 326,444 (2001). There are 20 "comuni" (singular: "comune") in the province.



</doc>
<doc id="87390" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87390" title="Province of Lucca">
Province of Lucca

Province of Lucca (Italian: Provincia di Lucca) is a province in the Tuscany region of Italy. The capital of the province is the city of Lucca.

The province has an area of 1,773 km², and a total population of 372,244 (2001). There are 35 "comuni" (singular: "comune") in the province.



</doc>
<doc id="87391" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87391" title="Province of Massa-Carrara">
Province of Massa-Carrara

The province has an area of 1,157 km² and a total population of 200,695 (2005). There are 17 "comuni" (singular: "comune") in the province. The main "comuni" by population are:

The economy of the province is based on the production of the famous white Carrara marble.




</doc>
<doc id="87392" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87392" title="Province of Pisa">
Province of Pisa

The Province of Pisa () is a province in the Tuscany region of Italy. The capital of the province is the city of Pisa.

The province has an area of 2,448 km², and a total population of 394,101 (2005). There are 39 "comuni" in the province.
Pisa is well known for the famous Leaning Tower of Pisa,which is located in the city. 



</doc>
<doc id="87393" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87393" title="Wave-particle duality">
Wave-particle duality

Wave-particle duality is perhaps one of the most confusing concepts in physics, because it is so unlike anything we see in the ordinary world.

Physicists who studied light in the 1700s and 1800s were having a big argument about whether light was made of particles shooting around like tiny bullets, or waves washing around like water waves. At times, light seems to do both. At times, light seems to go only in a straight line, as if it were made of particles. But other experiments show that light has a frequency and wavelength, just like a sound wave or water wave. Until the 20th century, most physicists thought that light was either one or the other, and that the scientists on the other side of the argument were simply wrong.

In 1909, a scientist named Geoffrey Taylor decided that he was going to settle this argument once and for all. He borrowed an experiment invented earlier by Thomas Young, where light was shone through two small holes right next to each other. When bright light was shone through these two small holes, it created an "interference pattern" that seemed to show that light was actually a wave. 

Taylor's idea was to photograph the film coming out of the holes with a special film that was unusually sensitive to light. When bright light was shined through the holes, the film showed an interference pattern, just like Young showed earlier. Taylor then turned down the light to a very dim level. When the light was dim enough, Taylor's photographs showed tiny pinpoints of light scattering out of the holes. This seemed to show that light was actually a particle. If Taylor allowed the dim light to shine through the holes for long enough, the dots eventually filled up the film to make an interference pattern again. This demonstrated that light was somehow "both" a wave "and" a particle.

To make matters even more confusing, Victor de Broglie suggested that matter might act the same way. Scientists then performed these same experiments with electrons, and found that electrons too are somehow both particles and waves.

Today, these experiments have been done in so many different ways by so many different people that scientists simply accept that both matter and light are somehow both waves and particles. Scientists generally admit that even they do not fully understand how this can be, but they are quite certain that it must be true. Although it seems impossible to understand how anything can be both a wave and a particle, scientists do have a number of equations for describing these things that have variables for both wavelength (a wave property) and momentum (a particle property). This seeming impossibility is referred to as the wave-particle duality.

An electron has a wavelength called the "de Broglie wavelength". It can be calculated using the equation

formula_1

formula_2 is the de Broglie wavelength.

formula_3 is Planck's constant

formula_4 is the momentum of the particle.

This made the idea that electrons in atoms show a standing wave pattern.

The photoelectric effect shows that a light photon which has enough energy (a high enough frequency), can cause an electron to be released off a metal's surface. Electrons in this case can be called photoelectrons.



</doc>
<doc id="87394" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87394" title="Province of Pistoia">
Province of Pistoia

The Province of Pistoia (It. "Provincia di Pistoia") is a province in the Tuscany region of Italy. 

The capital of the province is the city of Pistoia. The province has an area of 965 km² and a total population of 268,503 (2001). There are 22 "communes" in the province.



</doc>
<doc id="87395" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87395" title="Province of Prato">
Province of Prato

The Province of Prato (Italian: "Provincia di Prato") is a province in the Tuscany region of Italy. The capital of the province is the city of Prato. It was formed from part of the province of Florence in 1992.

The province has an area of 365 km² and a total population of 227,886 (2001). There are 7 comune (municipalities) in the province.




</doc>
<doc id="87397" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87397" title="Saltpeter war">
Saltpeter war

The War of the Pacific or saltpeter war grew out of a dispute between Chile and Bolivia over control of a part of the Atacama desert that lies between the 23rd and 26th parallels on the Pacific coast. The territory contained valuable mineral resources which were exploited by Chilean companies and British interests. The Bolivian government decided to increase taxes to take advantage of the increasing income of the region, which led to a commercial dispute.
23rd and 26th parallels


</doc>
<doc id="87398" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87398" title="Province of Siena">
Province of Siena

The Province of Siena (Italian: "Provincia di Siena")is a province in the Tuscany region of Italy. The capital of the province is the city of Siena.

The province has an area of 3,821 km² (1475 mile²) and a total population of 252,288 (2001). There are 36 "comuni" (singular: "comune") in the province. At June 30, 2005, the main "comuni" by population are:
The province is divided into seven historical areas:



</doc>
<doc id="87403" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87403" title="Template:Uw-subst">
Template:Uw-subst


</doc>
<doc id="87404" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87404" title="Category:Lists of record labels">
Category:Lists of record labels


</doc>
<doc id="87407" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87407" title="List of record labels starting with I">
List of record labels starting with I




</doc>
<doc id="87410" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87410" title="List of record labels starting with J">
List of record labels starting with J




</doc>
<doc id="87411" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87411" title="List of record labels starting with K">
List of record labels starting with K




</doc>
<doc id="87414" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87414" title="List of record labels starting with L">
List of record labels starting with L




</doc>
<doc id="87415" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87415" title="Template:Links to All Record Labels Section">
Template:Links to All Record Labels Section

This is a list of notable record labels, starting with "". 


</doc>
<doc id="87418" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87418" title="Johannes Ockeghem">
Johannes Ockeghem

Johannes Ockeghem (born Saint-Ghislain, near Mons, Belgium about 1410; died Tours, France, 6 February 1497), was the most famous composer of the Franco-Flemish School (from around the area which is now Belgium) in the last half of the 15th century, and is often thought of as the most important composer between Dufay and Josquin des Prez. He was an excellent choirmaster and teacher. He spent most of his life working for the French royal court.

The name Ockeghem is found with many different spellings in old documents. He was almost certainly born in the town of Saint-Ghislain. His native language was probably French.

Like many composers in this period, he started to learn about music by singing in a church choir, quite possibly in Saint-Ghislain and then in Mons. 

His first important job was working for Charles I, Duke of Bourbon in Moulins, (France). Then in 1451 he went to work for King Charles VII of France. By this time he was well-known as a singer and composer. He worked for the royal court for more than 50 years and was rewarded with promotions and honours. Charles VII gave him important jobs. After Charles VII’s death Louis XI became king. He reigned for a long time and Ockeghem was in favour with the king. He often travelled with the king, visiting places such as Cambrai and even as far as Spain. He met famous people including the composers Dufay and Binchois. He also had other jobs in Paris.

Louis XI died in 1483. We do not kinow much about where Ockeghem went after that, but he probably died in Tours because that is where he left his will.

Ockeghem was not a composer who wrote lots of music, but it is hard to tell as some of it might have got lost. There are 14 masses that survive and other vocal works. His "Missa pro Defunctis" is the earliest surviving polyphonic Requiem. Ockeghem based many of his masses on well-known tunes in a way that is called “cantus firmus technique”. Sometimes he put the borrowed tunes in the lowest part (he sang bass himself). This was rather unusual.

Ockeghem’s music influenced Josquin des Prez and other composers from Flanders and the Netherlands. 

When Ockeghem died Josquin Des Prez composed a motet called "La déploration de la mort de Johannes Ockeghem" in his honour. The music theorist Johannes Tinctoris described him as a great musician and one of the best singers he knew. Many younger composers used some of Ockeghem’s melodies as a base for their own compositions. In the Renaissance this kind of borrowing from the music ofc another composer was thought to be a great honour.



</doc>
<doc id="87419" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87419" title="Category:1497 deaths">
Category:1497 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="87422" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87422" title="Group 16 element">
Group 16 element

Group 16 is the third last group in the periodic table. This group is called the oxygen family or the chalcogens. The elements in this group are oxygen, sulfur, selenium, tellurium and polonium. The first three elements are nonmetals and the last two are semimetals. Polonium is radioactive. Oxygen is a colorless gas. 


</doc>
<doc id="87424" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87424" title="Magadino">
Magadino

Magadino is a municipality of the district Locarno in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="87425" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87425" title="Maggia">
Maggia

Maggia could mean:



</doc>
<doc id="87427" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87427" title="Template:Uw-lang">
Template:Uw-lang

For subjects related to Britain (for example, a famous British person), use British English. For something related to the United States, use American English. If it is a topic about another country or an international topic, use the same form of English the "original" author used.

Other guidelines on how Wikipedia articles should be written can be found in the . If you have any questions about all this, you can ask me on my talk page or visit "". Thank you.

</doc>
<doc id="87428" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87428" title="Maggia, Switzerland">
Maggia, Switzerland

Maggia is a municipality of the district Vallemaggia in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.



</doc>
<doc id="87434" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87434" title="Historikerstreit">
Historikerstreit

The Historikerstreit (Historians' dispute) was an intellectual and political controversy in West Germany about the way the Holocaust should be interpreted in history. It took place between 1986-1989, and pitted left-wing intellectuals against right-wing intellectuals. Its embers flared up again briefly in 2000 when one of the leading figures, Ernst Nolte, was awarded a literary prize. "Die Vergangenheit, die nicht vergehen will" proposed by Ernst Nolte, had to be rejected as inadequate due to their lack of sufficient empirical substance .



</doc>
<doc id="87438" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87438" title="Jury">
Jury

A jury is a group of people who decide whether a person is guilty or innocent of committing a crime. A jury may also be responsible for deciding a penalty for the person if he is found guilty. Normally, all members of the jury have to agree on the decision. Sometimes, the jury can still make a decision even if a few members don't agree with it. However, if the jury is quite clearly divided, the result is known as a "hung jury" and the case is not decided. A member of a jury is called a juror.

A jury in the United Kingdom is made up of 12 people for criminal cases and 10 people for civil cases (or 15 people in Scotland) these people are selected at random and are British citizens with no criminal record.

In the United States, juries are made up of 12 regular people from the area in which the trial is held and are not members of the court system. They are paid a small amount for their service.


</doc>
<doc id="87440" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87440" title="Template:Uw-encopypaste">
Template:Uw-encopypaste


</doc>
<doc id="87446" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87446" title="Template:Article too short">
Template:Article too short


</doc>
<doc id="87451" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87451" title="Pocahontas">
Pocahontas

Pocahontas (born around 1595 – buried on March 21, 1617) was a Native American woman who married an Englishman, John Rolfe, and became a celebrity in London right before she died. She was a daughter of Wahunsunacock (also known as Chief or Emperor Powhatan). He was the king of an area called the Tidewater region in Virginia (called Tenakomakah at the time) for a while. Her real names were Matoaka and Amonute. 'Pocahontas' was a childhood nickname referring to her playful nature. Some people think she saved John Smith's life. After her marriage she became officially Rebecca Rolfe. A movie was made about her in 1995 by Disney.

The name Pocahontas was a nickname given to her because she was always fun and happy. Her real name was either Matoaka or Amonute. The Indians did not want the English settlers to know her real name. After Pocahontas was baptized, she was given the English name Rebecca. She was called Rebecca Rolfe after she was married.

Pocahontas was born around 1595. She was the daughter of Powhatan, the chief Powhatan tribes that had over 14,000 Indians. John Smith said that he was captured by a group of Powhatan hunters. He was about to be executed but Pocahontas saved him.

After this, the Indians and English became friends. Pocahontas would go to the settlement to play games with the boys there. When the colonists were starving, Pocahontas brought them food.

In 1609, John Smith was hurt by a gunpowder explosion. He had to go back to England to get better. Pocahontas thought that John Smith was dead until she went to England. By then, she had already married John Rolfe.

Pocahontas and John Smith most likely did not love each other. People got the idea that they might have loved each other from movies and other stories.

Two English settlers met Pocahontas when they were trading with the Indians. With the help of an Indian named Japazaws, they tricked Pocahontas. They said that they would give her back only if Chief Powhatan gave the English prisoners who he had captured and weapons.

Chief Powhatan did not give the English settlers enough weapons. So, they continued to keep Pocahontas for about a year. During this time, they treated Pocahontas very well. They told her about Christianity and taught her English. After she was baptized, Pocahontas took the English name "Rebecca". Later, Pocahontas was allowed to go back to the Indians, but she chose to stay with the English.

When Pocahontas was living with the English, she met John Rolfe. John Rolfe loved Pocahontas, and they were married. The English and Indians became friends again.

In 1616, Pocahontas and her husband, John Rolfe, went to England. About eleven other Indians went with them. John Smith was living in London at the time Pocahontas was in Plymouth she learned that he was still alive. John Smith did not meet Pocahontas when she was in England.

In March 1617, John Rolfe and Pocahontas got on a ship to return to Virginia, but Pocahontas became very sick and died.



</doc>
<doc id="87459" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87459" title="Develier">
Develier

Develier is a municipality of the district of Delémont in the canton of Jura in Switzerland.



</doc>
<doc id="87461" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87461" title="Ederswiler">
Ederswiler

Ederswiler is a municipality of the district of Delémont in the canton of Jura in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="87463" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87463" title="Glovelier">
Glovelier

Glovelier is a municipality of the district of Delémont in the canton of Jura in Switzerland.
<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>


</doc>
<doc id="87464" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87464" title="Mervelier">
Mervelier

Mervelier is a municipality of the district of Delémont in the canton of Jura in Switzerland.

<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>


</doc>
<doc id="87473" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87473" title="Template:Uw-mos1">
Template:Uw-mos1


</doc>
<doc id="87474" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87474" title="Template:Uw-mos2">
Template:Uw-mos2


</doc>
<doc id="87476" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87476" title="Template:Uw-mos3">
Template:Uw-mos3


</doc>
<doc id="87497" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87497" title="Category:Korean people">
Category:Korean people


</doc>
<doc id="87501" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87501" title="Korean">
Korean

Korean can mean:



</doc>
<doc id="87504" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87504" title="Prana">
Prana

Prana is the vital air or breath of the human body in Hinduism. It is also the vital, life-sustaining force of both the individual body and the universe. Its was first written about in the Upanishads. Prana is in all living forms, but is not itself the soul.

The word prana means "breath" in Sanskrit.

In yoga, prana is divided into different type. There are said to be five pranas or vital currents. They are called prana, apana, vyana, udana and samana.


</doc>
<doc id="87505" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87505" title="Sanga Monastery">
Sanga Monastery

Sanga Monastery is a small Buddhist monastery located in the vicinity of Lhasa, Tibet. Sanga Monastery was built in the ruins of the castle (or fort) Taktse (also Dagtse) Dzong (formerly Dechen Dzong) on the top of a hill. Dagtse Dzong overlooks the roads to Yerpa and Ganden Monastery to the east.

Sanga Monastery together with Ganden Monastery belong to the Geluk (Gelug-pa) order (also known as Yellow Hat Sect, lit. 'Virtuous'). The Yellow Hat Sect was started by Tsongkhapa (Tsong Khapa or Lobsang Drakpa, also known as Jé Rinpoché, 1357-1419. He was known as a writer and teacher.


</doc>
<doc id="87506" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87506" title="Satguru">
Satguru

Satguru or Sadguru means "true guru". (Sanskrit सदगुरू sat=true), literally: true teacher. The title means that his students have faith that the guru can be trusted and will lead them to moksha, enlightenment or inner peace. It is based on a long line of Hindu understandings about the importance of the guru.

In the "Guru Gita", Shiva says to Parvati:


The Kularnava Tantra (XIV/65) states,
"It is very rare to find a Satguru who can give "Shaktipat" and rare to find a disciple worthy of receiving it. One gets such a Guru only as a result of past meritorious actions."

In the Upanishads, five signs of satguru (true guru) are mentioned.

In the presence of the satguru; Knowledge flourishes ("Gyana raksha"); Sorrow diminishes ("Dukha kshaya"); Joy wells up without any reason ("Sukha aavirbhava"); Abundance dawns ("Samriddhi"); All talents manifest ("Sarva samvardhan").

According to Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami, a Hindu Satguru is always a "sannyasin", an unmarried renunciate.



</doc>
<doc id="87508" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87508" title="Physicist">
Physicist

A physicist is a scientist who studies physics.

Some famous physicists are:



</doc>
<doc id="87509" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87509" title="Category:Provinces of Tuscany">
Category:Provinces of Tuscany


</doc>
<doc id="87511" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87511" title="Category:East Timor">
Category:East Timor


</doc>
<doc id="87519" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87519" title="Western Roman Empire">
Western Roman Empire

The Western Roman Empire was the western half of the Roman Empire, from its division by Diocletian in 286; the other half of the Roman Empire became known as the Eastern Roman Empire, today widely known as the Byzantine Empire. 

Rome ceased to be the capital from the time of the division. In 286, the capital of the Western Roman Empire became Mediolanum (modern Milan). In 402, the capital was again moved, this time to Ravenna.



</doc>
<doc id="87528" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87528" title="Ravenna">
Ravenna

Ravenna is a city and "comune" in the Emilia-Romagna region of Italy. The city is inland, but is connected to the Adriatic Sea by a canal. Ravenna once was the seat of the Western Roman Empire and later the Ostrogothic kingdom. It is presently the capital of the province of Ravenna. At 652.89 km² (252.08 sq mi), Ravenna is the second-largest "comune" in land area in Italy, although it is only a little more than half the size of the largest, Rome.



</doc>
<doc id="87529" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87529" title="Ravenna (disambiguation)">
Ravenna (disambiguation)

Ravenna is name of

Ravenna is the name of several places in the world:







</doc>
<doc id="87530" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87530" title="Category:Taiwanese people">
Category:Taiwanese people


</doc>
<doc id="87531" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87531" title="Category:Christian Democratic Union of Germany">
Category:Christian Democratic Union of Germany


</doc>
<doc id="87532" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87532" title="Category:Politicians of the Christian Democratic Union of Germany">
Category:Politicians of the Christian Democratic Union of Germany


</doc>
<doc id="87537" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87537" title="Social democracy">
Social democracy

Social democracy grew out of the differences between communism and socialism.

Communism and socialism were very similar until a group of socialists called democratic socialists began to reject the principles of communism. The democratic socialists did not agree with the way the communists used violence and revolution to gain control. 

Communists began to aim more at government power, while socialists concentrated on fair distribution of products and equality for all classes. 

Communists think that all means of production or any material necessary for life should be controlled by the government while socialists left some control in the private sector.


</doc>
<doc id="87548" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87548" title="UEFA Europa League">
UEFA Europa League

The UEFA Europa League (Founded at 1955 and in 1972 in this currect format) is a tournament for teams that did not make the UEFA Champions League. They qualify by being not the best in the country and not making the best competition. For example in England, teams that finish after the first four teams can go to the Europa League. There is another option, which if you finish 3rd in the UEFA Champions League Group Stage, in to the last 32 in the Europa League, or being eliminated from the Playoff Round in the UEFA Champions League (The ousted team goes straight into the UEFA Europa League Group Stage), and the 3rd option is when a club which being eliminated from the UEFA Champions League 3rd round (Into the UEFA Europa League Playoff Round) The Europa League is a new version of the UEFA cup. The Europa League was started in 2009. The winner of the UEFA Europa League plays the winner of the UEFA Champions League in the UEFA Super Cup.

The current cup holders are the Portuguese team FC Porto after they beat SC Braga. From 2009 the tournament name was changed to UEFA Europa League from UEFA Cup. The most successful clubs in the history of the competitions are Juventus, Liverpool, And Inter Milano



</doc>
<doc id="87555" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87555" title="Template:Dominican provinces">
Template:Dominican provinces


</doc>
<doc id="87569" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87569" title="Charlottenburg">
Charlottenburg

Charlottenburg was an independent city to the west of Berlin until 1920. Then it was made part of Groß-Berlin (Greater Berlin) and turned into a borough.

As a part of the changes to the boroughs of Berlin in 2001 Charlottenburg was joined with Wilmersdorf to make the new borough of Charlottenburg-Wilmersdorf. In 2004, the new borough's districts were rearranged. The former borough of Charlottenburg was divided into the localities of Westend, Charlottenburg-Nord and Charlottenburg. In addition to that, Charlottenburg features a number of popular kiezes.

Charlottenburg is best known for Charlottenburg Palace, the largest surviving royal palace in Berlin.

Charlottenburg celebrated its 300th anniversary in 2005.

Charlottenburg is located along the river Spree within the Berlin-Warsaw glacial valley, west of the Tiergarten park. The "Straße des 17. Juni" (17th June Street), former "Charlottenburger Chaussee", which runs through the park, connects it with the historic centre of Berlin.

In 1695, Sophia Charlotte of Hanover got the district of Lietzow from her husband Elector Frederick III, in exchange for her estates in Caputh and Langerwisch, near Potsdam.

Frederick had a summer residence built for his wife by the architect Johann Arnold Nering between 1695 and 1699. In 1701, Frederick became the first Prussian King (Frederick I of Prussia), and he made the building much bigger

Just after the death of Sophie Charlotte, the village near the palace was called 'Charlottenburg' and the palace itself "Schloss Charlottenburg", and the settlement was chartered as a town. The king was the town's mayor until Lietzow was incorporated into Charlottenburg in 1720.

Frederick's successor, Frederick William I of Prussia, rarely stayed at the palace. Frederick William even tried to end the town's privileges. It was not until 1740, at the coronation of his successor Frederick II (Frederick the Great), that the town's became important again. The eastern New Wing was built by Georg Wenzeslaus von Knobelsdorff between 1740 and 1747 as Frederick the Great's home. Later, Frederick II preferred the palace of Sanssouci, which he had partly designed himself.

When Frederick II died in 1786, his nephew Frederick William II succeeded him, and Charlottenburg became his favourite residence, as it was for his son and successor Frederick William III.

After the defeat of the Prussian army at Jena in 1806, Charlottenburg was occupied by the French. Napoleon occupied the palace, while his troops camped nearby.

In the late 18th century, Charlottenburg's development did not depend only on the crown. The town became a recreational area for the expanding city of Berlin. Its first real inn opened in the 1770s, in the street then called 'Berliner Straße' (now Otto-Suhr-Allee), and many other inns and beer gardens were to follow, popular for weekend parties especially.

Beside the palace, Charlottenburg is also home to the Kaiser Wilhelm Memorial Church on the Breitscheidplatz, the fomer West-Berlin landmark, the Kurfürstendamm and the Zoo railway station as well as the Deutsche Oper Berlin, one of the three Berlin opera houses.

Charlottenburg is twinned with


</doc>
<doc id="87570" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87570" title="Category:Districts of Berlin">
Category:Districts of Berlin


</doc>
<doc id="87572" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87572" title="Magliaso">
Magliaso

Magliaso is a municipality in the district Lugano in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="87573" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87573" title="Mairengo">
Mairengo

Mairengo is a municipality of the district Leventina in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="87574" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87574" title="Malvaglia">
Malvaglia

Malvaglia is a municipality of the district Blenio in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="87575" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87575" title="Manno">
Manno

Manno is a municipality of the district Lugano in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.



</doc>
<doc id="87576" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87576" title="Maroggia">
Maroggia

Maroggia is a municipality of the district Lugano in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="87577" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87577" title="Massagno">
Massagno

Massagno is a municipality of the district Lugano in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.



</doc>
<doc id="87578" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87578" title="Medeglia">
Medeglia

Medeglia is a municipality of the district Bellinzona in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="87579" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87579" title="Melano">
Melano

Melano is a municipality of the district Lugano in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="87580" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87580" title="Melide, Switzerland">
Melide, Switzerland

Melide is a municipality of the district Lugano in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.

Melide is known world-wide for the famous Swissminiatur, a museum that shows famous buildings in Switzerland presented in miniature form.



</doc>
<doc id="87582" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87582" title="Wilmersdorf">
Wilmersdorf

Wilmersdorf was a village near Berlin. In 1920 Wilmersdorf became a borough of Greater Berlin Groß Berlin. In 2001 it became a part of the new borough of Charlottenburg-Wilmersdorf. The Kurfürstendamm runs through the area. The former borough of Wilmersdorf included the localities Halensee, Schmargendorf and Grunewald.



</doc>
<doc id="87585" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87585" title="Able Label">
Able Label

The Able Label was an independent record label from Brisbane, Australia.

Grant McLennan & Robert Forster of The Go-Betweens 
released their first two singles 'Lee Remick' & 'People Say' on it in 1978 and 1979. Later, it allowed other "Brisbane" groups, The Numbers (later to become The Riptides), The Apartments and the Four Gods to make their own records using the Able Label logo. 




</doc>
<doc id="87586" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87586" title="Goosebumps">
Goosebumps

Goosebumps is a collection of children's horror fiction books written by R. L. Stine. 

The "Goosebumps" series sometimes contained too much violence, so some American libraries disagreed with having the books there; the novels were fifteenth on the American Library Association's list of most frequently challenged books from 1990 to 1999.

After the series, many different spinoffs were made, also written by Stine, including "Give Yourself Goosebumps" and "Goosebumps: Series 2000" which appeared in 1995 and 1998.

Two board games were created after the "Goosebumps" series, these were called "Terror in the Graveyard" and "Escape from Horrorland". a 1996 PC game was also produced, entitled "Goosebumps: Escape from Horrorland".

Front covers and most other Goosebumps-related art was done by artist Tim Jacobus, while the covers for the later "Give Yourself Goosebumps" series were digitally created by Craig White.


</doc>
<doc id="87587" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87587" title="Azuli Records">
Azuli Records

Azuli Records is an independent record label, focusing on house music and other forms of electronic dance music. The label was founded by DJ Dave Piccioni in London, England in the early 1990s.

Releases include the Late Night Tales / Another Late Night DJ mix albums, and the "Choice" series.




</doc>
<doc id="87588" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87588" title="Category:Electronic music record labels">
Category:Electronic music record labels


</doc>
<doc id="87589" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87589" title="Carluke">
Carluke

The town of Carluke is situated in the centre of the Scottish countryside in South Lanarkshire, Scotland, 5.4 miles North-West of Lanark and 5 miles South-East of Wishaw. Many people in Carluke are commuters, with a variety of small stores and supermarkets available at the centre of the town.

Three people who were born in the town have received the Victoria Cross. The inventor of "Slush Puppies" previously stayed on a street in Carluke. The famous ex-Motherwell striker Dougie Arnott currently likes in Carluke.



</doc>
<doc id="87591" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87591" title="Marvel Universe">
Marvel Universe

The Marvel Universe (MU) is a comic book fictional universe created by Marvel Comics. The MU is where most of the main stories published by Marvel Comics takes place. The MU is actually just one of an infinite number of different universes. Each one can be called a Marvel universe, but the term is commonly used for just one. This one is also called Earth-616 when looking at all the universes as a group. The other universes vary from very similar to the Earth-616 universe to completely different. This lets the writers create stories which have a large effect to the universe they take place in without affected the main universe used by all of the writers as a group. 


</doc>
<doc id="87592" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87592" title="Runaways (comics)">
Runaways (comics)

Runaways is a Marvel Comics comic book series created by Brian K. Vaughan and Adrian Alphona. The series is about a group of teenagers who try to make up for the evil done by their supervillain parents by becoming superheroes. They are commonly called "the Pride's kids" or "those kids in L.A." by other characters in the Marvel Universe. This is because the team does not have an official name and the most of Marvel's characters are in in New York.

In 2006, the series won the Harvey Award for best continuing/limited series.

In February 2007, series creators Vaughan and Alphona stopped making "Runaways" at issue #24 of the second series. In April 2007, long-time "Runaways" fan Joss Whedon (of "Buffy the Vampire Slayer", "Angel" and "Firefly" fame) will take over the series for 6 issues. Marvel has said that Terry Moore, creator of "Strangers in Paradise" will take over after Whedon leaves, with Humberto Ramos on art.

"Runaways" was started in 2002 as part of Marvel Comics' "Tsunami" imprint. After Marvel cancelled the Tsunami imprint in January 2003, the series moved to the "Marvel Age" imprint. Because of this, the individual story arcs for "Runaways" are collected in small, manga-sized trade paperbacks. The hardcover collections are in normal sized books. In September 2004, the series ended at issue #18. Marvel started the series again in February 2005 and it has been published ever since.

The series is not usual in that it does not use the ideas of superhero names, uniforms, and team names. All the characters in the first series (except Alex) chose codenames, but they are used less and less throughout of vol. 1. In vol. 2, the codenames are mentioned once but never actually used. Molly is the only character who makes a costume but it is made from old bedsheets and clothes. She never wears the costume again after vol. 1 issue #8. During battle, the runaways mainly fight in their street clothes and call each other by their given names or nicknames. Also, the children never call themselves "The Runaways". Their team simply goes without a name. Other Marvel characters usually call the team "the Pride's kids" or "those kids in L.A." Vaughan even makes fun of common superhero sayings such as "Hulk smash!" or "Avengers assemble!" when Nico tells Victor that the team's rallying call is "Try not to die." 




"Runaways" has been collected in the following digest-sized comic book collections trade paperbacks:

"Runaways" has also been collected in the following hardcovers:


</doc>
<doc id="87593" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87593" title="Kreuzberg">
Kreuzberg

Kreuzberg, located south of Berlin-Mitte, was one of the best-known boroughs of Berlin, famous for its nightlife and its left-leaning electorate as well as its problems with crime the drug scene and a very high number of immigrants.

Kreuzberg consists of two different parts, the south-eastern 'SO 36' (or simply '36') part and the south-west 'SW 61' (or simply '61'). Until the Berlin Wall fell, these were the last two numbers of the postal codes for the two areas.

It was a separate borough from 1920, when it became a part of Groß-Berlin, until the borughs were changed in 2001. Then it was joined with Friedrichshain to form the new borough of Friedrichshain-Kreuzberg. Since these two localities are linked only by a single bridge over the Spree river, the Oberbaumbrücke, this joining seemed awkward to many residents. The two areas could not agree on where the new borough's town hall should be. Friedrichshain was chosen by tossing a five-Mark coin.

Kreuzberg is known to many for numerous Turkish immigrants from eastern parts of Turkey, and the yearly May Day riots. This is because before the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989, Kreuzberg was isolated. Its eastern parts were almost entirely surrounded by the Wall. This area consequently had cheap rents and lower-income families as well as squatters from the radical left. The western part of Kreuzberg also bordered onto the wall, and it was here where Checkpoint Charlie was.

Kreuzberg got its name is from its highest point, the Kreuzberg (literally, "cross hill"). It is of above sea level.. The hill was a traditional place for weekend trips, and had a lot of small restaurants for the visitors. The hill got its name from a monument built in 1821 by Karl Friedrich Schinkel. It was to remember the wars against Napoleon I of France.

After 1860 industry began moving into Kreuzburg. There was also an "Exportviertel" (export quarter) along Ritterstraße which had a lot of many profitable small businesses, and the "press quarter" along Kochstraße was the home of most of Germany's large newspapers as well as the Ullstein, Scherl, and Mosse book publishers.

Both of these industrial quarters were almost entirely destroyed during World War II, with the bombings of a single night from 3 February 1945. To remember old tradition, the Axel Springer press company built its new headquarters at Kochstraße again, right next to the Berlin Wall.

After World War II, Kreuzberg's housing rents were regulated by law, which made investments unattractive. As a result, housing was of low quality, but cheap, which made the borough a prime target for immigrants coming to Germany (and Berlin).



</doc>
<doc id="87597" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87597" title="Civil War (comics)">
Civil War (comics)

Civil War was a large comic book story created by Marvel Comics. The story was the main focus of a seven issue series that started in May 2006 and ended in February 2007. It involved every major Marvel character and a large number of minor ones. Nearly every main Marvel title during this time dealt with this story. 

The story was about the United States dealing with an accident during a superhero battle that caused 613 deaths. To prevent this from happening again, the government created the Superhero Registration Act (SRA). This was a law that forced all people with superhuman powers to identify them self to the government. Many superheroes believed this was a good thing and that it would save lives. Others believed it was bad. They felt that if the government knew who they were, they would be in danger of others finding out. They believed that the SRA took away many of their freedoms. This caused the superheros to split into two groups. Those supporting the SRA were led by Iron Man. Those against it were led by Captain America.

Many people have compared the story of "Civil War" to that of the United States after 9/11 and the Patriot Act.


</doc>
<doc id="87598" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87598" title="Brunstad Conference Center">
Brunstad Conference Center

Brunstad Conference Center (BCC) is a conference centre in Stokke, Vestfold in Norway. The centre is owned and managed by the Christian fellowship called "Den Kristelige menighet". They are often called "Smith's Friends". The Smith's friends bought the farm at Brunstad near Stokke in Melsomvik in 1956.

The center was used for their own conferences. In 2000 Smith's Friends, decided to let others use the building. The old meeting hall which seated 4,700 was replaced by a new meeting hall, with space for 6,800 people, and a tent camp with over 600 caravan spots was fixed and replaced with just as many cabins, which were rented by the members of the church.

Maintenance and development of Brunstad is still done by volunteers. During the building project and during arrangements, members are used as voluntary workers, or paid expenses. Money for the expansion project came for the most from the effort from the "A-lag" (A-team), where the church's youth from all over the world participate and do voluntarily work.

BCC is now a modern location for events and conferences. Brunstad has several restaurants, a cafeteria style restaurant, a large coffee bar, and a grocery store.

BCC got a lot of stories in the media in 2004 when BCC bought Østre Bolærne island from the Norwegian Military. After a lot of media attention, BCC agreed to cancel the sale, and the town of Vestfold Fylkeskommune became the new owner. Instead, BCC was able to buy property on Syningen in Hallingdal.

Every year one of the biggest shows at Brunstad Conference Center is the Arctic Equestrian Games, Norway's biggest horse show. It was first held in February, 2006.



</doc>
<doc id="87633" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87633" title="Stig Claesson">
Stig Claesson

John Stig Claesson (June 2, 1928 – January 4, 2008) was a Swedish writer and illustrator. He also was known by his signature Slas.

Claesson was born on June 2, 1928 in Huddinge, south of Stockholm. He went to the Royal Swedish Academy of Arts between 1947 and 1952, when he began to illustrate Swedish classical books such as those written by Per Anders Fogelström. 

Claesson was the father of actor Leif Claesson. Stig died on January 4, 2008 in Stockholm.



</doc>
<doc id="87634" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87634" title="Dagens Nyheter">
Dagens Nyheter

The Dagens Nyheter is a Swedish-language newspaper. It is written every day in Stockholm.


</doc>
<doc id="87653" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87653" title="Chihuahua (state)">
Chihuahua (state)

Chihuahua is a state in Mexico.



</doc>
<doc id="87663" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87663" title="Template:MP small">
Template:MP small


</doc>
<doc id="87693" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87693" title="Emergency medical services in the United Kingdom">
Emergency medical services in the United Kingdom

Emergency medical services in the United Kingdom are provided by one of the four National Health Services through local ambulance services, known in England and Wales as trusts. Each service in England is based on one or more local authority areas, and so the country is divided across a number of ambulance services, in a similar way to the British Police.
In England there are twelve ambulance 'Trusts', with boundaries generally following those of the regional government offices. Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland have one ambulance service each; the Scottish Ambulance Service (a Special Health Board), the Welsh Ambulance Service, and the Northern Ireland Ambulance Service.

NHS ambulance services must by law answer four types of requests for care, which are:

The ambulance services have getting more and more busy. There has been a big increase in the number calls in the last two decades, as shown in the table below:

Ambulance trusts may also undertake non-urgent patient transport services on a commercial arrangement with their local hospital trusts, or in some cases on directly funded government contracts. The pateients do not pay for this service. The hospital does. In some place private firms do this job instead, but it can be a big source of money for the trusts.

Before 1974 local councils used to run the ambulance service. Since then NHS regions and now ambulance trust have. On 1 July 2006 the number of ambulance trusts fell from 29 to 13 .

Most of the new Trusts follow government office regional boundaries. But on the Isle of Wight the local hospitals will keep running the ambulances. Also South East England and South West England were split into two Ambulance Trusts. This has meant that a lot of old trusts disappeared. The new Trusts are:

The Scottish Ambulance Service is a Special Health Board funded directly by the Health Department of the Scottish Government. In 2006 the service answered over 520,000 emergency calls. 

Scotland also has Britain's only publicly funded Air Ambulance service. It has two Eurocopter EC 135 Helicopters (based in Glasgow & Inverness) and two Beechcraft B200C King Air fixed-wing aircraft (based at Glasgow & Aberdeen).

The Northern Ireland Ambulance Service (NIAS) is the ambulance service that serves the whole of Northern Ireland, and was set up in 1995. 

As with other ambulance services in the United Kingdom, it does not charge its patients directly for its services, but is funded through general taxation.

To answer medical emergencies in Northern Ireland, NIAS has over 270. The Service employs approximately 1044 staff based across 32 stations & sub-stations, 4 Control Centres and a Regional Training Centre.

The Welsh Ambulance Service NHS Trust (Welsh:"Ymddiriedolaeth GIG Gwasanaethau Ambiwlans Cymru") was set up on April 1, 1998 and has 2,500 staff providing ambulance and related services to the 2.9 million residents of Wales.

Its headquarters are at the H.M.Stanley Hospital, St Asaph, Denbighshire and it is divided into three regions :

Private ambulance services are becoming more common in the UK. They often providing medical cover at large events, either with, or instead of the voluntary sector providers. Some organisers use a private firm instead of a voluntary ambulance service because of wider availability during the week (sometimes difficult for a voluntary service to cover) or for a wider range of skills, such as provision of qualified Paramedics. 

The most common use for private ambulances is for Patient Transport. Many trusts and hospitals choosing use a private company, instead of the NHS service. Private ambulances do not answer emergency (999) calls. Sometimes a private ambulance company is used as a follow-up, for stretcher transport or going non-life threatening calls. Recently, some companies have been contracted to provide additional emergency crews and vehicles to supplement the core NHS staff at busy times (such as New Year).

All ambulance companies and the NHS Ambulance trusts must follow the same laws, so a private ambulance must have the same equipment and the people working in it be as qualified as the same type of NHS ambulance.

Another type of private ambulance are those operated by undertakers, who generally favour black vans, with the words private ambulance written discreetly on the vehicle. They are used for taking bodies between hospital, embalmer and chapel of rest, rather than use a hearse.

The main voluntary ambulance providers are the British Red Cross and St John Ambulance in England/Wales, Northern Ireland & The Islands, and St Andrew's Ambulance Association in Scotland. The Order of Malta Ambulance Corps. can sometimes be found in Northern Ireland also. These groups have been providing both emergency and non-emergency medical cover in the UK for over 120 years, including active service in both World Wars. This is before any government organised service. 

The main activity of the organisations apart from training and education, is providing ambulance cover at events, as an extension of their First aid contract. 

Depending on their agreement, or agreements, with their local ambulance service trust (known as a Memorandum of Understanding or MOU), they may treat and transport certain categories of patient to hospital, although for more serious incidents, such as cardiac arrest it is likely that they would be expected to summon the assistance of the statutory ambulance service.

Both organisations also provide 'reserve' or 'support' cover to some, though not all, of the ambulance trusts (dependent on the local MOU), where ambulance crews from one of the organisations (who are usually volunteers, but in some instances may be paid staff) will attend 999, GP Urgent or PTS calls on behalf of the ambulance trust. In these cases the organisation is paid by the trust. This service is most often called on during major incidents, when there is a high level of staff absence or when there is an unusually high call volume, although in some areas, voluntary crews are regularly used to supplement full time trust cover.

Both organisations have also provided cover for the public when NHS ambulance trust staff have held strikes or walk outs.

"Big White Taxi Service" is nickname sometimes used by NHS ambulance staff in the United Kingdom.

They use it because the 999 emergency number is often misused by people who do not need an emergency ambulance, but could go to their own local General Practitioner.




</doc>
<doc id="87701" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87701" title="Template:Nuremberg Trials">
Template:Nuremberg Trials

<br clear=all>


</doc>
<doc id="87702" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87702" title="Public administration">
Public administration

Public Administration means government management, but today also non-governmental organizations that are not acting out of self-interest can be seen as public administrators.. 

Canada

People's Republic of China

Europe

Holland

India

Philippines

Poland

Turkey

United Kingdom

United States



</doc>
<doc id="87703" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87703" title="European Space Agency">
European Space Agency

European Space Agency or ESA is an international organisation with 18 member countries. Its job is to explore space. Its headquarters are in Paris, France.

The member countries of ESA are Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom.

 


</doc>
<doc id="87706" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87706" title="Management">
Management

Management means directing and controlling a group of one or more people or an organization to reach a goal. Management often means the deployment and manipulation of human resources, financial resources, technological resources, and natural resources. Management can also mean the person or people who manage, the managers.



</doc>
<doc id="87709" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87709" title="Republic of Texas">
Republic of Texas

The Republic of Texas was a sovereign state in North America between the United States and Mexico that existed from 1836 to 1845. It was started on March 2 1836, when the people living in Texas declared themselves it won independence from Mexico. The Mexican army led by Santa Anna marched into Texas and attacked the new country. However the Mexican army was defeated and Santa Anna was captured at a battle near the site of Houston. The new republic did not have an easy time. It did not have a proper government, or any money. Its borders were often raided by Mexico, and there was fighting between the settlers and the Native Americans. The US government did not recognize the Republic of Texas.

In 1841, Santa Anna again became president of Mexico and the border attacks increased. By this time, thousands of new settlers had moved into Texas, and people in the US supported the people of Texas. The idea of Texas becoming part of the US became popular.

The Republic of Texas ended on December 29 1845, when Texas became the 28th state of the United States of America.


</doc>
<doc id="87722" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87722" title="Nuremberg Military Tribunals">
Nuremberg Military Tribunals

The Nuremberg Military Tribunals are the follow up trials of war criminals held by the United States of America in Nuremberg.

The trial of the 24 Major War Criminals held by the International Military Tribunal (IMT) in Nuremberg is at Nuremberg Trials

The IMT only held one trial before disagreements between the four wartime allies stopped the series of trials that were planned. The four countries occupying Germany carried on with trials of many people in their own zone of occupation. Twelve that were held by the United States are the most famous of these rials. They involved the some of the most important people to be prosecuted after the 24 Major War Criminals.

The twelve US trials in front of the Nuremberg Military Tribunal took place from December 9, 1946 to April 13, 1949. The trials were:


</doc>
<doc id="87725" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87725" title="Anschluss">
Anschluss

The Anschluss (or Anschluß) (; German: "connection") also known as the was the joining together of Austria and Germany in 1938.

After the First World War, when the empires of Austria Hungary and Germany were abolished, many hoped that a new country of all Germans would be created by joining Austria and Germany.

This was not allowed, but it was a hope of the Nazis.
Adolf Hitler met Austrian Chancellor Kurt Schuschnigg on 12 February 1938 in Berchtesgaden, Bavaria and ordered him to end the ban on political parties, reinstate full party freedom, release all imprisoned members of the Nazi party and let them take part in the government.

If Austria would not do this, Hitler threatened to send in his army.

So Schuschnigg did what Hitler demanded, and appointed Arthur Seyss-Inquart, a pro-Nazi lawyer, as Interior Minister and another Nazi, Edmund Glaise-Horstenau, as a Minister without Portfolio.

In January 1938 Schussnig had been told to fire the chief of staff of the Austrian Army, Alfred Jansa, from his position. Jansa and his staff had plans for defending Austria against a German attack. Hitler did not want this to happen.

Schuschnigg realised that his new ministers were trying to take over from him. To get support Schuschnigg allowed socialists and communists legally to appear in public again. The parties had been banned on 12 February 1934 in the Austrian Civil War. The communists said they supported the Austrian government. The socialists wanted more promises from Schuschnigg before they were willing to side with him.

On 9 March Schuschnigg announced a plebiscite on the independence of Austria for 13 March.

To help his side to win, Schuschnigg set the minimum voting age at 24. Many of those who supported Nazism and union with Germany were young, so this move was to stop them from voting.

Hitler said that the plebiscite would be subject to major fraud and that Germany would not accept it. Also, the German Ministry of Propaganda issued press reports that riots had broken out in Austria and that large parts of the Austrian population were calling for German troops to restore order. Schuschnigg immediately said publicly that reports of riots were false.

Hitler sent an ultimatum to Schuschnigg on 11 March, saying that he must hand over all power to the Austrian Nazis or face an invasion.

Schuschnigg resigned as Chancellor that evening. He could not persuade France or Britain to help.

In the radio broadcast when he announced his resignation, he said that he accepted the changes and allowed the Nazis to take over the government in order to avoid bloodshed.

Meanwhile, Austrian President Wilhelm Miklas refused to appoint Seyß-Inquart as Chancellor and asked other Austrian politicians instead. However, the Nazis were well organised. Within hours they managed to take control of many parts of Vienna, including the Ministry of Internal Affairs (controlling the Police). As Miklas continued to refuse to appoint a Nazi government and Seyss-Inquart still could not send a telegram in the name of the Austrian government demanding German troops to restore order, Hitler became furious. At about 10 PM, well after Hitler had signed and issued the order for the invasion, Göring and Hitler gave up on waiting and sent a forged telegram pretending to be a request by the Austrian Government for German troops to enter Austria. Around midnight, after nearly all critical offices and buildings had fallen into Nazi hands in Vienna and the main political party members of the old government had been arrested, Miklas finally appointed Seyss-Inquart Chancellor.

On the morning of 12 March, the 8th Army of the German Wehrmacht crossed the German-Austrian border. They were not stopped by the Austrian Army. Instead the German troops were greeted by cheering Austrians with Hitler salute, Nazi flags and flowers.

This is why the move into Austria without one single shot being fired is sometimes called the "Blumenkrieg" (war of flowers).

Hitler's car crossed the border in the afternoon at Braunau, his birthplace. In the evening, he arrived at Linz and was welcomed at the city hall. Goering, in a telephone call that evening, said: "There is unbelievable jubilation in Austria. We ourselves did not think that sympathies would be so intense."

On 2 April 1938, 200,000 Austrians gathered on the Heldenplatz (Square of Heroes) to hear Hitler proclaim the Austrian Anschluss. Hitler later commented: "Certain foreign newspapers have said that we fell on Austria with brutal methods. I can only say: even in death they cannot stop lying. I have in the course of my political struggle won much love from my people, but when I crossed the former frontier (into Austria) there met me such a stream of love as I have never experienced. Not as tyrants have we come, but as liberators."

The Anschluss was given immediate effect by a law on 13 March, subject to ratification by a plebiscite. Austria became the province of Ostmark, and Seyss-Inquart was appointed Governor. The plebiscite was held on 10 April and officially recorded a support of 99.73% of the voters.

Most historians agree that the result was not fixed, but the voting process was neither free nor secret. Officials were present directly beside the voting booths and received the voting ballot by hand (in contrast to a secret vote where the voting ballot is inserted into a closed box). In some parts of Austria the referendum on the independence of Austria on 13 March was held despite the Wehrmacht's presence in Austria (it took up to 3 days to occupy every part of Austria). For instance, in the village of Innervillgraten a majority of 95% voted for Austria's independence.

Austria remained part of the Third Reich until the end of World War II when a preliminary Austrian Government declared the Anschluss "null und nichtig" (null and void) on April 27 1945. After the war, then allied-occupied Austria was recognized and treated as a separate country, but was not restored to sovereignty until the Austrian State Treaty and Austrian Declaration of Neutrality, both of 1955, largely due to the rapid development of the Cold War and disputes between the Soviet Union and its former allies over its foreign policy.


</doc>
<doc id="87740" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87740" title="Nestorianism">
Nestorianism

Nestorianism is a movement within Christianity. The idea behind the doctrine was that there were two different persons of Jesus. One of them was the man Jesus, the other was the aspect of "son of God", or Logos. Perhaps the most prominent supporter of the idea was Nestorius, archbishop of Constantinople. Nestorius lived from about 380 to about 450 AD. The Council of Ephesus condemned this view in 431. This led to a split of the church, into the Assyrian Church of the East and the Byzantine Church. 

For this reason, the Assyrian Church of the East is sometimes called "Nestorian". The church holds the view that Chist has two "essences" ("qnome") that are united in one person ("parsopa"). 

The only two churches that teach Nestorianism today are the Assyrian Church of the East, and the Church of the East & Abroad.


</doc>
<doc id="87744" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87744" title="Category:Lutheranism">
Category:Lutheranism


</doc>
<doc id="87745" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87745" title="Daikokuten">
Daikokuten

In Japan, Daikokuten (大黒天), is one of the Seven Lucky Gods. Daikokuten came from the Indian god, Shiva. Daikoku wears Japanese robes and has a happy and smiling personality.

Daikoku's pictures are found in the temples of Tibet and China and the god enjoys an high position as a household god in Japan. Daikoku's connection with wealth and success started a strange ritual known as Fuku-nusubi. This ritual started with the belief that the person who stole figures of gods and goddesses was promised good luck, if they were not caught while stealing. Eventually, stealing divine figures became so common that the Toshi-no-ichi or the ‘year-end-market’ held in the Asakusa Kannon temple became the main place where the sale of these images was held.
Daikoku is considered to be the god of wealth or the household, mostly the kitchen. He is recognised from his wide face, smile, and a flat black hat. He is often shown holding a golden mallet and sitting on bales of rice.


</doc>
<doc id="87756" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87756" title="Category:Socialism">
Category:Socialism


</doc>
<doc id="87763" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87763" title="Category:Saint Helena">
Category:Saint Helena


</doc>
<doc id="87769" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87769" title="Seesaw">
Seesaw

A seesaw (also known as a teeter-totter) is a long, narrow board which is fixed in the middle, a little way above the ground. When one end of the seesaw goes up the other goes down.

Children often like to play on seesaws. Two children sit on the seesaw, one at each end. The child who is down pushes the ground with his feet so that he goes up and his friend goes down. Then the friend pushes up so the first child goes down. They continue to go back and forth until they are ready to stop playing on the seesaw.

It works best with two children who are about the same size, or else the heavy person will make his end stay down. On some seesaws there is room for two or three children on each end. There is a handle for each child to hold on to so that they do not fall off.

In mechanics (a kind of physics) anything that is balanced in the middle and goes up and down like a seesaw might be described as something that "seesaws". 


</doc>
<doc id="87770" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87770" title="Category:Playground equipment">
Category:Playground equipment


</doc>
<doc id="87774" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87774" title="Playground swing">
Playground swing

A swing is a hanging seat, usually found in a playground for children. Acrobats in a circus can also have swings which hang from the top of the tent. Sometimes garden chairs are made to swing gently. 

The seat of a swing is attached to a chain or a rope. The child sits on the swing and kicks off from the ground with his feet. The swing then starts to swing to and fro. The child can make the swing go higher by pulling (as he goes forwards) and pushing (as he goes backwards) the rope and by making his legs straight as it goes up!

In children's playgrounds some swings are made for very young children. They have safety bars with holes for the legs. Their parents can push them to help the swing!

Usually the ground is made of a soft material so that they do not hurt themselves too much if they fall off, although this should not happen if they are being sensible. Sometimes several swings are hung from one long metal or wooden frame.

Many children have swings in their own gardens or back yards. A tyre (or tire) can be hung by a rope from the branch of a tree to make a swing!!!

Swings are fun. At the highest point on a swing, the swinger, (here-in referred to as the "swingy") is weightless. The swingy may enjoy the feeling of being weightless or might become concerned about their weight.


</doc>
<doc id="87775" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87775" title="Playground slide">
Playground slide

Playground slides are slides for children to play on in playgrounds. The child climbs up a ladder or some stairs, then sits down at the top and slides all the way down. Some children like to slide down on their backs or on their stomachs. This can sometimes be dangerous on big slides.

Slides are made of metal or wood. They must have a smooth surface so that the child does not hurt himself. Sometimes, in amusement parks, there are giant slides called "helterskelters".

There are slides at swimming pools where people can slide down into the water with a splash. These are called "water slides" or "shutes".


</doc>
<doc id="87786" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87786" title="Antipsychotic">
Antipsychotic

Antipsychotic drugs or Neuroleptics are drugs that act on the central nervous system, and that usually have sedating properties. The name "neuroleptic" was introduced in 1955, from the 1990s, the term "antipsychotic" is used more frequently. Neuroleptics make the patient calm. Today, they are mostly used for the treatment of psychosis, as it occurs in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. They can also be used to treat depression and mood swings. Very storng antipsychotics can be combined with an opioid to produce a special analgesic; the patient will be conscious, but heavily sedated, and feel very little pain. 

The main inventor of this drug was Andrew J. Smith whom at the time was 16 when he made it. He created this drug that has saved hundreds of people with schizophrenia.


</doc>
<doc id="87787" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87787" title="Eve Online">
Eve Online

EVE Online is a 2003 Space science fiction MMORPG computer game. It was made by CCP Games. The game is very similar to the 1980s game ELITE. Players in EVE earn money called "InterStella Kredits" (ISK) to buy new spacecraft, skills or equipment. Several ways to earn ISK include mining, exploration, doing missions, trading, piracy, and bounty hunting (hunting criminals for money). 

EVE is hosted on 1 server cluster. Unlike most MMORPG games, it is not split up based upon geographical location or how busy the servers are.

There are four races in the Eve universe that are playable by subscribers, there is a fifth race, but only Eve Online employees can get them.

Amarr

The Amarr is a race centered around religion. They were the first of the four races to develop ships capable of travelling space. Their main weapon type is a laser, which fire high-energy beams to the enemy to deal damage. They do not use ammunition like the other races, but instead use a type of ammunition called a crystal in order to focus the laser. The two subgroups of lasers are: Beam (long range), and Pulse (short range).

Caldari

The Caldari is a race centered around corporations. They are a very military driven race, and specialize in both missiles and hybrid turrets (which require both ammunition to fire, and energy to fire it), railguns in particular, and can shoot further than other races.

Gallente

The Gallente happened to be located in the same place the Caldari were, and were the first race to create a democracy. Like the Caldari, they specialize in hybrid turrets, but prefer the short-ranged "blasters", and do not specialize in missiles, instead using drones (small robot ships) to good effect.

Minmatar

The Minmatar was the last race to develop space flight. The Amarr quickly enslaved them, however they were able to gain their freedom with the help of the Gallente. Their main weapon is projectile turrets, pretty much regular guns, with the subgroup being artillery (long range), and auto-cannons (short range).

Gameplay in Eve is known to be complex, since there are so many things for a player to do. A player can do many things, with three of the main categories being:

Missions

Missions involves talking with an NPC (computer player), who will assign you with a task. This can include: killing other NPCs, hauling an item from one location to another, or a combination of both. The rewards from doing these missions include money, standings (better standings means you can do better missions), and Loyalty Points (which can be spent to get certain types of items that can not normally be bought.

Mining/Industry

Mining and Industry are the backbone of the Eve Universe. Almost everything that a player flies, or item he uses was made by another player. Except for certain items, everything is made through industry. There are certain ores (which give minerals when refined) that can only be found in certain areas. Players that find these ores and bring them back to the market will be sure to make quite a bit of money.

PVP

Although PVP (player-vs-player fights) is not a very good way to make money for new players, it is by far one of the most exciting things to do in the Eve Universe. The Eve industry is primarily focused around providing ships to PVP players. Many big corporations (groups of players that share a common goal), can form gigantic alliances to take control of certain areas, which are rich in a wide variety of ways. 


</doc>
<doc id="87799" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87799" title="Wikipedia:Wikibreak">
Wikipedia:Wikibreak

A wikibreak is when a user/member of Wikipedia takes a [break] from Wikipedia. This means they will not make changes to articles on Wikipedia, and they will not read new messages you send them. The break is over when the user returns to wiki. This can be after a few days, weeks or months. 

There are some reasons why users take a break:

The user can put up a sign on her/his userpage to let you know she/he is on a Wikibreak.<br>
If you want to take a Wikibreak, you can put this text on your userpage: <nowiki></nowiki>. This will automatically add you to , and it will put a template on your page.<br>
The template will look like this, but with your username as the first word:<br>
Also, you can make a template appear with your own, custom writing. Just type <nowiki></nowiki>, and it will look like:<br>


</doc>
<doc id="87805" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87805" title="Kintarō">
Kintarō

Kintarō (金太郎, Kintarō? sometimes means "Golden Boy") is a folk (story) hero from Japanese folklore. A child born really strong. He was raised by a girl ogre in a mountain called Mount Ashigara. He became friendly with the animals and imaginary things of the mountain. Later, after catching the terror of the region around Mount Ooe, Shutendouji, he became a great follower of Minamoto no Yorimitsu under the new name Sakata no Kintoki (坂田公時, Sakata no Kintoki?).


</doc>
<doc id="87806" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87806" title="490 Veritas">
490 Veritas

490 Veritas is a big asteroid, which may have been involved in one of the more huge asteroid-asteroid collisions of the past 100 million years.

At 115 and 125 km in diameter, Veritas and 92 Undina are the biggest of the 300-strong Veritas family of asteroids. David Nesvorný of the Southwest Research Institute in Boulder traced the orbits of these bodies back in time, and calculated that they formed in a collision of a body at least 150 km in diameter with a smaller asteroid some 8 million years ago. Veritas and Undina would have been the biggest pieces of that collision.

The thought Veritas collision would have been too far from Jupiter for the pieces to have been slung into a collision course with Earth. However, solar radiation would have caused the resulting dust to drift inward to Earth orbit over a time span consistent with the record of dust in the ocean sediment.

Today continuing collisions among Veritas-family asteroids are estimated to send five thousand tons of cosmic dust to Earth each year, 15% of the total.

It was found by Max Wolf in 1902. Its provisional name was 1902 JP.




</doc>
<doc id="87812" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87812" title="Cart">
Cart

A cart is a vehicle with two wheels and usually pulled by one horse. Other animals such as ox, cattle or donkeys are sometimes used instead of a horse. A handcart is pulled or pushed by a person.

Carts have been used for over 4,000 years around the world. Today we use the shopping cart. Shopping carts first made their appearance in Oklahoma City in 1937.


</doc>
<doc id="87814" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87814" title="Category:United States state templates">
Category:United States state templates


</doc>
<doc id="87815" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87815" title="Category:US Virgin Islands">
Category:US Virgin Islands


</doc>
<doc id="87820" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87820" title="Category:Nuremberg trials">
Category:Nuremberg trials


</doc>
<doc id="87836" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87836" title="Lanark Grammar School">
Lanark Grammar School

Lanark Grammar School is a medium sized secondary school in Lanark, South Lanarkshire which has over 1000 students.


The school library has lots of books on all the subjects studied at the school. It also has a wide range of fiction books for juniors and seniors. There are 15 computers in the library which can be used by any of the students who need to do work.


</doc>
<doc id="87837" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87837" title="MediaWiki:Gadget-Hotcat.js">
MediaWiki:Gadget-Hotcat.js

/*

if ( mw.config.get( 'wgServer' ).indexOf('https://') == 0 ) {
} else {

</doc>
<doc id="87838" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87838" title="MediaWiki:Gadget-Hotcat">
MediaWiki:Gadget-Hotcat

"Hot Cat:" Easily add / remove / change a category on an image, with name suggestion

</doc>
<doc id="87843" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87843" title="MediaWiki:Hotcat.js">
MediaWiki:Hotcat.js

//

</doc>
<doc id="87846" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87846" title="Johannes Vermeer">
Johannes Vermeer

Johannes Vermeer or Jan Vermeer (baptised 31 October 1632, died 15 December 1675) was a Dutch Baroque painter. He spent his life in the town of Delft. Vermeer came from a Protestant family but he married a Catholic, named Catherina Bolnes, in April 1653. They had eleven children.

He mainly painted people in daily life. He painted people in detail and used rich colors. He kept the backgrounds simple. This contrast makes the viewer focus on the main point. 
He used perspective technique to draw lines from one dot on the canvas. He used this technique on his 17 paintings. Those paintings have a little dot which may be used for perspective. 
Vermeer’s painted women often wear blue clothes. This color blue is made from a natural mineral called lapis lazuli. 
There is no self portrait of Jan Vermeer. His face maybe in some other paintings, especially “The Art of Painting” (De Schilderkunst) and “The Procuress” (De Koppelaarste), but there is no proof that the man is Vermeer.


</doc>
<doc id="87848" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87848" title="MediaWiki:Gadget-HotCat.js">
MediaWiki:Gadget-HotCat.js

/*

if ( mw.config.get( 'wgServer' ).indexOf('https://') == 0 ) {
} else {

</doc>
<doc id="87849" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87849" title="Arthur Seyß-Inquart">
Arthur Seyß-Inquart

Dr Arthur Seyß-Inquart (born "Arthur Zajtich" on 22 July 189216 October 1946) was a prominent lawyer and later Nazi official in pre-Anschluß Austria, the Third Reich and in wartime Germany, Poland, and the Netherlands. Seyß-Inquart was executed at the Nuremberg Trials for crimes against humanity.

Seyß-Inquart was born in 1892 in Stonařov ("Stannern"), Moravia, then part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, to school principal Emil Zajtich and his wife Auguste Hyrenbach. The family moved to Vienna in 1907 where they changed the Czech Slavic name of "Zajtich" to the German "Seyß-Inquart". Seyß-Inquart later went to study law at the University of Vienna. At the beginning of World War I in August 1914 Seyß-Inquart enlisted with the Austrian Army and served in Russia, Romania and also Italy.

He was decorated for bravery on a number of occasions and while recovering from wounds in 1917 he completed his final examinations for his degree.

In 1911 Seyß-Inquart met Gertrud Maschka. The couple married in 1916 and had three children: Ingeborg Caroline Auguste Seyß-Inquart (born 18 September 1917), Richard Seyß-Inquart (born 1921) and Dorothea Seyß-Inquart (born 1928).

He went into law after the war and in 1921 set up his own practice. During the early years of the first Austrian republic he was close to the Vaterländische Front.

As a successful lawyer, he was asked to join the cabinet of Chancellor Engelbert Dollfuss in 1933.

He became a State Councillor in 1937 under Kurt Schuschnigg. He was not a member of the Austrian National Socialist party at first. By 1938 Seyß-Inquart was the highest ranking politician in the Austrian National Socialists.

In February 1938, Seyß-Inquart was appointed Minister of the Interior by Schuschnigg, after Hitler had threatened Schuschnigg. On 11 March 1938 Schuschnigg resigned as Austrian Chancellor and Seyß-Inquart was appointed to the position by Austrian President Wilhelm Miklas. Hitler's plan was to have Seyß-Inquart send a telegram asking for German help to stop riots. But President Miklas did not make Seyß-Inquart chancellor until after Hitler had ordered his army into Austria. On 13 March 1938, Seyß-Inquart joined the National Socialist party.

Hitler was going to leave Austria independent, but after the welcome the German troops got during thr Anschluß he decided to mark Austria a new part of the Third Reich, called "Ostmark" . Seyß-Inquart wrote the law which made Austria a province of Germany and signed it into law on 13 March.

Seyß-Inquart became "Reichsstatthalter" or Governor of named Ostmark. Ernst Kaltenbrunner was chief minister and Burckel as Commissioner for the Reunion of Austria (concerned with the "Jewish Question").

Seyß-Inquart was made an SS Gruppenführer, and in May 1939 he was made a Minister without portfolio in Hitler's government.

After the invasion of Poland, Seyß-Inquart became governor for Southern Poland, but before he started work there the General Government was created, and Seyß-Inquart became a deputy to the Governor General Hans Frank.

After Germany invaded the Low Countries Seyß-Inquart became Reichskommissar for the Occupied Netherlands in May 1940. His job was to organise civil administration, with creating close economic ties with Germany and defend the interests of the Reich.

He supported the Dutch National Socialist Party (NSB) and allowed them to create a paramilitary "Landwacht", as an auxiliary police force. Other political parties were banned in late 1941 and many former government officials were imprisoned at Sint-Michielsgestel. The administration of the country was largely controlled by Seyß-Inquart himself.

He introduced measures to combat 'terror' and when a widespread strike took place in Amsterdam, Arnhem and Hilversum in May 1943 special summary court-martial were used and a collective fine of 18 million guilders was imposed. Seyß-Inquart allowed the execution of around 800 people before liberation. Some people say it was not 800 people but over 1,500, including the execution of people under the so-called "Hostage Law", the death of political prisoners who were close to being liberated, the Putten incident, and the reprisal execution of 117 Dutchmen for the attack on SS and Police Leader Hanns Albin Rauter. From July 1944 most of Seyß-Inquart's powers were transferred to the military commander in the Netherlands and the Gestapo, but he was still an important and powerful person.

There were 2 small concentration camps in the Netherlands

There was also a "Jewish assembly camp" at Westerbork and a number of other camps controlled by the military, the police, the SS or Seyß-Inquart's administration. These included a "voluntary labour recruitment" camp at Ommen. In total around 530,000 Dutch civilians worked for the Germans, of whom 250,000 were sent to factories in Germany.

Seyss-Inquart was an anti-Semite: within a few months of his arrival in the Netherlands, he sacked Jews from government, the press and leading positions in industry. Anti-Jewish measures got stronger after 1941: approximately 140,000 Jews were registered, a ghetto was created in Amsterdam and a transit camp was set up at Westerbork. In February 1941, 600 Jews were sent to the Buchenwald and Mauthausen concentration camps. Later, the Dutch Jews were sent to Auschwitz. As Allied forces approached in September 1944 the remaining Jews at Westerbork were sent to Theresienstadt. Of 140,000 registered Dutch Jews, only 44,500 survived the war.

When Hitler committed suicide in April 1945, Seyß-Inquart became the Foreign Minister in Admiral Karl Dönitz's new German government.

The Nazi regime had tried a 'scorched earth' policy, and some docks and harbours were destroyed. Seyß-Inquart, agreed with Armaments Minister Albert Speer that destroying everything to stop things being used by the allies or a new government after the war was wrong. Seyß-Inquart also helped in the so called 'hunger winter' of 1945 to distribute food and allowed Allied airplanes to drop Swedish white bread for the hungry people of the occupied north of the country. He remained Reichskommissar until 8 May 1945, when, after a meeting with Karl Dönitz to confirm his blocking of the scorched earth orders, he was captured in Hamburg.

At the Nuremberg Trials, Seyß-Inquart faced charges of conspiracy to commit crimes against peace; planning, starting and fighting wars of aggression; war crimes; and crimes against humanity.

His defence lawyer was Gustav Steinbauer. Seyß-Inquart was nonetheless found guilty of all charges except conspiracy. On hearing of his death sentence, Seyss-Inquart made it clear he accepted responsibility for excesses during the war, "Death by hanging...well, in view of the whole situation, I never expected anything different. It's all right". He was hanged on 16 October 1946, at the age of 54, together with nine other Nuremberg defendants. His last words were "I hope that this execution is the last act of the tragedy of the Second World War and that the lesson taken from this world war will be that peace and understanding should exist between peoples. I believe in Germany".



</doc>
<doc id="87862" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87862" title="Classical Athens">
Classical Athens

Ancient Athens is the name for the city of Athens in about the 5 century BC. It was one of the most powerful cities in ancient times. It was important because they made a good democracy.

From 900 B.C. till 600 B.C., kings and nobles ruled Athens. Nobles seized lots of land, since farmers who could not pay their debts could have their land taken from them. Slaves were treated cruelly.

However, when Solon became ruler about 594 years before Jesus was born, he made many reforms with the help of the Council. He made a supreme court. He canceled farmer's debts and limited the amount of land that could be owned by nobles. Merchants began using coins. The people who did not work were punished. All free men could be citizens, even though the lower class could not vote.

Shortly after the reforms of Solon, the Age of Tyrants began. Instead of many people ruling, one man took all the power. This is called "dictatorship". When Cleisthenes, a noble, became powerful, he stopped dictatorship and gave rights to all free men. Cleisthenes was called the father of Athenian democracy. Ten committees were given the right to declare war, collect money and see if the people with power were honest. They could secretly stop anyone who did not do his duty or seemed to be taking too much power. So, direct democracy was begun.

In 477 B.C. Athens began the Delian League to join the city-states for protection. The league's money was kept in the temple of Apollo. However, people soon began to disagree. The other states said that Athens was becoming a tyrant. No one was powerful enough to stop Athens, so Athens ruled. Pericles was when Athens was strongest, and this time was called the Golden Age of Greece.

When King Xerxes of Persia fought in Asia Minor, Athens helped the people of Asia Minor. In time, the Persians attacked the Greeks. Because of this, a war began.

On the plain of Marathon, many Persians with bows and arrows fought the Greeks. Even though there were many more Persians than Greeks, the Greeks won because they had spears and swords of metal.

Themistocles, a statesman of Athens, warned the Athenians that the Persians would return, so they should make their navy bigger. The people did so, and Sparta offered to help. The Persians arrived and attacked the Greeks, both on land and on sea. However, because of a Greek traitor, the Persians won.

Although the city of Athens was burnt down before the Persians left, most of the people had run away to the nearby islands for safety. Themistocles ordered the Greeks to prepare for another attack. This time he told them to leave their ships in the Bay of Salamis. About 480 years before Jesus was born, the Persians arrived: but they were surprised and confused by the harbor that was so full of ships they could not travel in it. This time a few hundred Greek ships destroyed many, many Persian ships. Xerxes went away.

The next year, another battle happened, which 32,000 Greek hoplites and 50,000 other soldiers won. The Persians did not attack Greece again.

Even though Sparta and Athens helped each other in battle, they were very different culturally. In 431 to 404 B.C., these two city-states fought in a conflict called the Peloponnesian War after the name of the lower part of the peninsula. Sparta had help from other states. Athens kept inside the city walls, but many people died because of a terrible sickness, including Pericles.

Athens' navy was taken by Spartans who had been trained severely since they were children. In 404 B.C., Athens surrendered to Sparta.

For 30 years Sparta ruled, but many people did not like Spartan government, and Thebes, another city-state, helped Athens defeat Sparta. For nine years Thebes was the most powerful state.

However, Greece was much weaker because of the wars inside her country. Philip of Macedonia began to move into Greek territory. Although Demosthenes warned Athens of the danger, Athenians did not care. At Chaeronea, Philip of Macedonia controlled Greece.

When Philip died, his son, Alexander the Great, even though he was only 30 years, went out to capture the world. He won Asia Minor, Persia, Egpyt, and some parts of India, but he died when he was 33 because of a fever.

The people in Athens ate simply, usually barley cakes, onions, fish, and fruit. For clothes the men wore short pieces of cloth (tunics), aprons, and sandals for work. A woman wore a "chiton", which was a long, loose cloth that was attached to the shoulder. The loose garment was like a blouse because of a rope worn around the waist. Sandals were made by putting the foot on a piece of skin while the shoemaker made a covering for the foot.

Children liked to have pet rabbits and to play ball games. For fun, they also raced little chariots pulled by dogs. They were taught by slaves, and learned poetry, music, and dancing. Exercise was also important.

When a young man became 18, he began two years of training for the army. After that he could join in the men's classes where throwing was done. For protection in wrestling, he tied leather strips around his wrists. He also cut his hair. Teachers from many lands taught the young men.

The Greek hoplites fought so close together that their shields overlapped with each other. Their spears were very long.

Women in ancient Athens were treated with little respect. They could not become citizens of Athens because the men thought they were not important enough. This means they could not vote and did not have any say in what happened in Athens and they could not run for election.

Girls could not be citizens. They left their home at the age of 15 to get married, sometimes with a man who was much older than she was (about 30 years). Her marriage would be arranged by her father. On most occasions, the father would pick a rich husband for his daughter and for most girls, marriage was just living together.
The girl and her mother had no say in who she married, it was entirely the father's choice.


</doc>
<doc id="87865" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87865" title="Category:1626 births">
Category:1626 births


</doc>
<doc id="87868" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87868" title="Category:Roads in the United States">
Category:Roads in the United States


</doc>
<doc id="87869" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87869" title="Category:Roads in Germany">
Category:Roads in Germany


</doc>
<doc id="87874" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87874" title="Watership Down">
Watership Down

Watership Down is a novel written by Richard Adams. It tells the story of rabbits and their adventures concerning their warren at a hill in the north of Hampshire, England known as Watership Down.

In this fantasy novel, rabbits of human intelligence are shown in their natural environment. They have a culture, a language, proverbs, poetry and mythology. 

It was published in the United Kingdom by Rex Collings Ltd in 1972 and it has never since been out of print. 


Fiver, a rabbit with a gft for seeing the future, living at Sandleford Warren, envisions his home being destroyed by a land developer. He convinces his brother, Hazel to talk to the Chief Rabbit, Threarah about leaving the Warren, however, the Chief Rabbit has no intention of leaving. Hazel, Fiver, and nine other rabbits then set off in search of a new home (at the time, merely off of the basis of Fiver's dreams that a good home awaits them somewhere far away).

They travel through forests, fields, over rivers, and roads filled with hrududu's (cars) before tiredness forces them to stop at a warren headed by a rabbit named Cowslip. After much debate, the rabbits tentatively agree to stay at Cowslips warren. The warren however, feels wrong to them (especially Fiver) due to the other rabbit's strange customs. 

They soon find out that the strange actions that Cowslip's rabbits are showing is due to the fact that they are merely being fed and taken care of by a farmer so that he kill them off, one by one, for food. They leave Cowslip's warren, although Bigwig nearly dies on the way. 

They keep going until they arrive at the site of Watership Down, a high hill that is far from man and full of good food and safety. After a day or two at their good land that Fiver had promised them, Hazel is named the unofficial chief rabbit of Watership Down. However, Hazel realizes that there are no does among them, and they cannot have a healthy warren of rabbits without does. 

Hazel later rescues a big gull named Kehaar, who has been injured by a cat. After nursing Kehaar back to health, Keharr agrees to help the rabbits for the time being in return for their kindness toward him. After being asked by Hazel to perform a scout of the area, Kehaar locates a large warren called Efrafa to the South of their position. After hearing that Efrafa is large and overcrowded, Hazel sends four rabbits to Efrafa to ask if they could bring back some does to their warren. 

However, Efrafa, being a large warren with too many rabbits, is tightly controlled by a rabbit named General Woundwort and his massive military. Each rabbit is told when are where they are allowed to eat, sleep and more. Nothing happens without the Generals consent, including leaving the warren. The four rabbits barely run away after playing a trick on an Efrafan Captain. 

At the same time that the four rabbits are at Efrafa, Hazel leads a small group to look into Kehaar's report that there is a farm with a few hutch rabbits, including does. After a few raids, the Watership rabbits break a few hutch rabbits out of the farm, but Hazel is shot on the way out. Fiver has a vision where Hazel is, though, and Hazel is found and returned to health. 

Now hearing how Efrafa is, the weakened Hazel decides to free the rabbits from Efrafa. The entire party of Watership rabbits travel carefully to the edges of Efrafa. Under the guise of a wandering loner, Bigwig infiltrates Efrafa as an officer of their Owsla. Secretly, however, Bigwig is helping get rabbits to help with the break out. He meets Hyzenthlay and Thethunninnang, two does who tell him that, if he has a working plan, they and a few other rabbits will attempt the escape with him. 

After nearly having to fight General Woundwort, Bigwig and the does break out of Efrafa with Kehaar's help. Of course this break out is noticed by the guards, and soon the General himself and his small army catch up Bigwig and the runaway rabbits. They get away only because Kehaar attacks Woundwort. Woundwort keep chasing the rabbits to a stream, and the rabbits escape on a small boat. Two does die on the way to Watership Down, but most rabbits make it there safely.

The rabbits are glad to see the new rabbits. However, a field mouse warns the rabbits that General Woundwort and a small strike team are coming. The General then attacks the warren in the night as the Watership Rabbits head to their deepest burrows, blocking off the tunnels in an attempt to hold off the Efrafans. 

While in a burrow, Fiver passes out as too many visions come to him at once. Meanwhile, Hazel, has a vision of how to stop the Efrafans. Hazel tells Bigwig to stay there and fight and he takes Blackberry and Dandelion out of the burrow. Hazel's plan is to use the dog at the nearby Nuthanger farm to defeat the Efrafans. 

Hazel's plan works, however Bigwig and Hazel are hurt in the process. General Woundwort disappears, never to be seen again. Captain Campion and the other attackers go back to Efrafa, where Campion becomes Chief Rabbit. 

Hazel lives a long life as Chief Rabbit of Watership Down, while his warren prospers peacefully. Fiver recovers and Bigwig becomes the respected captain of the guard.



</doc>
<doc id="87888" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87888" title="Richard Adams">
Richard Adams

Richard George Adams (born May 9, 1920) is an author who is best known as the writer of three novels with animals as characters. He wrote "Watership Down", "Shardik" and "The Plague Dogs".




</doc>
<doc id="87890" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87890" title="Mergoscia">
Mergoscia

Mergoscia is a municipality of the district Locarno in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland. The village is found above Lago di Vogorno in the Verzasca valley.


</doc>
<doc id="87891" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87891" title="Meride">
Meride

Meride is a municipality of the district Mendrisio in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="87892" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87892" title="Category:Ancient Athens">
Category:Ancient Athens

Ancient Athens is the name given to the city of Athens around the time of the 5th century BC. Some consider it to be one of the greatest civilisations before modern times due to it's way of dealing with democracy.


</doc>
<doc id="87893" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87893" title="Mezzovico-Vira">
Mezzovico-Vira

Mezzovico-Vira is a municipality of the district Lugano in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="87894" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87894" title="Miglieglia">
Miglieglia

Miglieglia is a municipality of the district Lugano in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="87895" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87895" title="Minusio">
Minusio

Minusio is a municipality of the district Locarno in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.



</doc>
<doc id="87896" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87896" title="Moleno">
Moleno

Moleno is a municipality of the district Bellinzona in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="87897" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87897" title="Monte Carasso">
Monte Carasso

Monte Carasso is a municipality of the district Bellinzona in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.

The Swiss Heritage Society chose Monte Carasso for the 1993 Wakker Prize.



</doc>
<doc id="87899" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87899" title="Abandonment">
Abandonment

Abandonment or exposure was a widely used method of getting rid of babies that parents did not want. Babies would be left outside, often in a pot or a vase, to die. It was practiced in ancient times, especially in Athens. The babies at the most risk were: girls, deformed or ugly babies, children born to poor families, babies who looked unwell. Women had no say in whether their babies were exposed. The fathers were the only ones who had a say.


</doc>
<doc id="87905" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87905" title="Mark Ronson">
Mark Ronson

Mark Daniel Ronson (born 4 September 1975) is a music producer from London, England. Ronson has released two albums. His first, released in 2003, was mainly hip hop music. His second, in 2007, featured British singers and musicians performing many different genres and styles.

Ronson's mother, Ann Dexter-Jones , is a writer, and his father used to work in the music industry. He has two twin sisters, Charlotte and Samantha. Samantha is also a musical artist, and a well known LA DJ.
Charlotte is a well known clothing designer and owns several clothing stores.

Ronson's family are ethnically Jewish.

Ronson became interested in hip hop when he moved to New York City, aged 8. He went New York University, and became a popular DJ in New York during the 1990s. 

Ronson's first album was called "Here Comes the Fuzz", a hip hop album featuring artists such as Ghostface Killah. It was released in 2003. It reached #70 in the music charts.

His second album, "Version", was more successful. It sold more, and was nominated for a number of awards. It featured lead vocals by the likes of Amy Winehouse, Lily Allen, Robbie Williams, and others famous British singers too. Jordan Galland, an American musican also contributed to it. The artists performed cover songs, (which means the songs were new 'versions' of old songs - the word "version" was originally used in this context by the Reggae scene) but what made this second album stand out was the return to the use of professional arrangers and a full brass section. At a time when other producers such as Timbaland had made a name for themselves by producing simple stripped down backing beats, the sound was a complete change of direction. The brass section that Ronson used was the Dap-Kings who usually performed with Sharon Jones. It reached #2 in the British charts.



</doc>
<doc id="87906" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87906" title="Shardik">
Shardik

Shardik is a fantasy novel written by Richard Adams in 1974.

"Shardik" takes place in an imaginary region called the Beklan Empire. A lonely hunter, Kelderek, pursues Shardik, a giant bear. Both of them become unwillingly drawn into the politics of the entire empire. The story's key themes include the personal struggles of sin and atonement, the strength and potential of children, and the responsibility of adults to protect and nurture children in hope of a better future.


</doc>
<doc id="87907" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87907" title="Warsaw Uprising (1794)">
Warsaw Uprising (1794)

The Warsaw of 1794 (also called the "Warsaw Insurrection") was started by a group of Polish people who lived in Warsaw. With help from the Polish Army, they tried to stop Russia from controlling the biggest city in Poland. It started on April 17, 1794, which was soon after Tadeusz Kościuszko's victory at an important battle.

Although the Russian army was larger, had better weapons, and killed many Polish people, Russian soldiers started to lose a lot of land and suffered from many deaths.

The Polish people had been preparing to fight in the uprising since the spring of 1793. They managed to become very popular: they formed a large army of volunteers who were led by a shoemaker, Jan Kiliński. Apart from this army, the most famous group to take part in giving the Polish people their freedom were the Poles who had been forced to join the Russian army. A person who watched the fighting was a French artist, Jan Piotr Norblin, who drew pictures of the uprising.


</doc>
<doc id="87908" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87908" title="Vaisravana">
Vaisravana

Vaiśravaṇa (Sanskrit वैश्रवण) or Vessavaṇa (Pāli वेस्सवण) is the name of the chief of the Four Heavenly Kings and an important person in Buddhism. 

The name Vaiśravaṇa comes from the Sanskrit viśravaṇa which means "Great Fame".

Vaiśravaṇa is also known as Kubera in Sanskrit or Kuvera in Pāli. 
The character of Vaiśravaṇa is set up on the Hindu god Kubera, but although the Buddhist and Hindu deities share some characteristics, both of them have different functions and myths. 

He is often shown with a yellow face. He carries an umbrella as a sign of his power. He is also sometimes shown with a mongoose, often shown spitting out jewels. The mongoose is the enemy of the snake, which is a symbol of greed or hatred; the spitting out of jewels shows generosity.

In the Pāli writings of the Theravāda Buddhist tradition, Vaiśravaṇa is called Vessavaṇa. Vessavaṇa is one of the Four Great Kings, each one of which rules over a direction. Vessavaṇa's direction is the northern quarter of the world.

Vessavaṇa has the name "Kuvera" from a name he had from a past life as a rich mill-owner, who gave all the money he got from one of his seven mills to charity, and gave aid to the poor for 20,000 years. 

As with all the Buddhist deities, Vessavaṇa is properly the name of a person who has the god inside him rather than a permanent individual. Each Vessavaṇa is a human, and when he dies, he will be replaced by a new Vessavaṇa. Like other beings of the Cātummahārājika world, his lifespan is 90,000 years, but other sources say nine million years.

When the Buddha was born, Vessavaṇa became his follower. He often brought the Buddha and his followers messages from the gods and other humans, and protected them.

In Japan, Bishamonten (毘沙門天), or just Bishamon (毘沙門) is thought of as a god of war or warriors who wears armor, and a punisher of people who do evil things, a view that is very strange when compared with the more peaceful Buddhist king described above. Bishamon is shown holding a spear in one hand and a small pagoda in the other hand. The Pagoda symbolises the divine treasure house, which holds things that he guards and gives away. In Japanese folklore, he is one of the Japanese Seven Lucky Gods.

In Tibet, Vaiśravaṇa is known to be a worldly protector of the Dharma. He is also known as the King of the North. As guardian of the north, he is often shown on temple wall paintings outside the main door. He is also a god of wealth. Vaiśravaṇa is sometimes shown carrying a citron, the fruit of the "jambhara" tree. The fruit helps pick him out from depictions of Kuvera.





</doc>
<doc id="87910" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87910" title="Fugazi">
Fugazi

Fugazi were an American alternative rock band that became active in 1987.

Singer and songwriter Ian MacKaye had been in two bands before he joined Fugazi. These bands were Embrace, a band that existed from 1985-86, and the more well-known Minor Threat. Guy Picciotto, who played guitar, was in famous punk/emo band Rites of Spring from 1984-86. Brendan Canty, who played drums, was also in Rites of Spring. For Joe Lally, it was his first major band.

Fugazi are known for their aggressive, "chunky" music. It is difficult to call them one genre of music, as they play many different musical styles. The band wanted to sound different to other bands they knew and had been in. MacKaye and Picciotto also have different styles of singing and songwriting. MacKaye prefers songs that people can sing along to, whereas Picciotto prefers more complex songs.

The members of Fugazi did not use illegal drugs, drink alcohol, or have casual sex. This was called being "straight edge". The term "straight edge" was invented by Minor Threat, MacKaye's previous band.

Fugazi have not officially split up. However, they have not played since late 2002. This is because some of the band members have settled down with their families.


</doc>
<doc id="87914" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87914" title="Benzaiten">
Benzaiten

Benzaiten (弁才天, 弁財天) is the Japanese name of the goddess Saraswati. Worship of Benzaiten arrived in Japan in the 6th to 8th centuries, mainly through the Chinese translations of the "Sutra of Golden Light ".

Her Sanskrit name is "Sarasvatî Devî", which means "flowing water". This is why Benzaiten is the goddess of everything that flows: water, words, speech, and music. The characters used to write her name showed her as the goddess of eloquence. Because of the Sutra of Golden Light, in Japan she became a protector of the people. Lastly, she became one of the Seven Lucky Gods.

In the Rig-Veda (6.61.7) Sarasvati killed the three-headed snake, also known as Vritra. This is probably one of the sources of Sarasvati/Benzaiten's close link with snakes and dragons in Japan. She has a shrine on the Island of Enoshima in Sagami Bay, about 50 kilometers south of Tokyo; and a five-headed dragon and her are the main people in the Enoshima Engi, a history of the shrines on Enoshima written by the Japanese Buddhist monk Kokei (皇慶). According to Kokei, Benzaiten is the third daughter of the dragon-king of Munetsuchi (無熱池; literally "lake without heat"), the lake which is at the center of the world in an ancient Buddhist view. 




</doc>
<doc id="87918" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87918" title="Category:Sockpuppets of Yellowcake">
Category:Sockpuppets of Yellowcake


</doc>
<doc id="87920" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87920" title="Category:Companies listed on the Oslo Stock Exchange">
Category:Companies listed on the Oslo Stock Exchange


</doc>
<doc id="87932" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87932" title="Purchasing Power Parity">
Purchasing Power Parity

There are two ways to measure GDP (total income of a country) of different countries and compare them. One way, called GDP at exchange rate, is when the currencies of all countries are converted into USD (United States Dollar). The second way is GDP (PPP) or GDP at Purchasing Power Parity (PPP).

Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) is measured by finding the values (in USD) of a basket of consumer goods that are present in each country (such as orange juice, pencils, etc). If that basket costs $100 in the US and $200 in England, than purchasing power parity exchange rate is 1:2. 

What sets GDP (PPP) apart from other economic indicators, such as GDP per capita, nominal GDP, and real GDP, is that GDP (PPP) takes the costs of living into account. This explains why GDP (PPP) is used to measure the quality of life in a country. However, when measuring a country's economic power (i.e. what it can buy on the world market) use GDP at exchange rate.

For example, suppose that Japan has a higher GDP per capita, ($18) than the US ($16). That means that Japanese on average make $2 more than normal Americans. However, they are not necessarily richer. Suppose that one gallon of orange juice costs $6 in Japan and only $2 in the US. The Japanese can only buy 3 gallons while the Americans can buy 8 gallons. Therefore, in terms of orange juice, the Americans are richer. The US has a GDP (PPP) of $14 while Japan has a GDP (PPP) of $12. The GDP exchange rate is 14:12 or 7:6.

Now apply this to daily life. The orange juice represents the previously mentioned "basket of goods" which represents the cost of living in a country. Therefore, even if a country has a higher GDP per capita (individual income), that country's people may still live poorer if the cost of living is more expensive.


</doc>
<doc id="87936" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87936" title="GDP per capita">
GDP per capita

GDP per capita is the GDP (total income) of a country, divided by its population. It shows how much money people earn on average. 
So basically GDP is the dollar value of all goods and services produced within a country’s borders in a given year, then divided by the population in a given year.


</doc>
<doc id="87945" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87945" title="Template:Nobelprize">
Template:Nobelprize

<includeonly>
</includeonly>


</doc>
<doc id="87946" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87946" title="Warren (domestic)">
Warren (domestic)

A domestic warren is a fake, enclosed establishment of animal husbandry that is used for the raising of domestic rabbits for meat and fur. 

There was a clear distinction between free warren and domestic warren. But today that is nearly gone. One even speaks of a "prairie dog warren". 



</doc>
<doc id="87949" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87949" title="Warren">
Warren

Warren could mean:







</doc>
<doc id="87956" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87956" title="Burrow">
Burrow

A burrow is a hole or tunnel that was dug into the ground by an animal to create a space that can be used for living or short time shelter. The burrowing way of life is quite popular among the animals. 
Many animals construct or use burrows in many different types. Mammals are perhaps most well-known for burrowing, especially Insectivora like the voracious mole, and rodents like the fertile gopher and groundhog. The rabbit, a member of the family Lagomorpha, is a well-known burrower. There are estimations that a single groundhog burrow occupies a full cubic meter, displacing 320 kilograms of dirt. Even Carnivora like the meerkat and Marsupials like the kangaroo mouse are burrowers.

Burrows can be constructed into a wide variety of substrates. Kangaroo mice construct burrows in fine sand. Termites construct burrows in wood. Some sea urchins and clams can burrow into rock. Burrows can also range in complexity from a simple tube a few centimeters long to a complex network of interconnecting tunnels and chambers hundreds or thousands of meters in total length, such as a well-developed rabbit warren.


</doc>
<doc id="87958" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87958" title="Burrow (disambiguation)">
Burrow (disambiguation)

A burrow is a hole made by an animal.

Burrow can also mean:




</doc>
<doc id="87975" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87975" title="Sogyal Rinpoche">
Sogyal Rinpoche

Sogyal Rinpoche is a Tibetan Dzogchen Lama of the Nyingma tradition. He has been teaching for over 30 years. He travels widely in Europe, America, Australia and Asia. 

He is the founder and spiritual leader of Rigpa, which is an international network of over 100 Buddhist centres and groups in 23 countries around the world. He is also the author of the best-selling book "The Tibetan Book of Living and Dying", which has been printed in 30 languages and 56 countries. 

Rinpoche often speaks at major conferences in all areas of society, including medicine and healing, universities and educational institutions, interfaith dialogue, movements for peace and non-violence, the world of business and leadership, and the field of serving the dying and hospice care.

Sogyal Rinpoche was born around 1950 in the region of Kham in Eastern Tibet. Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö says that he is the reincarnation of Tertön Sogyal, a teacher to the Thirteenth Dalai Lama. Jamyang Khyentse raised him as a son and made sure he got good training. 

When things got bad in Kham, Khyentse Rinpoche and his young student went to Central Tibet and Lhasa. In 1955, they met Tenzin Gyatso, His Holiness the 14th Dalai Lama. They then went to India. They settled in Gangtok at the invitation of the king of Sikkim. 

Rinpoche went to Catholic School in Kalimpong. Then he went to study at a university in Delhi before coming to the West. In 1971, he was granted a place to study comparative religion at Trinity College, Cambridge as a visiting scholar. He continued to study with many masters of all schools of Tibetan Buddhism, especially His Holiness Dudjom Rinpoche and His Holiness Dilgo Khyentse Rinpoche.

Rinpoche soon began teaching in Paris. He often translated for His Holiness Dudjom Rinpoche. He also went with Dudjom Rinpoche to the United States in 1976. 

In the summer of 1977, he started a centre in London, which he called Dzogchen Orgyen Chöling. Many great masters taught there: Dudjom Rinpoche, His Holiness Sakya Trizin, Gyalwang Karmapa, Tulku Urgyen Rinpoche and others.

In 1979, Sogyal Rinpoche chose the name Rigpa for his work. It means "the innermost, essential nature of mind".

In 1994, a $10 million civil lawsuit was filed against Sogyal Rinpoche. It was alleged that over a period of many years, Rinpoche had used his position as a spiritual leader to induce some of his female students to have coitus with him. The complaint included counts of intentional infliction of emotional distress, breach of fiduciary duty, as well as assault and battery. In December 1995, the issue was settled out of court through mediation. 

In the wake of the ensuing publicity, women who had previously remained silent began to talk about their experiences with Rinpoche. As one student pointed out, in a report filed by Mick Brown:
Sogyal Rinpoche's need for a partner is not in question... Rather the issue concerns the inappropriateness of sexual relationships with his students. In the West it is not considered ethical to engage in sex within the confines of a pastoral or teacher-student relationship where there are clear power imbalances. 

In 1995, a young English woman attended one of Sogyal Rinpoche's residential retreats and was led to believe she had been singled out for special attention, only to discover that she was being invited to join a harem. "At first I was flattered, and very open and trusting. He encouraged me to fall in love with him - but I realised he was toying with me. I noticed several other young, pretty women going in and out of his apartment; when I confronted him with this, he dropped me and ignored me for the rest of the time I was there."
Supporters have argued that lamas of the Nyingma school are not required to take vows of celibacy, and indeed Sogyal Rinpoche does not claim to be a celibate monk. The central role model of the Nyingma school, its founder Padmasambhava, had five principal tantric consorts who were also his students. While there is a precept against sexual misconduct in Buddhism, with respect to a non-monastic lama this precept is rather limited in scope and would apply only if the female is not free but rather under the protection of her father, mother, husband, king or herself bound by a vow of celibacy. Nevertheless, amongst those who complained about Sogyal's sexual misdemeanours were relatively new converts to the faith who were therefore unlikely to possess sufficient Buddhist experience to be labelled 'qualified consorts'. According to Buddhist principles, engaging in union with an unqualified partner results in rebirth in hell Present social mores also deem sexual relations between teachers and students to be abusive because of the imbalance of power present in the relationship. Thus, while not violating basic Buddhist moral principles, tantric principles were violated and social mores breached.






</doc>
<doc id="87976" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87976" title="Category:Tibetan writers">
Category:Tibetan writers


</doc>
<doc id="87977" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87977" title="Soma">
Soma

Soma is a drink used in ancient India, in the (Vedic) culture. It is written of in the Vedas, in which there are many hymns praising it. 

It was probably a juice made from a hallucinogenic mountain plant. In the Vedas, Soma is both the sacred drink and also a god (deva). It is not know for sure what Soma actually was.

Soma is like the Greek drink, ambrosia. It is also called amrita. It is what the gods drink, and what made them gods. Indra and Agni are known for drinking a lot of Soma. Mortals also drink it, giving then visions that are thought to be divine. The "Rig-Veda" ("8.48") states, "We have drunk the Soma; we have become immortal; we have gone to the light; we have found the gods." The Ninth Mandala of the "Rig Veda" is known as the Soma Mandala. It is mostly hymns to Soma.


</doc>
<doc id="87982" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87982" title="Tokyo Juliet">
Tokyo Juliet

Tokyo Juliet (or 東方茱麗葉 in Chinese) is a 2006 Taiwanese dramatic television series. It stars Ariel Lin and Wu Zun of the band Fahrenheit. The series is based on the manga of the same name by Miyuki Kitagawa.



</doc>
<doc id="87985" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87985" title="Left Hand Path">
Left Hand Path

Left Hand Path is a term used in occultism for one kind of spiritual path. It is the opposite of the Right Hand Path, which is what most people think of when they think of religion or spirituality. 

The use of this term in occultism came from a term used in Hindu Tantra, "Vama marga" in Sanskrit. This ancient form of tantra used the breaking of rules (taboos) as part of the practice. Rules about diet and sex were broken on purpose. For example, rules against eating meat and drinking alcohol might be broken. Such a practice might require eating meat and drinking alcohol while having sex in a graveyard or cremation ground.

People who follow the Left Hand Path in the West are not interested in giving up pleasure or the world in order to be spiritual. They are not interested in worshiping God or following rules made up by others. They seek to gain power and freedom by breaking through taboos, fears and restrictions.

Many people link this term with Satanism and black magic, but they are not the same. The Left Hand Path is sometimes described as "amoral".




</doc>
<doc id="87986" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87986" title="Wu Zun">
Wu Zun

"This is a Chinese name. The surname is Wu (吳)"

Wu Zun (traditional Chinese: 吳尊; simplified Chinese: 吴尊; pinyin: Wú Zūn) is a Brunei-born actor and singer. He is the only non-Taiwanese member of the boy band Fahrenheit. He is also known for his roles in the Taiwanese TV shows Hanazakarino Kimitachihe and Tokyo Juliet.

Born Goh Kiat Chun (traditional Chinese: 吳吉俊; Pinyin: "Wú Jí Jùn") in Brunei on 10 October 1979, Wu studied at the Chung Hwa Middle School in Bandar Seri Begawan. He later graduated from the RMIT University in Melbourne with a Bachelor's degree in Business Administration. Wu also played basketball for Brunei's national team . Before joining Fahrenheit (band), he was a model for "伊林 Yi Lin" in Taiwan and for "Diva Models" in Singapore. He manages a gym club called Fitness Zone in Brunei.

Wu was the last and oldest member to join Fahrenheit (band). He is the bass vocalist of the group. He also plays the drums. His personality is represented by a cool Autumn at 59 degrees on the Fahrenheit scale. He also represented by the word "Mysterious" (traditional Chinese: 神; Pinyin: shén).



</doc>
<doc id="87990" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87990" title="Vamachara">
Vamachara

Vamachara or Vama marga (Left-Hand Path) are technical terms used for practices in tantra that are considered to be outside the usual Hindu social norms. The term Dakshinachara (Right-Hand Path) is used to refer to Tantric sects that stay within these social norms.


</doc>
<doc id="87996" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87996" title="Magick">
Magick

Magick is an old way to spell the word "magic". This spelling was used by Aleister Crowley for occult magic. He wanted to make it clear that he did not mean stage magic.

Crowley defined magick as "the science and art of causing change to occur in conformity with the will." By this, he included ordinary acts of will as well as acts of ritual magic.


</doc>
<doc id="87997" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87997" title="Template:Trivia">
Template:Trivia

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="87998" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87998" title="Dolmen">
Dolmen

A dolmen (also known as cromlech, anta, Hünengrab, Hunebed, quoit, and portal dolmen) is a type of single-chamber megalithic tomb. It usually consists of three or more upright stones (megaliths) supporting a large flat horizontal capstone (table). 

Most date from the early Neolithic period (4000 BC to 3000 BC). Dolmens were usually covered with earth or smaller stones to form a barrow, though in many cases that covering has weathered away, leaving only the stone "skeleton" of the burial mound intact.


</doc>
<doc id="88003" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88003" title="Sichuan">
Sichuan

Sichuan (Chinese: 四川; pinyin: Sì Chuān) is a province in western China with its capital at Chengdu. It is also informally called 蜀 Shǔ. Its Governor is Jiang Ju Feng and its CPC Ctte Secretary is Liu Qi Bao. With a population of 87,250,000 (2006), Sichuan is the third most populated administrative division of China. Sichuan used to be the province with the most people in China before Chongqing was separated from it, making Henan the most populous. However, when including migrants, Guangdong has more people than Henan.

The name 四川 Sì Chuān, is an abbreviation of 四川路 Sì Chuān Lù (translated as "Four circuits (subdivisions) of rivers"), which is itself shortened from 川峡四路 Chuān Xiá Sì Lù (translated as "Four circuits of rivers and gorges").

There are 18 subdivisions within Sichuan, including both prefecture-level cities and autonomous prefectures:

Most people living in Sichuan are Han. There are also Tibetans, Yi people, Qiang and Naxi in the western side.

The Li Bai Memorial (located at his birthplace, Zhongba Town of northern Jiangyou County) is a museum in memory of the Chinese poet of the Tang Dynasty, Li Bai. It was prepared in 1962 on the occasion of 1,200th anniversary of his death, completed in 1981 and opened to the public in October of 1982. The memorial is built in the style of the classic garden of the Tang Dynasty.

Sichuan has a long history of folk and classical music. Sichuan opera is an ancient tradition that very is well-known. The Sichuan lantern drama is popular in Sichuan. The Sichuan Conservatory of Music in Chengdu is one of the oldest of musical education in China, having been established in 1939.

There is also religious music in Sichuan, played by Daoist priests in their temples.

Traditional Sichuan folk music is usually played with instruments such as the bamboo flute, pan and cymbals, gong and horn.

Sichuan cuisine has an international reputation for being hot and numbing ("麻辣" in Chinese), because of the common ingredient of the Sichuan peppercorn (called "花椒" in Chiense).

Some well-known Sichuan dishes include Kung Pao chicken (宮保雞丁 Gōng Bǎo Jī Dīng) and Twice Cooked Pork (回鍋肉 Huí Guō Ròu).

Most dialects of the Chinese language spoken in Sichuan, including the Chengdu dialect, are similar to the dialects of neighbouring provinces Yunnan, Guizhou and Chongqing Municipality.



UNESCO World Heritage Sites include:



</doc>
<doc id="88004" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88004" title="Twice Cooked Pork">
Twice Cooked Pork

Twice-Cooked Pork (回锅肉, pinyin: Húi Gūo Ròu) "literally: "meat that has been returned to the wok"" is probably the best-known Sichuan-style Chinese dish. Twice-Cooked Pork is cooked by boiling pork rib steak chunks in hot water with slices of ginger and salt first, then after being cut into thin slices, the pork is put back into a wok and shallow-fried in hot oil. The most common vegetables to eat with Twice-Cooked Pork are cabbage and peppers.

Twice-Cooked Pork is said to have started in the Qing Dynasty, while the Qianlong Emperor toured Sichuan. Qianlong wanted a feast at every stop that he made, and, when he arrived at one particular village, the villagers were very worried. The crops had not been harvesting well that year and there may not have been enough to host the emperor. They were worried that the emperor would do bad things to them if they did not give him a feast, so they quickly put the food they had not yet eaten back into the pot, cooked it again (thus "twice-cooking" them) and served the food to the emperor. To their surprise, the emperor enjoyed it, and so the "Twice Cooked Pork" became a famous Sichuan cuisine.

The most common vegetable to add in it is cabbage,pepper and garlic bolt.
And there are a very important material is PiXian thick broad-bean sauce.Nobody can make the best twice-cooked pork without thick broad-bean sauce.


</doc>
<doc id="88006" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88006" title="Category:Sichuan">
Category:Sichuan


</doc>
<doc id="88014" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88014" title="Yi">
Yi

Yi may mean:


</doc>
<doc id="88015" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88015" title="Joseph">
Joseph

Joseph could mean:



</doc>
<doc id="88017" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88017" title="Joseph (name)">
Joseph (name)

Joseph is a name from Hebrew language, written as . This is pronounced in standard Hebrew as Yosef, and in Tiberian Hebrew and Aramaic as Yôsēp̄. In Arabic the name is spelled or Yūsuf. The name can be translated from Hebrew as "the lord will increase." The name Joseph is used mostly in English and French-speaking countries. Some shortened versions and nicknames of Joseph include Joe, Joey and Jo.


</doc>
<doc id="88019" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88019" title="John Dee">
John Dee

John Dee (July 13, 1527 – 1609) was a noted English mathematician, astronomer, astrologer, geographer, occultist, and consultant to Queen Elizabeth I. He also studied to alchemy, divination, and Hermetic philosophy.

Dee lived during a time when people were just learning the difference between science and magic. He was one of the most learned men of his time. He lectured to crowded halls at the University of Paris when still in his early twenties. Dee was an expert in mathematics, astronomy and navigation. He trained many of those who would go on voyages of discovery for England. In fact, he coined the term "British Empire".

At the same time, he was very interested in magic and Hermetic philosophy. He spent the last third of his life studying mostly these subjects. During his time, these subjects were not thought to be opposed to science. They were thought to be part of science.

He wrote "Monas Hieroglyphica" ("The Hieroglyphic Monad") in 1564 (about Kabbala and alchemy). He also wrote the preface to the first English translation of Euclid's works.

Dee was born in London in a Welsh family. The last name Dee cames from the Welsh word "du", meaning "black". He graduated from St. John's College, Cambridge when he was eighteen. He was a founding fellow of Trinity College. He lectured briefly at Cambridge. Then he left England to study in continental Europe and lecture in Paris and Louvain. He returned to England in the 1540s.

In 1555, he was arrested and charged with practicing black magic for having cast horoscopes of Queen Mary and Princess Elizabeth; the charges were expanded to treason against Mary. Dee appeared in the Star Chamber and cleared himself. When he was released, he became a scientific advisor to Elizabeth I, even deciding on the best date for her to be crowned in 1558.

He traveled Europe with money from Elizabeth I. He was possibly acting as a spy for her. He became a close associate of many Elizabethan explorers and entrepreneurs such as Sir Humphrey Gilbert.

In 1564, Dee wrote the Hermetic work "Monas Hieroglyphica" ("The Hieroglyphic Monad") about a symbol of his own design which stood for the mystical unity of all creation. This work was highly valued by many people of Dee's time. However there was a secret about it which has been lost. This makes the book hard to understand today.

He published a "Mathematical Preface" to Henry Billingsley's English translation of Euclid's "Elements" in 1570. He wrote about how important mathematics was for the other arts and sciences. Because this book was written for the public, it was Dee's most popular work.

Dee was not satisfied with his knowledge. In the early 1580s, he started to use supernatural ways to get more knowledge. He wanted to get knowledge from the angels.

He met Edward Kelly in 1582 and Kelly became his companion. Kelly was a convicted forger. Kelly helped Dee to get visions from angels using a crystal ball. The angels gave them a language called Enochian and dictated several books through Kelly. Dee's crystal ball ended up in the British Museum. It went unnoticed for many years in the mineral collection. Most of the still existing papers of Dee are also in the British Museum.

In 1583, while Dee was away in Europe, his home and library at Mortlake were destroyed by a mob. Later, Dee came to believe that many of his books had been stolen by former friends and associates. He asked Queen Elizabeth for help. She made him Warden of Christ's College, Manchester, in 1592. He remained in this position until 1604.

When Elizabeth I died in 1603, so did Dee's influence: he was forced to retire to his home at Mortlake where he died in poverty.

About ten years after his death, the antiquarian Robert Cotton found some of Dee writings, mostly records of Dee's communications with angels. Cotton's son gave these writings to the scholar Méric Casaubon, who published them in 1659 as "A True & Faithful Relation of What passed for many Yeers between Dr. John Dee (A Mathematician of Great Fame in Q. Eliz. and King James their Reignes) and some spirits."

This was the public had heard about Dee's spiritual conferences. The book was extremely popular and sold quickly. Because Casaubon wrote in his introduction that Dee was really dealing with evil spirits when he believed he was communicating with angels, Dee was thought of as deluded for some time.

Dee was married three times and had eight children. His eldest son was Arthur Dee. He was also an alchemist and Hermetic writer.



</doc>
<doc id="88021" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88021" title="Category:1608 deaths">
Category:1608 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="88022" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88022" title="Category:Taiwanese television series">
Category:Taiwanese television series


</doc>
<doc id="88023" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88023" title="Category:Television series by country">
Category:Television series by country


</doc>
<doc id="88030" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88030" title="Burrow (Shropshire)">
Burrow (Shropshire)

Burrow is a hill in Shropshire with an Iron Age hill fort at the top that is known as Burrow Camp. The nearest villages are Hopesay and Aston-on-Clun. It was possibly very important during the Iron Age as it has two natural springs.


</doc>
<doc id="88032" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88032" title="Roy Keane">
Roy Keane

Roy Maurice Keane (born 10 August 1971 in Mayfield, Cork, Republic of Ireland) is a former Irish football player and the former manager of English Championship club Ipswich Town. He has played for Republic of Ireland national team. His playing career is best remembered for his twelve-year spell with Manchester United, in which between 1997 and 2005 he was given the captain armband.

12||1||||||||||||||12||1
440||55||55||2||14||0||82||14||591||71
10||1||||||||||||||10||1
462||57||55||2||14||0||82||14||613||73

!Total||67||9


</doc>
<doc id="88033" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88033" title="Marilyn (hill)">
Marilyn (hill)

A Marilyn is a mountain or hill in the British Isles (including Ireland) with a relative height of at least 150 metres (492 ft). The name was coined as an ironic contrast to the designation Munro, that is used of a Scottish mountain with a height of more than 3,000 feet, which is homophonous with (Marilyn) Monroe.

There are currently 1554 Marilyns identified in Great Britain and surrounding islands: 1214 in Scotland, 179 in England 156 in Wales and 5 on the Isle of Man. 

Many of the largest hills are Marilyns, including Ben Nevis, Scafell Pike and Snowdon. On the other hand, many large hills, including some Munros, and other well-known hills are not Marilyns because they do not meet the relative height criterion. 



</doc>
<doc id="88036" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88036" title="Munro">
Munro

A Munro is a Scottish mountain with a height over 3,000 feet (914.4 metres). They are named after Sir Hugh Munro (1856–1919), who produced the first attempt at a catalogue of such hills, known as "Munro's Tables", in 1891.

Munro did not set any measure of relative height by which a peak qualified as a separate mountain, and much debate has since taken place over how distinct two hills must be if they are to be considered as two separate Munros.

Despite their modest height, walking and climbing in the Scottish mountains may be made dangerous by their latitude and exposure to Atlantic weather systems. Even in summer, conditions can be very bad; thick fog, strong winds, driving rain and freezing summit temperatures are not unusual.
Winter of certain Munros are widely accepted to provide among the most challenging ice climbs in Europe. Some walkers are unprepared for the often extreme weather conditions on the exposed tops and many fatalities are recorded every year, often resulting from slips on wet rock or ice.



</doc>
<doc id="88037" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88037" title="Topographic prominence">
Topographic prominence

In topography, prominence, also known as autonomous height, relative height or shoulder drop (in America) or prime factor (in Europe), is a concept that is used in the categorization of hills and mountains, also known as peaks. It is a measure of the independent stature of a summit. 

The prominence of a peak is the height of the peak’s summit above the lowest contour line encircling it and no higher summit.




</doc>
<doc id="88038" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88038" title="Jamaica coalition">
Jamaica coalition

A Jamaica coalition was the name given to a possible government of Germany.

The government would have been formed by the CDU/CSU, the FDP and The Greens.

Their party colours are black, yellow and green, the same colours as the flag of Jamaica.

A Jamaica coalition was most talked about after the 1995 election in Germany when the CDU/CSU only had a few more seats that the SPD, and needed more seats the its usual partner the FDP had in order to have a majority.


</doc>
<doc id="88054" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88054" title="Category:German criminals">
Category:German criminals


</doc>
<doc id="88055" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88055" title="Category:German military people">
Category:German military people


</doc>
<doc id="88056" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88056" title="Rainbow body">
Rainbow body

The rainbow body in Buddhism is a body that is made of light, not flesh. The term is mostly used in the part of Tibetan Buddhism called Dzogchen. 

According to Dzogchen, the rainbow body is a sign of complete mastery of the Dzogchen view. Tenzin Wangyal Rinpoche states: “The realized Dzogchen practitioner, no longer deluded by apparent substantiality or dualism such as mind and matter, releases the energy of the elements that compose the physical body at the time of death”.

Padmasambhava, who was the founder of Buddhism in Tibet, is often shown with the rainbow body on paintings known as thankas.




</doc>
<doc id="88057" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88057" title="Category:People from Bremen">
Category:People from Bremen


</doc>
<doc id="88058" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88058" title="Robert Anton Wilson">
Robert Anton Wilson

Dr Robert Anton Wilson (January 18, 1932 – January 11, 2007) was a futurist thinker, libertarian, and writer. He held a Ph.D in Psychology. At one time he was a writer for Playboy magazine.

Wilson was the author of the "Schrödinger's Cat" trilogy (1979). He also co-wrote (with Robert Shea) the "Illuminatus!" trilogy (1975), which took a humorous look at the American fear of conspiracies. These books mix true facts with fiction.

In "The Cosmic Trigger" (1976), he introduced Discordianism, Sufism, futurism, the Illuminati and other unusual subjects to the general public. He also worked with Timothy Leary to promote futurist ideas of space migration, life extension, and intelligence enhancement. 

Other fiction books by Wilson include "The Earth Will Shake" (1982) and "Reality Is What You Can Get Away With" (1996). His non-fiction books include "Quantum Psychology", "The New Inquisition" (1994), and other volumes of "The Cosmic Trigger." He and Miriam Joan Hill co-wrote "Everything Is Under Control: Conspiracies, Cults, and Cover-Ups" (1998), an encyclopedia of conspiracy theories.







</doc>
<doc id="88059" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88059" title="Tara (Buddhism)">
Tara (Buddhism)

Tārā or Ārya Tārā, also known as Jetsun Dolma in Tibetan, is a female Buddha linked with Buddhist tantra practice in Tibetan Buddhism. She is called the "mother of liberation". She stands for success in work and achievements. 

Tārā is a tantric deity whose practice is used by followers of the Tibetan branch of Vajrayana Buddhism to develop their inner qualities and understand outer, inner and secret teachings about compassion and emptiness. Tārā is not found in the Japanese branch of Vajrayana Buddhism, Shingon.

There is more than one form of "Tārā". They have to do with different forms of the same quality. Bodhisattvas are often considered metaphors for Buddhist virtues.

The most widely known forms of Tārā are:


In some schools of Buddhism there are twenty-one Tārās. A practice text with the title "In Praise of the 21 Tārās" is recited during the morning in all four sects of Tibetan Buddhism.

The main Tārā chant or mantra is "Oṃ tāre tuttāre ture svāhā". This Sanskrit mantra is pronounced by Tibetans and Buddhists who follow the Tibetan traditions as "Oṃ tāre tu tāre ture soha".


</doc>
<doc id="88062" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88062" title="Tara (Devi)">
Tara (Devi)

In Hinduism, the Goddess Tara (Sanskrit: Tārā, Devanagari: तारा) meaning "star" is the second of the ten Mahavidyas or "Great Wisdom(Goddesse)s", Tantric manifestations of Mahadevi, Kali or Parvati. As the star is seen as a beautiful but perpetually self-combusting thing, so Tara is seen at core as the hunger that propels all life.

In the Hindu epic The Ramayana, Tara is the name of Vali's queen. Vali is the monkey king who is killed by Rama, at the behest of his brother Sugriva.


</doc>
<doc id="88063" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88063" title="Tara">
Tara

Tara could mean:



</doc>
<doc id="88068" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88068" title="Theremin">
Theremin

The Theremin , (also thereminvox or aetherphone) is one of the first fully electronic musical instruments. It was invented by Russian inventor Léon Theremin in October 1920 after the outbreak of the Russian civil war. Its invention grew out of a search for ways to detect movement. It was the first musical instrument to be played without being touched. The control section has two metal antennae to sense the positions of the player's hands. One hand controls the pitch. The other hand controls the volume. To play the theremin, the player moves his hands around the two metal antennas. The electric signals from the theremin are amplified and sent to a loudspeaker.

The sound of the theremin is associated with "alien," surreal, and eerie-sounding portamento, glissando, tremolo, and vibrato sounds. It has been used in film soundtracks such as "Spellbound", "The Lost Weekend", "Ed Wood", "Mars Attacks!" and "The Day the Earth Stood Still". The theremin was a key feature of the BBC Radiophonic Workshop, which produced the theme music for Doctor Who and other BBCtv programs. Theremins are also used in art music (especially avant-garde and 20th century "new music") and in popular music genres such as rock and pop. The Russian Dmitri Shostakovich was one of the first to include parts for the theremin in orchestral pieces, including a use in his score for the 1931 film "Odna". 




</doc>
<doc id="88070" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88070" title="Terpsitone">
Terpsitone

The terpsitone was an electronic musical instrument invented by Léon Theremin. It consisted of a platform fitted with antennas, through and around which a dancer would control the musical performance. By most accounts, the instrument was nearly impossible to play. 

Theremin only built three of these instruments. Only the last one, made by Theremin in 1978 for Lydia Kavina (his grandniece), still exists today.




</doc>
<doc id="88072" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88072" title="Fukurokuju">
Fukurokuju

In Japan, Fukurokuju (福禄寿) (From Japanese "fuku", which means "happiness"; "roku", which means "richness"; and "ju", which means "long life") is one of the Seven Lucky Gods. He looks a lot like the Chinese star god Shou. Some people think that before becoming a god, he was a Chinese hermit and a reincarnation of a Taoist god. 

Usually shown as being bald, with long whiskers, people say he is a living form of the Southern Polestar. In many pictures, Fukurokuju has a strangely high forehead. He stands with a crane and a turtle, which are symbols of long life. He is also sometimes with a black deer. Ancient legends say a deer turns black if it is over 2000 years old.

He is the only member of the Seven Lucky Gods with the ability to bring the dead back to life.



</doc>
<doc id="88073" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88073" title="Léon Theremin">
Léon Theremin

Léon Theremin (born Lev Sergeyevich Termen, ) (August 15, 1896 – November 3, 1993) was a Russian inventor. He is most famous for his invention of the theremin, one of the first electronic musical instruments.

Léon Theremin was born in Saint Petersburg - renamed Leningrad from 1924 until 1991 - and his family had French ancestry.

He invented the theremin (also called the "thereminvox") in 1919, when his country was in the midst of the Russian Civil War. Theremin also invented the first electronic burglar alarm, which he called a "radio watchman".

Theremin moved to the United States, arriving December 30, 1927 with his first wife, Katia Constantinova. He performed the theremin with the New York Philharmonic in 1928. He patented his invention in the United States in 1928 and subsequently granted commercial production rights to RCA. Theremin set up a laboratory in New York in the 1930s, where he developed the theremin and experimented with other electronic musical instruments and other inventions.

Theremin was interested in a role for the theremin in dance music. He developed performance locations that could automatically react to dancers' movements with varied patterns of sound and light. He worked with the American Negro Ballet. After the Soviet consulate had apparently demanded he divorce Katia, the inventor fell in love with and married the young prima ballerina Lavinia Williams. His marriage to the African-American dancer caused shock and disapproval in his social circles, but the couple remained together.

Theremin abruptly returned to the Soviet Union in 1938. At the time, the reasons for his return were not clear. Some claimed that he was simply homesick, while others believed that he had been kidnapped by Soviet officials. Beryl Campbell, one of Theremin's dancers, said his wife Lavinia "called to say that he had been kidnapped from his studio" and that "some Russians had come in" and that she felt that he was going to be spirited out of the country.

Theremin was put to work in a secret research and development laboratories in the Soviet Gulag labor camp system. Theremin created the "Buran" eavesdropping system which recorded conversations in French and American embassies by measuring the window glass vibrations using a low power infrared beam from a distance. Lavrentiy Beria, head of the KGB then used Buran to spy on US, British and French embassies.

In 1945 Theremin invented the first covert listening device (or "bug") for spying. Theremin's device was embedded in a carved wooden plaque of the Great Seal of the United States. On August 4, 1945, Soviet school children presented the bugged carving to U.S. Ambassador Averell Harriman, as a "gesture of friendship" to the USSR's World War II ally. It hung in the ambassador’s Moscow office until 1952, when the bug was discovered by a British radio operator who heard conversations on an open radio channel. The CIA found the device in the Great Seal carving. Peter Wright, a scientist and former MI5 counterintelligence officer, eventually figured out how it worked.

After his release from the labor camp in 1947, Theremin volunteered to remain working with the KGB until 1966. By 1947 Theremin had remarried, to Maria, and they had two children: Lena and Natalia.

After working for the KGB, Theremin worked at the Moscow Conservatory of Music for 10 years where he taught and built Theremins, electronic cellos and some Terpsitones. There he was discovered by a visiting New York Times correspondent, but when an article by Christopher Walker appeared, according to Lydia, the Vice President of the conservatory said "The people don't need electronic music. Electricity is for killing traitors in the electric chair", fired Theremin, closed his laboratory and had his instruments destroyed.

After 51 years in the Soviet Union Léon Theremin started travelling, first visiting France in June 1989 and then the United States in 1991, each time accompanied by his daughter Natalia, where he was reunited with Clara Rockmore who performed a number of concerts at this time. He also made a demonstration concert at the Royal Conservatory of The Hague in early 1993 before dying in Moscow in 1993 at the age of 97.

Léon Theremin is the subject of the documentary film, "", written, directed, and produced by Steven M. Martin. The documentary was a winner at the Sundance Film Festival in 1994. The film features legendary thereminists Clara Rockmore and Lydia Kavina as well as electronic instrument pioneer Robert Moog, Nicolas Slonimsky, The Beach Boys founder Brian Wilson, and Theremin himself.




</doc>
<doc id="88074" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88074" title="Template:US patent">
Template:US patent

 

</doc>
<doc id="88080" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88080" title="Chappelle's Show">
Chappelle's Show

Chappelle's Show was an American comedy television series starring comedian Dave Chappelle. The show was created by Chappelle and Neal Brennan. The first episode aired on January 22, 2003 on Comedy Central. The show ran for two complete seasons plus three "lost episodes".


</doc>
<doc id="88107" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88107" title="Category:Albanian people">
Category:Albanian people


</doc>
<doc id="88108" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88108" title="Category:People from the Republic of Macedonia">
Category:People from the Republic of Macedonia


</doc>
<doc id="88111" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88111" title="Category:Mexican writers">
Category:Mexican writers


</doc>
<doc id="88113" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88113" title="Category:States of Venezuela">
Category:States of Venezuela


</doc>
<doc id="88115" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88115" title="Template:Infobox Iran Province">
Template:Infobox Iran Province


</doc>
<doc id="88116" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88116" title="East Azarbaijan Province">
East Azarbaijan Province

East Azarbaijan or East Azerbaijan (; ) is one of the 30 provinces of Iran. It is in the northwest of the country. It has borders with Armenia and the Republic of Azerbaijan, and the provinces of Ardabil, West Azarbaijan, and Zanjan. Its capital is Tabriz.


</doc>
<doc id="88117" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88117" title="Category:Provinces of Iran">
Category:Provinces of Iran


</doc>
<doc id="88118" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88118" title="Category:1617 deaths">
Category:1617 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="88119" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88119" title="Template:Provinces of Iran">
Template:Provinces of Iran


</doc>
<doc id="88122" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88122" title="Clothing in Ancient Greece">
Clothing in Ancient Greece

Clothing in Ancient Greece was usually made out of big rectangular pieces of cloth. The cloth was sewn very little, or not at all. The cloth was then put around the body and held in place by belts, fibulae, or other fastenings. The cloth was made from linen or wool.

The peplos (plural: "peploi") was a dress worn by Ancient Greek women. The peplos was a large square piece of cloth. The cloth was then folded over to create a double layer, called "apoptygma", in the upper part of the body. The cloth is then folded around the body, and fastened over each shoulder. 
The "ionic" or "laconic peplos" was open on the side of the body, while the "doric peplos" was sewn shut like a tube. The peplos was worn in such a way that the opening was on the right side of the body. Usually a belt was worn over the peplos; the belt could be worn over or under the "apoptygma". 

In Greece the peplos was mostly worn before the 5th century A.D.

The chiton was made from a large square piece of cloth. It was worn by both women and men.

The "doric chiton" was very simple. It was made with a large piece of cloth (usually wool). The cloth was folded and put around the body. It was fastened on the shoulders using brooches and then allowed to fall into folds. A belt, often called a gurdle, was worn around the waist to hold the dress in place.

The "ionic chiton" was sewn closed like a tube. The material, usually linen, was folded and sewn with holes left for the head and arms. A belt was also worn on the Ionic style to keep it in position and to make it fall into folds from the waist down.

The himation (plural: "himatia") was a big cloth that was used as a cloak. It was worn by both men and women. The himation was usually put from the back over the left shoulder; the other part of the himation was put under the right arm, and then around the front of the body. The himation was so long that it went down to the knees, or it could also be longer. 

The himation was usually made from a lighter cloth, so that it was used as a cloak against warm weather.

The chlamys (plural: "chlamydes") was a usually shorter cloak. It was a piece of cloth put over the left shoulder, and fastened over the right shoulder. The chlamys was typically worn by men or soldiers.

Women in Ancient Greece wore long dresses and cloaks. They wore the peplos and chiton, and the himation.

Cosmetics and make-up were used in Ancient Greece. White lead was used to whiten the skin; white skin for women was seen as a sign of beauty. Juice made from alkanet roots was used to give the cheeks a rosy colour (like rouge). Eye shadow (probably made from ashes) was popular. Lipstick was also used.Perfumes were also important.

Men's clothing was even simpler than women's (if anything). The most important piece of clothing was a shorter version of the Chitonty(clothing)|chiton]], which was also belted at the waist. The top shoulder was often left bare if the man was exercising or doing hard work. The himation was also used, especially on long journeys. Very occasionally, a long robe was worn with the right shoulder left bare.

At home people went barefoot, but in the streets or when travelling they wore leather sandals. These were very simple and usually made to measure - the man or woman went to the cobbler's shop and places his foot on a piece of leather, and the sole was cut out round the foot. The sole was attached to the foot by leather thongs tied across the instep and round the ankle.


</doc>
<doc id="88125" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88125" title="West Azarbaijan Province">
West Azarbaijan Province

West Azarbaijan or West Azerbaijan (Persian:
آذربایجان غربی "Āzarbāijān-e Gharbī"; Kurdish: "Azerbaycanî Rojawa"; Azeri: "Qərbi Azərbaycan") is one of the 30 provinces of Iran.

The province of West Azarbaijan covers an area of 39,487 km² (or 43,660 km² including Lake Urmia). The capital city of the province is Urmia.


</doc>
<doc id="88128" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88128" title="Category:Mallorca">
Category:Mallorca


</doc>
<doc id="88131" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88131" title="Azarbaijan (disambiguation)">
Azarbaijan (disambiguation)

Azarbaijan or Azerbaijan can mean:


</doc>
<doc id="88141" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88141" title="Yulia Tymoshenko">
Yulia Tymoshenko

Yulia Volodymyrivna Tymoshenko, (born 27 November 1960), is a Ukrainian politician. She is the leader of the Yulia Tymoshenko Bloc political party, and former Prime Minister of Ukraine. She has served two terms. Her first term was from 24 January to 8 September 2005. She was re-elected on 18 December 2007 but was ousted by the Ukrainian Parliament on 3 March 2010 after the government with her own political party and the political party of Viktor Yushchenko (former President of Ukraine) Our Ukraine and the small Lytvyn Bloc lost a no-confidence vote.

While they were once strong allies, today there is a lot of political rivalry between Yushchenko and Tymoshenko. When Viktor Yushchenko lost the 2004 Ukrainian presidential election, and his followers argued that the election had been corrupt, she was his main ally and one of the leaders of "The Orange Revolution".

In February 2010 Tymoshenko lost the presidential election to Viktor Yanukovych; with a 3.48% difference, she said Yanukovych won because of fraud. She has promised to make life for the new President as difficult as possible.

On 11 October 2011 a Ukrainian judge sentenced Tymoshenko to seven years in prison for misusing her powers as Prime Minister when she signed a natural gas deal with Russia in 2009. She had been in prison for improper behaviour in court since 5 August 2011. Tymoshenko appealed against the sentence on 24 October 2011; she said the sentence was an act of revenge by Viktor Yanukovych (he has said it is not). The EU and Russia protested against the sentence. 

Tymoshenko's first name is sometimes spelled Yuliya, Yulia, Iulia, or Julia.



</doc>
<doc id="88147" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88147" title="The Ring (2002 movie)">
The Ring (2002 movie)

The Ring is a 2002 scary movie. It starred Naomi Watts and Daveigh Chase. It's about a woman who watches a tape, and a curse is put on her. She then only has one week to find out a little girl's origin, and find out how to break the curse. But a few days later, her son watches the tape. Now she has to take care of herself and her son from being killed in a week.


</doc>
<doc id="88149" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88149" title="Naomi Watts">
Naomi Watts

Naomi Watts (born September 28, 1968) is an English actress. She played Rachel Keller in the scary movie The Ring and Ann Darrow in the 2005 remake of King Kong.


</doc>
<doc id="88150" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88150" title="Daveigh Chase">
Daveigh Chase

Daveigh Elizabeth Chase (born July 24, 1990) is an American actress and singer. She is most well know for her voice acting as Lilo in the movie "Lilo & Stitch" and the series ".

She was born Daveigh Elizabeth Chase-Schwallier in Las Vegas, Nevada. She is the daughter of John Schwallier and Cathy Chase. Her name is pronounced "Duh-Vay". She lived in Albany, Oregon, before moving to Los Angeles to become an actress. She still spends much of her time in Albany. Chases's interests include bodyboarding, riding horses, dancing, reading, and writing song lyrics. She now has a younger sister, Rose.

Chase wanted to perform from a very early age. She began singing and dancing in her hometown at events and shows. One of the things that made her want to perform was watching videos of "Barney & Friends" when she was four years old. "I wanted to be like them, the kids on the video," she later said. Her father then entered her in a Little Miss America Pageant where Chase won the national vocal competition. After this, Chase was then signed by an agent who worked mainly in commercials. At the age of 7, she was in a Campbells Soup advertisement. In 1998, she got a starring role as a child member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (Mormons) in a musical theater production called "Utah!". 

Chase's first movie role came in 1998 when she did the lead role as the voice of a Hawaiian girl, Lilo Pelekai, in the Disney animated movie, "Lilo & Stitch". Chase won an Annie Award for this in 2003. She went on to star in the Disney Channel television series based on the movie. In 2001, Chase did the role as the voice of the lead character, Chihiro Ogino, a 10 year old Japanese girl, in the American version of the animated Japanese movie, "Spirited Away". The movie won the 2002 Best Animated Feature Oscar.

In 2002, Chase played Samara Morgan in "The Ring". Chase was awarded the 2003 Best Villain award at the MTV Movie Awards. She beat out Mike Myers, Colin Farrell, Willem Dafoe and Daniel Day-Lewis. In the sequel to "The Ring", "The Ring Two" (2005), Chase was listed as playing Samara Morgan again. This was because they used parts of the first movie. Kelly Stables did all of the new scenes for Samara.

Chase's main other major movie and television credits between 2000-2005 were "Donnie Darko" (2001) as Donnie's younger sister, Samantha, and "Oliver Beene" (2003-2004), as Oliver's friend Joyce. Other credits include, "The Rats" (2002), "Carolina" (2003), "R.L. Stine's Haunted Lighthouse" (2003) in which she plays a flying ghost called Annabel, and "Beethoven's 5th" (2003). She also made guest appearances in "Touched By An Angel", "Charmed", "ER", "Family Law", and "The Practice".

In 2007, Chase was in the HBO drama series "Big Love". The series is about an FLDS polygamist, played by Bill Paxton, and his relationship with his 3 wives. Chase plays Rhonda Volmer, a girl who was going to be a child wife of a prophet, Roman Grant, who is played by Harry Dean Stanton. While making a second season of "Big Love", Chase also worked on a new animation series called "Betsy's Kindergarten Adventures". "Leroy & Stitch" (2006), a sequel to "Lilo & Stitch", has also been released.

In 1999, she joined a small band as lead singer. The band has been the opening act for Reba McEntire. She was picked by Steven Spielberg to sing "God Bless America" in "A.I.". This part was removed from the final version of the movie. She also sang "Holly Jolly Christmas" for the "School's Out! Christmas" album and "Tossin & Turnin" in the "Oliver Beene" episode "Oliver & Others". She also sings in many scenes in "Big Love".



</doc>
<doc id="88175" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88175" title="Eurofighter Typhoon">
Eurofighter Typhoon

The Eurofighter Typhoon is a jet fighter aircraft made by EADS, BAE Systems and Alenia Aeronautica with Eurofighter GmbH. It first flew in 1994 and was introduced in 2003. It uses canards, which makes it agile . It uses a delta wing. It is called the "Eurofighter" because it was made by European countries, Italy, the United Kingdom, Germany, and Spain .

The Typhoon is 11 meters (36 feet) wide, 15 meters (49 feet) long, and 5.3 metres (17 ft) tall. It is 9,750 kilograms (21,494 lb) with nothing in it, and can weigh up to 21,000 kilograms (46,300 lb) with things in it. It is powered by two EJ200 engines, which can each make 20,000 pounds (9,072 kilograms) of thrust. It can go 2,125 kilometres per hour (1,320 mph). It carries a 27mm Mauser cannon, and several missiles and or bombs.

The countries that designed the Typhoon use it, but has also been ordered by Austria and Saudi Arabia.


</doc>
<doc id="88200" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88200" title="Category:Chinese language">
Category:Chinese language


</doc>
<doc id="88203" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88203" title="Category:Cayman Islands">
Category:Cayman Islands


</doc>
<doc id="88206" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88206" title="Category:Irish footballers">
Category:Irish footballers


</doc>
<doc id="88207" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88207" title="Category:Irish athletes">
Category:Irish athletes


</doc>
<doc id="88208" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88208" title="Category:Sunderland">
Category:Sunderland

This category is about Sunderland, the old town which is now part of the City of Sunderland


</doc>
<doc id="88210" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88210" title="Category:German federal supreme courts">
Category:German federal supreme courts

This category includes those courts listed automatically from 


</doc>
<doc id="88214" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88214" title="Category:User vi-N">
Category:User vi-N


</doc>
<doc id="88216" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88216" title="Courts of Germany">
Courts of Germany

The judiciary, that is, the judges and Courts of Germany are independent. The are not controlled by the Federal Government or the State Governments. There are laws which say what sort of cases the courts can hear and pass judgment on, and what type of punishment a court can give. But no law or minister can say that a person is guilty. Only the courts can do this.

Courts give protection to ordinary people from bad governments, they are also protected from bad governments themselves.
Germany has had free courts for longer than it has been a democracy, although under the Nazis many judges ignored the law and did what the Nazi Party wanted. This is why they were tried at the Nuremberg Judges Trial

Germany is a "Rechtsstaat". That means it is a government based on law. All citizens are guaranteed to be equal, and government decisions can be challenged in court.

No law or minister can say that a person, or group of people is guilty.

Federal law sets out the structure of the judiciary. Running courts is up to the Länder. The Länder ("States of Germany") are run the lower levels of the court system; only the highest courts are paid for by the federal government.

This federal-Land split means that the Federation (that is, the Federal Government) can make sure laws are enforced equally throughout the country, because it says what courts must be set up. The Länder administer the courts, and this stops the federal government from being able to order the courts to do things, or to appoint the judges. This helps keep the courts independent.

Germany has a system of Roman law. This is different from the United States and England which use the common law.

In a common law system courts rely on "precedents" (what was decided in similar cases earlier) . In Germany, courts look to a comprehensive system of legal codes. The codes set out legal principles or basic ideas, and have to decide each case by comparing the facts of the case to those principles, not to what another judges decided earlier.

Because the legal codes are very important and complicated, judges must be very well trained.

Judges are not chosen from practising lawyers, as in the UK and USA. Instead being a judge is a separate career

At the end of their legal education at university, all law students must pass a state examination before they can continue on to an apprenticeship that provides them with broad training in the legal profession over two years. They then must pass a second state examination that qualifies them to practice law. After the second exam a person must choose either to be a lawyer or to be a judge.

Those who choose to be a judge start working at courts immediately. However they are on "probation" (a temporary training period) for up to four years before being appointed as judges for lifetime.

Germany has three types of courts.

The are four levels of ordinary courts:


Specialized courts deal with administrative, labour, social, fiscal, and patent law.

The is a Federal Patents Court in Munich adjudicates disputes relating to industrial property rights. Patents are a federal issue, so now state courts have been set up.

Each Land has a state constitutional court. These courts are administratively and financially independent from any other government body. For instance, a Land constitutional court can write its own budget and hire or fire employees.

These courts here cases where the constitution and the rights it gives are in question.

For example a criminal case might be appealled from the Bundesgerichtshof if a persons human rights are involved.

The Federal Constitutional Court, the "Bundesverfassungsgericht", can check that the way other courts look at the law to make sure they do not forget these basic rights. Sometimes the Federal Constitutional Court has overturned the decisions of other federal courts.

The "Bundesverfassungsgericht" protects people's rights under the constitution in another way. It is the only court that can ban a political party, if it is acting or says it will act against the constitution


</doc>
<doc id="88239" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88239" title="Flag of Denmark">
Flag of Denmark

The Flag of Denmark, the Dannebrog is red with a white Scandinavian cross. It is the oldest flag in the entire world.

The flag is supposed to have fallen from the sky during a battle in 1219 in Estonia. The Danes were about to loose the battle when this sign from above gave the warriors new energy, and made them win. 

In reality the Dannebrog of 1219 was most likely a crusade banner - the war in 1219 was a crusade against the Estonians, who were not Christians. 

The battle took place in the 15th of June, and every year the flags birthday is celebrated in this day. 

In some countries the flag is a symbol of the state. In Denmark the Dannebrog is very much a symbol of the people, and the flag is used for all kinds off private celebrations - such as birthdays, weddings and christmas. For Danes the Dannebrog is a sign of happiness and celebration and not of patriotism. 


</doc>
<doc id="88242" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88242" title="Danish krone">
Danish krone

The Danish krone is the money used in Denmark and Greenland. 100 "øre" are 1 "krone". It first became the national currency in 1873 when it replaced the "rigsdaler". Krone is the Danish word for crown. The plural of krone is kroner.


</doc>
<doc id="88252" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88252" title="Coat of Arms of Denmark">
Coat of Arms of Denmark

The coat of arms of Denmark consists of three crowned blue lions with nine red hearts, all in a golden shield.

The seal of King Canute VI of Denmark is the oldest known example of the coat of arms of Denmark. It is from around 1190. 

Until around 1960 Denmark also had a large coat of arms. Both were used by the government. In 1959, the large coat of arms changed status and became the royal coat of arms - that is a coat of arms for the king and the royal family. The large coat of arms is inspired by one which was designed in 1819 and adopted by king Frederik VI. 

The large coat of arms comprise symbols representing all parts of the Danish kingdom - or to be precise: only territories that are still part of the Kingdom of Denmark. In the coat of arms shown to the left the upper left part of the shield (the three lions) represents Denmark. In the lower part the three crowns (only two are visible) represents Sweden, this is for historic reasons. The polar bear represents Greenland and the ram represents the Faroe Islands. The two lions in the upper right side represents the principality of Slesvig. Until 1972, it also included other symbols representing principalities in Germany and parts of present day Sweden that used to be ruled by the Danish king. 

In 1972 when King Frederik IX died and Margrethe II became queen the coat of arms of the royal family was redesigned, and today it only comprises symbols representing the current parts of the Danish Kingdom.


</doc>
<doc id="88256" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88256" title="Monteggio">
Monteggio

Monteggio is a municipality of the district Lugano in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.



</doc>
<doc id="88258" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88258" title="Morbio Superiore">
Morbio Superiore

Morbio Superiore is a municipality in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland in the hills above Chiasso.


</doc>
<doc id="88259" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88259" title="Der er et yndigt land">
Der er et yndigt land

"Der er et yndigt land" ("There is a Lovely Country") is the national anthem of Denmark.


</doc>
<doc id="88260" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88260" title="Morcote">
Morcote

Morcote is a municipality of the district Lugano in the Swiss canton of Ticino.



</doc>
<doc id="88262" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88262" title="Category:Councils">
Category:Councils


</doc>
<doc id="88263" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88263" title="Mosogno">
Mosogno

Mosogno is a municipality of the district Locarno in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="88264" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88264" title="Muggio">
Muggio

Muggio is a municipality of the district Mendrisio in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="88265" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88265" title="Muralto">
Muralto

Muralto is a municipality of the district Locarno, in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.



</doc>
<doc id="88266" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88266" title="Muzzano, Switzerland">
Muzzano, Switzerland

Muzzano is a municipality of the district Lugano, in the canton of Ticino, Switzerland. Lago di Muzzano is named after the village.


</doc>
<doc id="88267" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88267" title="Yulia Tymoshenko Bloc">
Yulia Tymoshenko Bloc

The Yulia Tymoshenko Bloc () is a Ukrainian electoral alliance led by the politician Yulia Tymoshenko, current Prime Minister of Ukraine.

The alliance is especially popular in the west en center of Ukraine but is also the only "Orange party" (Yulia Tymoshenko was an important player in the Orange Revolution) winning votes in the east en south of Ukraine where the Orange Revolution was not popular.

The bloc consists of:



</doc>
<doc id="88276" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88276" title="Robert Indiana">
Robert Indiana

Robert Indiana (born as Robert Clark in New Castle, Indiana on September 13, 1928) is an American artist. He is known for being a part of the pop art movement.

Indiana moved to New York City in 1954 and joined the pop art movement. Indiana's work often has bold, simple, iconic images, especially numbers and short words like "EAT", "HUG", and "LOVE". His sculpture in the lobby of Taipei 101, called "1-0" (2002, aluminum), uses multicolored numbers.

After the September 11, 2001 attacks, Indiana made a series of "Peace Paintings", which were shown in New York in 2004.

Indiana's best known image is the word "love" in upper-case letters, arranged in a square with a tilted letter "O". This image was first created for a Christmas card for the Museum of Modern Art in 1964. It was put on an eight-cent US Postal Service postage stamp in 1973, the first of their regular series of "love stamps."

Sculptures of the image can be found at many places in the United States: 
Sculptures of the image can also be found at many places outside of the United States:
An Indiana sculpture showing the Hebrew word for love "(ahava)" is displayed at The Israel Museum in Jerusalem, Israel.


</doc>
<doc id="88286" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88286" title="Tom and Jerry in Fists of Furry">
Tom and Jerry in Fists of Furry

Tom and Jerry in Fists of Furry is a fighting video game for the Nintendo 64 and PC based on classic cartoon series Tom & Jerry. It was released in 2000


</doc>
<doc id="88302" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88302" title="Noam Chomsky">
Noam Chomsky

Avram Noam Chomsky (born December 7, 1928) is an American linguist, philosopher, political activist, author, and lecturer. He is an Institute Professor and professor emeritus of linguistics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 

Chomsky created the theory of generative grammar. This is one of the most important contributions to the field of linguistics made in the 20th century. He also helped start the cognitive revolution in psychology through his review of B. F. Skinner's "Verbal Behavior". He challenged the behaviorist way of looking at behavior and language. This was the main approach used in the 1950s. His natural approach to the study of language also changed the philosophy of language and mind. He also invented the Chomsky hierarchy, a way of looking at formal languages in terms of their power to explain language. 

According to the Arts and Humanities Citation Index in 1992, Chomsky was cited as a source more often than any other living scholar during the 1980–1992 time period. He was the eighth-most cited scholar in any time period.

In the 1960s he criticized the Vietnam War. Because of that, Chomsky became more widely known for his media criticism and politics. He is a key intellectual figure within the left wing of United States politics. Chomsky is widely known for his political activism, and for his criticism of the foreign policy of the United States and other governments.




</doc>
<doc id="88305" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88305" title="Neggio">
Neggio

Neggio is a municipality of the district Lugano in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="88306" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88306" title="Novaggio">
Novaggio

Novaggio is a municipality of the district Lugano, in the canton of Ticino, Switzerland.



</doc>
<doc id="88307" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88307" title="Novazzano">
Novazzano

Novazzano is a municipality of the district Mendrisio in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="88308" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88308" title="Olivone">
Olivone

Olivone was a municipality of the district Blenio in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.

In 2005, the people in charge of the cantons said that Olivone would merge with 4 other villages to become a new municipality.



</doc>
<doc id="88309" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88309" title="Onsernone">
Onsernone

Onsernone is a municipality of the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="88316" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88316" title="Barrack">
Barrack

A barrack is a military building where soldiers live and sleep. Sometimes, they are made stronger with sandbags or barbed wire fences, and sometimes they are built underground. They have been in use for many years by many different countries in many different wars.


</doc>
<doc id="88317" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88317" title="Barrack (disambiguation)">
Barrack (disambiguation)

Barrack can mean:



</doc>
<doc id="88318" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88318" title="Template:Uw-badcat">
Template:Uw-badcat


</doc>
<doc id="88359" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88359" title="Category:English heads of state">
Category:English heads of state


</doc>
<doc id="88368" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88368" title="Jacob Obrecht">
Jacob Obrecht

Jacob Obrecht (born Ghent, 1457 or 1458; died late July, 1505) was a composer from the south Netherlands. He was one of the greatest composers of his time. He is best known for his church music, including many masses as well as motets and songs.

Obrecht’s father was a trumpeter. His mother died when he was about 2 years old and his father remarried. We know nothing about Obrecht’s musical education. He may have learned to play the trumpet like his father, who worked for the Burgundian court. Perhaps his father introduced him to people at the court, such as the famous composer Antoine Busnois. He certainly must have known Busnois’ music.

From 1480-1484 he was a choirmaster at Bergen-op-Zoom. Then he got a very good job as choirmaster at Cambrai Cathedral. However, a year later he took another job in Bruges. He wrote a lot of church music during his years in Bruges. He travelled to Italy and went to the town of Ferrara where a lot of famous musicians worked. He stayed there for several months. This may have been the reason why he then lost his job in Bruges. His next job was in Antwerp where he worked from 1492 to 1498. He then got his old job back in Bruges. From 1501 to 1503 he once again worked at Antwerp where he was choirmaster at the church of Our Lady. In 1504 he got the job of maestro di cappella at Ferrara, but the following year he died of the plague.

Obrecht composed extremely quickly. He is supposed to have written one of his masses in one night. This was different to Josquin des Prez who spent a long time composing his pieces and making changes to them before he let anyone have copies. Obrecht was influenced by the music of Busnois and Ockeghem. Obrecht himself was a big influence on Josquin, even though Josquin was older than Obrecht.

In recent years musicologists have studied Obrecht’s music a lot and made many discoveries, including the correct dates for many of his works.



</doc>
<doc id="88380" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88380" title="Antoine Busnois">
Antoine Busnois

Antoine Busnois (pronounce "AN-twun bew-NWAH") (also spelt Busnoys) (born about 1430; died 6 November 1492) was a French composer and poet of the early Renaissance Burgundian School. He wrote church music, such as motets, as well as (non-religious) chansons. He was the most important composer of the late Burgundian school after the death of Guillaume Dufay.

We do not know where Busnois was born. It might have been in the tiny village of Busnes in the Artois district. Maybe he took his name from the village.

Nothing is known about his musical education. We know that he got into trouble in 1461 because he was said to be in a group of people who beat up a priest on five occasions. At that time he was a chaplain in Tours cathedral. While the attack was being investigated he went to mass. This led to him being excommunicated, but later the pope pardoned him.

In 1465 he moved from the cathedral to the collegiate church of St. Martin, also in Tours, where he became a subdeacon. Johannes Ockeghem was treasurer there, and the two composers seem to have known each other well. Later in 1465 Busnois moved to Poitiers, where he not only became "maîtrise" (master of the choirboys), but managed to get lots of good singers from the region. By this time he was famous as a singing teacher and composer. However he left the job for some reason in 1466 and then moved to Burgundy.

By 1467 Busnois was a composer at the court of Burgundy. Soon Charles the Bold was on the throne. Charles fought many wars, and sometimes took Busnois and other musicians on his military journeys. In 1477 Charles was killed at the Battle of Nancy. Busnois continued to work for the Burgundian court until 1482. Nothing is known about what he did after that. He died in 1492.

He was very well known as a composer and his music was sung in many parts of Europe. 
He was the probably the best-known musician in Europe between the time of Guillaume Dufay and Johannes Ockeghem. 

Busnois wrote and music. It is likely that a lot of his music is now lost. Two of his masses and eight motets have survived. The style of his music is somewhere between the simple homophonic music of Dufay and Binchois, and the more elaborate imitation of Josquin..

Busnois may have been the composer of the famous tune "L'homme armé", one of the most popular tunes of the Renaissance. The tune was often used as a cantus firmus for mass composition. He may have been the very first composer to write a mass based on "L'homme armé". This mass was a big influence on many composers.

Busnois is remembered today for many of his chansons (French secular songs). Some of the tunes were used by later composers in their masses.



</doc>
<doc id="88382" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88382" title="Category:Christian clergy">
Category:Christian clergy


</doc>
<doc id="88383" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88383" title="Assassin's Creed">
Assassin's Creed

Assassin's Creed is an award-winning historical third person, stealth action-adventure video game developed by Ubisoft for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 consoles. It was released in November 2007. A PC version of the game was released in 2008.

The game started a franchise of graphic novels, comics, apparel and more as well as sequel games including Assassin's Creed II, and the latest due out in November is .

The story is about a bartender, Desmond Miles, who is kidnapped and placed in a machine, called an "Animus" (plural "Animi"), which reads genetic memories and puts them on a screen in 3D. Desmond is forced against his will to relive the memories of his ancestor Altaïr Ibn-La'Ahad (first name pronounced "Al-ti-ear") who lived in during the Third Crusade. The player must play as Altaïr as he attempts to regain his status as a Master Assassin in the Assassin Order by taking nine Templar lives. The Templars being the mortal enemy of the Assassins who are wanting to control man's thoughts and actions to create peace. The Assassin's want to preserve freewill, they kill people who oppress their people to control them. While in modern times the player, as Desmond, must discover who Abstergo Industries (the company who kidnapped him) is, and what they do. The story focuses on finding a object called the "Piece of Eden" which can control other people supernaturally.



</doc>
<doc id="88385" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88385" title="Category:Methodism">
Category:Methodism


</doc>
<doc id="88386" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88386" title="Category:Churches by country">
Category:Churches by country


</doc>
<doc id="88388" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88388" title="Category:Churches in Italy">
Category:Churches in Italy


</doc>
<doc id="88390" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88390" title="Category:Patriarchs">
Category:Patriarchs


</doc>
<doc id="88391" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88391" title="Category:Sacraments">
Category:Sacraments


</doc>
<doc id="88393" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88393" title="Category:Christian art">
Category:Christian art


</doc>
<doc id="88394" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88394" title="Category:Christian prayers">
Category:Christian prayers


</doc>
<doc id="88399" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88399" title="The Undertaker">
The Undertaker

Mark William Calaway (born March 24, 1965 in Houston, Texas) is an American professional wrestler. He is most well known by the name The Undertaker. He is currently working for World Wrestling Entertainment , where he is a former three-time World Heavyweight Champion and four-time WWE Champion.
He made his debut with Dallas, Texas based World Class Championship Wrestling. In 1988 he joined USWA.
He began working for the WWE at the Survivor Series pay-per-view in 1990 on Ted DiBiase's team. His team won the match, though The Undertaker was eliminated by count-out. Calaway did not lose a match that entire year. He also won the WWF Championship. Soon after, he lost his first match against Hulk Hogan for the championship. 

Calaway has won each of the matches he has had at WrestleMania. He has beaten some of the best wrestlers, for example Triple H, Batista and Randy Orton. He is famous for "Hell in a Cell" matches against Shawn Michaels and Mick Foley. Calaway still wrestles today.

He is the only wrestler that performed on the very first episode of "WWF Monday Night RAW" that is still part of the company.


</doc>
<doc id="88400" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88400" title="Sinologist">
Sinologist

Sinologist is a person that studies Chinese language(s) and culture along with the connection and comparison between China and other Asian cultures. "Sino-" etimologically Greek "Σίνα", China, and -logy from "-λογία", "treatise", "study", "science".


</doc>
<doc id="88401" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88401" title="Patriarch">
Patriarch

A patriarch was the head of an extended family, originally. 

Today, the word is mostly taken to have a meaning within Christianity. There, the word is used to refer to the highest-ranking Bishops of the respective churches, that is the Oriental Orthodox Church, the Eastern Orthodox Church, the Roman Catholic Church and the Assyrian Church of the East


</doc>
<doc id="88402" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88402" title="Intellectual">
Intellectual

An intellectual is one who tries to use his or her intellect to work, study, reflect, speculate, or ask and answer questions about a wide variety of different ideas. Often, intellectuals are authors, artists, people who write columns for newspapers and magazines, and college professors.

There are some people who do not like intellectuals because they are not traditional or practical. This is called "anti-intellectualism".



</doc>
<doc id="88407" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88407" title="List of The Simpsons episodes">
List of The Simpsons episodes

<onlyinclude>
"The Simpsons" is an American animated sitcom created by Matt Groening for the Fox Broadcasting Company. The series is a satirical parody of a middle class American lifestyle epitomized by its eponymous family, which consists of Homer, Marge, Bart, Lisa, and Maggie.</onlyinclude> The show is set in the fictional town of Springfield, and lampoons American culture, society and television, and many aspects of the human condition. The family was conceived by Groening shortly before a pitch for a series of animated shorts with the producer James L. Brooks. Groening created a dysfunctional family and named the characters after members of his own family, substituting Bart for his own name. The shorts became a part of "The Tracey Ullman Show" on April 19, 1987. After a three-season run, the sketch was developed into a half-hour prime time show and was an early hit for Fox.

"The Simpsons" holds several American television longevity records. It is the longest-running prime time animated series and longest-running sitcom in the United States. In May 2007, "The Simpsons" reached their 400th episode at the end of the eighteenth season. The year 2007 marked the twentieth anniversary of "The Simpsons" franchise. With its twentieth season (2008–2009) currently airing, the series is equal with "Gunsmoke" as the longest-running American primetime, scripted television series. However, "Gunsmoke"'s episode count of 635 episodes far surpasses "The Simpsons", which would not reach that mark until its approximate 29th season, under normal programming schedules. 2009 marks the 20th anniversary of the half-hour series. On February 26, 2009, Fox announced that it had renewed the show and ordered two additional seasons, which would take the series through its twenty-second season. Episodes of "The Simpsons" have won dozens of awards, including 24 Emmy Awards (with ten for Outstanding Animated Program), 26 Annie Awards and a Peabody Award. 

Since its debut on December 17, 1989 the show has broadcast 441 episodes and the twentieth season began airing on September 28, 2008. "The Simpsons Movie", a feature-length film, was released in theaters worldwide on July 26 and July 27, 2007, and grossed US$526.2 million worldwide. Currently, the first fourteen seasons are available on DVD in Regions 1, 2 and 4 with the twentieth season released on both DVD and Blu-ray on January 12, 2010 in Region 1 and on January 20, 2010 in Region 4.

The list is ordered by the episodes' original air dates. It does not include "The Tracey Ullman Show" shorts or "The Simpsons Movie".

<onlyinclude>
</onlyinclude>





</doc>
<doc id="88410" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88410" title="Category:Priests">
Category:Priests


</doc>
<doc id="88416" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88416" title="Robosexuality">
Robosexuality

Robosexuality is where a person is sexually attracted to machines such as robots. The word "robosexuality" comes from combining the words "robot" and "sexual".

A robosexual can be heterosexual, homosexual, bisexual, or pansexual. This is because the robot may have sexual features. Many robots in the world do not show male or female qualities, so a pansexual-robosexual would feel attracted to these, if the robot appeared human. If a person is attracted to a robot that does not appear human it is called paraphilia.

Roughly 50% of all the robots in the world are in Asia, 32% in Europe, and 16% in North America, 1% in Australasia and 1% in Africa. 

40% of all robots in the world are found in Japan. 

In Japan and South Korea, ideas of future robots have been mainly positive. The number of robots in Japan means more people in Japan are likely to have a love of gadgets. Manga and anime series in both countries often show love or sex between robots and humans. This would mean more robosexuality.

Japanese religious beliefs allow the idea that robots have souls. This also make the idea of love between humans and robots more acceptable or ordinary.

The idea of physical sexuality is less accepted in the west than in Japan. Western societies are more likely to be against, or even fear the development of robots. This is because a lot of films and books show robots as replacing humans instead of helping them. Also, the religious beliefs in this area of the world (Christianity, Islam, and Judaism) show robots to be wrong, because they are doing God's part in creating, which they say only God should do.

'RealDoll' is a lifesize sex-doll sold in America, that can be sold with robotic implants. People who feel sexually attracted, or have sex with these, are robosexual. However, one important thing to notice is that this American machine does not move and think by itself, unlike their Japanese and South Korean counterparts.



</doc>
<doc id="88439" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88439" title="Rye">
Rye

Rye is a type of grass, usually grown as a grain or forage crop (meaning that it is fed to animals). It is a member of the wheat family of plants and is similar to wheat and barley. It is used to make flour, food for animals, and many types of alcoholic drinks.

Rye has not always been a plant humans can use. It was originally a wild plant. There are several wild plants in Turkey that are similar to rye.

Since the Middle Ages, rye has been used widely in Central and Eastern Europe. In these parts of the world, it is still one of the main ingredients in making bread. However, the number of people and businesses using rye is becoming lower. Rye is usually sold to buyers near to where it is grown.

Rye can be planted to feed animals or can be harvested for hay (dry grass). Rye is a strong plant that can survive in soil with a high or low pH. This means it can survive even if the soil is very acidic or alkaline. Other plants may struggle to survive in these pH levels.



</doc>
<doc id="88446" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88446" title="List of environment topics">
List of environment topics

This is a list of topics about the natural environment.



</doc>
<doc id="88447" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88447" title="Sensitivity">
Sensitivity

Sensitivity can mean:
Psychology:

Science:

Finance:

Music:


</doc>
<doc id="88449" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88449" title="Highly sensitive person">
Highly sensitive person

A highly sensitive person (HSP) is very easily affected by things. They are said to have a 'high sensitivity' (or "innate sensitiveness" as Carl Gustav Jung originally called it). 

According to some researchers, highly sensitive people are about one fifth of the population. They process sensory data much more deeply and thoroughly because their nervous systems are biologically different. This is a specific trait with key effects that have often been confused with shyness, inhibitedness, fearfulness, introversion, as well as other effects. The existence of innate sensitivity was shown using a test. The term is mainly used to describe humans, but may also describe animals.


</doc>
<doc id="88450" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88450" title="Pixies">
Pixies

The Pixies are an American alternative rock band. The band started in 1986. They broke up in 1993, but they started to play together again from 2004 to the present. There are four members in the band: Black Francis (vocals, rhythm guitar), Joey Santiago (lead guitar), Kim Deal (bass guitar, vocals), and David Lovering (drums).

The Pixies' band members came together during the mid-1980s. Joey Santiago and Frank Black met at the University of Massachusetts Amherst, where they were students. Santiago introduced Black to new music, such as David Bowie.

In 1985, they decided to create a band. Kim Deal joined on bass guitar after answering an advertisement in a Boston newspaper. The band's musical style was influenced by bands such as Hüsker Dü. David Lovering, the drummer and a friend of Deal, joined in late 1985.

The band released their first album, "Come on Pilgrim", in 1987. The released one album every year from 1987-1991. Although they were not very successful in the USA, they were popular for alternative rock fans in Europe. In 1988, they recorded a session with British radio DJ John Peel because he felt they were a good band.

The band had many problems, with band members disagreeing on certain issues. In 1989, the band nearly asked Kim Deal to leave because of her laziness. She was also trying to take more control as a songwriter. These problems got worse and in 1993, they split up.

The Pixies influenced many bands that were more successful, such as Nirvana and OK Go.

They re-united and went on a tour in 2004-2005. However, they have yet to release a new album.

The lyrics to the Pixies' songs are well-known for being unusual. The band are also well-known for combining loud music with more quiet melodies, and for combining pop with rock.



</doc>
<doc id="88452" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88452" title="Dance-Punk">
Dance-Punk

Dance-punk (also known as disco-punk or punk-funk) is a music genre. Groups, such as !!! and The Rapture are commonly classified under this genre. There has since been a crystallization of musical forms within dance-punk, with Q and Not U exploring aspects of dance-punk, along with post-hardcore and other musical styles.
The Dance-punk genre is somewhat of a resurgence of New York's underground scene circa 1978-1982. The influence of bands like Talking Heads, Liquid Liquid, ESG, and Blondie can be heard throughout genre.


</doc>
<doc id="88453" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88453" title="LG Prada">
LG Prada

The LG KE850, also named The LG Prada Phone, is a mobile phone manufactured by LG Electronics and designed by Prada. It was first announced on 12 December 2006. An official press release showing an image of the device appeared on 18 January 2007.



Prices are expected to start from 600 Euros.

LG Electronics says that the iPhone's design was copied from the LG Prada. Woo-Young Kwak, head of LG Mobile Handset R&D Center, said at a press conference:

“We think that Apple copied the LG Prada phone after it was shown in the iF Design Award and won the prize in September 2006.”

LG later claimed that Apple stole both the ideas and concept of the Prada phone. A lawsuit by LG had been rumored prior to this announcement; however, LG has remained silent on whether or not they will file a lawsuit.


Other designer phones:



</doc>
<doc id="88456" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88456" title="Cloverfield">
Cloverfield

Cloverfield is a 2008 movie about a giant monster that attacks New York City. The movie was filmed to look like it was done by a personal camera. It is produced by J. J. Abrams and directed by Matt Reeves. In Tokyo, Japan, a giant monster that attacked Tokyo, and the police came to the middle of the city.



</doc>
<doc id="88457" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88457" title="Tilly and the Wall">
Tilly and the Wall

Tilly and the Wall is an indie pop group from Omaha, Nebraska. Their name came from a children's book called "Tillie and the Wall", written by Leo Lionni. They are noted for having a tap dancer, Jamie Pressnall, instead of a drummer.






</doc>
<doc id="88458" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88458" title="Origlio">
Origlio

Origlio is a municipality of the district Lugano in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland. Lago di Origlio is found in this municipality.


</doc>
<doc id="88459" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88459" title="Orselina">
Orselina

Orselina is a municipality of the district Locarno in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.



</doc>
<doc id="88460" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88460" title="Osco">
Osco

Osco is a municipality of the district Leventina in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.



</doc>
<doc id="88461" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88461" title="Osogna">
Osogna

Osogna is a municipality of the district Riviera in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="88462" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88462" title="Palagnedra">
Palagnedra

Palagnedra is a municipality of the district Locarno in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland. Lago di Palagnedra is found below the village.


</doc>
<doc id="88463" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88463" title="Lago di Palagnedra">
Lago di Palagnedra

Lago di Palagnedra is a lake at Palagnedra, Ticino, Switzerland. The lake has a volume of 4.26 million m³ and a surface area of 0.25 km².



</doc>
<doc id="88464" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88464" title="Moulin Rouge!">
Moulin Rouge!

Moulin Rouge! is a 2001 Academy Award-winning musical movie directed by Baz Luhrmann. It stars Nicole Kidman and Ewan McGregor. The movie is set in Paris, France in the 1890s. It tells the story of a young British writer called Christian, who falls in love with an actress called Satine, the leading lady of the famous nightclub, the Moulin Rouge. 

"Moulin Rouge!" was mostly shot at Fox Studios in Sydney, Australia. It was nominated for eight Oscars. It won two; for art direction and costume design. In 2006 it was ranked #25 on the American Film Institute's list of best musicals.

The "Moulin Rouge" is a famous nightclub with a cabaret (or dance show). The name "Moulin Rouge" means "Red Windmill". In the late 1800s there was a real windmill where the nightclub stands near Montmartre in Paris. Now there is a large model of a windmill on the roof of the building. Since the 1889 this nightclub has been famous for its dancing, in particular for the "can-can", a very lively dance in which the dancers, wearing long frilly skirts, kick their legs very high and show their underwear. (In the 1890s, women wore long dresses, to their ankles.) Even though this entertainment was not thought of as very polite, it was very popular and the "can-can" became a symbol of Paris. The "Moulin Rouge" is still very popular.
The word Bohemian was first used in Paris to mean a Gypsy because many people thought that Gypsies came from Bohemia. The word was then used for poor artists and writers, who often travelled to Paris from other towns and tried to earn money by their painting or writing. Paris was a famous town for both painters and writers to gather, to learn from each other and to enjoy the life of the city. Many of them lived at Montmartre, not far from the "Moulin Rouge". One of the most famous painters to live in Montmartre was Henri Toulouse-Lautrec. He loved to paint the can-can dancers and prostitutes. He did many posters to advertise the nightclubs. The posters are now famous works of art.

"La bohème" means "the Bohemian". It is the name of a famous opera written by Giacomo Puccini. It is about a young man who lives in a group of poor artists and writers, and who meets and falls in love with a beautiful girl. The opera is very well known and Baz Luhrmann deliberately used parts of the story in his movie. The plot of the movie is very much like another opera called "La traviata" written by Giuseppe Verdi. It is also thought that Luhrmann may have got the idea to make "Moulin Rouge!" after watching "Dil Se". This movie was made in 1998 and directed by Mani Ratnam. It is a love story set in India.

There have been four previous movies called "Moulin Rouge". The earliest was a silent movie made in 1928. The latest was made in 1956 and was about the life of the painter, Toulouse-Lautrec. Baz Luhrmann used Toulouse-Lautrec as an important character in his movie.

Baz Luhrmann had directed another movie in which a love story is set against a background of dance, costumes and colourful scenes. This is "Strictly Ballroom" made in 1992. In "Moulin Rouge!", he chose the colourful life of Paris in a time often called "the Naughty Nineties" as a background. But Lurhmann's plan was not to make a movie about history. He wanted to make a movie that the people of today would enjoy, just as much as the people of Paris had enjoyed the can-can in the 1890s. So Luhrmann did not use the music, dance-styles and lighting of the 1890s. He used popular modern music that young people already knew, and he used modern lighting, special effects and costume ideas to create a movie that young people would think was very entertaining.

Kate Winslet, Charlize Theron, Renee Zellweger, and Catherine Zeta-Jones were all thought of for the part of Satine. Courtney Love was almost cast in the role, but lost out to Kidman at the last minute because Luhrmann felt that Love would not fit into the movie well. Heath Ledger, Hugh Jackman, and Russell Crowe were all considered for the part of Christian.

Production on the movie began in November 1999 and was finished in May 2000, with a budget of just over $50 million. Nicole Kidman reportedly wasn't interested in doing the musical until she heard Baz Luhrmann would be directing it. Filming generally went smoothly, with the only major problem being when Nicole Kidman injured her knee while filming one of the more complicated dance sequences. The production also overran in its shooting schedule and had to be out of the Fox Studios in Sydney to make way for "" (in which Ewan McGregor also starred). This meant some parts had to be filmed in Madrid, Spain.


The movie is set in the year 1900. Christian (played by Ewan McGregor) is a British writer who came to the village of Montmartre in Paris in 1899, when the Bohemian movement was at its most popular. He sits in a flat looking down on the closed-down theatre called the Moulin Rouge while writing on a typewriter. The story he is writing is about the woman he loved, Satine (played by Nicole Kidman).

In 1899, Christian arrives in Paris, and makes friends with a group of Bohemians who visit the Moulin Rouge regularly. They are trying to produce a musical called "Spectacular Spectacular", which the owner of the Moulin Rouge, Harold Zidler (played by Jim Broadbent), plans to show at the cabaret. The Bohemians' leader, Toulouse-Lautrec (played by John Leguizamo), is pleased with Christian's talent at writing and insists that he write their musical, "Spectacular Spectacular". Once they find out that Christian is an amazing writer, they come up with an complicated plan of presenting Christian to Satine, who is a beautiful courtesan, in the hopes that she will be impressed with him and persuade Zidler to hire Christian as the writer of the musical.
Satine understands what her work involves, although she hopes of leaving the Moulin Rouge to become a "real" actress. Through a series of misunderstandings, she mistakes Christian for the rich and powerful Duke who will invest in the musical, "Spectacular Spectacular". She is enchanted by his poetry. She declares that she has fallen in love with him, but is shocked to realize he's actually a poor Bohemian poet. 

After a bit, the real Duke (played by Richard Roburgh) finds Christian and Satine together. They manage to trick him into believing that they were working on the musical, "Spectacular Spectacular". The main cast arrive and improvise the plot of the show on the spot: a beautiful Indian courtesan has her kingdom invaded by an "evil maharaja". She sets out to seduce him to save her kingdom, but accidentally seduces and then falls in love with a penniless sitar player. The two must hide their love and avoid the maharaja, though it is implied that one of them may die at the end of the story. (It is soon realized that the theme of their play foreshadows what happens in the movie's plot.) The Duke agrees to support the show. But, he quickly shows that he is a violently jealous man who will shut down the Moulin Rouge if he does not get Satine to himself. Nevertheless, he accepts that Satine will be busy with rehearsals and in close contact with Christian, the writer of the musical.

Christian and Satine fall in love, while Zidler struggles to keep the Duke interested in the musical "Spectacular Spectacular" even though Satine has not yet slept with him. Harold Zidler also discovers that Satine is dying of a disease called tuberculosis, but does not tell anyone because of his motto, "The show must go on". Meanwhile, Christian continues to work on the play, in which the courtesan and the penniless sitar player end up together. The Duke, however, does not appreciate the ending and tells the cast that the courtesan must end up with the maharaja. To convince the Duke to change his mind, Satine finally agrees to spend the night with him. Christian is overcome with jealousy while Satine has dinner with the Duke, who offers her everything she has dreamt of. However, when Satine spots Christian on the street below, she refuses the Duke's offer, and he tries to rape her. After she escapes, Satine and Christian plan to run away.

By now, the Duke has realized Satine's tricks, and tells Zidler that, if the "maharaja" does not get his "courtesan", he will have the "penniless sitar player" killed. Nonetheless, Zidler must inform Satine of her final condition before she agrees to give up on the escape plan. She goes to Christian and lies to him, convincing him that her love was an act in the hopes that this will make him want to leave Paris and therefore save his life.

As the show opens, Satine performs tiredly, knowing that her life is almost up. Christian, refusing to give up on Satine, confronts her backstage. When she tries to force him off again, he takes the place of the show's hero, throwing money at her feet to "pay his whore", and storming off the stage. Satine confesses her love for him in the form of his secret song, and Christian and Satine get back together in full view of the audience and the Duke. The Duke attempts to shoot Christian, but Zidler forces him off. The audience applauds what they think is a good drama, but backstage, Satine is overcome by her illness and dies in Christian's arms. As her final wish, she asks Christian to tell their story.

A year later, still in his flat overlooking the empty red windmill, Christian finally types the last page of his work, ending it with the couplet, "The greatest thing you will ever learn, is just to love, and be loved in return." 

The following is a list of some of the songs featured in the movie along with the artist that popularized them.

Elephant Love Medley

Two soundtrack albums were released, with the second coming after the huge success of the first one. The first volume featured the smash hit single "Lady Marmalade", performed by Christina Aguilera, Lil’ Kim, Mýa and Pink. The first soundtrack, "Moulin Rouge! Music From Baz Luhrmann's Film", was released in May 2001, with the second "Moulin Rouge! Music From Baz Luhrmann's Film, Vol. 2" following in 2002.

Award wins:

Award nominations:










</doc>
<doc id="88465" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88465" title="Paradiso">
Paradiso

Paradiso may mean:


</doc>
<doc id="88466" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88466" title="Paradiso, Switzerland">
Paradiso, Switzerland

Paradiso is a municipality of the district Lugano in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.



</doc>
<doc id="88468" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88468" title="Lago d'Origlio">
Lago d'Origlio

Lago d'Origlio is a lake in the municipality of Origlio, in Ticino, Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="88470" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88470" title="Personico">
Personico

Personico is a municipality of the district Leventina in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="88471" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88471" title="Pianezzo">
Pianezzo

Pianezzo is a municipality of the district Bellinzona in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="88472" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88472" title="Piazzogna">
Piazzogna

Piazzogna is a municipality of the district Locarno in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.



</doc>
<doc id="88473" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88473" title="Pollegio">
Pollegio

Pollegio is a municipality of the district Leventina in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.



</doc>
<doc id="88475" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88475" title="Ponte Capriasca">
Ponte Capriasca

Ponte Capriasca is a municipality of the district Lugano in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="88476" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88476" title="Ponte Tresa">
Ponte Tresa

Ponte Tresa is a municipality of the district Lugano in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland. With an area of 0.28 km², Ponte Tresa is the smallest municipality in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="88477" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88477" title="Porza">
Porza

Porza is a municipality of the district Lugano in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="88478" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88478" title="Prato (disambiguation)">
Prato (disambiguation)

Prato could be one of many places:

In the Tuscany region of Italy:

In South Tyrol, Italy:

In Switzerland:


</doc>
<doc id="88480" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88480" title="Prato (Leventina)">
Prato (Leventina)

Prato Leventina (Prato) is a municipality of the district Leventina in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="88483" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88483" title="Template:Uw-upload">
Template:Uw-upload


</doc>
<doc id="88484" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88484" title="Truth in Numbers? Everything According to Wikipedia">
Truth in Numbers? Everything According to Wikipedia

Truth in Numbers? Everything According to Wikipedia is a movie about Wikipedia. It has been shown at Wikimania 2010 in Gdańsk.



</doc>
<doc id="88486" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88486" title="Category:2008 movies">
Category:2008 movies


</doc>
<doc id="88488" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88488" title="Jena (disambiguation)">
Jena (disambiguation)

Jena can mean:



</doc>
<doc id="88494" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88494" title="Category:Religious orders">
Category:Religious orders


</doc>
<doc id="88495" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88495" title="Category:Christian religious orders">
Category:Christian religious orders


</doc>
<doc id="88508" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88508" title="Template:Fansite">
Template:Fansite

</div><includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="88509" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88509" title="Wikipedia:Fancruft">
Wikipedia:Fancruft

Fancruft is a slang sometimes used in Wikipedia when there is information that is not important, shows fanaticism and/or is not factual for example, praise.


</doc>
<doc id="88512" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88512" title="Pali">
Pali

Pali is an old language. It used to be spoken in India, and is similar to Sanskrit. Pali is used in religious services by Theravada Buddhists. The Theravada holy texts, called the Pali Canon, are written in Pali. Pali is usually called a dead language. Bengali orignates from the Pali



</doc>
<doc id="88517" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88517" title="Han Chinese">
Han Chinese

Han Chinese (also called Han) (simplified Chinese: 汉族; traditional Chinese: 漢族; pinyin: hàn zú) is an ethnic group from China. 90% of the people living in China and more than 97% of the people in Taiwan are Han. Out of the entire human population in the world, 19% are Han. Han Zu in Chinese means "Han ethnic group." Another name for Han Zu can be Han Ren, which means "Han people," which is written as 汉人 in simplified Chinese or 漢人 in traditional Chinese.

The name "Han" comes from the Han Dynasty that united China as one country. During the Han Dynasty, many tribes felt that they belonged to the same ethnic group. Also, the Han Dynasty is said to be the high point in Chinese civilization. During the Han Dynasty, China was able to increase its power and influence to other parts of Asia.

There are some slang words and different names for Han amongst some Han people, especially in southern China and in Vietnam. In languages like Cantonese, Hakka and Min Nan, the word "Táng Rén" is also used. "Táng Rén" is written as "唐人" and it literally means "the people of Tang." It is pronounced "Tong Yan" in Cantonese. "唐人" comes from another Chinese dynasty, the Tang Dynasty. The Tang Dynasty is also another peak point of the Chinese civilization. Within English-speaking Han communities, the word "Chinatown" in Chinese is "Táng Rén Jiē" which means "street of the Tang people."

Another phrase used by the Han people, especially overseas Chinese, is "Hua Ren" (simplified Chinese: 华人; traditional Chinese: 華人; pinyin: huá rén). It comes from "Zhong Hua" (simplified Chinese: 中华; traditional Chinese: 中華; pinyin: zhōng huá), a poetic name for China. The translation of this is "ethnic Chinese".

Han China is one of the world's oldest civilizations. Chinese culture dates back thousands of years. Some Han people believe they share common ancestors, distantly related to the Yellow Emperor and Yan Emperor, who existed thousands of years ago. Hence, some people of Han call themselves "Descendants of the Yan Emperor" or "Descendants of the Yellow Emperor."

Throughout the history of China, Chinese culture has been influenced by Confucianism. Confucianism was the official philosophy throughout most of Imperial China's history, and becoming a professional of Confucian texts was needed to be part of the imperial bureaucracy.



</doc>
<doc id="88618" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88618" title="Motorola RAZR V3">
Motorola RAZR V3

Motorola RAZR V3 (said ""Razer"", IPA://) is a thin clamshell mobile/cellular camera phone designed and made by Motorola. The phone was originally a fashion phone, but has now grown to many different versions in many different designs, when in 2005 the phone went into the main market and was sold at a medium price. On May 15, 2007, Motorola showed the new RAZR 2, with a bigger screen, easier to use, and Linux, with a high price of $600 with service agreement and $800 without. In 2005, "PC World" put the RAZR at #12 in "The 50 Greatest Gadgets of the Past 50 Years".

The original RAZR GPRS phone was on these networks: 

Australia

Brazil

Canada:

Mexico

New Zealand

USA:

and many other networks in other countries.

A black version was produced for the 77th Academy Awards gift bags, and was released in early May 2005. 

At September 2005, the black version was sold on these networks:

Brazil:

Canada:

UK:

USA:

The first pink version was sold in October 2005, and at June 2006, was sold on these networks: 

USA:

Canada:

UK:

It is also sold in all Movistar-serviced countries and Claro (Telcel).

The blue version was sold in the United Kingdom. It is named the "RAZR V3 Light Blue" but the color is mainly silver with a light shade of blue. It is sold on these networks:

Canada:

Peru:

UK:

USA:

As of July 2006, Australian Telecommunications giant Telstra is offering the V3x Blue (as well as Pink) version for $0 upfront on a $20 plan.

The dark blue version available from Tesco in the UK is a V3r with no memory slot or iTunes, (and more difficult to unlock).

At October 30, 2006, the phone was sold with a tattoo design on it on T-Mobile in USA. The tattoo designs were made by Ami James from the TLC reality television show, Miami Ink.

After the "RAZR V3", Motorola sold the RAZR V3i. This newer version of the phone improved some of the things that were bad about the original phone, for example, it had a better (1.23 megapixel) camera with 8x digital zoom, better screens, and allowed people to use memory cards in them. The V3i software is very similar to the Motorola V635.

The V3i can has iTunes music player, which has a 50 or 100 song limit on the phone, depending on where the phone was made.

The Motorola RAZR V3i was on most networks in the world in 2005–2006. In the U.S. the phone was released through Cingular Wireless on September 6, 2006, with a new activation price of $299.

This was the original color.

At December 8, 2005 Motorola worked with Dolce & Gabbana, the Italian fashion company, to produce a special version of the RAZR V3i, the "Motorola RAZR V3i Dolce & Gabbana". The phone was gold in color. Only 1,000 of the original limited version phones were made and sold.

On June 1, 2006, Motorola and Dolce & Gabbana started selling the RAZR V3i Dolce & Gabbana again. This version had a D&G leather holder, Bluetooth headphone, and FM earphones. It was sold at all big Motorola shops and some D&G shops.

A red version was sold for the (PRODUCT)RED charity. A percentage of the profit went to the charity to help fight AIDS in Africa.

The RAZR V3r and RAZR V3t are different versions the RAZR V3i. Instead of having iTunes, they have Motorola's Digital Audio Player (DAP) music player, which has no song limit, but takes longer to load, and uses more battery. However, it takes considerably longer time to load and uses the V3's battery at a much faster rate than iTunes does.


</doc>
<doc id="88622" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88622" title="Babi Yar">
Babi Yar

Babi Yar is a ravine near Kiev in Ukraine. 

On 28 September 1941, members of "Einsatzgruppe C" (mobile killing unit C), and other SS and German police units and Ukrainian auxiliaries, murdered more than half of the Jewish population of Kiev at Babi Yar, which is northwest of the city. 

This was one of the largest mass murders at one place during World War II.

The Einsatzgruppe wrote to headquarters that 33,771 Jews were massacred in two days.

Dmitri Shostakovich also wrote his 13 th Symphony using a poem on Babi Yar to condemn any anti-semitism even in Russia.



</doc>
<doc id="88630" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88630" title="Clea DuVall">
Clea DuVall

Clea Helen D'Etienne DuVall (born September 25, 1977) is an American film and television actress. She has been in the films "But I'm a Cheerleader" (1999), "Girl, Interrupted" (1999), "21 Grams" (2003) and "Zodiac" (2007). She is also in the television program "Carnivàle".


</doc>
<doc id="88631" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88631" title="Ewan McGregor">
Ewan McGregor

Ewan Gordon McGregor (born March 31 1971) is a Scottish actor who has had a lot of success in both mainstream and indie films. He is ranked #36 in Empire magazine's "The Top 100 Movie Stars of All Time" list. He is perhaps best known for playing the lead role in Danny Boyle's "Trainspotting", his portrayal of Obi-Wan Kenobi in the prequel trilogy of "Star Wars", and his motorcycle adventures with friend Charley Boorman.





</doc>
<doc id="88635" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88635" title="Patriarch Bartholomew I of Constantinople">
Patriarch Bartholomew I of Constantinople

Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew I (Greek: Οικουμενικός Πατριάρχης Βαρθολομαίος Α, Turkish: Patrik I. Bartholomeos) (born 29 February 1940) is the Ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinople, and thus "first among equals" in the Eastern Orthodox Communion, since 2 November 1991. He is thus the spiritual leader of 300 million Orthodox Christians around the world.


</doc>
<doc id="88636" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88636" title="Taxi Driver (movie)">
Taxi Driver (movie)

Taxi Driver is a 1976 movie directed by Martin Scorsese. It stars Robert De Niro as a lonely taxi driver named Travis Bickle. The movie also stars Jodie Foster as a young girl named Iris who is a child prostitute.

In the movie, Travis is a marine who fought in the Vietnam War. When he comes back to America, he is lonely and depressed, and starts getting violent. He starts working as a taxi driver and tries, unsuccessfully, to date a woman called Betsy. He later tries and fails to assassinate the political candidate Betsy is trying to help elect. One night a girl called Iris gets into his taxi and asks for his help. She is a child prostitute and wants to run away from her pimp. Travis then buys a lot of guns, and goes to kill Iris's pimp. He kills a lot of people, including her pimp, and then gets shot. In the end, he is hailed as a hero, and returns to driving his cab, but it is not clear whether he is only dreaming about it or he really survived.


</doc>
<doc id="88637" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88637" title="Patriarch Alexius II">
Patriarch Alexius II

Patriarch Alexius II (February 23, 1929 December 5, 2008 ) was the 15th Patriarch of Moscow and the primate of the Russian Orthodox Church.


</doc>
<doc id="88639" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88639" title="Romeo + Juliet">
Romeo + Juliet

William Shakespeare's Romeo + Juliet is an Academy Award nominated 1996 American movie adaptation of William Shakespeare's romantic tragedy "Romeo and Juliet". It was directed by Australian Baz Luhrmann and stars Leonardo DiCaprio and Claire Danes in the title roles. 

The movie is a very exciting & modern version of Shakespeare's play designed to appeal to a younger modern audience. The fighting families (the Montagues and the Capulets) are represented as competing business empires, swords are replaced by guns etc. Despite the adaptation, the movie retains Shakespeare's original dialogue, though edited for modern cinema audiences.


Critics gave the movie good reviews. On the review given by Rotten Tomatoes, 74% of critics gave the movie positive reviews, based on 38 reviews. Roger Ebert of the "Chicago Sun-Times" disliked the movie, giving it 2 stars and said "This production was a very bad idea. I have never seen anything remotely approaching the mess that the new punk version of Romeo & Juliet makes of Shakespeare's tragedy." Ebert wrote that Pete Postlethwaite and Miriam Margolyes were "the only actors in the film who seem completely at home" and said "In one grand but doomed gesture, writer-director Baz Luhrmann has made a film that (a) will dismay any lover of Shakespeare, and (b) bore anyone lured into the theater by promise of gang wars, MTV-style."

The movie won several awards. At the Berlin International Film Festival in 1997, Leonardo DiCaprio won the Silver Bear Award for Best Actor and director Baz Luhrmann won the Alfred Bauer Award. Luhrmann was also nominated for the Golden Bear Award for Best Picture.



</doc>
<doc id="88640" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88640" title="Template:Infobox Patriarch">
Template:Infobox Patriarch


</doc>
<doc id="88644" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88644" title="Paul Rudd">
Paul Rudd

Paul Stephen Rudd (born April 6, 1969) is an American movie, television, and stage actor.



</doc>
<doc id="88646" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88646" title="Epithelium">
Epithelium

Epithelium is one of the four main types of tissue in the body of animals. It is made up of one or more layers of cells. Epithelium is found on the surface of organs and many other parts of the body. The main function of epithelium is moving fluids into or out of an organ or body part. It can also help protect organs and sense things. There are many different types of epithelium that do different things in the body, including the excretory system. 

Epithelia have an important function in forming a mechanical defence against infection: see innate immunity.


</doc>
<doc id="88648" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88648" title="Category:Tissues">
Category:Tissues


</doc>
<doc id="88649" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88649" title="Tibetan Buddhism">
Tibetan Buddhism

Tibetan Buddhism is the body of religious Buddhist teachings from Tibet. The form of Buddhism taught in Tibet 
is inclusive of the full range of Buddhist teachings (or "three vehicles"). All traditions of Tibetan Buddhism practice the fundamental teachings and vows of moral discipline (Pratimoksha) of the hearer's vehicle (Shrāvakayāna); the vows of universal liberation and philosophy of the great vehicle (Mahāyāna); and the pledges and special methods of the secret mantra vehicle (Vajrayāna). 

Buddhism first came from India into Tibet in 173 CE during the reign of Lha Thothori Nyantsen. However, Buddhism did not grow strong until much later. In the 8th century, an Indian teacher called Padmasambhava brought Buddhism to Tibet again while Trisong Detsen was king of Tibet. Padmasambhava (more commonly known as "Guru Rinpoche") merged Buddhism with the local Bön religion to create Tibetan Buddhism. He also wrote a number of important texts. 

Tibetan Buddhism had a strong effect on the peoples of Central Asia in the 11th century CE, especially in Mongolia and Manchuria. It was made the official state religion by the Mongol Yuan dynasty and the Manchu Qing dynasty that ruled China.

Since the annexation of Tibet by the People's Republic of China in 1959, Tibetan Buddhism has spread to many Western countries.

Tibetan Buddhism has four main schools. Two of these schools hold practice as more important and two hold scholasticism (study of philosophy) more important. The four schools are:

Some of the teachings of Tibetan Buddhism are Mahamudra, the Six Yogas of Naropa, and Dzogchen.

Monasticism was the foundation of Buddhism in Tibet. There were over 6,000 monasteries in Tibet, however nearly all of these were destroyed by Chinese Red Guards during the Cultural Revolution. Most of the major monasteries have been at least partly restored while many others remain in ruins.

Today, Tibetan Buddhism is found in the Tibetan Plateau, Nepal, Bhutan, Mongolia, Kalmykia, Siberia, and the Russian Far East. The Indian regions of Sikkim and Ladakh are also home to large Tibetan Buddhist populations. Tibetan Buddhism has expanded to the West and throughout the world. Celebrity practitioners include Brandon Boyd, Richard Gere, Adam Yauch, Jet Li, Sharon Stone, Allen Ginsberg, Philip Glass, Mike Barson and Steven Seagal. 




</doc>
<doc id="88651" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88651" title="Category:Serbian musicians">
Category:Serbian musicians


</doc>
<doc id="88654" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88654" title="Berlinale">
Berlinale

The Berlinale, or "Berlin International Film Festival", is the world's leading film festivals held in Berlin, Germany.

The Berlinale was first held in 1951, and since 1978 has been held every February. More than 200000 tickets are sold and around 400000 admissions it is the biggest publicly-attended film festival worldwide. Since 2001 the director of the festival has been is Dieter Kosslick.

The European Film Market (EFM), a film trade fair, is held at the same time as the Berlinale. It is also one of the most important events for the international film industry.

An international jury makes sure films from all over the world are chosen for the Berlinale.

Around twenty films competing for the awards called the Golden and Silver Bears.

The 61st Berlin International Film Festival will be held 10 to 20 February 2011.







</doc>
<doc id="88655" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88655" title="Template:Imdb award">
Template:Imdb award


</doc>
<doc id="88662" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88662" title="MediaWiki:Ipbenableautoblock">
MediaWiki:Ipbenableautoblock

Automatically block the last IP address used by this user, and any following IPs they try to edit from

</doc>
<doc id="88663" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88663" title="Santa Fe">
Santa Fe

Santa Fe can mean multiple things:


</doc>
<doc id="88666" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88666" title="Tokio Hotel">
Tokio Hotel

Tokio Hotel is a German pop-rock band. The band began in 2001, and were first called Devilish. The people who are in the band all came from Magdeburg in Germany. The youngest, the Kaulitz twins, were born two months before the Berlin Wall was taken down.

Tokio Hotel was started by singer Bill Kaulitz and guitarist Tom Kaulitz, who are identical twin brothers. Their step father owns a music school named "Rock School". The drummer is Gustav Schäfer and bass-guitarist is Georg Listing. The four met in 2001 after a live show in a Magdeburg club, where Listing and Schäfer, who knew each other from music school, watched from the audience while Bill and Tom Kaulitz played on the stage. Using the name "Devilish", the band began playing in talent shows and small concerts. After Bill Kaulitz took part in a children's Star Search in 2003 at age thirteen (which he lost in the quarter-final), he was discovered by music producer Peter Hoffmann. Devilish changed their name to "Tokio Hotel": "Tokio", the German spelling of the Japanese city Tokyo, because they love the city, and "Hotel" because of their constant touring and living in hotels. Soon after Sony BMG took them under contract, Hoffmann hired David Jost and Pat Benzner into the team of creators and authors. They guided the teens on songwriting and instrument playing; most of the songs of the first album were written by Hoffmann, Jost, Benzer, and Bill Kaulitz (including the singles "Scream" and "Rescue me" which were completely written by them). Only the single "Unendlichkeit" was written completely by Tokio Hotel themselves. However, shortly before release of their first album, Sony ended their contract. In 2005, Universal Music Group took Tokio Hotel under contract and developed a marketing plan. The band has now become one of the biggest acts from Germany.

Bill Kaulitz (born September 1 1989, in Leipzig, Germany) is the lead singer of Tokio Hotel. He is the twin brother of Tom Kaulitz. Bill is ten minutes younger than Tom. They used to live in Magdeburg, Germany. Before making Tokio Hotel, the band was called Devilish. Bill was on the German star search but he lost in 2001. Because of Bill going on the Star Search he came to be known by Peter Hoffman. Tokio Hotel soon got a job with Sony but in 2005 Sony ended it. After the first European tour, Bill lost his voice and found out he had cyst on his vocal cords. He had surgery and it took three weeks to get better. He then went back to having concerts with the band.

Tom Kaulitz was born on September 1 1989, in Leipzig ten minutes before his identical twin brother, Bill. He is from Magdeburg in Germany. Tom and Bill now live in Berlin, Germany. As of September 2007, Tom is using Gibson guitars. He has stated his musical influences to be Aerosmith and German hip-hop such as Samy Deluxe. 

Georg Listing was born on March 31 1987. His hometown is Halle. He began playing bass when he was thirteen years old, as of September 2007, uses a Sandberg bass. He has said that his playing style was heavily influenced by Flea of Red Hot Chili Peppers, and other musical influences include Die Ärzte and Oasis.

Gustav Schäfer was born on September 8 1988, in his hometown of Magdeburg, and has an older sister. Gustav has been playing the drums since he was five. His musical influences include Metallica, Joe Cocker and Rod Stewart.









</doc>
<doc id="88669" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88669" title="Category:Boy bands">
Category:Boy bands


</doc>
<doc id="88671" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88671" title="Category:American boy bands">
Category:American boy bands


</doc>
<doc id="88672" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88672" title="Category:Chinese musical entertainers">
Category:Chinese musical entertainers


</doc>
<doc id="88674" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88674" title="Category:Musical entertainers by nationality">
Category:Musical entertainers by nationality


</doc>
<doc id="88690" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88690" title="Music genre">
Music genre

Music genres divide different kinds of music into groups.



</doc>
<doc id="88694" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88694" title="Toy Fox Terrier">
Toy Fox Terrier

The Toy Fox Terrier (also known as American Toy Terrier, Amertoy) is a small terrier breed of dogs. They are related to the Fox Terrier, but are considered a separate breed.




</doc>
<doc id="88696" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88696" title="New York Mets">
New York Mets

The New York Mets are a baseball team who play in New York City, New York in Citi Field. The team started in 1962. The Mets won the World Series in the years 1969 and 1986. They play inFlushing, Queens, and just recently completed their first year at their new stadium, Citi Field. Their colors are blue and orange. Their retired numbers are 42 (Jackie Robinson), 41 (Tom Seaver), 14 (Gil Hodges), and 37 (Casey Stengel).


</doc>
<doc id="88697" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88697" title="Bond market">
Bond market

The bond market (also known as the debt, credit, or fixed income market) is a financial market where people buy and sell debt securities, usually in the form of bonds. In 2006 the size of the international bond market was about $45 trillion. The size of the outstanding U.S. bond market debt was $25.2 trillion. 

no



</doc>
<doc id="88699" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88699" title="Security">
Security

Security means that one is protected against danger or loss. In the general sense, security is similar to safety. The difference between the two is security cares more about dangers from the outside than general safety.







</doc>
<doc id="88700" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88700" title="Security (disambiguation)">
Security (disambiguation)

Security is the sense of protection from hostile action.

Security could also mean:


</doc>
<doc id="88703" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88703" title="Preonzo">
Preonzo

Preonzo is a municipality of the district Bellinzona in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="88704" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88704" title="Pura">
Pura

Pura could mean:



</doc>
<doc id="88705" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88705" title="Pura, Switzerland">
Pura, Switzerland

Pura is a municipality of the district Lugano in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.



</doc>
<doc id="88711" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88711" title="532 Herculina">
532 Herculina

532 Herculina "(herr'-kew-lye'-nə," ) is a very big asteroid, with a diameter of around 225 km.

It was found on April 20th, 1904, by Max Wolf in Heidelberg, and initially catalogued as 1904 NY. Where its name came from is not known; it may be named after the mythical Hercules, or after an unknown woman of that name. Most of the asteroids found by Wolf around this date were named for characters in operas, but if this name was also drawn from such a source, no explanation has been recorded.

Herculina is one of the twenty or so biggest members of the main asteroid belt.

It has often been noted for its complex lightcurves, which made finding its shape and rotation somewhat hard. A set of 1982 speckle inferometry observations led to a simple preliminary model of Herculina as a three-axis object, perhaps 260 by 220 by 215 km. 1985 analysis of this data concluded there was a nonspherical shape with one bright spot, whilst a 1987 photometric astrometry study concluded the object was spherical with two dark spots (and rotated around a completely different pole), which was in turn negated by a 1988 thermal study which showed the object could not be spherical. By the late 1980s, the generally accepted model was a three-axis object with major albedo or topographical features.

Recent (2002) modelling of photometric data shows that Herculina is not spherical, but a blocky shape not unlike a battered cuboid - or, as the analysis described it, it "resembles a toaster". This analysis indicates the presence of many big craters, similar to 253 Mathilde, but no major changes in albedo. The approximate ratios of the axes were suggested as 1:1.1:1.3, broadly consistent with earlier models if a bit more stretched.

Following anomalous sightings during an occultation of the star SAO 1220774 in 1978, Herculina became the first asteroid to be "confirmed" to have an asteroid moon, with the parent asteroid estimated at a 216 km diameter and a moon of about 45 km orbiting at a distance of around 1,000 km. However, careful studying in 1993, using the Hubble Space Telescope, could not locate a moon.



</doc>
<doc id="88713" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88713" title="Template:1974 NJE">
Template:1974 NJE

This article, or part of this article, has been taken from the 1974 New Junior Encyclopedia. The information has been simplified, but may also need to be updated. Please help wikipedia by editing this page.
<br>

</doc>
<doc id="88718" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88718" title="Duroplast">
Duroplast

Duroplast is a resin plastic made up mixing formica and bakelite reinforced with fibres (either cotton or wool) or glass fibres.

Duroplast was used by Eastern European automobile manufacturer VEB Sachsenring Automobilwerke Zwickau to produce the body of the popular Trabant motor car, toilet seats, and parts for the BMW X3.

Duroplast was first used in the body of the IFA F8 and later also the AWZ P70 or Zwickau P70 and later used in the body of the Trabant. Apart from the use in cars duroplast was also used to make suitcases.

Duroplast is light, flexible, and strong. It was also made of recycled material, cotton waste from Russia and phenol resins from the East German dye industry making the Trabant the first car with a body made of recycled material. Because it can be made in a press similar to shaping steel, it's easy to produced.

Duroplast cannot be completely recycled, and burning it produces toxic fumes, so disposing of the bodies of old Trabants is a problem. There are stories of pigs,sheep or other domestic farm animals consuming duroplast.

A Berlin biotechnology company claims that it has developed a solution to the duroplast problem: a bacterium that will eat a Trabant in 20 days and leave only compost.
In the last years the Duroplast was smashed and put cement blocks for pavement construction.


</doc>
<doc id="88721" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88721" title="Will &amp; Grace">
Will &amp; Grace

Will & Grace is an Emmy winning comedy television show. The show featured four best friends, Will Truman (Eric McCormack), Grace Adler (Debra Messing), Jack McFarland (Sean Hayes) and Karen Walker (Megan Mullally). It was first aired in series beginning 1998 and series finale aired in 2006. It ran for 8 Seasons for a total of 194 episodes.



</doc>
<doc id="88722" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88722" title="Ken Akamatsu">
Ken Akamatsu

Ken Akamatsu (Kanakawa, 5 July 1968) is a Japanese manga writer and artist. After not passing the test to go to Tokyo University, Akamatsu choose to be illustrator. He became well known as an illustrator shown in "Comiket". Comiket is the largest comic convention in Japan. Akamatsu has created the illustred works "A Kid's Game for One Summer", "A.I. Love You" and "Always my Santa". In October 1998, his most famous work, "Love Hina" began being shown in Weekly Shonen Magazine. The series has been made into a book form that has sold over 6 million copies in Japan. Akamatsu received the Kodansha Manga Award for shōnen in 2001 for this series.

After finishing "Love Hina" in 2001, Akamatsu began to illustrate another manga, "". Both "Negima!" and "Love Hina" have been made into anime series. Altogether there are about 25 episodes, and 14 volumes of "Love Hina".


</doc>
<doc id="88724" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88724" title="Will Truman">
Will Truman

William "Will" Truman is a character from Will & Grace. He was played by Eric McCormack Will lived into the hotel with his Jewish friend, Grace Adler lived next door with Jack McFarland.


</doc>
<doc id="88725" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88725" title="Grace Adler">
Grace Adler

Grace Elizabeth Adler is a character from Will & Grace played by Debra Messing. She was married with doctor, Dr. Leo Markus and lived with Will and friends with Jack and Karen.


</doc>
<doc id="88726" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88726" title="Karen Walker">
Karen Walker

Karen Delaney St. Croix Popeil Finster Walker or Karen Delaney was played by Megan Mullally character from Will & Grace. Karen broke up with Stanley and married with Beverley. She was a friend with gay actor and dancer, Jack McFarland. Karen appears with Megan Mullally into The Megan Mullally Show.


</doc>
<doc id="88728" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88728" title="Jack McFarland">
Jack McFarland

Jack McFarland is a character from the television show "Will & Grace". The character was played by Sean Hayes.


</doc>
<doc id="88730" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88730" title="Category:Will &amp; Grace characters">
Category:Will &amp; Grace characters


</doc>
<doc id="88746" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88746" title="Wikipedia:Requests for checkuser/Archive2">
Wikipedia:Requests for checkuser/Archive2

This user's changes are very similar to edits made by our "Kent State vandal" (IP range 131.123.0.0/16). Distinguishing features are quotes from Scrubs, South Park, Adam Sandler movies as well as making edits regarding general dissatisfaction with the United States economy and president. · 20:37, 26 February 2008 (UTC)


All sockpuppets focused on vandalizing, I'd like to know if there are anymore account and what range there coming from, and to have them blocked. 20:35, 24 February 2008 (UTC)

Is this vandal part of the group? -- 12:49, 1 March 2008 (UTC)


Questions to usertalk page have the same style "Why" etc , not sectionhead. Design style in creating wikipedia:adoption. (Now User:LB22/adoption). -- 18:27, 9 February 2008 (UTC)

All three have been vandalizing a lot recently. They all seemed to have started at the same time. I would like to request a checkuser on them. 19:39, 8 February 2008 (UTC)

Please disregard this notice. Thanks. 19:43, 8 February 2008 (UTC)

Me being paranoid, but this user asks far to many questions of which he already knows the answer to. He can revert vandalism yet he thinks a welcome message is "a pretty picture"? -- 22:33, 1 February 2008 (UTC)

I would like to request a checkuser for this, as this IP address has been displaying the type of stalking that would be like the type of stalking that Freddy would've done in the past. This IP has been focussed on the same user for over 4 months now, and I believe that it justifies a checkuser in this instance. 20:53, 29 January 2008 (UTC)

Please disregard this request. 

Thank you 23:02, 29 January 2008 (UTC)

I think that this newbie account is possibly Benninguy. He stole Razorflame's sig and copied Gwib's user page; one admin and one user Benninguy has talked a lot with before his ban. Otherwise it could be purely concidencial. -- 23:37, 27 January 2008 (UTC)


I believe that these two IP addresses are possible IP's that Benniguy could be using. It was very subtle, but I believe that I was able to correctly pick up on it. 16:31, 25 January 2008 (UTC) added IP. -- 18:05, 25 January 2008 (UTC)


Abusing multiple accounts. The first thing this user did when it logs on was start creating lots of accounts. Twathead was already indef blocked for unacceptable username. Needs confirmation. 19:51, 22 January 2008 (UTC)

Pantomime102 was added because of similarities to the first user's username. 19:53, 22 January 2008 (UTC)

Update: All accounts but Pantomime102 have been blocked by various administrators. 20:01, 22 January 2008 (UTC)

Not only similar name but a similar edit. -- 15:40, 21 January 2008 (UTC)


I would like to request a checkuser for these two users. 23:57, 20 January 2008 (UTC)

Ashley was a name used a lot by the Kimberly Ashton series of sockpuppets, and I seem to remember that some of the KA socks liked Audrey Hepburn as well (might be wrong on that one). Although the EN account it links to is well established, I think it might be an idea just to check after the horrible mess that we had before, the username and page really seem to match to me. The network KA always used was Comcast in the Everett, Washington area. - 22:00, 19 January 2008 (UTC)

I think that this is also a possible KA sockpuppet. Confirmation please? 18:05, 25 January 2008 (UTC)

I just blocked 75.63.192.37 for one week (see its contribs to know why). They included an edit on the talk page of a newly created account . I want this account to be checked against the IP to see if belongs to the same vandal; also all other such accounts should be identified and blocked. - 12:24, 18 January 2008 (UTC)


Posted same kind of stuff as Jackjack would. I need confirmation on this. 20:00, 17 January 2008 (UTC)

This newbie account looks similar to an Ashton Kimberly sockpuppet. -- 08:11, 16 January 2008 (UTC)

Both seem to be the same person who keeps on vandalising Bono. I need confirmation of this first. 20:44, 14 January 2008 (UTC)

IP vandalism from static ? IP immediately followed by account creation and same vandalism phrase from the named accounts -- 16:07, 14 January 2008 (UTC)
please run checkuser again, this seems to be the same users as the others. 23:07, 16 January 2008 (UTC)


Multiple vandalism from user account including same page and same day (Google) as ip which often vandalises-- 15:23, 7 January 2008 (UTC)


Ban evasion 

New request. I think that this is another of his ban evasion IP's. Please confirm. 21:30, 13 January 2008 (UTC)


These user have been harassing current admins and I would like to know if they are the same user and if there are anymore accounts. 15:25, 3 January 2008 (UTC)

The newbie user has been acting quite odd lately, and I think that he may be a sock from Ionas, Ashton Kimberly, or someone else. I know he's already banned from en wiki, but just to be sure that s/he's not a sock. -- 20:21, 3 January 2008 (UTC)

Just a precaution. As per Jeffpw's concerns, I think this warrants a checkuser. 21:19, 3 January 2008 (UTC)

I would like to add another username to this. This username is acting suspiciously like Ben. Could you please check? 

AND WHAT?????? I JUST CHECKED THE GUY'S CONTRIBUTIONS... HOW ON EARTH DO HIS CONTRIBUTIONS RESEMBLE ANYTHING LIKE ME????? 10:13, 5 January 2008 (UTC)


</doc>
<doc id="88747" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88747" title="Wikipedia:Requests for checkuser/Archives">
Wikipedia:Requests for checkuser/Archives


</doc>
<doc id="88752" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88752" title="Pacific hurricane">
Pacific hurricane

A Pacific hurricane is a tropical cyclone that forms in the northeastern part of the Pacific Ocean. For organizational purposes, the Pacific Ocean is divided into three parts: the eastern (North America to 140°W), central (140°W to the International Date Line), and western (west of the Date Line). A Pacific hurricane, then, is a tropical cyclone in the northern Pacific Ocean east of the Date Line. Tropical cyclones that form in the western north Pacific are called typhoons. This separation between the two basins is convenient, however, as tropical cyclones rarely form in the central north Pacific and few ever cross the dateline.



</doc>
<doc id="88753" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88753" title="Plain English Campaign">
Plain English Campaign

Plain English Campaign Limited (PEC) is a commercial editing and training firm based in the United Kingdom. Founded in 1979 by Chrissie Maher, the company positions itself as a leader in plain language advocacy, working to persuade organisations in the UK and abroad to communicate with the public in plain language.
In 1990, Plain English Campaign created the Crystal Mark, its seal of approval. This is a symbol printed on documents which it considers to be as clear as possible for the intended audience. According to the Plain English Campaign, the symbol appears on over 18,300 documents worldwide. They also give out the annual Foot in Mouth Award for "a baffling comment by a public figure" and the Golden Bull Award for "the worst examples of written tripe". Notable winners of the Foot in Mouth Award include George W. Bush and Donald Rumsfeld.

Plain English Campaign has worked all over the world for companies and organisations including British Gas, British Telecom, Irish Life, Telefónica O2 and the World Bowls association. It has also worked with the majority of UK council and government departments. Many UK forms and bills carry the Crystal Mark, including the British Passport application form. 
Plain English Campaign is often described in the media as a pressure group, and regularly makes public comment about language-related news stories, particularly jargon. In 2006 its supporters voted Bill Shankly the author of the greatest footballing quotation of all time. A 2004 survey revealed that ‘At the end of the day’ was considered the most irritating cliché. 
Chrissie Maher was awarded the OBE in 1994 for her services to plain communication.
Famous supporters of PEC include Margaret Thatcher and broadcaster John Humphrys.


</doc>
<doc id="88754" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88754" title="Kilakarai">
Kilakarai

Kilakarai (aka Keelakarai, Tamil - கீழக்கரை) is a panchayat town in Ramanathapuram district in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu.


</doc>
<doc id="88761" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88761" title="Wikipedia:Simple talk/Archive 21">
Wikipedia:Simple talk/Archive 21

 is possibly relevant for people here. —//) 15:08, 7 January 2008 (UTC)


</doc>
<doc id="88763" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88763" title="Bart Simpson">
Bart Simpson

Bart Simpson is a fictional character in "The Simpsons". At the age of ten, he is the oldest child of Marge and Homer Simpson. He is the brother of Lisa and Maggie. Bart is someone who does not like school. At the time when the Simpsons was launched T-shirts were released that had a picture of Bart saying "Underachiever. And proud of it". Nancy Cartwright is the voice of Bart.

He likes to ride on a skateboard and make Prank phone calls to Moe's Tavern to annoy Moe Szyslak.

Bart goes to Springfield Elementary along with his 8-year-old sister Lisa. Bart often gets grade Fs in school, whereas Lisa gets A grades. At Springfield Elementary Barts best friend is Milhouse van Houten. Bart has received detention multiple times, and during the start of the show he is seen writing things repeatedly on a blackboard as a form of punishment. He is a good pranker.


</doc>
<doc id="88782" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88782" title="Category:Greek alphabet">
Category:Greek alphabet


</doc>
<doc id="88784" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88784" title="Vajrayana">
Vajrayana

Vajrayana (Sanskrit: lit. "The Adamantine Vehicle" or "The Diamond Vehicle") is a school of Buddhism first practiced in India. From India it spread to Tibet, Mongolia and Bhutan. Since the annexation of Tibet by the People's Republic of China in 1959, the Tibetan form of Vajrayana has spread to many Western countries and has gained great popularity. 

Vajrayana is a third and separate major school of Buddhism, the other two being Theravada and Mahayana. Vajrayana Buddhism comes from Mahayana Buddhism. Tibetan Vajrayana Buddhism has its own texts in the Tibetan and Sanskrit languages. It also contains the older Mahayana texts in Sanskrit and Theravada texts in the Pali language.

Vajrayana is sometimes known as Tantric Buddhism in the west. Tantric practice is one kind of Vajrayana Buddhism, but there are also other forms. 

Vajrayana was developed in Northern India around the 7th century. It has its main philosophical roots in Madhyamika of Nagarjuna, Chandrakirti and Vijnanavada (also known as Yogachara), Chittamatra of Asanga, and Vasubhandu. The most famous teacher of Vajrayana was Guru Padmasambhava, who founded the first school of Tibetan Buddhism called the "Nyingma" school.

The main features of Vajrayana are:

Followers are introduced to these practices through initiation which is also called empowerment.

There are four main schools of Tibetan Buddhism: Nyingma, Sakya, Kagyu, and Geluk. All four schools identify themselves as belonging to the Mahayana or "Great Vehicle" tradition, which is the most popular form of Buddhism in China, Korea and Japan.

In the "ancient" or Nyingma school, the teachings are divided into six levels:

The "new" schools (Sakya, Kagyu, and Geluk) divide the teachings into only four levels. The first three are the same as in the Nyingma school. The last level is simply called Anuttarayogatantra ("Highest Yoga Tantra"). These Highest Yoga Tantras are divided into "mother", "father" and "non-dual" tantras. The new schools use a practice called Mahamudra in place of Dzogchen.



</doc>
<doc id="88791" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88791" title="Template:Uw-otherweb">
Template:Uw-otherweb


</doc>
<doc id="88794" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88794" title="Category:American artists">
Category:American artists


</doc>
<doc id="88795" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88795" title="Category:American painters">
Category:American painters


</doc>
<doc id="88796" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88796" title="Category:Canadian painters">
Category:Canadian painters


</doc>
<doc id="88797" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88797" title="Category:English painters">
Category:English painters


</doc>
<doc id="88798" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88798" title="Category:German painters">
Category:German painters


</doc>
<doc id="88799" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88799" title="Category:Italian artists">
Category:Italian artists


</doc>
<doc id="88800" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88800" title="Category:Artists by nationality">
Category:Artists by nationality


</doc>
<doc id="88802" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88802" title="Category:English artists">
Category:English artists


</doc>
<doc id="88806" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88806" title="Alpha (letter)">
Alpha (letter)

Alpha (uppercase/lowercase Α α), is the first letter of the Greek alphabet, used to stand for the "a" sound in Ancient and Modern Greek. In the system of Greek numerals, it has a value of 1. Letters that came from it are the Roman A and Cyrillic А.

Alpha is often used in physics and chemistry as a symbol or in the names of things, for example alpha particles (which are two protons and two neutrons bound together into a particle the same as a helium nucleus). The symbol is also used a lot in mathematics in algebra, for example naming angles.


</doc>
<doc id="88807" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88807" title="Beta (letter)">
Beta (letter)

Beta (uppercase/lowercase Β β), is a letter of the Greek alphabet, used to represent the "b" sound in Ancient Greek and "v" in Modern Greek. In the system of Greek numerals, it has a value of 2. Letters that came from it include the Roman B and Cyrillic Б.

The sounds [b] and [v] resemble each other a lot. In the Ancient Greek the "b" sound became "v" around 200 BC. Therefore the letter B means the "v" sound in the Cyrillic alphabet, and a new letter, Б, was made for [b].


</doc>
<doc id="88810" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88810" title="Gamma (letter)">
Gamma (letter)

Gamma (uppercase/lowercase Γ γ), is the letter of the Greek alphabet, used to represent the "g" sound in Ancient and Modern Greek. In the system of Greek numerals, it has a value of 3. Letters that came from it include the Roman C and Cyrillic Г.


</doc>
<doc id="88813" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88813" title="Epsilon">
Epsilon

Epsilon (uppercase/lowercase Ε ε), is the letter of the Greek alphabet, used to represent the "e" sound in Ancient and Modern Greek. In the system of Greek numerals, it has a value of 5. Letters that came from it include the Roman E and Cyrillic Е. It is also used in calculus to represent a very small number. In set theory it can be used to represent the statement "x is a member of y."


</doc>
<doc id="88814" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88814" title="Digamma">
Digamma

Digamma or Wau (uppercase/lowercase Ϝ ϝ) was an old letter of the Greek alphabet. It was used before the alphabet got its classical standard form. It looked like a Latin "F", but it was pronounced like "w". In the 5th century BC people stopped using it, because they could no longer pronounce the sound "w" in Greek. However, they kept it as a sign for the number "6" in the system of Greek numerals. It was originally called "Wau" because of its sound, but later, when the sound was lost, it was called "Digamma", which means "double Gamma", because it looks like a Gamma (Γ) with two hooks. The Latin letter F was also taken over from Wau.



</doc>
<doc id="88817" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88817" title="Stigma (letter)">
Stigma (letter)

Stigma (uppercase/lowercase Ϛ ϛ), is a sign that was used in the Greek alphabet for the combination of the two letters Sigma (s) and Tau (t). It is also used as a symbol for the number 6 in the system of Greek numerals.



</doc>
<doc id="88819" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88819" title="Zeta (letter)">
Zeta (letter)

Zeta (uppercase/lowercase Ζ ζ), is the letter of the Greek alphabet, used to represent the "z" sound in Ancient and Modern Greek. In the system of Greek numerals, it has a value of 7. Letters that came from it include the Roman Z and Cyrillic З.


</doc>
<doc id="88820" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88820" title="Eta (letter)">
Eta (letter)

Eta (uppercase/lowercase Η η) is a letter of the Greek alphabet. In very early Greek writing it stood for the consonant sound "h", but in classical Greek it stood for a long vowel "e". In Modern Greek, it is pronounced as "i". In the system of Greek numerals, it has a value of 8. Letters that came from it include the Roman H and Cyrillic И.


</doc>
<doc id="88822" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88822" title="Heta">
Heta

Heta is another name for the letter Eta (Η), a letter of the Greek alphabet, and also for some other variant forms of it. This name is used to show that this letter at first was pronounced as "h", just like in Latin. Later, in the Ionian dialect of Greek, people stopped pronouncing the sound "h", and therefore they gave the letter a new meaning and used it for a long "e" sound instead. Some other dialects then took over this new letter "Eta", and so they had to find a new form for the letter for "h". In some dialects they invented a new letter "" to stand for "h". Today, the name "Heta" is also used for this letter.



</doc>
<doc id="88823" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88823" title="Theta (letter)">
Theta (letter)

Theta (uppercase/lowercase Θ θ), is the letter of the Greek alphabet, used to represent the "th" sound in Ancient and Modern Greek. In the system of Greek numerals, it has a value of 9. The Cyrillic letter Ѳ came from Theta.


</doc>
<doc id="88824" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88824" title="Iota (letter)">
Iota (letter)

Iota (uppercase/lowercase Ι ι), is the letter of the Greek alphabet, used to represent the "i" sound in Ancient and Modern Greek. In the system of Greek numerals, it has a value of 10. Letters that came from it include the Roman I and Cyrillic І.


</doc>
<doc id="88825" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88825" title="Lambda">
Lambda

Lambda (uppercase/lowercase Λ λ), is the letter of the Greek alphabet, used to represent the "l" sound in Ancient and Modern Greek. In the system of Greek numerals, it has a value of 30. Letters that came from it include the Roman L and Cyrillic Л. It is used as shorthand as a symbol for wavelength in the Electromagnetic spectrum.


</doc>
<doc id="88826" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88826" title="Mu (letter)">
Mu (letter)

Mu (uppercase/lowercase Μ μ), is the letter of the Greek alphabet, used to represent the "m" sound in Ancient and Modern Greek. In the system of Greek numerals, it has a value of 40. Letters that came from it include the Roman M and Cyrillic М.


</doc>
<doc id="88827" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88827" title="Coat of Arms of Haiti">
Coat of Arms of Haiti

The first coat of arms of Haiti was created in 1807, and has appeared in its current form since 1986.

It has a palm, with several flags at its sides, and two cannons on a green lawn. On the lawn there are several objects, such as musical instruments (a snare drum and bugles), guns, and ship anchors. Above the palm tree, there is a Phrygian cap placed as a symbol of freedom. 

The ribbon on the bottom displays the national motto: "L'Union Fait La Force" (French for "Union Makes Strength").


</doc>
<doc id="88828" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88828" title="Category:Flemish painters">
Category:Flemish painters


</doc>
<doc id="88829" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88829" title="Nu (letter)">
Nu (letter)

Nu (uppercase/lowercase Ν ν), is the letter of the Greek alphabet, used to represent the "n" sound in Ancient and Modern Greek. In the system of Greek numerals, it has a value of 50. Letters that came from it include the Roman N and Cyrillic Н.


</doc>
<doc id="88830" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88830" title="Flag of Haiti">
Flag of Haiti

The flag of Haiti was adopted on February 25, 1986. The flag has two horizontal bands of equal height; the top stripe is blue and the bottom is red. In the center there is a white rectangle with the Coat of Arms of Haiti which consists of a palm tree with several flags at its sides. There are two cannons on either side of the palm tree. The civil flag and the ensign (the one used by commercial ships) do not have a coat of arms.

The Haitian flag was created by the revolutionary Jean-Jacques Dessalines in 1803 from the French flag (the "Tricolore"); he eliminated the white stripe and left only the blue and red stripes in the new flag.

From May 25 1964 to February 25 1986, during the dictatorship of Francois and Jean-Claude Duvalier, the country had a different flag, in red and black, and divided vertically, not horizontally.



</doc>
<doc id="88831" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88831" title="Xi">
Xi

Xi (uppercase/lowercase Ξ ξ), is the 14th letter of the Greek alphabet, used to represent the "x" sound in Ancient and Modern Greek. In the system of Greek numerals, it has a value of 60. The Cyrillic letter Ѯ came from Xi.


</doc>
<doc id="88832" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88832" title="Omicron">
Omicron

Omicron (uppercase/lowercase Ο ο), is the letter of the Greek alphabet, used to represent the "o" sound in Ancient and Modern Greek. In the system of Greek numerals, it has a value of 70. Letters that came from it include the Roman O and Cyrillic О.


</doc>
<doc id="88833" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88833" title="Pi (letter)">
Pi (letter)

Pi (uppercase/lowercase Π π), is the letter of the Greek alphabet, used to represent the "p" sound in Ancient and Modern Greek. In the system of Greek numerals, it has a value of 80. Letters that came from it include the Roman P and Cyrillic П.


</doc>
<doc id="88834" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88834" title="San (letter)">
San (letter)

San (uppercase/lowercase Ϻ ϻ) was an old letter in the Greek alphabet that was used in some Greek cities before the alphabet got its classical standard form. It looked like the letter Mu (M), but was spoken like S. In the 6th century BC, people stopped using it and wrote Sigma (Σ) instead.



</doc>
<doc id="88835" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88835" title="Category:Scottish painters">
Category:Scottish painters

Scottish painters


</doc>
<doc id="88836" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88836" title="Sho (letter)">
Sho (letter)

Sho (uppercase/lowercase Ϸ ϸ), was a letter added to the Greek alphabet in order to write the Bactrian language. It was used for the "sh" sound in Bactrian. 



</doc>
<doc id="88837" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88837" title="Qoppa">
Qoppa

Koppa or Qoppa (Ϙ or ϟ) was a letter of the Greek alphabet that was used in some Greek cities before the alphabet got its classic standard form. It is no longer used in normal writing today. It was pronounced as "k", just like Kappa (Κ). In the 5th century BC people stopped using it and only wrote Kappa. In the order of the letters in the alphabet, it came between Pi and Rho, just like in the Latin alphabet the letter Q comes between P and R. However, they kept Koppa as a sign for the number "90" in the system of Greek numerals. People still sometimes use it in this way, even though they do not use it as a letter to write words.

The letter Koppa at first looked like a circle with a small bar under it. Later it was written more like a pointed S.

The letter Q in the Latin alphabet and the letter Ҁ in the Cyrillic alphabet come from Koppa. 



</doc>
<doc id="88839" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88839" title="Rho">
Rho

Rho (uppercase/lowercase Ρ ρ), is the letter of the Greek alphabet, used to represent the "r" sound in Ancient and Modern Greek. In the system of Greek numerals, it has a value of 100. Letters that came from it include the Roman R and Cyrillic Р.


</doc>
<doc id="88842" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88842" title="Sigma">
Sigma

Sigma (uppercase/lowercase Σ σ ς), is the letter of the Greek alphabet, used to represent the "s" sound in Ancient and Modern Greek. In the system of Greek numerals, it has a value of 200. Letters that came from it include the Roman S and Cyrillic С.


</doc>
<doc id="88843" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88843" title="Tau">
Tau

Tau (uppercase/lowercase Τ τ), is the letter of the Greek alphabet, used to represent the "t" sound in Ancient and Modern Greek. In the system of Greek numerals, it has a value of 300. Letters that came from it include the Roman T and Cyrillic Т.

Some people want to use Tau in place of Pi, the special number that comes from circles. Tau would be equal to two times pi, or about 6.283. 

These people want to use Tau because they think it would be easier for everyone to understand. There are many reasons in math why Tau could be useful or helpful. One of the simplest is that it would make learning about radians easier.

A radian is a way of measuring the angle of a circle. It says that the number of radians in an angle is equal to the length of the outside of the circle, or the 'arc length', that is covered by an angle, divided by the Radius, or distance from the point in the center of a circle to anywhere on the outside. There is a picture down on the bottom right that shows this.

If the distance covered around the outside of a circle is equal to the radius, than one radian is being covered. Around the whole outside of a circle, there are about 6.283 radians - or, Tau radians (Tau is just a number, like 0, or 7, or 100). 

The advantage of this is that if you turn one quarter of a circle, you will have turned Tau / 4 radians. If you turn one half of a circle, you have covered Tau / 2 radians. This just makes more sense. You can see a drawing of this in the bottom right of the page.

Not many people use Tau yet, but more and more are.


</doc>
<doc id="88844" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88844" title="Upsilon">
Upsilon

Upsilon (uppercase/lowercase Υ υ), is the 20th letter of the Greek alphabet, used to represent the "u" sound in Ancient Greek and "i" in Modern Greek. In the system of Greek numerals, it has a value of 400. Letters that came from it include the Roman U, V and Y, and the Cyrillic У.


</doc>
<doc id="88845" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88845" title="Phi (letter)">
Phi (letter)

Phi (uppercase/lowercase Φ φ), is the letter of the Greek alphabet, used to represent the "ph" sound in Ancient Greek. This sound changed to "f" some time in the 1st century AD, and in Modern Greek the letter denotes the "f" sound. In the system of Greek numerals, it has a value of 500. The Cyrillic letter Ф came from Phi. In English, φ is pronounced like "f" but transliterated (re-written) as "ph" in words which originate in Ancient Greek. In those words which originate in Modern Greek, such as feta cheese, φ is translitterated as "f". The letter Phi is used in the golden Ratios and Phi represents the number aproximately: 1.618033988749.


</doc>
<doc id="88846" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88846" title="Chi (letter)">
Chi (letter)

Chi (uppercase/lowercase Χ χ), is the letter of the Greek alphabet, used to represent the "ch" sound (as in Scottish "loch" or German "Bauch") in Ancient and Modern Greek. In the system of Greek numerals, it has a value of 600. Letters that came from it include the Roman X and Cyrillic Х.


</doc>
<doc id="88847" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88847" title="Psi (letter)">
Psi (letter)

Psi (uppercase/lowercase Ψ ψ), is the letter of the Greek alphabet, used to represent the "ps" sound in Ancient and Modern Greek. In the system of Greek numerals, it has a value of 700. Letters that came from it include Cyrillic Ѱ.


</doc>
<doc id="88848" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88848" title="Omega (letter)">
Omega (letter)

Omega (uppercase/lowercase Ω ω), is a letter of the Greek alphabet. It stood for a long "o" sound in Ancient Greek. It still stands for "o" in Modern Greek, but there is no longer a difference between long and short vowels, so it sounds the same as Omicron. In the system of Greek numerals, it stands for the number 800. 

There was also once a letter "Omega" Ѡ in the Cyrillic alphabet. It was there so people could spell Greek names both in Cyrillic and in Greek in the same way. But this letter is no longer used today.


</doc>
<doc id="88849" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88849" title="Sampi (letter)">
Sampi (letter)

Sampi (ϡ) is a sign for the number "900" used in the system of Greek numerals. Before that, it was a letter that was used in the Greek alphabet in a few Greek cities in the 5th century BC. At that time, it looked like or . It was probably pronounced like "ts" or "tch" in the dialect of those cities. Over time, it was changed from to or and at last to .



</doc>
<doc id="88856" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88856" title="Aliteracy">
Aliteracy

The problem of aliteracy is the state of being able to read but being uninterested in doing so. Teachers and school librarians are trying to deal with this problem.

Stratford P. Sherman wrote, in a November 18, 1991 article in Fortune magazine, about the need for America to read more. He began by saying that most Americans could not understand the article. He referred to a study by John P. Robinson, a sociology professor at the University of Maryland, showing that the average American at that time spent only 24 minutes per day in reading. He mentioned the continuing decline in newspaper sales, and referred to a guess by Leonard Riggio, CEO of Barnes & Noble, that 50% of books sold by his company were never read. He quoted Samuel Robert Lichter, director of the Center for Media and Public Affairs, on his preference for the ease of turning on the TV instead of reading a book. Sherman went on, in his article, to mention the growing need for skillful commmunication in American business but also the decreasing quality of the same activity. He quoted Monsanto CEO Richard Mahoney on the importance of reading in helping a business manager to see connections between events. He described print media as being first among different media with respect to (1) the amount of information conveyed by so few widely understood symbols, (2) portability, (3) suitability for the user's own speed of use, and (4) economical distribution of broad and deep information which can be used immediately.

Sherman said that Motorola was making preparations to pay $5,000,000 to teach workers reading and other basic skills, and that, since 1982, Ford Motor Company had already sent 32,000 workers on a similar program. He said that Simon & Schuster predicted a market of $500,000,000 per year in the sales of remedial programs to corporations. He quoted a spokesman for the National Association of Broadcasters as saying that "the biggest predictor of scholastic success is the time parents spend reading to their children." However, Sherman said that the amount of time thus spent meant that the outlook was "not bright". 




</doc>
<doc id="88860" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88860" title="L'Anse-aux-Meadows">
L'Anse-aux-Meadows

L'Anse aux Meadows is a historical settlement on the island of Newfoundland in eastern Canada. It was settled by Vikings from Greenland, Iceland, and Norway around the year 1000, almost 500 years before Christopher Columbus came to the Americas. It is the only known Viking place in North America outside of Greenland. The remains of the settlement were discovered in 1960, and were declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1978.


</doc>
<doc id="88861" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88861" title="The Wealth of Nations">
The Wealth of Nations

An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations is better known simply as The Wealth of Nations. It was written by Adam Smith in 1776. It looks at division of work, following self-interest, and freedom of trade.

The book was the beginning of classical economics, and market economics. Smith said that if everyone did what was best for themselves, the result would be best for society. Before that, economics was about the king's personal interests, and the wealth of a nation was measured by the king's treasury. Smith said what's important is what's best for the whole nation, and that wealth should be measured by the yearly income of the nation. He wanted to discover how wealth can grow, and how people could do things to support that growth. Smith's book said land, labor, and capital were the three "factors of production" and the main contributors to a nation's wealth.

Prices naturally adjust to having more or less of something: supply and demand. If there is too much of something (more supply), prices go down so that people have more reason to buy it. If a lot of people want something (high demand), there may not be enough of it (scarcity); there will be a competition among the people who want to buy it, and some people will agree to pay more to get what they want, and prices go up. 
Smith said markets should be free. At the time, some big companies (like the East India Company) were controlled by the government. Sometimes the rulers made laws that were good for themselves but not for workers or customers. For example, in the American colonies, colonists could grow cotton but were not allowed to make clothing from it. They had to ship it to England to be made into clothing, then buy it back after it was finished. Smith said this was bad for individuals and for society. He thought it was better for money to flow freely and naturally between buyers and sellers without outside interference. Money would naturally go to the sellers who made the best product at the best price. This way if people did what was best for them, it would end up being best for society as a whole, almost like an "invisible hand" was guiding everything.


</doc>
<doc id="88867" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88867" title="La Dessalinienne">
La Dessalinienne

La Dessalinienne (The Dessalines Song) is the national anthem of Haiti, honoring Jean-Jacques Dessalines. The lyrics (words of the song) were written by Justin Lhérisson and its music composed by Nicolas Geffrard; it was adopted in 1904.



</doc>
<doc id="88879" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88879" title="Ai XIn Jue Luo YuHuan">
Ai XIn Jue Luo YuHuan

Aixinjueluo Yuhuan () (October 1929 – 23 June 2003) was a recent Chinese traditional artist in both traditional Chinese paintings and traditional Chinese music. He is also one of the few descendants of the royal family of the Qing Dynasty. He is the great-great grandson of the Daoguang Emperor. He was born in the Prince Gong Mansion in Beijing, China.
In 1957, he joined the China Artists' Association, and in 1981 he was added into The Chinese Great Artists' Dictionary. He has won many art prizes in China dealing with Chinese traditional art, his pieces are mostly landscapes, people, and close-up flowers and bamboo. 

YuHuan was an only son of Aixinjueluo Pu Shu Ming who has lived in the Prince Gong Mansion for some time after the Qing Dynasty was overruled. Good links to his uncle Pu Xin-Yu, who was a famous traditional artist of China, provided him with art lessons which set his appetite for painting Chinesetraditional art. In Junior High School, he has already started publishing his own comics on the newspapers, he became more and more interested in the arts, he eventually applied and was accepted by the Arts Department of the Beijing Normal University. The art he was taught at the Beijing Normal University was Western art although he was used to Chinese paintings.

Artist YuHuan was also a sanxian musician, his lessons with traditional Chinese instruments started when he was a child, and still living in the Prince Gong Mansion. At his death, he had already mastered many difficult pieces and he played until his late 60s.

At the age of eight, he started to learn the sanxian, a 500-year-old Chinese three-string, plucked instrument. The song he learned was a song from the Qing Dynasty(the dynasty of his great-great grandfather), it consisted of 13 pieces, with each piece about 20–45 minutes long. He did not learn all of the pieces of the song because his tutor only knew 13 of them (there were more that his tutor did not know); even so, it took him 2 years to master it, with courses of one 2-hour lesson per week. He had already passed on the song to a lecturer in the Central Conservatoire of Music in Beijing, his student also took two years to master it.

The leaders of many countries and foreign ministers have met with Yuhuan and either bought or received his paintings as donations or presents, the countries include: Hungary, Germany, the USA, Canada, Japan, and many more. He has also lectured in many universities Japan, Singapore and Indonesia. Galleries and exhibitions of his work were also presented to and hosted at many of the above countries.

Mr. Aixinjueluo has three successful sons, whose names are Aixinjueluo Hengyue(writer), Aixinjuelo Hengkai(artist), and Aixinjueluo Hengjun(IT specialist).



</doc>
<doc id="88882" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88882" title="Category:1776 books">
Category:1776 books


</doc>
<doc id="88884" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88884" title="Category:Redirects to sections">
Category:Redirects to sections


</doc>
<doc id="88885" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88885" title="Category:Redirect templates">
Category:Redirect templates


</doc>
<doc id="88886" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88886" title="Category:K-pop">
Category:K-pop


</doc>
<doc id="88887" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88887" title="Category:C-pop">
Category:C-pop

C-pop is short for Chinese-language popular music. Most of today's C-pop artists are from Hong Kong, Taiwan and PRC, as well as from other countries where Mandarin, Cantonese or another Chinese dialect is used, such as Singapore and Malaysia.


</doc>
<doc id="88899" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88899" title="New Castle, Indiana">
New Castle, Indiana

New Castle is a city in Henry County, Indiana, 44 miles (71 km) east of Indianapolis, on the Big Blue River. In 1900, 3,406 people lived in the town; in 1910, 9,446; in 1920, 14,458; and in 1940, 16,620. The population was 17,780 in 2000. The city is the county seat of Henry County. New Castle is home to New Castle Fieldhouse, the largest high school in the world.




</doc>
<doc id="88901" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88901" title="Pop art">
Pop art

Pop art is a modern art movement that was popular in the 1950s and 60s. It was created by the Scottish sculptor and artist Eduardo Paolozzi in 1952. Andy Warhol, Robert Indiana and Roy Lichtenstein are examples of pop artists. Pop art rose to dominance in the 60's. 

Pop art has themes and techniques drawn from popular mass culture, such as advertising and comic books. Pop art employs images of popular as opposed to elitist culture in art.

The Independent Group (IG), founded in London in 1952, is regarded as the precursor to the pop art movement. They were a gathering of young painters, sculptors, architects, writers and critics who were challenging modernist approaches to culture as well as traditional views of Fine Art. The group discussions centered on popular culture implications from such elements as mass advertising, movies, product design, comic strips, science fiction and technology. 

At the first Independent Group meeting in 1952, co-founding member, artist and sculptor Eduardo Paolozzi presented a lecture using a series of collages titled "Bunk!" that he had assembled during his time in Paris between 1947–1949. This material consisted of 'found objects' such as, advertising, comic book characters, magazine covers and various mass produced graphics that mostly represented American popular culture. One of the images in that presentation was Paolozzi's 1947 collage, "I was a Rich Man's Plaything", which includes the first use of the word "pop″, appearing in a cloud of smoke emerging from a revolver. After Paolozzi's seminal presentation in 1952, the IG focused on the imagery of American popular culture, particularly mass advertising.

The artists use mechanical means of reproduction or rendering techniques which downplay the expressive hand of the artist. 

Pop artists went for absolute clarity. Most forms were bordered with black lines as in comic books. The objects are often plain like a poster, and without perspective. The colours are clear, achromatic and primitive colours. 

Objects of the everyday life get isolated and modified or processed in collages. Pop art is a connection between reality and art, handled with abstract means. Some of their catchwords are: popular, consumable, cheap, funny and outstanding.
Much of pop art is rather academic, as the unconventional organizational practices used often make it difficult for some to understand. Pop art and minimalism are considered to be the last modern art movements and so the precursors to postmodern art, or some of the earliest examples of postmodern art themselves.





</doc>
<doc id="88910" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88910" title="Museum of Modern Art">
Museum of Modern Art

The Museum of Modern Art (MoMA) is a modern art museum in New York, New York, United States, on 53rd Street between Fifth and Sixth Avenues. It has been called the most important museum of modern art in the world. Some of the artists featured at the museum include Jackson Pollack, Vincent van Gogh, Andy Warhol, and Robert Indiana.



</doc>
<doc id="88928" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88928" title="Rankine scale">
Rankine scale

The Rankine scale is a thermodynamic (absolute) temperature scale. It is based around absolute zero. Rankine is similar to the Kelvin scale in that it starts at absolute zero and 0"°Ra" is the same as 0"K" but is different as a change of 1"°Ra" is the same as a change of 1"°F" (Fahrenheit) and not 1"°C" (Celsius). Note that the abbreviation "°R" is ambiguous, as it can also refer to the Réaumur scale. 

The Kelvin and Rankine temperature scales are defined so that absolute zero is 0 kelvins (K) or 0 degrees Rankine (°R). The Celsius and Fahrenheit scales are defined so that absolute zero is −273.15 °C or −459.67 °F.

The Rankine scale was originally used in the United States.


</doc>
<doc id="88941" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88941" title="Category:Sports in Los Angeles, California">
Category:Sports in Los Angeles, California


</doc>
<doc id="88942" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88942" title="Category:British in the American Revolutionary War">
Category:British in the American Revolutionary War


</doc>
<doc id="88943" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88943" title="Category:Los Angeles, California">
Category:Los Angeles, California


</doc>
<doc id="88945" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88945" title="Category:Roman Emperors">
Category:Roman Emperors


</doc>
<doc id="88948" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88948" title="Category:Cable Television">
Category:Cable Television


</doc>
<doc id="88951" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88951" title="Category:Bermuda">
Category:Bermuda


</doc>
<doc id="88953" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88953" title="Template:Guernsey">
Template:Guernsey


</doc>
<doc id="88954" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88954" title="Template:Jersey">
Template:Jersey


</doc>
<doc id="88957" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88957" title="High fidelity">
High fidelity

High fidelity or hi-fi is a way of describing a very good home music system. "High fidelity" means that the sound is as close to the original as possible with no changes or added noise. People who like hi-fi are sometimes called audiophiles. Hi-fi is often now called "high-end audio".

In the 1930s and 1940s, vacuum tubes were used to make radios and electronic amplifiers. Radio was becoming popular, and microphones, amplifiers and loudspeakers began to be sold. The manufacturers began to compete to produce the best product. A lot of research was done at Bell Laboratories and products were made by Western Electric.

Then a new kind of vinyl record with less noise and better sound was invented. The term "high fidelity" began to be used by manufacturers to help sell their new records and equipment. In the 1950s, "hi-fi" became the popular term, replacing "phonograph" and "record player". Rather than playing a record "on the phonograph," people would play it "on the hi-fi".

In the late 1950s and early 1960s, Westrex invented the stereo record that used two speakers. This led to more improvements in home audio. The word "stereo" replaced the word "hi-fi." Records were now played on "a stereo". 

Some people bought individual parts (separate speakers and amplifiers), and even built their own equipment. The term "high fidelity" is still used for very good music systems.



</doc>
<doc id="88958" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88958" title="Category:Tyne and Wear">
Category:Tyne and Wear


</doc>
<doc id="88959" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88959" title="Category:Metropolitan counties in England">
Category:Metropolitan counties in England


</doc>
<doc id="88967" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88967" title="Category:West Midlands">
Category:West Midlands


</doc>
<doc id="88968" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88968" title="Category:West Yorkshire">
Category:West Yorkshire


</doc>
<doc id="88969" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88969" title="Category:Merseyside">
Category:Merseyside


</doc>
<doc id="88973" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88973" title="Category:Cambridgeshire">
Category:Cambridgeshire


</doc>
<doc id="88981" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88981" title="Derby">
Derby

Derby is a city in the East Midlands region of England. It lies upon the banks of the River Derwent and is located in the south of Derbyshire. In the 2001 census, the population of the city was 233,700. According to the 2001 census, Derby was at that time the 18th largest place in England.

The city has Roman, Saxon and Viking origins. 

The Roman camp of 'Derventio' was probably near to Derby. The site of the old Roman fort is at Chester Green. Later the town was one of the 'Five Boroughs' of the Danelaw.

The town name is seen as 'Darby' or 'Darbye' on early modern maps, such as that of Speed (1610).

Modern research into the history and archaeology of Derby has provided evidence that the Vikings and Anglo-Saxons probably co-existed, occupying two areas of land surrounded by water. The Anglo-Saxon Chronicle (c. 900) says that "Derby is divided by water". These areas of land were known as Norþworþig and Deoraby, and were at the "Irongate" (north) side of Derby.

In World War I, Derby was targeted by German Zeppelin air bombers, who killed five people in a 1916 raid on the town.

All Saints Church was designated as a cathedral in 1927, signalling that the town was ready for city status.

Slum clearance in the 1920s and 1930s saw the center of Derby become less populated as families were rehoused on new council estates in the suburbs, where houses for sale were also built. Rehousing, council house building and private housing developments continued on a large scale for some 30 years after the end of World War II in 1945.

Derby became a high profile town internationally in sport following the appointment of Brian Clough as manager of Derby County F.C. in 1967. Promotion to the Football League First Division was achieved in 1969, and County won of the English league three years later. Following the Clough's resignation in 1973, his successor guided County to another league title in 1975, but this is the club's last major trophy to date; relegation followed in 1980 and top flight status was not regained until 1987, since when Derby have spent a total of 10 seasons (across two spells) in the top flight. The club moved from its century-old Baseball Ground in 1997 to the new Pride Park Stadium.

Derby was awarded city status on 7 June 1977 by Queen Elizabeth II. Until then, Derby had been one of the few towns in England with a cathedral but not city status.

Despite its strategic industries (rail and aero-engine), Derby suffered comparatively little damage in both world wars (contrast Bristol and Filton). This may in part have been due to the jamming of the German radio-beam navigations systems (X-Verfahren and Knickebein, camouflage and decoy techniques ('Starfish sites') were built, mainly south of the town, e.g. out in fields near Foremark.


Derby is home to several sports clubs. 

Derby's main football club is Derby County who've won the FA Cup and the Football League. There are also three senior non-league football clubs based in the city. Derby also had a short lived baseball team, which played at Derby's former ground.

Arthur Keily the marathon runner and Olympian was born in Derbyshire in 1921 and has lived his whole life in Derby. In Rome in 1960 he broke the English Olympic record, recording a time of 2hours 27mins.

Derby has the first public park in the country to have an arboretum, which lies to the south of the city centre. The arboretum was set up by the philanthropic landowner and industrialist Joseph Strutt in 1840. The arboretum's website states that the arboretum's design was the inspiration for the vision of great urban parks in the USA, notably Central Park in New York City.

There are four museums: Derby Museum and Art Gallery; Pickford's House Museum; The Silk Mill and The Royal Crown Derby Museum.


</doc>
<doc id="88983" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88983" title="Category:County Durham">
Category:County Durham


</doc>
<doc id="88984" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88984" title="Stereo">
Stereo

Stereophonic sound, also simply called stereo, is the reproduction of sound using two or more audio loudspeakers. This creates a pleasant and natural sound heard from various directions, as in natural hearing. 

The word "stereophonic" comes from Greek "stereos" = "solid" and "phōnē" = "sound". It was coined by Western Electric.

In popular usage, stereo usually means two-channel sound recording and sound reproduction using data from two speakers. The electronic device for playing back stereo sound is often called "a stereo".


</doc>
<doc id="88986" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88986" title="Ely, Cambridgeshire">
Ely, Cambridgeshire

Ely (; , rhyming with "freely") is a cathedral city in the East Cambridgeshire district of Cambridgeshire in the east of England and north north-east of Cambridge.

Ely has been called a city for a long time because it has a cathedral. But the Royal Charter making it a city was only issued in 1974. Ely's population was 15,102 in 2001. This means Ely is the third smallest city in England. Only after Wells in Somerset and the City of London) are smaller.

The University of Cambridge rowing team has a boathouse on the bank of the river and train there for the annual Boat Race against the University of Oxford.

The 1944 Boat Race was raced on the River Great Ouse near Ely, the only time it has not been held on the River Thames. The race was won by Oxford despite Cambridge being ahead early in the contest.


</doc>
<doc id="88987" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88987" title="Tube sound">
Tube sound

Tube sound (or valve sound) is the sound produced by a vacuum tube-based audio amplifier. All amplifiers distort to some degree; some audiophiles prefer the sound produced by tube-based amplifiers. The reasons for the difference in sound between tube and solid state electronic devices is a continuing debate among audiophiles.



</doc>
<doc id="88989" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88989" title="Template:Lang-cy">
Template:Lang-cy


</doc>
<doc id="88991" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88991" title="Category:Herefordshire">
Category:Herefordshire


</doc>
<doc id="88992" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88992" title="Derby (disambiguation)">
Derby (disambiguation)

Derby is the county town of Derbyshire. It may also refer to:

In Australia:

In South Africa:

In the United Kingdom:

In the United States:





</doc>
<doc id="88997" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88997" title="Gamma">
Gamma

Gamma is a Greek letter. Used as a symbol or name it may refer to:


The Greek letter gamma is used in both science and mathematics very often.








</doc>
<doc id="88998" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88998" title="Category:Leicestershire">
Category:Leicestershire


</doc>
<doc id="88999" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88999" title="Chi">
Chi

CHI could mean:


Chi could mean:


</doc>
<doc id="89000" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89000" title="Category:Lincolnshire">
Category:Lincolnshire


</doc>
<doc id="89003" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89003" title="Iota">
Iota

Iota is the ninth letter of the Greek alphabet.

Iota could also mean:


</doc>
<doc id="89007" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89007" title="Mu">
Mu

Mu can be:

μ is used as a symbol for:

In Asian languages:

Mu may also refer to:

MU may stand for:


</doc>
<doc id="89010" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89010" title="Nu">
Nu

Nu could mean:

In universities:

In other abbreviations:

In codes:

In music:


</doc>
<doc id="89012" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89012" title="Category:Norfolk">
Category:Norfolk


</doc>
<doc id="89013" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89013" title="Omega">
Omega

Omega is the last letter in the Greek alphabet. See that article for more uses of the upper case (Ω) or lower case (ω) letter as a symbol.

Omega could also mean:














</doc>
<doc id="89016" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89016" title="Phi">
Phi

Phi could mean:



</doc>
<doc id="89019" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89019" title="Category:Nottinghamshire">
Category:Nottinghamshire


</doc>
<doc id="89021" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89021" title="Category:Wiltshire">
Category:Wiltshire


</doc>
<doc id="89025" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89025" title="Category:Worcestershire">
Category:Worcestershire


</doc>
<doc id="89034" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89034" title="Pi">
Pi

Pi, formula_1, or π, is the mathematical constant equal to a circle's circumference divided by its diameter.

Pi may also refer to:




</doc>
<doc id="89035" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89035" title="Psi">
Psi

Psi could mean:




</doc>
<doc id="89038" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89038" title="Sampi">
Sampi

Sampi could mean:



</doc>
<doc id="89040" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89040" title="Sound recording">
Sound recording

Sound recording is the electrical or mechanical preservation of sound. Most recordings are of music or human speech, and they are usually for entertainment purposes, but sound is sometimes recorded for scientific or historical reasons. 

A recording medium is the object that a recording machine records onto, or the recording itself. Sound is recorded onto a medium, where it is stored and can be moved from place to place. The sound is recreated by "playing back" the recorded medium. Methods, machines, and media have changed much since sound was first recorded.

The two main kinds of sound recording are analog and digital recordings.

The first machines for recording sound were mechanical, not electrical. The phonograph was invented by Thomas Alva Edison in 1877. Phonographs had a rotating cylinder coated with a soft material such as tin foil, lead, wax, or amberol. Sound waves vibrated a small needle so that its motion carried the waves. As the cylinder rotated, the needle would draw the motion of the sound waves in the soft coating, making the cylinder a recording of the sound that was in the needle.

This recording could be played back by tracing another needle through the groove to reproduce the small vibrations in the playback needle. These vibrations could be amplified to create louder, more audible sound.

The phonograph was useful for making single recordings, but a big disadvantage was the difficulty of making copies of the cylinders.

This changed with the invention of the gramophone (also called the "phonograph" in American English) around 1888. The gramophone works in much the same way as the phonograph, but instead of a cylinder, the needle's grooves are etched into a disk record which rotated on a spinning table. Because the record media was flat, reproducing them was much simpler. Pressing the original recording onto a plate of shellac created a negative master, where the grooves stood out in relief instead of being pressed into the surface. The master could be used to produce many copies through the opposite process.

The first records were made mostly of rubber or shellac, but later copying processes created records from vinyl.

Originally, records spun at a rate of 78 rotations per minute, or 78 rpm. As technology improved, records could spin more slowly, but still reproduce sound better and play for longer amounts of time. 45 rpm became common in the middle 20th century, and by the late 1900s most records were 33 rpm. Records 

In the late 1930s the tape recorder appeared. Tape recorders use a magnetic tape as a medium, with a "recording head" to store the sound on the tape. Sound waves are converted into an electrical signal inside the recorder. This signal goes into the head, where it changes the polarity of very small magnets. Tape moves past the head at a constant speed, and its magnetic particles are rearranged by these magnets to a pattern that represents the sound wave. These magnetic patterns are much like the small grooves of a cylinder or disc record in the way that they represent the vibration energy of sound waves.

When a tape is played back, it runs past a "playback head" which reads the magnetic patterns off the tape and converts them back into an electrical signal. The electrical signal can then be converted into sound waves or copied to some other kind of sound-processing machine.

A magnetic tape is divided into several "tracks". Each track uses up part of the width of the tape, and can store a completely different recording that can be played back at the same time as the other tracks. A two-track tape has one track on half of the tape and another track on the other half. A four-track tape has four tracks all lying next to one another, like a highway with four lanes. Most tape recordings today are stereophonic (or "stereo"), meaning that they have two tracks which are meant to be played together. Usually one is played on the listener's left side and the other is on the listener's right side, to match the listener's two ears.

Early tapes were wound flat on a storage reel and transferred to a "take-up reel" as they were recorded or played. After recording or playback, they were "rewound" so that they were stored only on the storage reel. This kind of system is usually called "reel to reel" today. It is still used today for some professional recording and playback, but for home use reels were mostly replaced with other kinds of tape in the 1970s. Cassettes are small cartridges containing two reels inside. Cassettes move a four-track tape in either of two directions, corresponding to their "side A" and "side B" labels. The reel on the left contains the unplayed or unrecorded tape, and the reel on the right contains the tape that has already passed the recording or playback head. When you turn the cassette over, the tape still moves from left to right, but this is really the opposite direction. The "side A" recording plays two tracks as stereo, and the "side B" recording plays the other two.

Eight-track tapes were popular for a while in the 1970s and 1980s. Eight-tracks work much like cassettes, but the tape is a loop: it repeats after being played all the way through. Because it has eight tracks, there are four "programs" to select from, each in stereo. Eight-tracks are not very popular anymore, but can still be found in hobbyist collections.

Professional tape-recording systems may have even more tracks, or might use them differently. Usually a system like this is designed to allow someone to mix the tracks in different ways than they were originally recorded. However, there is a kind of recording called quadraphonic that uses four-track tape to play four different tracks at the same time. A good quadraphonic recording can sound much more "real" than stereo or monophonic recordings.

Tape recording technology was used from the early days of computing to store digital information. As computer technology improved, so did magnetic tape technology. In the 1980s Digital Audio Tape (DAT) technology emerged. DAT is designed to work much like cassette, except DAT's magnetic patterns represent digital data instead of sound vibrations. This digital data is a digital audio recording which can be copied and reproduced with many different computer systems. Moving to digital takes the medium one step farther from the original sound. Instead of being a sound medium, the DAT is a data medium, and the data is a sound medium. This is more technically complex, but also more flexible. DAT has been used for many kinds of data recording, in addition to sound.

The compact disc (CD) medium was developed in the 1980s as a new way to bring digital recordings of music to the market. Except for the introduction of the CD-ROM and several kinds of recordable CD, the CD has not changed much since then. Like DAT, it is a data medium rather than a way of recording vibrations directly. It was introduced to provide music in a way that is cheap for manufacturers but relatively high-quality, but it has since been adapted to meet many data-storage needs. Like DAT, the CD requires computer technology to record and to play.

By the 1990s, CDs had replaced cassettes and records as the main kind of commercial music media. Today, although CDs are still very popular, "online" digital recordings like MP3s are gaining fast.

The earliest methods of recording sound involved the live recording of the performance directly to the recording medium. This was an entirely mechanical process, often called "acoustical recording". The sound of the performers was captured by a diaphragm with the cutting needle connect to it. The needle made the grooves in the recording medium.

To make this process as efficient as possible the diaphragm was located at the apex of a cone and the performer(s) would crowd around the other end. If a performer was too loud then they would need to move back from the mouth of the cone to avoid drowning out the other performers. As a result of this, in early Jazz recordings a block of wood was used in place of the bass drum.

The advent of electrical recording made it possible to use microphones to capture the sound of the performance. The leading record labels switched to the electric microphone process in 1925, and most other record companies followed their lead by the end of the decade. Electrical recording increased the flexibity and sound quality. However once the performance was still cut to the recording medium, so if a mistake was made the recording was useless.

Electrical recording made it possible to record one part to disc and then play that back while playing another part, recording both parts to a second disc. This is called "over-dubbing". The first commercially issued records using over-dubbing were released by the Victor Talking Machine Company in the late 1920s. However overdubbing was of limited use until the advent of analogue audio tape. Use of tape overdubbing was pioneered by Les Paul and is called 'sound on sound' recording. In this way performances could be built up over time.

The analogue tape recorder made it possible to erase or record over a previous recording so that mistakes could be fixed. Another advantage of recording on tape is the ability to cut the tape and join it back together. This allows the recording to be edited. Pieces of the recording can be removed, or rearranged. See Audio editing

The advent of electronic instruments (especially keyboards and synthesisers), effects and other instruments has led to the importance of MIDI in recording. For example, using MIDI timecode, it is possible to have different equipment 'trigger' without direct human intervention at the time of recording.

In more recent times, computers (digital audio workstation) have found an increasing role in the recording studio, as their use eases the tasks of cutting and looping, as well as allowing for instantaneous changes, such as duplication of parts, the addition of affects and the rearranging of parts of the recording.




</doc>
<doc id="89041" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89041" title="San">
San

San or SAN (acronym) may refer to:

In mathematics:

In technology:

In biology:

In history:

In fiction:

In geography:

In organizations and groups:

In transportation:

In Music:

In other languages:


Other uses:


</doc>
<doc id="89042" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89042" title="Sho">
Sho

Sho could mean: 
Shō could mean several things:


</doc>
<doc id="89044" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89044" title="Stigma">
Stigma

Stigma (plural: stigmata) may refer to:

In biology:


In discrimination:


In literature:


In music:


In sociology:


In other fields:



</doc>
<doc id="89047" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89047" title="Theta">
Theta

Theta is the eighth Greek letter, written "Θ" (uppercase) or "θ" (lowercase).

Theta also refers to:



</doc>
<doc id="89049" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89049" title="Storage area network">
Storage area network

A Storage area network (SAN) is a computing solution for accessing and storing data. To the user, Storage Area Networks appear to be local to the operating system, but they are actually remote.

To understand the difference between a SAN and Network Attached Storage (NAS), the difference between the file system and storage must be made clear.

The file system is the interface that allows the user to access their data that is stored in physical storage (such as hard disks). From the point of view of the user, their data is saved as files. The file system takes care of storing the file data, which might actually be broken up into pieces and stored in different locations in storage.

On a personal computer, the file system and storage are on the same machine (Direct Attached Storage). In Network Attached Storage, the file system and storage are on a remote server. In a Storage Area Network, the file system is on the local machine, and the storage is on a remote machine.


</doc>
<doc id="89051" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89051" title="Zeta">
Zeta

Zeta or ZETA can refer to:








</doc>
<doc id="89054" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89054" title="Rings of Saturn">
Rings of Saturn

The rings of Saturn is the name of the rings around the planet
Saturn. They consist of countless small particles, ranging in size from microscopic to the size of a bus (or bigger) that form clumps that in turn move around Saturn. The particles in the rings are made almost entirely of water ice, with just a small amount of dust and other chemicals.


</doc>
<doc id="89055" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89055" title="Network-attached storage">
Network-attached storage

Network attached storage (or NAS) is a solution from computing. It means that storage (like a number of hard disks) is put on a computer network. Different users can then access this using different protocols. Today, boxes that already can do this are available rather cheaply. Also, such boxes can be built easily using a small or old computer with an operating system like Linux.

The different clients can then access the data using different protocols, like SMB or NFS. NAS is easier to do than a Storage area network.


</doc>
<doc id="89059" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89059" title="Category:Cities in Indiana">
Category:Cities in Indiana


</doc>
<doc id="89061" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89061" title="Category:Cities in the United States by state">
Category:Cities in the United States by state


</doc>
<doc id="89066" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89066" title="Category:Wikipedia users">
Category:Wikipedia users


</doc>
<doc id="89068" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89068" title="Category:All articles to be expanded">
Category:All articles to be expanded


</doc>
<doc id="89080" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89080" title="Template:Lang-eu">
Template:Lang-eu

"

</doc>
<doc id="89082" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89082" title="Republic of Lakotah">
Republic of Lakotah

A group of Native Americans decided to call the place where they live the Republic of Lakotah. This group is called the "Lakotah Freedom Delegation". They believe the Republic of Lakotah should be treated as a separate country, but at the moment, no other country in the world agrees that it is.

When white people first came to North America from Europe, the Lakotah people, who are a native tribe, had already been living there for thousands of years. The Lakotah legally had nothing to do with the USA until they made treaties (agreements) with each other in the 1800s.

Since then, the Lakotah people have lived inside the borders of the USA. On December 17, 2007, the Lakotah Freedom Delegation said that Lakotah should become a separate country again, as it was before they made treaties with the USA.

They drew up borders, which includes bits of North and South Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming and Montana. At the moment, most people consider these regions still to belong to the USA.

In December 2007, the group traveled to Washington, D.C. and spoke to the government. They announced that the Lakotah were withdrawing from the treaties they had with the USA. They said the USA had not been following the treaties and this had been causing problems on Lakotah land.

For example, the USA and the Lakotah made an agreement called the Treaty of Fort Laramie, which meant the Lakotah could keep the Black Hills. The Black Hills is a very sacred and special place for the Lakotah. But the USA broke the agreement and invaded the Black Hills when they found out that gold was buried there. Now the Black Hills is home to the famous mountain carvings of Mount Rushmore.

The group says that the Republic of Lakotah is not a new country, but a country that has just been revived. But some members of the Lakotah tribe complain that they were not told about the plans. Many of the leaders of the Lakotah tribe were not asked beforehand. Traditionally, a vote needs to be held if a treaty is going to be changed, and 75% of Lakotah males need to vote in favor of the change. But a vote was not held when the plans for the Republic of Lakotah were being made.

The group argues that Lakotah is allowed to be its own country, by law. They use the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties, Article Six of the United States Constitution and the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples to back up their plans.

The Lakotah Freedom Delegation say they might follow the example of the Philippines or the Marshall Islands, countries which used to belong to the United States but then achieved independence.

Anyone is allowed to be a citizen of the Republic of Lakotah as long as they give up their citizenship of the United States. The group plans to make its own passports and driving licenses.

The government will be run in the traditional Lakotah way. The elderly people, who receive a lot of respect in Lakotah tradition, will choose leaders to run the country.

At the moment, supporters of the Lakotah Freedom Delegation are arguing over the name of the country. Some people like the name "Republic of Lakotah", but others prefer "Lakotah Oyate". "Oyate" is the Lakotah word meaning "nation".

The government plans to use solar energy and wind power to make electricity, because these methods do not hurt the environment.

A place does not exist as a country until other countries in the world recognise its borders or its government, and treat it as a separate country. The Lakotah Freedom Delegation has contacted the embassies of Venezuela, Bolivia, Chile and South Africa, asking to be recognised as an independent country. The group has also mentioned Russia, Finland and Iceland, and said that Ireland and East Timor are interested in the plans. But at the moment, no other country in the world is treating Lakotah as a separate country.

The US government is unlikely to support the Republic of Lakotah because it means the USA will lose some land. They've said that the group's plans do not mean anything.


</doc>
<doc id="89087" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89087" title="Category:Bath and North East Somerset Unitary Authority">
Category:Bath and North East Somerset Unitary Authority


</doc>
<doc id="89091" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89091" title="Chanson">
Chanson

Chanson is the French word for "song". The word is often used in music to mean any song with French words, but it is more often used when talking about songs in which lyrics have been set to music by French classical composers.

Very often "chansons" refers to the French songs that were sung in the late Middle Ages and Renaissance. People who sang these chansons were called "chansonniers". They had various forms, including ballade, rondeau and virelai. Some composers at the time liked to set popular poetry to music. The earliest chansons were for two, three or four voices, many of them being for three voices. By the 16th century most were for four voices. Sometimes, the singers were accompanied by instruments. 

The first important composer of chansons was the medieval composer Guillaume de Machaut. In the Renaissance Guillaume Dufay and Gilles Binchois wrote many simple chansons. Later Johannes Ockeghem and Josquin des Prez composed chansons which had lots of imitation between the voices. Clément Janequin wrote more simple, homophonic chansons. He worked in the area around Paris. Later composers such as Orlando de Lassus were influenced by the Italian madrigal. The style of music started to be used in music for instruments.

The first book of sheet music printed from movable type was "Harmonice Musices Odhecaton", a collection of 96 chansons by many composers, published in Venice in 1501.

During the 16th century French songs started to be composed with lute or keyboard accompaniment. In the 19th century many composers wrote songs with piano accompaniment. These chansons were often called mélodies.

In France today "chanson" often refers to the work of more popular singers such as Georges Brassens, Jacques Brel, Édith Piaf, Camille, Olivia Ruiz.
French chansons of Jacques Brel have been translated and are interpreted in English by Arnold Johnston, Professor at West Michigan University. More than 100 chansons of Brel, Brassens, Barbara, Bécaud, Ferrat, Aznavour, Trenet et Ferré have been translated and are interpreted in German language by the Duo Stéphane & Didier (see www.deutsche-chanson-texte.de).



</doc>
<doc id="89092" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89092" title="A-type asteroid">
A-type asteroid

A-type asteroids are fairly uncommon closer asteroids that have a strong, broad 1 µm olivine feature and a very reddish spectrum shortwards of 0.7 µm. They are thought to come from the completely differentiated mantle of an asteroid.

A-type asteroids are so rare that as of 2005 only 17 had been found.



</doc>
<doc id="89093" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89093" title="C-type asteroid">
C-type asteroid

C-type asteroids are asteroids made of carbonates. They are the most common variety taking up around 75% of known asteroids, and an even higher percentage in the farther part of the belt beyond 2.7 AU, which is dominated by this asteroid type. The amount of C-types may actually be higher than this, because C-types are much darker than most other asteroid types except D-types and others common only at the extreme farther edge of the Main Belt.

This type of asteroid has very similar spectra to carbonaceous chondrite meteorites (types CI and CM), whose chemical make-up is about the same as the Sun and the primitive solar nebula, except that they do not contain hydrogen, helium and other volatiles. Hydrated (water-containing) minerals are present.

C-type asteroids are very dark with albedos usually in the 0.03 to 0.10 range. Consequently, whereas a number of S-types can normally be viewed with binoculars at opposition, even the biggest C-types require a small telescope. The potentially brightest C-type asteroid is 324 Bamberga, but that object's very high eccentricity means it rarely reaches its maximum magnitude.

Their spectra contain moderately strong ultraviolet absorption at wavelengths below about 0.4 μm to 0.5 μm, while at longer wavelengths they are very featureless but slightly reddish. The so-called "water" absorption feature around 3 μm, which can be a sign of water content in minerals is also present.

The biggest unequivocally C-type asteroid is 10 Hygiea, although the SMASS classification places the biggest asteroid 1 Ceres, here as well, because that scheme lacks a G-type.


</doc>
<doc id="89095" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89095" title="Marcus Aemilius Lepidus">
Marcus Aemilius Lepidus

Marcus Aemilius Lepidus (Born around 90 BC, died about 13 BC) was a Roman politician. He was one of the closest men to Julius Caesar. He was Caesar's deputy in Rome when Caesar was away from Rome defeating Pompey in the battle of Pharsalus in Greece. He served as "Pontifex Maximus" (High Priest) after Caesar's death. 

Together with Octavian and Mark Antony he formed the Second Triumvirate to oppose the conspirators. The Triumvirate was legally set up; its purpose was to sideline the Consuls and Senate, which means it was the effective end of the Roman Republic.

Lepidus was older than the other two triumvirs. After the Battle of Philippi, he governed Spain and part of North Africa. He was blamed for a revolt in Sicily, giving Octavian the excuse to strip him of all his offices, except for Pontifex Maximus. He died peacefully in exile in Circeii in Italy in the year 13 BC.


</doc>
<doc id="89097" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89097" title="Chicago (disambiguation)">
Chicago (disambiguation)

Chicago, Illinois is the third largest city in the United States of America.

"Chicago" may also mean:
There are several Chicago schools of thought, generally named after distinguished programs of the University of Chicago. These include:

In Entertainment:


</doc>
<doc id="89099" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89099" title="Category:Renaissance music">
Category:Renaissance music


</doc>
<doc id="89104" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89104" title="Category:Mobile phones">
Category:Mobile phones


</doc>
<doc id="89107" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89107" title="Template:Country data Andorra">
Template:Country data Andorra


</doc>
<doc id="89108" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89108" title="Template:Country data San Marino">
Template:Country data San Marino


</doc>
<doc id="89109" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89109" title="Template:Country data Vatican City">
Template:Country data Vatican City


</doc>
<doc id="89117" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89117" title="Lacrosse">
Lacrosse

Lacrosse, invented by the Native Americans, is a popular team sport in North America and a national summer sport for Canada. It involves the use of nets, or "heads" as they are called, which consist of a wooden or metal shaft with a net on the end. Hockey is a game based on this sport. 

Lacrosse has two teams, each with ten players. There is one goalie, three defensemen, three midfielders and three attackmen. The goalies defend the goals, and if the ball goes into the goal, the team who got the goal scores. Whoever scores he most goals by the end of the game wins, with an overtime period being played if the game is tied. The game has four quarters and starts with a "faceoff" at the beginning of each quarter. A faceoff is when the ball is on the ground to start the game, and one person from each team fights for the ball.


</doc>
<doc id="89118" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89118" title="Steve Reich">
Steve Reich

Steve Reich (Born October 3, 1936) is an American composer of music in the style of minimalism. He is known for his music made with tape recordings, and instrumental music with a steady beat (such as Music for 18 Musicians).

He also wrote pieces that used what is called a phasing technique. With phasing technique, two parts might be playing the same part but at slightly different speeds. It is almost like a canon, or round. He wrote pieces like these for piano, violin, and, again, for tape recordings. 


</doc>
<doc id="89124" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89124" title="Girl group">
Girl group

A girl group is a popular music show. It shows many young female singers who normally harmonise together.


</doc>
<doc id="89125" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89125" title="Category:Atlanta, Georgia">
Category:Atlanta, Georgia


</doc>
<doc id="89126" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89126" title="Category:IMDb templates">
Category:IMDb templates


</doc>
<doc id="89127" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89127" title="Category:Schools in Singapore">
Category:Schools in Singapore


</doc>
<doc id="89132" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89132" title="Heath Ledger">
Heath Ledger

Heathcliff Andrew Ledger (April 4, 1979 – January 22, 2008) was an Academy Award-winning Australian actor. After appearing on television during the 1990s, Ledger began working in Hollywood movies. He starred in many movies, including "The Patriot", "Monster's Ball", and "Brokeback Mountain". He played The Joker in "The Dark Knight". Ledger died in New York City on January 22, 2008. However, the final film he was in, The Imaginarium of Doctor Parnassus, came out in 2009. 

Heath Ledger was born in Perth, Western Australia. Ledger's mother is descended from the Clan Campbell of Scotland. Heath (Heathcliff) and his sister Katherine were named after the two main characters in Emily Brontë's "Wuthering Heights". Ledger attended Guildford Grammar School, where he had his first acting experiences. He starred in a school production as Peter Pan at age 10.

At sixteen, Ledger graduated school early to become an actor with girlfriend Jenna Sorrell. With his best friend, Trevor DiCarlo, Ledger drove across Australia to Sydney. He returned to Perth for the television series "Sweat" (1996). In this series, he played a gay cyclist.

In 1996, Ledger was involved in the short lived Fox Broadcasting Company fantasy-drama "Roar". In 1999, Ledger starred in the teen comedy "10 Things I Hate About You". He also had the lead role in the Australian movie "Two Hands", directed by Gregor Jordan.

From 2000 to 2005 he starred in "The Patriot", "Monster's Ball", "A Knight's Tale", "The Four Feathers", "Ned Kelly", "The Order", and "The Brothers Grimm". In 2001, he won a ShoWest Award for the "Male Star of Tomorrow" for on his work in "The Patriot" and "A Knight's Tale". In 2003, he was named one of Australian GQ's "Men of the Year" for acting.

Ledger received "Best Actor of 2005" awards from both the New York Film Critics Circle and the San Francisco Film Critics Circle for his acting in "Brokeback Mountain". In this movie he plays Wyoming ranchhand Ennis Del Mar, who is in love with rodeorider Jack Twist, played by Jake Gyllenhaal. He also received a nomination for Golden Globe "Best Actor in a Drama" and a nomination for Academy Award for Best Actor for this acting.

Also in 2005, Ledger played a version of Giacomo Casanova in "Casanova". The movie was a romantic comedy. It co-starred Sienna Miller.

In 2006, Ledger was asked to join the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. In 2007, he was one of six actors to play different sides of singer Bob Dylan in the movie "I'm Not There".

Ledger played comic book villain The Joker in "The Dark Knight". This is the sequel to the 2005 movie "Batman Begins". The movie was released on July 18, 2008.

Ledger started a record company with singer Ben Harper. In 2006, Ledger directed three music videos: "Cause an Effect" and "Seduction Is Evil (She's Hot)" for Australian hip-hop artist N'fa, as well as "Morning Yearning" for Ben Harper.

Ledger had problems with paparazzi photographers. It is said that he spat at and assaulted a photographer in Sydney in 2004. A relative of his also is said to have spat on a photographer in 2005. Ledger said this was not true.

Ledger caused problems after he was quoted in January 2006 in Australia's "Herald Sun" as saying that West Virginia had banned "Brokeback Mountain" (which it had not). He also said the state had lynchings as recently as the 1980s. These statements have been said to not be true by historians, who said that the last non-legal public hanging in West Virginia happened in 1931.

From August 2002 to April 2004, Ledger had a relationship with actress Naomi Watts. They met during the filming of "Ned Kelly". Before that, he had dated actresses Lisa Zane and Heather Graham.

Ledger was engaged to actress Michelle Williams, whom he met while filming "Brokeback Mountain". Their daughter, Matilda Rose, was born on October 28, 2005 in New York City.

In August 2007, "Us Weekly" said that Ledger and Williams ended their relationship. Neither Ledger nor Williams said the rumor was true at that time. In September 2007, Williams' father, Larry, told the "Sydney Daily Telegraph" that Ledger and Williams had separated.

Ledger was found dead in his apartment in the SoHo neighborhood of New York City on January 22, 2008. Ledger's body was found by a housekeeper and a massage therapist, who entered the bedroom to find him face down on the floor with sleeping pills on a nearby table. Police said that there were "no obvious signs" of suicide. They also did not think his death was caused by someone else.

On January 23, 2008, Ledger's parents and sister appeared outside Ledger's mother's house in Applecross, a Perth suburb, and read a short statement to the media:
Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd released a statement saying, "It was with great sadness that I have learned of the passing of Heath Ledger... It is tragic that we have lost one of our nation's finest actors in the prime of his life."




</doc>
<doc id="89136" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89136" title="Category:Grammy Awards">
Category:Grammy Awards


</doc>
<doc id="89137" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89137" title="Category:Grammy Award winners">
Category:Grammy Award winners

This category is for people who have won Grammy Awards.


</doc>
<doc id="89139" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89139" title="Exposure">
Exposure

Exposure can mean:



</doc>
<doc id="89141" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89141" title="Exposure (photography)">
Exposure (photography)

In photography, exposure is used to mean two things. Photograhic films or sensors have a certain senitivity. That means that a certain amount of light needs to be able to reach the film or sensor, before the image is correctly exposed. An exposure can also refer to a photo exposed that way.


</doc>
<doc id="89142" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89142" title="Bury (disambiguation)">
Bury (disambiguation)

Bury can mean the following:



</doc>
<doc id="89143" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89143" title="Metropolitan Borough of Bury">
Metropolitan Borough of Bury

The Metropolitan Borough of Bury is one of the ten Metropolitan boroughs in the metropolitan county of Greater Manchester.

It was set up in 1974 from the county borough of Bury and the boroughs of Prestwich and Radcliffe, along with the urban districts of Tottington and Whitefield, and part of the urban district of Ramsbottom.

The metropolitan borough, has an area of .




</doc>
<doc id="89145" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89145" title="Template:PoliticsUK">
Template:PoliticsUK


</doc>
<doc id="89146" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89146" title="Template:Politbox">
Template:Politbox

This template is used to create "Politics of "foo"" templates such as 

</noinclude>

</doc>
<doc id="89147" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89147" title="Template:Politics of the United Kingdom">
Template:Politics of the United Kingdom

!align=center style="background:#ccccff" width=182px |Her Majesty's Government
The Crown
The Privy Council
Cabinet
!align=center style="background:#ccccff" width=182px |Parliament
House of Lords
House of Commons
Her Majesty's Loyal Opposition
!align=center style="background:#ccccff" width=182px |Bureaucracy
The Civil Service
!align=center style="background:#ccccff" width=182px |Judiciary
Constitution
Human rights

</doc>
<doc id="89148" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89148" title="Template:Politicsboxend">
Template:Politicsboxend


</doc>
<doc id="89150" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89150" title="Politics of present-day nations and states">
Politics of present-day nations and states

Countries with articles using the Politics portal template format



</doc>
<doc id="89153" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89153" title="Category:Metropolitan boroughs">
Category:Metropolitan boroughs


</doc>
<doc id="89154" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89154" title="Template:Infobox UK District">
Template:Infobox UK District


</doc>
<doc id="89155" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89155" title="Template:English district control">
Template:English district control

 

</doc>
<doc id="89156" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89156" title="Template:English district density">
Template:English district density


</doc>
<doc id="89157" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89157" title="Template:English district population">
Template:English district population


</doc>
<doc id="89158" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89158" title="Template:English district rank">
Template:English district rank


</doc>
<doc id="89159" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89159" title="Template:Space">
Template:Space


</doc>
<doc id="89160" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89160" title="Template:Space/doc">
Template:Space/doc

<includeonly>

</includeonly>
This template can be used inline to create alignment between adjacent text lines, or to space out titles, etc. Like , it takes a numeric argument 'nn' after the pipe and provides that many consecutive spaces. Indent differs only in that it automatically begins a newline, then spaces over nn spaces.

<nowiki>, , etc. </nowiki>space and indent are limited to adding 30 spaces, and have a large-ish cost in pre-expansion template size from their logic. Using them repeatedly multiplies that cost on a page, so it is recommended that the particular 'switch line' be hand substituted in, once a "desirable format effect" is achieved, at least within a template.



</doc>
<doc id="89173" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89173" title="Metic">
Metic

In Ancient Greece, a metic (Greek: "metoikos") was a foreigner living in a Greek city-state ("polis"). The metic did not have the same citizen rights as a citizen who was born in the state he was living in.

The term 'metic' was especially used in ancient Athens in the 4th and 5th centuries BC. A notable metic was Aristotle, who was born in Stageira but lived in Athens for a long time.

Regardless of how many generations of the family had lived in the city, metics did not become citizens unless the city chose to bestow citizenship on them as a gift. This was rarely done. Citizenship at Athens brought eligibility for numerous state payments such as jury and assembly pay, which could be significant to working people. During emergencies the city could distribute rations to citizens. None of these rights were available to metics. They were not permitted to own real estate in Attica, whether farm or house, unless granted a special exemption. 

Metics shared the burdens of citizenship without any of its privileges. Like citizens, they had to perform military service and, if wealthy enough, were subject to special tax contributions. Citizenship was very rarely granted to metics. More common was the special status of "equal rights" ("isoteleia") under which they were freed from the usual liabilities. 

The system came to an end in Hellenistic Athens, when the purchase of citizenship became very frequent. The census of 317 BC gave 21,000 citizens, 10,000 metics and 400,000 slaves in Attica. 

In the Greco-Roman world, free people (non-citizens) living on the territory of a polis were called "paroikoi" (see etymology of parish), in Asia Minor "katoikoi".


</doc>
<doc id="89174" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89174" title="Category:Japanese manga artists">
Category:Japanese manga artists


</doc>
<doc id="89177" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89177" title="Democracy in Athens">
Democracy in Athens

Democracy in Ancient Athens was very different from modern democracy.

To be classed as a citizen in fifth-century Athens you had to be male, born from two Athenian parents and over eighteen years old. Women, slaves, metics and children were not allowed to become citizens.

Citizens could be involved in the running of Athens and could be elected for important positions (see The Boule (Council of 500)).

Athens had a direct democracy. This meant that each citizen had an equal say and opportunity in the governing of Athens. All of the citizens of Athens would meet on a hillside (the Pynx) 40 times a year to discuss how to run the city better.

All democratic countries now have an indirect democracy. This means we elect members of parliament to make decisions concerning government. There are now too many people in different countries for them to meet on a hillside, and many people are too busy to be able to go 40 times a year.

All citizens could attend forty meetings a year. Meetings were held on a hillside called the Pynx. People would stand on a raised platform called the bema to speak. Speakers wore a garland whilst speaking. Any citizen could speak.

All decisions concerning the running of Athens were decided here – taxes, war, policy, etc. Any decisions were made by a show of hands.

A black pig would be sacrificed to the gods at the start of the meeting to make sure the meeting went well.

Cleisthenes, a democratic reformer, divided Attica into ten tribes in 510 BC. The Boule was made up of 50 male Athenian citizens from each of the ten tribes (all over 30 years old). This meant that 500 men were elected, but only 50 served at any one time.


</doc>
<doc id="89199" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89199" title="Category:1529 deaths">
Category:1529 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="89200" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89200" title="Category:90s BC births">
Category:90s BC births


</doc>
<doc id="89201" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89201" title="Category:90s BC">
Category:90s BC


</doc>
<doc id="89202" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89202" title="Category:1386 births">
Category:1386 births


</doc>
<doc id="89203" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89203" title="Category:1466 deaths">
Category:1466 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="89204" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89204" title="Category:1750 births">
Category:1750 births


</doc>
<doc id="89205" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89205" title="Category:1722 births">
Category:1722 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1722.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="89211" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89211" title="Category:1703 births">
Category:1703 births


</doc>
<doc id="89212" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89212" title="Category:1675 deaths">
Category:1675 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="89213" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89213" title="Category:1505 deaths">
Category:1505 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="89214" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89214" title="Category:44 deaths">
Category:44 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="89216" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89216" title="Category:40s deaths">
Category:40s deaths


</doc>
<doc id="89217" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89217" title="Category:13 BC deaths">
Category:13 BC deaths


</doc>
<doc id="89218" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89218" title="Category:13 BC">
Category:13 BC


</doc>
<doc id="89222" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89222" title="Help:Making a signature">
Help:Making a signature

<noinclude>

Signatures are how you identify comments made on talk pages as your own. It is always shown when posting to talk pages with four tildes <nowiki>~~~~</nowiki> by default. This guide is to help you make your own custom signature that looks different than the default signature. If you would like to have your own custom signature, why not follow this handy guide to help you make one of your very own?

Before making your signature, please read .

Making a signature here is pretty simple, but there are a few things that you need to know first:

If you know these things, then continue on to the next section.

To make a userspace subpage, all you need to do is follow this nifty step-by-step guide:


When people make signatures, they mainly make user subpages with titles like sig1 or siggy or signature, like this: .

If you have this section down really well, continue onto the next section.

To code your own signature, you can follow these helpful tips in this section. This section will only cover the basic things you can do with your signature, as well as a few harder ones.

You notice how your default signature is just a simple red (if you don't have a userpage created yet) or blue link? Did you know that you can add color and other cool stuff to your signature to make it nifty looking? To do this, you need to know a bit of coding.

To add different colors to your signature, first, type in something like this:


This will make your signature appear like this: 
There are many other different colors you can choose from, like orange, red, green, blue, and also some variants, like gold, silver, grey, magenta, cyan, and so on. 

Another option you could use are hex numbers for colors. To use these, all you have to do is this:


An example of a hex code is 000000. 

You can also split the coding between the letters of your name, like this:


This would show up as:

A nice multi-colored signature is made using coding like this. You can also substitute in hex color coding wherever it says <nowiki></nowiki>

This section is the part that will take the longest to do, so make sure that you have some patience to get your signature the way you want it to look like.

Normally, when you sign a talk page with four tildes: <nowiki>~~~~</nowiki>, you get a blue link, but now that you have made your own signature, you are ready to make it so that when you sign using four tildes, your new signature is used instead. 

To do this, all you have to do is follow these simple steps:


This will make it so that when you sign talk pages, your new signature is used instead of the one that is set as the default.

If you are stuck with your signature and are in need of help to get it set right, or if you are one of those people that aren't very creative, or you just have no idea how to do this, you can ask any of these users for help:

Have fun making your own signatures!



</doc>
<doc id="89229" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89229" title="Gucci">
Gucci

Gucci, is an Italian fashion house (fashion design company).

It was started by Guccio Gucci (b.1881–d.1953) in Florence in 1921. Gucci is seen as one of the most famous, successful, and easily recognizable fashion brands in the world. Gucci is now owned by the French conglomerate company, Pinault-Printemps-Redoute (PPR).

BusinessWeek magazine says that Gucci made more than US$7 billion in 2006, and was 46th in the magazine's yearly "Top 100 Brands". For this reason Gucci is the second biggest selling fashion brand after LVMH. Most importantly Gucci is the biggest selling Italian brand in the world. Gucci has about 425 shops in the world and it sells its products to other shops by franchisees and department stores.

Gucci was started in 1906 by Guccio Gucci. In 1938, Gucci grew bigger, and a small shop opened in Rome. Guccio Gucci designed many of the company's famous clothes. In 1947, Gucci made the bamboo-handle handbag, which is still used. In the 1950s, Gucci also made the striped webbing (a type of material), and the suede and metal moccasin shoes.
Guccio Gucci's wife, Aida Calvelli had a large family, with six children, but only their sons (Vasco, Aldo, Ugo, and Rodolfo), not their daughters help lead the company. After Guccio's death in 1953, Aldo helped lead the company to being a major fashion shop in more than one country, opening the company’s first small shops in London, Paris, and New York. Even in Gucci’s younger years, the family was well-known for its arguments. Arguments about inheritances, stock holdings, and day-to-day operations of the shops often divided the family, and caused alliances to be made. Gucci grew in other countries. Gucci decided to grow a lot in East Asia in the late 1960s, opening shops in Hong Kong (China), Tokyo (Japan), and Korea. At that time, the company also made its famous GG logo (Guccio Gucci's initials), and the Flora silk scarf (worn most by Hollywood actress Grace Kelly), and the "Jackie O shoulder" bag, which was made famous by Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, the widow of U.S. President John F. Kennedy.

Gucci stayed as one of the biggest luxury clothes companies in the world, until the late 1970s, when some bad business decisions and family arguments almost made the company bankrupt. At the time, the brothers 'Aldo' and 'Rodolfo' controlled equal 50% shares of the company, but contributed less to the company than Guccio Gucci and all his sons did. In 1979, 'Aldo' made the 'Gucci Accessories Collection', or 'GAC', which was meant to increase sales for the Gucci Parfums sector, which his sons controlled. GAC sold small accessories, such as cosmetic bags, lighters, and pens, which were cheaper than the other items in the company’s accessories catalogue. Aldo relegated control of Parfums to his son Roberto in an effort to weaken Rodolfo’s control of the overall operations of the company.

Aldo Gucci grew into new markets, such as an agreement with American Motors Corporation (AMC), so that in 1972 AMC Hornet small "Sportabout" car became one of the first American cars to give a special luxury made by a famous fashion designer. The Gucci cars had striped green, red, and buff material inside, as well as the Gucci's logos and outside color selections.

The "Gucci Accessories Collection" was popular, but it brought the Gucci strength down. After a few years, the "Parfums section" started to sell better than the "Accessories section". The newly-made wholesaling business brought the once-exclusive brand to over a thousand stores in the United States alone with the GAC line, deteriorating the brand’s standing with fashionable customers. "In the 1960s and 1970s," writes Vanity Fair editor Graydon Carter, "Gucci had been at the pinnacle of chic, thanks to icons such as Audrey Hepburn, Grace Kelly, and Jacqueline Onassis. But by the 1980s, Gucci had lost its appeal, becoming a tacky airport brand."



</doc>
<doc id="89236" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89236" title="Ghoul">
Ghoul

A ghoul is a monster from ancient Arabian folklore. Ghouls live in burial grounds and other uninhabited places. The English word comes from the Arabic name for the creature: الغول "ghūl", which literally means "demon". The "ghul" is a devilish type of jinn believed to be sired by Iblis.

The female form is given as "ghouleh" in Muhawi and Kanaana (see ref below). The plural is "ghilan".

"Ghul" is also the name for shapeshifting demon that lives in the desert. The demon can take the form of an animal, especially a hyena. It lures unwary travellers into the desert. It will then kill and eat them. The creature also preys on young children, robs graves, and eats the dead. Because of this habit, the word "ghoul" is sometimes used to refer to an ordinary human such as a grave robber, or to anyone who likes the macabre. 
The star Algol takes its name from this creature.

In Iranian mythologies, Ghouls are creatures very similar humans, but larger. Usually they are less intelligent and not necessarily evil.
Most Persian speakers use Ghul to describe large people (figuratively "giants"). This may or may not be considered an insult, depending on the situation.

Ghouls and ghoul-like creatures have been portrayed in different ways in fiction, including a series of dark fantasy, short stories by Brian McNaughton, a Michael Slade novel, "Ghoul", Larry Niven's "Ringworld" series, J.K. Rowling's Harry Potter series, "The Chronicles of Narnia", the works of Caitlín R. Kiernan, Laurell K. Hamilton's Anita Blake series, and Jim Butcher's The Dresden Files.

Morlocks are a fictional species of cannibalistic ghouls, created by H. G. Wells for his 1895 novel, "The Time Machine". The Morlocks, as well as another supposed offshoot of humans, the Eloi, exist in the future world in the year 802,701 A.D. in "The Time Machine". 

Bram Stoker's 1897 novel "Dracula" has a character that acts much like a ghoul. The character is named Renfield. Under the vampire's influence, Renfield becomes his willing slave. He develops a craving to eat living creatures in the hope of obtaining their life-force for himself. After being confined to an asylum, he considers eating a human hospital orderly, but finds he can only capture and consume flies, spiders, and the occasional bird.

In the fiction of H. P. Lovecraft, a ghoul is a member of a nocturnal race that lives underground. Some ghouls were once human, but a diet of human corpses, and perhaps the tutelage of proper ghouls, changed them into horrific bestial humanoids. In the short story "Pickman's Model" (1927), the first of Lovecraft's ghoul stories, they are unutterably terrible monsters; however, in his earlier novella "The Dream-Quest of Unknown Kadath" (1926), the ghouls are somewhat less disturbing, even comical at times, and both helpful and loyal to the protagonist. Richard Upton Pickman, a noteworthy Boston painter who disappeared mysteriously in "Pickman's Model", appears as a ghoul himself in "Dream-Quest". Similar themes appear in "The Lurking Fear" (1922) and "The Rats in the Walls" (1924). Both of stories claim there are subterranean clans of degenerate, cannibals or carrion-eating humans.

In modern and contemporary fiction, ghouls are often confused with other types of undead, usually the mindless varieties of zombies. Although modern fiction (post-1954), particularly 1954's "I Am Legend", suggests that the latter beings share cannibalistic habits with ghouls, it is nonetheless generally believed that vampires and zombies prefer live prey.

In Frank Herbert's Dune series, a "Ghola" is a deceased person who has been brought back to life, via a secret, almost illegal Tleilaxu technology. Traditionally, the "Ghola" is stripped of memories from his or her past life and taught new skills. "Ghola" are often sold to nobles by the Tleilaxu as servants and retainers. Given their highly superstitious nature, Fremen are distrustful of ghola, despite the potential usefulness of the living dead. The ambiguity as to whether or not latent memories of the "old self" are still present in the ghola's mind is a long-drawn debate throughout the story. It has been suggested that the term "ghola" originates in Arabic, as do other terms in the Dune series.

Although many screenplays have featured ghouls, the first major motion picture of this theme was the 1933 British film entitled "The Ghoul". The actor Boris Karloff plays a dying Egyptologist who possesses an occult gem, known as The Eternal Light, which he believes will grant immortality if he is buried with it, and thereby able to present it to Anubis in the afterlife. Of course, his bickering covetous heirs and associates would rather keep the jewel for themselves. Karloff vows to rise from his grave and avenge himself against anyone who meddles with his plan, and he keeps this promise when one of his colleagues steals The Eternal Light after his death. 

In 1968, George A. Romero's film "Night of the Living Dead" combined reanimated corpses (zombies) with cannibalistic monsters (ghouls). With this, it created new film monsters more terrifying than either of the two alone. The term "ghoul" was the one actually used in the film. The term zombies came later, after the film was released. Romero had never thought of them that way; he said he thought of the Caribbean creatures, when he heard the term "zombies".

The 1976 Turkish film 'Milk Brothers' (original story by H. Rahmi Gurpinar's 'Ghoul') is a Turkish comedy. Here, a ghoul is a monster with extra power. Ghoul is a monster that was used to frighten little children in the old times, so here the ghoul is used to frighten not only little children, but as well big people.

The 1975 British film "The Ghoul" (unrelated to the Karloff film) stars Peter Cushing as a defrocked missionary whose son has developed a taste for human flesh while traveling in India. As the son's mind and body degenerate, Cushing has several young people dispatched and prepared as food for his offspring, whom he keeps locked up in the attic.

The 1975 anthology film "The Monster Club" featured a segment about a village of ghouls stumbled upon by an unwary traveller (Stuart Whitman), who temporarily escapes the creatures with the help of one half-human girl, but he is recaptured when it turns out that the ghouls have representatives inhabiting our normal human world.

In the anime and manga series "Hellsing", ghouls are zombie-like creatures that are created when a "chipped" (technological) vampire drains a victim to death, or, in the Manga, where a vampire drains the blood of someone who is not a virgin. If fatally wounded, they instantly crumble to dust. They are under the control of the vampire who bites them, eat human flesh, and are intelligent enough to use firearms. It is not rare to see a vampire make a small army of Ghouls for attack or defense.

"The Ghoul" is the stage name of Cleveland-area horror television host Ron Sweed.

The Batman comics-based franchise, including the 2005 movie, "Batman Begins", has an antagonist named, Rā's al-Ghūl, whose name derives from the original Arabic name for the star Algol in the constellation Perseus meaning "the monster's (i.e. Medusa's) head".




</doc>
<doc id="89237" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89237" title="Category:Computer graphics">
Category:Computer graphics


</doc>
<doc id="89240" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89240" title="Most Haunted">
Most Haunted

Most Haunted is a British paranormal television program based on investigating possible paranormal activity. It is shown on the satellite and cable channels Living, Living2 and Virgin 1 (Formerly Ftn), mainly for the UK market. It is also shown in the United States on the Travel Channel and on the W Channel in Australia. It is made by Antix Productions, and is led by Yvette Fielding and her husband Karl Beattie.

The show will start their 10th series on February 19, 2008. 

The team travel around the UK, and also Ireland, the Netherlands and the United States, investigating possible paranormal 'hotspots' for 24 hours.



Most Haunted has a main presenter, a psychic medium and a parapsychologist. The parapsychologist's role is to be the skeptic, and to give possible scientifical suggestions for the paranormal activity that happens during the night. These are supported by some of the production crew, who appear in the show and generally have some involvement with many parts of the investigation as they are performing their normal crew role. Most of these on-screen crew members also take part in séances.
The show has also featured guest mediums. So far these have been Ian Lawman, Ian Shillito, Gordon Smith, Uri Geller and Kevin Wade. Some episodes have also included at least one celebrity. So far celebrities have included Vic Reeves, Nancy Sorrell, Gaby Roslin, Scott Mills, Mark Chapman, Simon Gregson, Sue Cleaver, Carol Thatcher, Paul O'Grady and Lee Ryan.

The following is a list of former team and crew members who have given a lot of their time to the show.

Many times, former "psychic medium" Derek Acorah was possessed by a spirit, sometimes evil or sometimes "lost and confused". One such case that exposed Acorah was at Bodmin Gaol, Cornwall. Before the filming, Acorah had been fed misinformation about a non-existent ghost of Kreed Kafer by the show parapsychologist Dr. Ciaran O' Keeffe. During the investigation, which was later broadcast, he presented the information as fact and even behaved as though being possessed by the fictional ghost. O'Keeffe later revealed Kreed Kafer is an anagram of 'Derek Faker' in a national newspaper. Even though O' Keeffe exposed Acorah, the paper also claimed that O' Keeffe had exposed the rest of the Most Haunted team. O'Keeffe later reported that he had been grossly misquoted and misrepresented in the article, and produced a response outlining his version of the show based on his observations and findings, saying he had exposed Derek Acorah and NOT Most Haunted. The show's presenter and executive producer, Yvette Fielding said in an interview that she believes it was a fake possession. 

Although not mentioned by O'Keeffe, the Mirror article also brought into question unedited footage which appeared to show Fielding and Karl Beattie faking 'paranormal' occurrences such as ghostly bumps and knocks. Fielding denied the claims. Thus far none of this footage has come to light, leading to the belief that the Mirror's claims were false. Videos purporting to show the team faking paranormal activity have often popped up on the web but are conclusively show nothing damning.

Further controversy centred on Derek Acorah again in the West Country, this time in Devon. On the first night filming "Terror in Torbay", Acorah mentioned a woman incarcerated by her jealous sister in the cellar of Lupton House, even coming up with the names Margaret and Eleanor. In this case, the facts were right, but the location was wrong. This is the well-known legend of Berry Pomeroy Castle which was to be the last night's location. On the final night, at Berry Pomeroy, Fielding reminded Acorah that he had mentioned the incarcerated sister two nights prior. Acorah glossed over his mistake and changed the subject.




</doc>
<doc id="89242" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89242" title="List of Most Haunted episodes">
List of Most Haunted episodes

Most Haunted is a British television programme based on a group of paranormal investigators (people who investigate things) going and doing paranormal investigations of places. The following is a list of episodes and locations for the series since it began in 2002.


Note: Most of these episodes were only 30 minutes long, however, some have been made the full hour and titled 'Most Haunted Unseen'. Footage added has a note that says that it is not part of the original broadcast. The first episode to be produced, and the last to appear in the series was "Michelham Priory". In Series 8, the team revisited this location to mark the 100th episode.

Note: Phil Whyman left at the end of the 4th Series.

Note: David Wells became a medium on this show in this series alongside the long-time favorite, Derek Acorah. This was the last series that Derek Acorah would be the medium in and he did not appear in the final episode at Sinai House. The original run for Series 6 was only to be 18 episodes, with the last 11 as Series 7, but due to the leaving of Acorah, the series was made longer.

Note: The last 3 episodes were meant to be from Series 7, but were made part of the eighth series. They are known as the "lost episodes" and had more guest showings from Medium Gordon Smith. Also appearing were Ian Lawman, Ian Shillito and Kevin Wade. Richard Felix departed the programme after Series 8 because their producers dropped his role from the show.

Note: The series became known as New Most Haunted after Episode 4 in the television listings on screen, with the word 'New' covering the corner of the logo for the show.


</doc>
<doc id="89243" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89243" title="Template:Pokémon">
Template:Pokémon


</doc>
<doc id="89250" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89250" title="Yvette Fielding">
Yvette Fielding

Yvette Fielding (born 23 September 1968, Stockport, England) is an English television presenter. She is the presenter of the shows "Most Haunted", "Most Haunted Live!" and "Ghosthunting with...". She is also the executive producer of the shows.

Yvette was educated at Pownall Green Primary School and Bramhall High School in Bramhall, Stockport, in Greater Manchester and Poynton. She also attended Hillcrest Grammar School, Davenport.

Fielding presented the children's television show, "Blue Peter" from 1987 to 1992, and was the youngest ever person to do so; she was only 18 years old when she started. Previously, she had acted in the children's television comedy series "Seaview".

Since leaving "Blue Peter", Fielding has worked on television shows such as "What's Up Doc?", "Heaven and Earth", "The General" and "City Hospital", and also had acting roles in "Last of the Summer Wine" (making an appearance in the series while making a "Blue Peter" report on the show) and "Juliet Bravo". She also appeared as a regular alongside Fred Dineage and Toyah Willcox on a property-pricing based game-show called "Under Offer" made for Meridian Television.

She is to appear in a guest-role in the popular BBC drama "Holby City" in 2007 and appeared in the ITV2 reality television programme "Deadline", finishing second.

Since 2002, Yvette Fielding and her husband Karl Beattie have both made "Most Haunted" for the British TV channel Living through their production company, "Antix." Viewers can see Fielding at many possible haunted locations around Britain, in the hopes for paranormal activity that could be caught on film.

Fielding and her husband have a daughter, Mary.

Eccentric British pop duo, Astrojade, started their musical career with a song titled "Yvette Fielding" as a homage to her and "Most Haunted".

She likes cars and has 3 Aston Martins, a Land Rover and a Range Rover.



</doc>
<doc id="89252" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89252" title="Category:Stockport, Greater Manchester">
Category:Stockport, Greater Manchester


</doc>
<doc id="89257" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89257" title="Category:Montreal, Quebec">
Category:Montreal, Quebec


</doc>
<doc id="89262" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89262" title="Category:Vancouver, British Columbia">
Category:Vancouver, British Columbia


</doc>
<doc id="89269" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89269" title="Category:House music record labels">
Category:House music record labels


</doc>
<doc id="89271" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89271" title="Category:Dance music record labels">
Category:Dance music record labels


</doc>
<doc id="89274" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89274" title="Eurotrash">
Eurotrash

Eurotrash could mean:


</doc>
<doc id="89278" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89278" title="Category:Cities in Delaware">
Category:Cities in Delaware


</doc>
<doc id="89280" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89280" title="Category:Cities in Iowa">
Category:Cities in Iowa


</doc>
<doc id="89281" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89281" title="Category:Cities in Rhode Island">
Category:Cities in Rhode Island


</doc>
<doc id="89287" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89287" title="Category:Victoria, British Columbia">
Category:Victoria, British Columbia


</doc>
<doc id="89300" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89300" title="Anarchopedia">
Anarchopedia

Anarchopedia is an online encyclopedia. The encyclopedia started in September of 2004. People can create accounts, log in using their accounts and create new articles. Anarchopedia called itself ""the first anarchist wiki encyclopedia"".

The project of "Anarchopedia" is present in about 30 different languages like English, Italian, Spanish, German and Swedish.



</doc>
<doc id="89303" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89303" title="ASUS Eee PC">
ASUS Eee PC

The ASUS Eee PC is a very small laptop made by ASUS and Intel. It is designed to have a light weight and low price. It runs Linux as its operating system.

The name "Eee" (pronounced as the letter "e", IPA /iː/) comes from "the three Es," ASUS used in their advertisements for the device: "Easy to learn, Easy to work, Easy to play".



</doc>
<doc id="89304" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89304" title="Tutsan">
Tutsan

Tutsan () is a bushy Eurasian shrub with golden yellow flowers. Its fruit are red berries, which turn black when they are fully ripe. The leaves and flowers of the plant grow and blossom in the spring and are shed in the fall. Its scientific name is "Hypericum androsaemum" L. The Tutsan has medical properties. A similar plant to it is the H. perforatum.


</doc>
<doc id="89306" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89306" title="Telluride Bluegrass Festival">
Telluride Bluegrass Festival

The Telluride Bluegrass Festival is an annual music festival held in Telluride, a town in the state of Colorado. The festival is put on by Planet Bluegrass. The festival mainly focuses on bluegrass music. It has had artists in the past such as Nickel Creek, Bela Fleck, and Chris Thile.



</doc>
<doc id="89315" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89315" title="Template:Infobox pro wrestling championship">
Template:Infobox pro wrestling championship


</doc>
<doc id="89316" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89316" title="Template:Small">
Template:Small


</doc>
<doc id="89317" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89317" title="Template:Infobox championship/doc">
Template:Infobox championship/doc

"This Infobox is found at:WWE Championship"

<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="89320" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89320" title="Template:WWE Championships">
Template:WWE Championships


</doc>
<doc id="89328" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89328" title="List of current champions in WWE">
List of current champions in WWE

The following is a list of all current champions in World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE), as of 09, 2017. There are seven active singles championships: the WWE Championship, World Heavyweight Championship, Intercontinental Championship, United States Championship, Women's Championship and Divas Championship ; as well as two tag team championships: the World and WWE Tag Team Championships. There are eleven wrestlers that hold these championships on the company's two brands: Raw, SmackDown. The list includes the number of times the wrestler has held the title, the date and location of the win, and a description of the winning bout.

At the top of WWE's championship hierarchy, the WWE Championship is currently held by John Cena while Jack Swagger is the current holder of the World Heavyweight Championship. Cena is in his seventh reign as WWE Champion, having defeated the former champion Batista at WrestleMania XXVI. Jack Swagger, who is in his first reign as World Heavyweight Champion, won the championship on the March 30, 2010 taping of "SmackDown" (aired on tape delay on April 2), defeating the former champion Chris Jericho after cashing in his Money in the Bank briefcase.

The two secondary titles in WWE are the WWE Intercontinental Championship and the WWE United States Championship. The current WWE Intercontinental Champion is Drew McIntyre, who is in his first reign after winning the title from John Morrison at TLC: Tables, Ladders & Chairs on December 13, 2009. The Miz is the reigning WWE United States Champion, and is in his first reign after defeating Kofi Kingston on the October 5, 2009 episode of "Raw".

There are two championships that are challenged by WWE Divas. Beth Phoenix is presently in her third reign as WWE Women's Champion as a result of defeating Michelle McCool at Extreme Rules (2010) on April 25, 2010. The WWE Divas Championship is currently held by Eve, in her first reign, after defeating Maryse on the April 12, 2010 episode of "Raw".

Finally The Hart Dynasty (David Hart Smith and Tyson Kidd) are the current holders of both the World Tag Team Championship and the WWE Tag Team Championship (the titles now referred to as the "Unified WWE Tag Team Championship"), they are in their first reign after defeating the former champions ShoMiz (The Big Show and The Miz) on the April 26, 2010 episode of "Raw" during the 2010 WWE Draft.







</doc>
<doc id="89337" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89337" title="Template:Hidden begin">
Template:Hidden begin

<includeonly><div class="NavContent" style="display:none; background-color:; text-align:; "></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="89338" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89338" title="Template:Hidden begin-end/doc">
Template:Hidden begin-end/doc

<includeonly></includeonly>

<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="89339" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89339" title="Template:Hidden end">
Template:Hidden end

</div></div>

</doc>
<doc id="89340" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89340" title="Template:Hidden end/doc">
Template:Hidden end/doc

<includeonly>
</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="89342" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89342" title="Template:The Professional Wrestling Star">
Template:The Professional Wrestling Star


</doc>
<doc id="89347" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89347" title="Template:Infobox wrestling event">
Template:Infobox wrestling event


</doc>
<doc id="89348" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89348" title="Template:WWEPPV">
Template:WWEPPV


</doc>
<doc id="89350" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89350" title="Template:PW time">
Template:PW time

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="89355" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89355" title="Non-governmental organizations">
Non-governmental organizations

A non-governmental organization (NGO) is an organization which is created by private persons or organizations which are not part of the government.


</doc>
<doc id="89356" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89356" title="Complutense University of Madrid">
Complutense University of Madrid

The Complutense University of Madrid (, UCM) is one of the oldest universities in the world and the top public university in Spain. It is located on a sprawling campus that occupies the entirety of the Ciudad Universitaria district of Madrid, with annexes in the district of Somosaguas in the neighbouring city of Pozuelo de Alarcón.

According to the annual university rankings conducted by "El Mundo", the Complutense University ranks as the top public university in Spain.


</doc>
<doc id="89357" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89357" title="Category:Laptops">
Category:Laptops


</doc>
<doc id="89366" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89366" title="Category:Sunderland, Tyne and Wear">
Category:Sunderland, Tyne and Wear


</doc>
<doc id="89368" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89368" title="Template:Location map Tyne and Wear">
Template:Location map Tyne and Wear

Tyne and Wear

</doc>
<doc id="89375" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89375" title="Category:South Tyneside, Tyne and Wear">
Category:South Tyneside, Tyne and Wear


</doc>
<doc id="89376" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89376" title="Category:Newcastle, Tyne and Wear">
Category:Newcastle, Tyne and Wear


</doc>
<doc id="89378" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89378" title="Category:Manchester, Greater Manchester">
Category:Manchester, Greater Manchester


</doc>
<doc id="89386" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89386" title="Category:Cities in New Hampshire">
Category:Cities in New Hampshire


</doc>
<doc id="89387" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89387" title="Category:Cities in West Virginia">
Category:Cities in West Virginia


</doc>
<doc id="89388" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89388" title="Category:Cities in Hawaii">
Category:Cities in Hawaii


</doc>
<doc id="89400" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89400" title="Category:Xbox">
Category:Xbox


</doc>
<doc id="89405" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89405" title="Category:Video games by console">
Category:Video games by console


</doc>
<doc id="89411" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89411" title="Category:Sheffield">
Category:Sheffield


</doc>
<doc id="89418" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89418" title="Category:Colleges and universities in Connecticut">
Category:Colleges and universities in Connecticut


</doc>
<doc id="89422" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89422" title="Category:Cities in Vermont">
Category:Cities in Vermont


</doc>
<doc id="89423" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89423" title="Opera">
Opera

Opera is a drama set to music. An opera is like a play in which everything is sung instead of spoken. Operas are usually performed in opera houses. The singers who sing and act out the story are on the stage, and the orchestra is in front of the stage but lower down, in the orchestra pit, so that the audience can see the stage.

An opera is normally divided into two, three, four or even five acts. In older operas the music was mostly recitative and arias. During the recitative things would happen in the story. The aria was a song for a solo singer, a setting of a lyric. As well as recitative and aria there would be choruses. The chorus were a group of singers who sing in the crowd scenes. The opera would start with an overture for the orchestra. The overture would usually include tunes that are going to be heard later in the opera. 

In operas from the 19th century onwards there is often little or no difference between recitative and aria. Composers like Wagner wanted to get away from operas which had lots of separate arias in which the singers showed off, with the audience clapping loudly after each one. He wanted continuous music so that the mood would not be broken.

Sometimes operas have a lot of dancing in them. French opera especially would often have one act which was full of dances.

Not all operas have music all the time.

Grand opera is opera which is all set to music.

Opéra buffe (French) or Opera buffa (Italian) is comic opera. The story is very light-hearted and funny.

Opéra comique is a French term for opera which has some spoken words. Surprisingly it does not mean a “comic” opera. An opera like "Carmen", which is a tragedy, is still an opéra comique due to the fact that it uses spoken dialogues instead of recitatives.

Singspiel is a German term for a type of opera with lots of magic and fantasy in the story. There were spoken words between the songs. Mozart’s "Magic Flute" is an example.

Operetta is a short opera which is light-hearted and usually has some spoken words.

Opera singers have to have powerful voices as well as a good technique. Most opera houses are very big, and the singers need to be heard at the back. They also need to be good at acting. They need to be able to learn their music quickly and to sing from memory. It is a help to be good at languages because operas are often in Italian, German, French, English or Russian etc. Some opera companies, like the English National Opera, sing their operas in English. Others, like the Royal Opera House, sing operas in whatever language they were composed in. Translations are printed on a screen above the front of the stage ("subtitles") so that the audience can understand what is being sung.

Although singers train to get a wide range (good top and bottom notes) they cannot be expected to sing any role in their voice range. For example: some sopranos may have big, dramatic voices, suitable for parts like Tosca in Puccini’s opera "Tosca". Some may have a very light and high voice, called “coloratura”, suitable for parts like the Queen of the Night in Mozart’s "Magic Flute". Some may have a medium range, called mezzo-soprano, suitable for parts like Carmen in Bizet’s opera "Carmen".

Very often in opera the heroine is a soprano and the hero is a tenor. Basses may often have the part of a powerful king, or he may be the bad guy.

The 18th century lexicographer and critic Dr Johnson described opera as an “exotic and irrational entertainment”. By “exotic” he meant that it came from a foreign country (which in those days was true: all opera at the time came from Italy). By “irrational” he meant that the things which happened in the stories were strange and not like real life. A play can be like real life, but an opera is being sung, so things are not going to happen like they normally do in real life. A singer might be singing “I must go, I must go!” and he may stand on the stage and sing this for several minutes before at last he goes! A singer may be pretending to die, and will sing a beautiful song before he or she finally dies. These things are “conventions”, which means that they are a kind of habit we have to accept when watching and listening to opera. Another convention of earlier operas was to have the part of young men sung by women. This is sometimes called a breeches role or trouser role. They are often small parts such as page boys, or teenagers who flirt with older women, such as the part of Cherubino in Mozart’s " The Marriage of Figaro" or Oktavian in Richard Strauss’s "Der Rosenkavalier". It should be remembered that in the 18th century it was usual for the main female part to be sung by a man who was a castrato. That seems a very strange (and cruel) convention to us now.

There are lots of famous operas, and the best ones have some of the greatest music ever written. The music could not have been written like that if it had not been written for opera. For example: Mozart is very clever at writing music where maybe six people are all singing different things at once because they all have different ideas about the situation in the story.

The first opera ever written was performed in 1597 in Florence in Italy. It was called "Dafne" and the composer was Jacopo Peri. This opera is now lost, but three years later, in 1600, he worked together with another composer called Giulio Caccini to write an opera called "Euridice". The music for this still exists. It was nearly all recitative. This kind of writing was new, but if opera was to tell a story it was important to have a solo voice singing words that could be heard. They were trying to produce something like an ancient Greek tragedy. It was performed at a kind of club, called “camerata”, for intellectual (clever) people to a small audience. It was not great music, but the amazing thing was that there was a composer of genius around. His name was Claudio Monteverdi, and only seven years later, in 1607, he wrote the first really good opera: "Orfeo", which was produced in Mantua. Monteverdi must have realized that opera had the possibilities of putting poetry, music, scenery and acting all together. He took the kind of songs that were popular at the time and joined them with speaking or recitative. Later in life he joined these so that the music flowed more dramatically.

In 1637 the first public opera house was opened in Venice. Soon lots of theatres in Italy started to produce operas. The stories were usually about ancient times, like the Roman Empire or Greek myths. They started to put in comic (funny) bits to make people laugh. Soon there was opera in Paris, Vienna, Hamburg and in the small courts of Germany which in those days was lots of little countries, each with their own prince who ruled and who kept musicians at court. The composers who are best remembered today include Jean-Baptiste Lully (1632-1687) who was an Italian who moved to France and wrote operas for the French king, and George Frideric Handel (1685-1759) who was a German who moved to England and wrote operas for the opera houses in London. In Italy there were composers like Francesco Cavalli (1602-1676) who had been a choirboy in Monteverdi’s church choir in Venice, and Alessandro Scarlatti 1660-1725 who lived in Naples.

During this period, known as the Baroque period, the opera was an entertainment for the upper classes who went to the opera to be seen in public. Opera was a social occasion where you could meet people and talk, even during the music. Both the singers and the audience behaved in ways that we would think were bad manners.

Christoph Willibald Gluck was a composer who tried to make people take opera more seriously. In 1762 he wrote an opera called "Orfeo" which was performed in Vienna. It had lots of choruses and ballet numbers, like French opera, but the words were in Italian and the music really concentrated on the story rather than being just a display for clever singers to show off. Some of its music is very famous today, e.g. the "Dance of the Blessed Spirits" which is played on a flute, and Orfeo’s aria "Che faró senza Euridice?" ("What shall I do without Euridice?").

Mozart learned from Gluck’s ideas about opera. This can be seen in his opera "Idomeneo" which is about a Greek story. Other Italian operas by Mozart include: "Don Giovanni", "Le Nozze di Figaro" and "Cosi fan tutte". He also wrote operas in German: "The Abduction from the Serail" and "The Magic Flute". These are Singspiel: operas which tell magic and fantasy stories.

Ludwig van Beethoven (1770-1827) only wrote one opera: "Fidelio". It is a story of a woman who rescues her lover from prison. Rescue operas were popular in France, but this one is in German. It is a serious opera about how a woman can save a man by being true and faithful.

In the 19th century Richard Wagner (1813-1883) continued Gluck’s ideas. Wagner had very personal ideas about how his operas should be performed, and he liked to train the singers himself. He wanted them to take the drama of his operas seriously instead of treating the music as a way of showing off their voices. He always wrote the libretti (words for the opera) himself, and they were always in German. They are mostly about serious subjects from German folklore and myths, although he did write one comic opera: "The Mastersingers of Nürnberg". Wagner used “leitmotifs” which means that there are tunes which are used for particular characters or ideas in the opera. This allows the music to develop with the story, and can be used in interesting ways. For example: when Sigmund (in the opera "Die Walküre") says that he does not know who his father is, we hear his father’s tune in the orchestra! The audience, of course, know (this is called: dramatic irony).

In Italy Gioachino Rossini (1792-1868) wrote lots of operas. There was no difference in style between his comic and his serious operas. Often the same overture was used for both. He wrote exactly all the notes that the singers were to sing, he did not want to leave it to them to improvise their own ornamental notes. Everything was carefully thought out. Musicians are not sure whether to call him a Classical or Romantic composer. Composers like Vincenzo Bellini (1801-1835) and Gaetano Donizetti (1797-1848) are definitely Romantic. They had the ability to write lovely lyrical tunes. The most famous Italian opera composer of the 19th century was Giuseppe Verdi (1813-1901). His music is not always continuous like Wagner’s. Sometimes it stopped for the audience to applaud. Verdi had a wonderful sense of drama, and could write beautiful melodies which captured people’s hearts. He loved Shakespeare, and based several of his operas on Shakespeare plays: "Otello", "Macbeth" and "Falstaff". 

The 19th century was the time when Nationalism was important. Composers were writing music typical of their own countries. Wagner, as we have seen, took German myths for his opera stories. In Spain they had their own kind of opera called “zarzuela”. In Russia Mikhail Glinka (1804-1857) wrote "Ruslan and Lyudmila" which was based on a Russian fairy tale. Other Russian composers include Alexander Borodin who wrote "Prince Igor", and Modest Mussorgsky (1839-1881) who wrote "Boris Godunov". Both these operas are about stories from Russian history. Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov (1844-1908) wrote a fairy tale opera "Sadko", and Pyotr Tchaikovsky (1840-1893) used some very Russian tunes in "Eugene Onegin" and "The Queen of Spades". 

Czech composers wrote national operas. The most famous Czech opera composers were Antonín Dvořák (1841-1904), Bedřich Smetana (1824-1884) and Leoš Janáček (1854-1928). In France the most famous composer was Charles Gounod (1818-1893) who wrote an opera called "Faust".

In the 20th century composers had many different styles of composing. This was true of all kinds of music, including opera. Richard Strauss (1864-1949) was really a Romantic, although almost all his operas were written in the 20th century. His harmonies show that he had studied Wagner’s operas. "Der Rosenkavalier" (1909) has lots of romantic tunes, although it is a story about Vienna in the Classical period. In Italy composers like Giacomo Puccini (1858-1924) wrote operas in the verismo style. This meant operas with stories that felt like real life. The characters in the stories were usually from the lower classes. 

Alban Berg (1885-1935) also wrote operas about poor or simple people. He wrote an opera called "Wozzeck" which is the tragedy of a man who is too simple to understand that people are being unkind to him and using him. Berg’s music is often built on the twelve tone series which he had learned from Schoenberg. Stravinsky’s (1882-1971) "The Rake's Progress" is in yet another style called Neo-classical because the music is made to sound a bit like music of the Classical Period. In England Britten wrote many great operas like "Peter Grimes" and "Billy Budd". Most of them are about unfortunate people who want to be part of society but are not accepted. 

More recent composers who wrote operas include the Hungarian Győrgy Ligeti (1923-2006), the Polish Krzysztof Penderecki (b.1933), the English Sir Harrison Birtwistle and the Americans Philip Glass (b.1937) and John Adams (b.1947).


</doc>
<doc id="89424" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89424" title="Category:Cities in Montana">
Category:Cities in Montana


</doc>
<doc id="89426" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89426" title="Category:Cities in Idaho">
Category:Cities in Idaho


</doc>
<doc id="89427" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89427" title="Category:East Midlands region of England">
Category:East Midlands region of England


</doc>
<doc id="89428" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89428" title="Category:Official Regions of England">
Category:Official Regions of England


</doc>
<doc id="89437" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89437" title="West Sussex">
West Sussex

In 1974 the old county of Sussex was split into East Sussex and West Sussex.

Unlike many of the changes made by the Local Government Act 1972, the new counties are popular with the local people.


</doc>
<doc id="89438" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89438" title="Avon (county)">
Avon (county)

Avon was a county in southwest England. It was not popular, and was broken up between parts of Somerset, Bristol and Gloucestershire


</doc>
<doc id="89439" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89439" title="Hereford and Worcester">
Hereford and Worcester

Hereford and Worcester was a county in England set up after 1974. It was not popular because Hereford and Worcester used to be two separate counties.

In 1997, the county was split up in Hereford and Worcester again


</doc>
<doc id="89440" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89440" title="Humberside">
Humberside

Humberside was a non-metropolitan county of England. It was set up in 1974.

It was not popular, because the north and south banks of the Humber used to be in different counties, and there were no links between the two. 

Even the building of the Humber Bridge, the longest bridge in Europe at the time, did not encourage the two sides of the river to mix.


</doc>
<doc id="89441" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89441" title="Dave Farrell">
Dave Farrell

David Michael Farrell (born February 8, 1977), also known as Phoenix, is Linkin Park’s bassist and backup vocalist.

Farrell was born in Plymouth, Massachusetts, but when he was five he moved to Mission Viejo, California where he attended Mission Viejo High School. He graduated in 1999 at the University of California, Los Angeles. He can play bass guitar, electric guitar, cello and violin.

Farrell was a member of a Christian punk/ska band called Tasty Snax. While he was at the college, he shared the room with his friend Brad Delson, and they practiced together. 

He had to go in tour with the Tasty Snax so he could not play with Delson and his band. Then, Farrell left his band to play bass with Linkin Park. Farrell's fellow band mate Mark Fiore became Linkin Park's videographer. 



</doc>
<doc id="89442" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89442" title="Category:East of England region">
Category:East of England region


</doc>
<doc id="89443" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89443" title="Audi">
Audi

Audi AG is a German automobile manufacturer with headquarters in Ingolstadt, Bavaria, and has been an almost wholly owned (99.7%) subsidiary of the Volkswagen Group since 1964.

Audi make many cars, such as:


</doc>
<doc id="89447" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89447" title="Category:North East region of England">
Category:North East region of England


</doc>
<doc id="89448" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89448" title="Category:South West England region">
Category:South West England region


</doc>
<doc id="89449" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89449" title="Category:South East England region">
Category:South East England region


</doc>
<doc id="89451" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89451" title="Category:North West England region">
Category:North West England region


</doc>
<doc id="89452" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89452" title="Category:Yorkshire and Humberside region of England">
Category:Yorkshire and Humberside region of England


</doc>
<doc id="89454" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89454" title="Armani">
Armani

Armani, is an Italian fashion house (fashion designer company). It started in Milan in 1975 by Giorgio Armani and Sergio Galeotti, with $10,000. The company designs and makes several different types of things, including fashion accessories, clothing, cosmetics, fragrances, home decorations, jewelry, glasses, and watches. 

These are sold with several different named labels such as:

"Armani Collezioni" is a high-class label from fashion designer Giorgio Armani. The label is more expensive than the "Armani Exchange", "Armani Jeans" and "Emporio Armani" labels but less expensive than the "Giorgio Armani" label(sometimes named the "Armani black label") and "Armani Privé". 

The label is usually for older buyers who do not want new designs, but has older high quality clothes. 

It replaced the "Giorgio Armni Le Collezioni" line. As well as being sold as the only product in some small shops, it is also sold in expensive department stores such as Harrods, Harvey Nichols, David Jones, Nordstrom and Neiman Marcus.

"Emporio Armani" is an Armani label that is for younger adults. The label is the third cheapest Armani label and can be bought at its 13 American small shops and more than 140 small shops in total in the world, making it the largest sold Armani label. Products by this label include quick and easy to wear clothes, sunglasses, perfume, accessories and watches. The line is considered a "bridge line" as it features higher-end products than "Armani Exchange" or "Armani Jeans" but is not as expensive as the exclusive "Armani Collezioni" or "Giorgio Armani" ('black label') lines. "Emporio Armani" is sold in small shops that only sell "Emporio Armani", and also in expensive department stores, and through their online shops.

"Armani Exchange" (often "A|X") was made in 1991. It is for younger buyers, often in their older teenage years. It uses city fashion, quick and easy to wear clothes, especially T-shirts, jeans, polos, and sports coats. Armani Exchange is the cheapest of all the Armani labels and is mainly sold in the USA.
The label has 69 shops and 6 outlets in the United States and over 50 shops in other countries. The UK's first shops opened at Bluewater in Kent, "The Trafford Centre" in Manchester and in the Metquater in Liverpool.

At the end of 2005, sales were $1.69 billion. 

Today, the company has 4,700 workers and 13 factories in the world. It has nearly 300 shops in the world, which are in 36 different countries. The company has started a very high-class collection named Armani Privé, which can be seen in the "Haute Couture fashion week" in Paris.

Armani agreed in 2004 with Emaar Properties to make some expensive hotels in some big cities, such as London, Paris, New York, Tokyo, Shanghai, Dubai and Milan. The company already has many cafes in the world, as well as a bar, a restaurant and a nightclub.

Emaar Hotels agreed to build and operate at least seven expensive hotels and three holiday resorts under the "Armani" name. Armani would design the inside of the buildings and the style of the hotels. The first hotel in Dubai is thought to be ready in early 2008.

The bottom 37 floors of the Burj Khalifa skyscraper in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, will have the world's first Armani Hotel, and Giorgio Armani is also designing the inside of the skyscraper.


</doc>
<doc id="89455" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89455" title="List of Linux distributions">
List of Linux distributions

Linux can be changed, so there are many versions and distributions of Linux, each containing different software or made for different purposes. A list of distributions can be found below:

Debian is a distribution that only accepts free software. It is supported on many hardware platforms.

Knoppix is itself based on Debian.

Ubuntu is based on Debian.
Gentoo is a distribution designed to have highly optimized and frequently updated software.

Red Hat Linux and SUSE Linux were the original major distributions that used the RPM file format, which is today used in several package management systems. Both of these later divided into commercial and community-supported distributions.

Slackware is known as a highly customizable distribution,generally considered a distribution for expert users.
SLAX's distributions are known for be really good in branch of quality.

The following distributions either use another packaging system, do not use any, or are simply not categorized.


</doc>
<doc id="89459" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89459" title="Giorgio Armani">
Giorgio Armani

Giorgio Armani (born in 11 July 1934) is an Italian fashion designer. He is mainly famous for designing men's clothes. He made his company, Armani, in 1974, and in 2001 was said to be the most successful designer to come from Italy, with a yearly turnover of $1.691 billion, and having $4.1 billion.



</doc>
<doc id="89465" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89465" title="Calenzano">
Calenzano

Calenzano is a "comune" (municipality) in the province of Florence in the Italian region Tuscany. It is located about 11 km northwest of Florence. Calenano has an area of 76.9 km² and a population of 15,557 inhabitants.

Calenzano borders the following municipalities: Barberino di Mugello, Campi Bisenzio, Prato, San Piero a Sieve, Sesto Fiorentino, Vaglia, Vaiano.


Calenzano has a station on the regional railway connecting it to Prato, Florence, Pistoia and Lucca. It can be reached by road from the highway "A1". Buses connect Calenzano to Prato, Florence, Campi Bisenzio and Barberino di Mugello.





</doc>
<doc id="89466" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89466" title="Giorgio Armani (disambiguation)">
Giorgio Armani (disambiguation)

Giorgio Armani can mean:



</doc>
<doc id="89484" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89484" title="Silk tree">
Silk tree

Silk tree Albizia julibrissin is a species of genus "Albizia" from southeast and east Asia, from east Iran to China and Korea.
This Genus honoring Italian noble Filippo del Albizzi, who introduce it in Europe at middle XVIII century, sometimes incorrectly named ""Albizzia"". The specific name "julibrissin" is a corruption of farsi "Gul-i Abrisham" (گل ابریشم) meaning silktree, by its flowers ("Gul" گل is "flower" and "Abrisham" ابریشم means "silk").


</doc>
<doc id="89486" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89486" title="Template:Television colour">
Template:Television colour

<includeonly><nowiki>#</nowiki>C6C9FF</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="89487" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89487" title="Template:Television colour/doc">
Template:Television colour/doc

Please do not modify this template without first discussing colour choice on the talk page to gain consensus — colour choices *must* be neutral and accepted by consensus. This template is automatically used by and to guarantee consistent colour usage and easier colour usage administration. Not every show should have its own colour — we want to avoid creating skittlepedia.

<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="89488" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89488" title="Template:Infobox Television/doc">
Template:Infobox Television/doc

Parameters with * are required fields. Link people if they have articles.
<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="89497" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89497" title="Category:Wikipedians in Wisconsin">
Category:Wikipedians in Wisconsin


</doc>
<doc id="89500" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89500" title="Template:Future film">
Template:Future film

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="89503" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89503" title="Template:Will &amp; Grace series">
Template:Will &amp; Grace series


</doc>
<doc id="89506" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89506" title="Corbin Bleu">
Corbin Bleu

Corbin Bleu (born 1989) is an American actor and singer. He appears as Chad in High School Musical, High School Musical 2 and . He was a guest star as one of Miley's friends, Johnny Collins, in Hannah Montana and as Spencer in Ned's Declassified School Survival Guide. He also works in Disney Channel's original movie, "Jump in" working with Keke Palmer ("Akeelah and the Bee").


</doc>
<doc id="89507" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89507" title="Lucas Grabeel">
Lucas Grabeel

Lucas Grabeel (born November 23, 1984) is an American actor, singer and songwriter. He works in Disney Channel's original movies, "High School Musical" and "High School Musical 2" plays Ryan Evans (Sharpay's brother).
He is also known for playing a role in Halloweentown high and return to halloweentown.


</doc>
<doc id="89508" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89508" title="Template:CopyNotice">
Template:CopyNotice


</doc>
<doc id="89515" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89515" title="Micrometre">
Micrometre

A micrometre (the American spelling is micrometer; symbol is µm) is a unit of length in the SI measurement system. It can also be called a micron. It is one millionth of a metre. 

A micrometre is often used as a measurement for cells like bacteria because bacteria are very small also.

A micron is very small.


</doc>
<doc id="89521" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89521" title="Template:Iw">
Template:Iw


</doc>
<doc id="89537" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89537" title="Detention">
Detention

A detention can be:



</doc>
<doc id="89546" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89546" title="Trochenbrod">
Trochenbrod

Trochenbrod or Trochinbrod in Russian () was a Jewish shtetl (village) with an area 1,728 acres once located in what is now western Ukraine, about 30 kilometers northeast of Lutsk. It used to be a part of Poland. It was also known as Sofievka or Zofiówka in Polish, named after Sofia, a Russian princess who donated land for the Jewish settlement. 

Trochenbrod was founded in 1835, at first a farming colony which grew into a small town. The population grew from around 1,200 (235 families) in 1889 to 1,580 in 1897.

During the Polish-Soviet War, the town was captured by Poland. By 1938 the town's population, which was only Jewish, had grown to at least 3,000. Most of the people worked in farming, dairy farming, or tanning. 

There were seven synagogues in Trochenbrod. In 1940, the town, along with the rest of Western Ukraine, became part of the Soviet Union (see Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact). The rabbi at this time was Rabbi Gershon Weissmann. The Communists exiled him to Siberia after accusing him of being involved in underground salt trading.

When the Nazis later occupied Ukraine, they created a ghetto at Trochenbrod, bringing in Jews from nearby villages and towns. The Jews in the Trochenbrod ghetto were killed by the Nazis in August and September 1942. Most of the Jews of Trochenbrod as well as of the neighbouring village Lozisht were killed, as were the other Jews of Volhynia. The local Ukrainian police force helped to round up the Jews. Fewer than 200 Jews from the Trochenbrod ghetto and nearby areas lived through this killing. The village itself was burned. Now only fields and a forest can be found there.

A few of the people escaped the execution and destruction. At the end of the war, the number of people left was between 33 and 40; most were found in the area near Lutzk.

A fictional version of the shtetl, "Trachimbrod", was featured in the 2002 novel "Everything Is Illuminated" by Jonathan Safran Foer as well as in the 2005 film based on the novel.

Safran Foer's story describes fictional events in the village between 1791, the year in which the shtetl was first named, and 1941, when it was destroyed in the war. The main character of the book (who goes by the author's name and also by the name "The Hero") comes to Ukraine to look for a woman named Augustine, who saved his grandfather in the war.




</doc>
<doc id="89562" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89562" title="Judith">
Judith

Judith is a Christian women's given name, which comes from Hebrew word Yəhûḏîṯ, meaning either "praised one" or "a woman from Judea". The name's popularity goes back to the story told below.

In the first half of the 1st millennium BC, an Assyrian king, Nebuchadnezzar, wanted to conquer Israel. An Israeli woman, called Judith, went to Nebuchadnezzar's general, Holofernes, and offered that she will have sex with him. Holofernes used to drink wine before sex. When he was drunk, Judith cut off his head and saved Israel.


</doc>
<doc id="89575" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89575" title="Category:Wikipedians in Dar es Salaam">
Category:Wikipedians in Dar es Salaam


</doc>
<doc id="89578" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89578" title="Category:Wikipedians in the European Union">
Category:Wikipedians in the European Union


</doc>
<doc id="89581" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89581" title="Template:User Dar es Salaam">
Template:User Dar es Salaam


</doc>
<doc id="89587" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89587" title="Category:West Midlands of England region">
Category:West Midlands of England region


</doc>
<doc id="89588" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89588" title="Category:East Sussex">
Category:East Sussex


</doc>
<doc id="89589" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89589" title="Category:District and Borough Councils in England">
Category:District and Borough Councils in England


</doc>
<doc id="89593" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89593" title="Category:District and Borough Councils in Gloucestershire">
Category:District and Borough Councils in Gloucestershire


</doc>
<doc id="89594" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89594" title="Quinto, Switzerland">
Quinto, Switzerland

Quinto is a municipality of the district Leventina in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.



</doc>
<doc id="89595" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89595" title="Rancate">
Rancate

Rancate is a municipality of the district Mendrisio in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="89596" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89596" title="Category:District and borough councils in Somerset">
Category:District and borough councils in Somerset


</doc>
<doc id="89597" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89597" title="Riva San Vitale">
Riva San Vitale

Riva San Vitale is a municipality of the district Mendrisio in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="89598" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89598" title="Rivera (disambiguation)">
Rivera (disambiguation)

Rivera is a surname of Spanish beginnings that was the old spelling of "ribera", the Spanish word for “riverbank”.





</doc>
<doc id="89599" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89599" title="Rivera, Switzerland">
Rivera, Switzerland

Rivera is a municipality of the district Lugano in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.



</doc>
<doc id="89600" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89600" title="Category:District and borough councils in England">
Category:District and borough councils in England


</doc>
<doc id="89601" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89601" title="Ronco sopra Ascona">
Ronco sopra Ascona

Ronco sopra Ascona is a municipality of the district Locarno in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="89602" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89602" title="Rovio">
Rovio

Rovio is a municipality of the district Lugano in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="89607" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89607" title="San Nazzaro, Switzerland">
San Nazzaro, Switzerland

San Nazzaro is a municipality of the district Locarno in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.



</doc>
<doc id="89609" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89609" title="Sant'Abbondio">
Sant'Abbondio

Sant`Abbondio is a municipality of the district Locarno in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.



</doc>
<doc id="89610" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89610" title="Sant'Antonino">
Sant'Antonino

Sant'Antonino is a municipality of the district Bellinzona in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.

Sant'Antonino is not to be confused with the municipality of Sant'Antonio in the same district.



</doc>
<doc id="89611" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89611" title="Sant'Antonio">
Sant'Antonio

Sant'Antonio is a municipality of the district Bellinzona in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland. 

This municipality is not to be confused with the municipality of Sant'Antonino of the same district.



</doc>
<doc id="89612" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89612" title="Category:American television series">
Category:American television series


</doc>
<doc id="89613" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89613" title="Savosa">
Savosa

Savosa is a municipality of the district Lugano in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.



</doc>
<doc id="89614" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89614" title="Sementina">
Sementina

Sementina is a municipality of the district Bellinzona in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="89615" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89615" title="Semione">
Semione

Semione is a municipality of the district Blenio in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="89616" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89616" title="Category:Unitary authorities in Dorset">
Category:Unitary authorities in Dorset


</doc>
<doc id="89618" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89618" title="Sessa">
Sessa

Sessa is a municipality of the district Lugano in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.



</doc>
<doc id="89619" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89619" title="Sigirino">
Sigirino

Sigirino is a municipality of the district Lugano in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="89620" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89620" title="Sobrio">
Sobrio

Sobrio is a municipality of the district Leventina in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.



</doc>
<doc id="89622" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89622" title="Sonogno">
Sonogno

Sonogno is a municipality of the district Locarno in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland. It can be found in Valle Verzasca.



</doc>
<doc id="89623" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89623" title="Category:Unitary authorities in Devon">
Category:Unitary authorities in Devon


</doc>
<doc id="89624" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89624" title="Sonvico">
Sonvico

Sonvico is a municipality of the district Lugano in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland. 



</doc>
<doc id="89626" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89626" title="Category:982 births">
Category:982 births


</doc>
<doc id="89627" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89627" title="Category:982">
Category:982


</doc>
<doc id="89628" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89628" title="Sorengo">
Sorengo

Sorengo is a municipality of the district Lugano in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland. Lago di Muzzano can be found in this municipality.



</doc>
<doc id="89629" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89629" title="Lago di Muzzano">
Lago di Muzzano

Lago di Muzzano is a lake in Ticino, Switzerland. It can be found in the municipalities of Sorengo, Muzzano and Collina d'Oro. Its surface area is 0.23 km². It flows into Lake Lugano.


</doc>
<doc id="89630" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89630" title="Category:District and borough councils in Shropshire">
Category:District and borough councils in Shropshire


</doc>
<doc id="89633" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89633" title="Category:Cities in Arkansas">
Category:Cities in Arkansas


</doc>
<doc id="89635" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89635" title="Nidfurn">
Nidfurn

Nidfurn is a village and former municipality in the canton of Glarus, Switzerland.

It used to be its own municipality, until it was put together with 2 other municipalities to form Haslen.


</doc>
<doc id="89636" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89636" title="Leuggelbach">
Leuggelbach

Leuggelbach is a village in the canton of Glarus, Switzerland.

It used to be its own municipality, until it was put together with 2 other municipalities to form the new municipality, Haslen.


</doc>
<doc id="89637" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89637" title="Category:Villages in Glarus">
Category:Villages in Glarus


</doc>
<doc id="89638" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89638" title="Category:Villages in Ticino">
Category:Villages in Ticino


</doc>
<doc id="89639" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89639" title="Category:Villages in Switzerland">
Category:Villages in Switzerland


</doc>
<doc id="89641" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89641" title="Category:Miami, Florida">
Category:Miami, Florida


</doc>
<doc id="89642" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89642" title="Agra, Switzerland">
Agra, Switzerland

Agra is a village in the canton of Ticino, Switzerland.

This former municipality was put together with two other villages to form the new municipality of Collina d'Oro.


</doc>
<doc id="89643" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89643" title="Template:Category redirect">
Template:Category redirect

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="89646" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89646" title="Category:Category redirects">
Category:Category redirects


</doc>
<doc id="89647" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89647" title="Gentilino">
Gentilino

Gentilino is a village in the canton of Ticino, Switzerland.

The former municipality was merged together with two other villages to form the new municipality of Collina d'Oro.


</doc>
<doc id="89648" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89648" title="Category:Derbyshire">
Category:Derbyshire


</doc>
<doc id="89650" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89650" title="Category:Tampa, Florida">
Category:Tampa, Florida


</doc>
<doc id="89652" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89652" title="Category:Phoenix, Arizona">
Category:Phoenix, Arizona


</doc>
<doc id="89660" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89660" title="Category:San Diego, California">
Category:San Diego, California

This category is for articles deal with the city of San Diego, California. It includes the city itself as well as articles on things within the city or associated with the city.


</doc>
<doc id="89661" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89661" title="Category:San Francisco, California">
Category:San Francisco, California


</doc>
<doc id="89664" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89664" title="Category:Sonoma County, California">
Category:Sonoma County, California

For articles related to Sonoma County, California.


</doc>
<doc id="89669" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89669" title="Category:Islands of Hawaii">
Category:Islands of Hawaii

Twenty separate islands and atolls are part of the state of Hawaii.


</doc>
<doc id="89670" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89670" title="Category:Islands of the United States">
Category:Islands of the United States


</doc>
<doc id="89671" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89671" title="Category:Islands of Florida">
Category:Islands of Florida


</doc>
<doc id="89677" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89677" title="Category:Volcanoes in Hawaii">
Category:Volcanoes in Hawaii


</doc>
<doc id="89678" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89678" title="Category:Chicago, Illinois">
Category:Chicago, Illinois

Category for articles related to the American city of Chicago, Illinois.


</doc>
<doc id="89679" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89679" title="Category:Colleges and universities in Illinois">
Category:Colleges and universities in Illinois


</doc>
<doc id="89683" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89683" title="Category:Colleges and universities in Massachusetts">
Category:Colleges and universities in Massachusetts


</doc>
<doc id="89684" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89684" title="Category:Colleges and universities in New York">
Category:Colleges and universities in New York


</doc>
<doc id="89686" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89686" title="Category:Colleges and universities in California">
Category:Colleges and universities in California


</doc>
<doc id="89688" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89688" title="Category:Colleges and universities in Ohio">
Category:Colleges and universities in Ohio


</doc>
<doc id="89691" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89691" title="Category:Colleges and universities in Florida">
Category:Colleges and universities in Florida


</doc>
<doc id="89692" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89692" title="Category:Colleges and universities in North Carolina">
Category:Colleges and universities in North Carolina


</doc>
<doc id="89695" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89695" title="Category:Colleges and universities in Washington">
Category:Colleges and universities in Washington


</doc>
<doc id="89698" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89698" title="Category:New Orleans, Louisiana">
Category:New Orleans, Louisiana


</doc>
<doc id="89700" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89700" title="Category:Detroit, Michigan">
Category:Detroit, Michigan


</doc>
<doc id="89702" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89702" title="Category:Boston, Massachusetts">
Category:Boston, Massachusetts


</doc>
<doc id="89706" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89706" title="Munro (disambiguation)">
Munro (disambiguation)

A Munro is any Scottish mountain with a height over 3,000 feet (914.4 metres).

Munro could also mean:




</doc>
<doc id="89709" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89709" title="Brave New World (disambiguation)">
Brave New World (disambiguation)

The phrase "brave new world" comes from Miranda's speech in Shakespeare's "The Tempest", Act V, Scene I:

It could also mean:

In literature:

In film and television:

In music:

Other meanings:


</doc>
<doc id="89711" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89711" title="Category:St. Louis, Missouri">
Category:St. Louis, Missouri


</doc>
<doc id="89713" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89713" title="Category:Buffalo, New York">
Category:Buffalo, New York

This is a category is for things related to Buffalo, New York.


</doc>
<doc id="89714" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89714" title="Miranda (Shakespeare)">
Miranda (Shakespeare)

In Shakespeare's play "The Tempest", Miranda is the beautiful daughter of the old Duke Prospero.

Miranda is a naive 15 year old girl. She and her Father were cast away by her uncle Antonio who wanted the throne and has been on a deserted island since she was 3. Her father Prospero sends Ariel, his spirit servant, to fetch Ferdinand and arranges things so that the two will come to love one another. 


</doc>
<doc id="89715" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89715" title="Category:Cleveland, Ohio">
Category:Cleveland, Ohio

Articles about the American city of Cleveland, Ohio.


</doc>
<doc id="89718" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89718" title="Category:Columbus, Ohio">
Category:Columbus, Ohio

This is a category that for things related to Columbus, Ohio.


</doc>
<doc id="89721" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89721" title="Category:Philadelphia, Pennsylvania">
Category:Philadelphia, Pennsylvania


</doc>
<doc id="89723" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89723" title="Category:Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania">
Category:Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania


</doc>
<doc id="89724" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89724" title="Category:Dallas, Texas">
Category:Dallas, Texas


</doc>
<doc id="89725" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89725" title="Category:Houston, Texas">
Category:Houston, Texas


</doc>
<doc id="89729" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89729" title="Homograph">
Homograph

A homograph is one of a group of words that have the same spelling but have different meanings. They can also have different pronunciations.

For example:


</doc>
<doc id="89740" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89740" title="Orlande de Lassus">
Orlande de Lassus

Orlande de Lassus (whose name is also spelt Orlandus Lassus, Orlando di Lasso, Roland de Lassus, or Roland Delattre) (born Mons, Hainaut, probably in 1532 ; died Munich, 14 June, 1594) was a Franco-Flemish composer who lived in the last part of the Renaissance. Lassus and Palestrina are the two most famous composers of that time who were writing church music in a polyphonic style. 

He was born in Mons in the province of Hainaut in the Low Countries which is mostly what is today the south part of the Netherlands and Belgium. We know very little about his childhood. There is a story that, when he was a choirboy, he was abducted three times by another church who wanted him to sing in their choir because he had a beautiful voice. There is no proof that this story is true.. At the age of twelve he left his country and went to Mantua, Sicily, and later to Milan in Italy and then to Naples where he worked until the early 1550s. Next he moved to Rome, where he worked for the Grand Duke of Tuscany, who had a large household there. In 1553, he became "maestro di cappella" of the Basilica di San Giovanni in Laterano in Rome. This was an excellent job for a man who was only 21 years old. However, he only stayed there a year. Later, in 1555, Palestrina took that job. Lassus left Rome to go home to the Low Countries to see his parents who were ill, but by the time he got home they were both dead.

We are not sure what he did between then and 1554. He may have gone to France and England. In 1555 he returned to the Low Countries and had some of his first works published in Antwerp. In 1556 he joined the court of Duke Albert V of Bavaria who was very keen on music and was trying to make music in his country as good as the music in Italy. Lassus was one of several Netherlanders to work there, and by far the most famous. He seems to have been happy in Munich and he stayed there. In 1558 he married the daughter of a maid of honour of the Duchess; they had two sons who both became composers. By 1563 Lassus had been made "maestro di cappella". He stayed there for the rest of his life, although several other kings and aristocrats offered him jobs in other places. He had many honours, including being knighted by the Pope.

In 1590 his health started to be bad. In 1594 his employer decided it was costing him too much to employ Lassus, so he wrote a letter to him to say that he was dismissed (that he no longer had a job). Lassus never saw the letter, because that very same day he died.

Lassus composed a lot of church music. He had to compose masses for the morning and evening services. Many of these are parody masses, which means they were based on tunes from other compositions. Others were influenced by composers from Venice. 

He wrote many motets which were probably sung at services as well. In some of these motets he shows a sense of humour. For example, one of his motets makes fun about bad singers: the music stops and starts and stutters. It was a kind of musical joke. Sometimes he had to write music for special occasions. He had visited Italy several times and learned the Italian way of writing polyphonic music.

Lassus also wrote many songs in French (chansons) as well as German (Lieder). He also wrote madrigals. He even wrote drinking songs.

He never wrote anything that was strictly instrumental music.



</doc>
<doc id="89744" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89744" title="Mons">
Mons

Mons is a town in Belgium. It is in the Walloon part of Belgium where French is spoken. In Flemish it is called "Bergen" (The French word "Mons" and the Flemish word "Bergen" both mean "Mountains").

In 2007 its population was 91196.

It is located at 50° 27 North, 03° 56 East.





</doc>
<doc id="89745" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89745" title="Hainaut (province)">
Hainaut (province)

Hainaut (pronunciation similar to "I know") is a province in Belgium. It is in the French speaking part of Belgium. The Flemish name for it is "Henegouwen". Its capital is Mons. It has an area of 3,800 km² which is divided into seven administrative districts (French: "arrondissements") which have 69 municipalities. 



</doc>
<doc id="89749" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89749" title="Category:WWE navigational boxes">
Category:WWE navigational boxes


</doc>
<doc id="89781" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89781" title="Kannur">
Kannur

Kannur is a district in the Kerala state of India. The nearest districts are Kasargode, Calicut, and Wayanad.


</doc>
<doc id="89782" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89782" title="New Kingdom">
New Kingdom

The New Kingdom, also a continuation of the Egyptian Empire is the period in ancient Egyptian history between (1570–1070 BC). It was the period when Egypt was richer and more powerful than in all other periods of its history.

Egypt expanded far south into Nubia and held wide territories in the Near East. Egyptian armies fought Hittite armies for control of modern-day Syria and Egyptian territory reached its maximum extent.

The Eighteenth Dynasty contained some of Egypt's most famous Pharaohs including Akhenaten and Tutankhamun. Queen Hatshepsut concentrated on expanding Egypt's external trade and sent a commercial expedition to the land of Punt. Thutmose III ("the Napoleon of Egypt") expanded Egypt's army and created the largest empire Egypt had ever seen.

One of the best-known 18th Dynasty pharaohs is Amenhotep IV, who changed his name to Akhenaten in honor of the Aten and whose exclusive worship of the Aten is often interpreted as history's first instance of monotheism (and was argued in Sigmund Freud's "Moses and Monotheism" to have been the ultimate origin of Jewish monotheism). 

Ramses II ("the Great") of the 19th Dynasty tried to get back territories in the Levant that had been held by the 18th Dynasty. In the Battle of Kadesh, where he led Egyptian armies against those of the Hittite king Muwatalli II. He was caught the first recorded military ambush, but could win the battle nevertheless. 



</doc>
<doc id="89785" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89785" title="Moral Code of the Builder of Communism">
Moral Code of the Builder of Communism

The Moral Code of the Builder of Communism was a set of twelve rules. It was made in the Soviet Union by the Communist Party of the USSR.
Every member of the party, and every Komsomol member was supposed to follow these rules. 
The Moral Code was made at the 22nd Congress of the CPSU in 1961, as part of the new Party Programme.

The very first moral principle was "Devotion to the cause of communism".

Many people try to compare these rules to the Ten Commandments. The two texts have very little in common though. Russian language books of the time sometimes say that these are founded on the Bible. One of the passages of the Bible cited is "he who does not work, neither shall he eat" (2 Thessalonians 3:10). This text was also used in the Soviet Constitution of 1936. 

The rules were thought more as "guidelines". In contrast, the Ten Commandments were made to be rules of conduct, and perhaps even laws. For example, "You shall not commit adultery" of Moses loosely corresponds to "Mutual respect in a family, concern about the upbringing of children" of the Code.

The Code also is about what a person should do as a commitment to the society he or she lives in. It does not speak of personal virtue. For example, the ""Do not steal"" may be loosely matched to ""Concern of everyone about the preservation and multiplication of the common wealth"". 

Four of the rules, making up one-third of the Code, are of a political character.

The Code contained a number of popular Soviet cliches; in fact it was intentionally formulated to contain catch phrases, either invented by Soviet ideologists, or borrowed. (An example is 'One for all, and all for one' ("каждый за всех, все за одного") which was borrowed from "The Three Musketeers" by Alexandre Dumas, père.)
The Moral Code of the Builder of Communism (as reported on Wikisource):



</doc>
<doc id="89786" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89786" title="Category:Soviet culture">
Category:Soviet culture


</doc>
<doc id="89790" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89790" title="Wario">
Wario

Wario is a character from Nintendos popular video game series Mario. He has appeared in most of the Mario Party and sports-related games, and has been the subject of a few video games of his own. 


Wario ranked 10th on GameDaily's Top 10 Smash Bros. characters list. He also ranked seventh on GameDaily's top 10 ugliest game characters list; the authors referenced his snarling smile, moustache, and outfits. They also included him in a top 25 list of video game anti-heroes, stating that in spite of his greed, he's actually a "cool dude". Screwattack rated Wario as the 10th Biggest Douchebag in Gaming. IGN editor Travis Fahs commented that while he was not the most likable character, he has incredible confidence that overshadows his flaws and makes him an entertaining character. In an article written by Kombo editors Agustin Olvera and Stephen Smith, they exclaim their surprise that he had not appeared in "Super Smash Bros. Melee" as a playable character, stating that he would be a great addition to the game.


</doc>
<doc id="89794" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89794" title="Iconoclasm">
Iconoclasm

Iconoclasm is a word. It is used to describe when symbols of a culture (like icons or monuments) are destroyed by people of that same culture. This is usually done for religious or political motives. Often, it occurs together with major political or religious changes. It is generally different from the destruction by one culture of the images of another, for example by the Spanish in their American conquests. The term does not generally include the specific destruction of images of a ruler after his death or overthrow ("damnatio memoriae"), for example Akhenaten in Ancient Egypt. 

People who engage in or support iconoclasm are called iconoclasts. This word is also used for people who are against established dogmata or conventions. Similarly, people who revere or venerate religious images are called idolators. In a Byzantine context they are known as iconodules, or iconophiles.

Iconoclasm may be carried out by people of a different religion, but is often the result of sectarian disputes between factions of the same religion. The two Byzantine outbreaks during the 8th and 9th centuries were unusual because the use of images was the main issue in the dispute, rather than a by-product of wider concerns. In Christianity, iconoclasm has generally been motivated by a literal interpretation of the Ten Commandments, which forbid the making and worshipping of "graven images" of God.


</doc>
<doc id="89807" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89807" title="Wikipedia:Peer review/Archive 2">
Wikipedia:Peer review/Archive 2

Quickly wrote a stub abput it. Needs polishing; so do related articles. -- 21:52, 15 October 2007 (UTC)
Considering has a great article, compared to us, it would be nice if someone could improve it. (I've got to go to a 80's themed B/Day in 6 days, and ive been told to read up on the 80's) -- 23:13, 13 October 2007 (UTC)

I've contributed on a major part to the article, but it seems to have a lot of red links which seems to be the only problem with the article. It would sure help me if someone would fill out several red links. -- 02:24, 20 August 2007 (UTC)

It is nice that we have an article about Falun Gong. I have tried to simplify its language. I have also added some references. I think it should be extended, to cover more. Like what is it is the group actually practices, and why the Chinese government does not like this. A paragraph could also be added how the treatment of this group by the government is different from the treatment of a different religious community, like Buddhists or Catholics.
-- 09:12, 4 August 2007 (UTC)
While I've created, expanded, and lightly simplified most of the individual storm articles from the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season, I request some additional editing from other users, helping in to get rid of the red links, referencing and citing articles and sections, and for additional simplifying if still need to be done. While most of the info for those articles are basically copied off from en, I did my best to simplify its context (although it wasn't much of a good job). -- 12:39, 25 July 2007 (UTC)

I think this article is good. Some small parts might need some simplifying, but there's no dreaded "yous," no red links, it's not only one letter long, but still, do take a look at it. 18:57, 26 June 2007 (UTC)

I copied most of this text months ago from the en wiki, and done some simplifying, but overall this article looks out of shape and needs some major peer reviewing as well as simplifying. Would really appreciate it if someone would help. -- 16:56, 23 June 2007 (UTC)

I copy-pasted this article from en wikipedia. It really needs work, and I can't do all of it by myself. -- 16:48, June 17, 2007

Solid article, and I want to eventually get it to VGA status. Cheers, ( ) 17:09, 8 October 2007 (UTC)

I created the article a few months back, seems like it's OK, and I need some feedback. Thanks! 01:12, 9 October 2007 (UTC)


</doc>
<doc id="89809" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89809" title="United Church of God">
United Church of God

The United Church of God is a movement in Christianity. It emerged from the Worldwide Church of God in 1986. It does not believe in the Trinity.


</doc>
<doc id="89812" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89812" title="Jewish-Roman wars">
Jewish-Roman wars

The Jewish-Roman wars is the name given to a number of revolts of Jews in the Iudaea provive of the Roman Empire. These were directed against the Roman rule. 

Further revolts by the Jews in Iudaea Province:



</doc>
<doc id="89815" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89815" title="Triple-Zero">
Triple-Zero

Triple-Zero (000) is the national emergency number within Australia. If someone has an emergency situation that is life threatening or time critical, this number will connect then to a Telstra operator who will then connect them to the Police, Fire or Ambulance Service as required. 112 is a secondary emergency number that will direct calls to the Triple Zero answering point. It is against the law to use this number if there is no emergency. 
Before 1961, Australia did not have a national number for emergency services; Each of the different emergency branches (police, fire department or ambulance) had their own number. In 1961, the Postmaster General (PMG) introduced the Triple Zero (000) number in most of the major Australian cities and by the end of the 1980s it had become nation-wide. The number Triple Zero (000) was chosen for several reasons, one of which was that it was easy to dial in darkness because the number zero was next to the finger stop on most Australian telephones.

A person would dial Triple-Zero (000) if they require a response from police, Fire or Ambulance for life threatening or time critical events.

When Triple-Zero (000) is dialled, a Telstra operator will answer and ask the caller the following: “Emergency, Police, Fire or Ambulance?”. The Telstra operator will then connect the caller to the required emergency service. The emergency service calltaker will then query the caller further, and dispatch assistance as required.


</doc>
<doc id="89816" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89816" title="Districts of Germany">
Districts of Germany

German districts () are administrative units used in Germany for local government. 

The districts are in between the (German states) and the local / municipal levels (). They are not to be confused with the larger . 

Their equivalent in other nations is the county or arrondissement. 

Most of the districts are rural districts (). There are 295 "Landkreise". 

Cities with more than 100,000 inhabitants (and smaller towns in some states) are not usually part of a district, but do the work of a district themselves. These are known as urban districts ( or "Stadtkreise") The equivalent in the United Kingdom is a unitary authority, they do the work of a town and a county. There are 107 of these Kreisfreie Städte.

This makes a total of 402 districts.

In North Rhine-Westphalia, there are some cities with more than 100,000 inhabitants which are not urban districts, for example Iserlohn, Recklinghausen, Siegen, Paderborn, Bergisch Gladbach, Witten and Neuss. These cities belong to a district, but still do so the districts jobs themselves, as though they were independent.

The districts are responsible for the following:



All these tasks are carried out by local (municipal) authorities operating together. Urban districts have these responsibilities and also those of the municipalities.

The district council, the , is the legislative body of the district and is responsible for local self-administration. The parliament is elected every five years, except in Bavaria where it is elected every six years.

The person in charge of the district's government is the or . In parts of northern Germany, this is also the name of the district administration, in southern Germany it is known as .



</doc>
<doc id="89818" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89818" title="List of German urban districts">
List of German urban districts

This is a list of urban districts in Germany.

Germany is divided into 429 districts. 313 are rural districts ("Landkreise", see List of German rural districts) and 116 urban districts ("Kreisfreie Städte" / "Stadtkreise") which are listed below.

They are the equivalent of an independent city in the United States or unitary authority in the United Kingdom.

¹ "following the "Göttingen Law" of January 1 1964, the town of Göttingen is incorporated into the district ("Landkreis") of Göttingen, but the rules on urban districts still apply, as long as no other rules exist."
² "following the "Law on the region of Hannover", Hannover counts since November 1 2001 as an urban district as long as no other rules apply."

There are no longer any urban districts. The town of Saarbrücken used to be an urban district but became incorporated into the Saarbrücken Town Federation on January 1 1974.

The urban districts of Görlitz, Hoyerswerda, Plauen und Zwickau will lose their status as „kreisfreie Stadt“ probably on 1st July 2008 in a reform of Saxony's districts.



</doc>
<doc id="89819" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89819" title="List of German rural districts">
List of German rural districts

Germany is divided into 429 administrative districts. There are 313 rural districts ("Landkreise"), listed here, and 116 urban districts ("Kreisfreie Städte" / "Stadtkreise") listed in List of German urban districts).

In some cases the government of the rural district is not based in the district, but in an independent city nearby.



</doc>
<doc id="89821" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89821" title="Mary, Queen of Scots">
Mary, Queen of Scots

Mary, Queen of Scots (8 December 1542 – 8 February 1587), was Queen of Scotland from 14 December 1542 until 24 July 1567, when she was forced to give up her kingdom. 

Mary was the daughter of King James V of Scotland, who died just after she was born. She was crowned queen when she was only 6 days old. She married three times. Her first husband was King Francis II of France. They were both young when they were married, and they had no children. Francis died from an ear infection that had spread to his brain, leaving Mary a widow.

When Mary returned to Scotland after spending her youth in France, she found that she was not popular in her kingdom. She had been brought up as a Catholic, but many people in Scotland had become Protestant. It was difficult for Mary to avoid siding with either the Catholics or the Protestants. As Mary was now free to marry again, there were lots of noblemen who wanted to become her husband. For her second husband, she chose an English lord named Henry Darnley, who was of royal blood. Darnley was good-looking and charming, but he was often very childish, and he was jealous of Mary's secretary, an Italian named David Rizzio. 

Mary became pregnant. While she was expecting the baby, Darnley and his friends got drunk one night and decided to kill David Rizzio. They came into Mary's private rooms at Holyrood Palace while she was talking with Rizzio and they stabbed him to death. Darnley got away with the murder because he was the queen's husband, but Mary never forgave him for murdering her friend Rizzio. When her baby was born, it was a boy, who would later become King James VI of Scotland.

A powerful Scottish nobleman, the Earl of Bothwell, was loyal to Mary and hated Darnley. He arranged for Darnley to be killed. He tried to make it look as though Darnley had been killed in a fire at his house, but everyone knew that Bothwell was behind the murder, and some people believed that Mary had also been part of the plot to kill her husband. Mary then agreed to marry the Earl of Bothwell. This was not a wise move, because Bothwell had many enemies. Mary's enemies forced her off the throne and made her young son king in her place. Mary was put in prison, but she escaped and crossed the border into England, which was ruled by her cousin, Elizabeth Queen of England.

Mary hoped that Elizabeth would help her to get her throne back, but Elizabeth did not. She kept Mary a prisoner for many years. Mary was eventually accused of making plans to murder Elizabeth, and so she was executed.


</doc>
<doc id="89822" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89822" title="List of administrative divisions of Germany">
List of administrative divisions of Germany

This is a list of the administrative divisions of Germany. It includes the "Kreise"/"Landkreise" as well as the "kreisfreie Städte". The list is sorted alphabetically, by state.


</doc>
<doc id="89823" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89823" title="Jack Peñate">
Jack Peñate

Jack Fabian Peñate (born 2 September 1984, Blackheath, London) is a British singer-songwriter and musician, of English and Spanish heritage. He is signed to XL Recordings, the record label. Well known for his soulful ska-fuelled songs and eccentric dancing whilst on stage, his live performance has received some very high praise. He attended Alleyn's School and spent one year at University College London studying Classics before leaving to start his musical career. He performs with friends and band members Joel Porter (bass) and Alex Robins (drums).

Singles:

Albums:



</doc>
<doc id="89826" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89826" title="Guillaume Dufay">
Guillaume Dufay

Guillaume Dufay (pronounce ""GHEE-oam Doo-FYE"", sometimes spelt Du Fay) (born Beersel? 5 August 1397?; died Cambrai, 27 November 1474) was a Franco-Flemish composer and music theorist of the early Renaissance. He was the most important composer of his time. He belonged to the group of composers known as the Burgundian School. He had more influence on music in Europe than any other composer of the 15th century.

From what it says in his will it seems likely that he was born in Beersel which is near Brussels in what, today, is Belgium. He was the illegitimate child of an unknown priest and a woman called Marie Du Fayt. When he was small, Dufay moved with his mother to Cambrai where they stayed with a relative who was a canon of the cathedral there. Dufay soon showed musical talent, and he was given a musical education at the cathedral. He sang in the choir there. When he was only 16 he was given a benefice as chaplain near Cambrai. He travelled to Konstanz for a meeting.

From November 1418 to 1420 he was a subdeacon at Cambrai Cathedral. In 1420 he left Cambrai again, and worked in Rimini in Italy at the house of a rich family. In 1424 he returned to Cambrai because the relative in whose house his mother was staying was ill. After the relative died he went back to Italy. He worked in Bologna for a Cardinal. He became a deacon and then a priest.
When the Cardinal was made to leave Bologna in 1428 Dufay went to Rome to work for the pope. He became a member of the Papal Choir. In 1434 he was made "maistre de chappelle" in Savoy. He seems to have left Rome when the papal choir had money problems. Yet in 1435 he was again in the service of the papal chapel, but this time it was in Florence. In 1436 Dufay composed the festive motet "Nuper rosarum flores", one of his most famous compositions, which was sung at the dedication of Brunelleschi's dome of the cathedral in Florence.

During this period Dufay also began his long association with the d'Este family in Ferrara, some of the most important musical patrons of the Renaissance. He may have got to know them during his first stay in Italy. Rimini was not far from Ferrara, and he spent time in both towns where he got financial support.

At this time the arguments between the Pope and the Council of Basel continued. Dufay thought he might find himself without a job, so he went back to Cambrai. In order to be a canon at Cambrai, he needed a law degree, which he got in 1437; he may have studied at Turin University in 1436. One of the first documents mentioning him in Cambrai is dated December 27, 1440, when he was given 36 lots of wine for the feast of St. John the Evangelist. We do not know how long he took to drink it.

Dufay stayed in Cambrai during the 1440s. At the same time he was also in the service of the Duke of Burgundy. While in Cambrai he worked with Nicolas Grenon on completely renewing the cathedral collection of music. This meant that he had to write a big collection of polyphonic music for services. He also worked in the administration of the cathedral. In 1444 his mother died, and was buried in the cathedral; and in 1445 Dufay moved into the house of the person who had been canon just before. He kept this home for the rest of his life, although he did spend six more years in Italy where he wrote many of his compositions. When he returned again to Cambrai he was made canon of the cathedral. He was the most famous composer in Europe by that time. He often composed music for the court of Burgundy, and he met many younger composers who were becoming famous, such as Busnois, Ockeghem, Tinctoris, and Loyset Compère. During this period Dufay probably wrote his mass based on the song "L'homme armé", as well as the chanson based on the same song. Maybe he wrote this when Philip the Good called for a new crusade against the Turks, who had recently captured Constantinople. He also wrote a Requiem mass around 1460, which is lost.

After an illness of several weeks, Dufay died on November 27, 1474. He had asked for his motet "Ave regina celorum" to be sung for him as he died, with pleas for mercy to be read between some of the movements, but there was not enough time for this to be arranged, so it was sung at his funeral instead. Dufay was buried in the chapel of St. Etienne in the cathedral of Cambrai; his portrait was carved onto his tombstone. In later years the cathedral was destroyed, and the tombstone was lost, but it was found in 1859 (it was being used to cover a well), and is now in the Palais des Beaux Arts museum in Lille.

Dufay’s music was performed all over Europe. People who wanted to perform his music had to write it out by hand. There was no music printing in those days.

Dufay wrote church music including masses, motets, Magnificats, hymns, simple chant settings and antiphons. His secular (non-religious) music includes rondeaux, ballades, virelais and a few other kinds of chanson. His style of composition laid the foundation for the next generations of Renaissance composers. Some of his techniques were old-fashioned. He used isorhythms in his motets, which had been popular in medieval music. He used a way of harmonizing chants which became known as fauxbourdon. He was popular because he was skilled at writing melodies which were beautiful to sing.



</doc>
<doc id="89828" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89828" title="Category:1397 births">
Category:1397 births


</doc>
<doc id="89829" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89829" title="Category:1474 deaths">
Category:1474 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="89832" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89832" title="Upper Egypt">
Upper Egypt

Upper Egypt is a narrow strip of land on both sides of the Nile that extends from modern-day Aswan to the area south of modern-day Cairo. The northern part of Upper Egypt, between El-Aiyat and Asyut is sometimes called Middle Egypt.

Upper Egypt was known as "Ta Shemau" which means "the land of reeds." It was divided into twenty-two districts called nomes. The first nome was roughly where modern Aswan is and the twenty-second was at modern Atfih (Aphroditopolis), just to the south of Cairo.

For most of pharaonic Egypt's history Thebes was the administrative centre of Upper Egypt. 

Upper Egypt was represented by the tall White Crown "Hedjet", and its symbol was the flowering lotus.




</doc>
<doc id="89833" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89833" title="Brandenburg an der Havel">
Brandenburg an der Havel

Brandenburg an der Havel is a town in the state of Brandenburg, Germany. It is on the banks of the Havel river. Population: 74,129 (December 31, 2005).

The town of Brandenburg is less known than the state of Brandenburg: But the state is named after the town, and so is the medieval Bishopric of Brandenburg, the Margravate of Brandenburg. Today it is a small town compared to nearby Berlin, but once it was the start of the countries of Brandenburg and Prussia.

Brandenburg was only on western bank of the Havel until 1196. But even after that year the parts on either side of the river were regarded as two different towns (Old and New Brandenburg) for centuries.

In 1314 the two towns joined the Hanseatic League. In the Thirty Years' War (1618-1648) the towns were robbed and destroyed. Potsdam became the new capital, and the Royal Court left the town of Brandenburg. In 1715 the two halves of the town were merged to form a single town.

The concentration camp Brandenburg-Görden was in Görden, a suburb of Brandenburg, during the years of Nazi Germany.

After the fall of the Berlin Wall the population dropped from over 100,000 in 1989 down to roughly 75,000 in 2005 through emigration. The migration mainly affects the young people and thus the future of the city is uncertain.


</doc>
<doc id="89834" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89834" title="MediaWiki:Filedelete-reason-dropdown">
MediaWiki:Filedelete-reason-dropdown


</doc>
<doc id="89837" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89837" title="Template:Country data Dominican Republic">
Template:Country data Dominican Republic


</doc>
<doc id="89838" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89838" title="Earl Hooker">
Earl Hooker

Earl Hooker (born January 15, 1929 in Clarksdale, Mississippi; died April 21, 1970 in Chicago, Illinois) was an American blues guitarist.

Earl Hooker was born Earl Zebedee Hooker in Clarksdale, Mississippi. He taught himself to play guitar around the age of 10 and began going to the Lyon & Healy Music School in 1941 soon after. 

While a teen, Hooker played on Chicago street corners, sometimes with Bo Diddley. He also became friends with slide guitarist Robert Nighthawk, which led to Hooker playing slide guitar and some performances with Nighthawk's group outside of Chicago.

In 1949, Hooker moved to Memphis, joined Ike Turner's band, and played in the South.

Hooker made his first recordings mainly 78 rpm and 45 rpm records in 1952 and 1953 for small labels Rockin', King, and Sun. Hooker spent most of the '60s playing in Chicago clubs with his band.

In 1969 he recorded an album, "Hooker 'n Steve", with organist Steve “Mr. Blues” Miller for Arhoolie Records. Hooker also played slide guitar on the 1962 Muddy Waters recording "You Shook Me". The 1970 album "Sweet Black Angel", co-producer Ike Turner contain songs "I Feel Good", "Drivin' Wheel", "Country and Western", "Boogie", Don't Blot! "Shuffle", "Catfish Blues", "Crosscut Saw", "Sweet Home Chicago", "Mood", and "Funky Blues".

Earl Hooker died at the age of 41 from tuberculosis. He is buried in the Restvale Cemetery in Alsip, Illinois. His story was told in a 2001 book by author Sebastian Danchin titled "Earl Hooker, Blues Master".


</doc>
<doc id="89851" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89851" title="Category:Cities in Bremen">
Category:Cities in Bremen


</doc>
<doc id="89852" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89852" title="Roma people">
Roma people

The Roma people are a wandering people found mainly in Eurasia, but also in the rest of the world. They are sometimes called gypsies. The Council of Europe uses the word "Roma" in all official talks and papers. 

This is to stop the use of bad names and to give respect to the name "Roma," which is what they like to call themselves.

The 18th century idea about the Indian birth of the Roma is based on the likeness between Romani and languages spoken in the Indian subcontinent and is supported by genetic evidence. But the lack of close likeness to any given Indian way of speaking has left undecided the question of the original heritage of the proto-Roma, with both single and plural origins proposed by linguists.

Individual groups can be classified into big groups of groups:
the Roma of East European birth; the Sinti in Germany and Manouches in France and Catalonia; the Kaló in Spain, Ciganos in Portugal and Gitans of southern France; and the Romanichals of Britain.

The Roma language is made official by many countries of Europe under the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages.



</doc>
<doc id="89871" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89871" title="Scrubland">
Scrubland

Scrubland is plant community with scrub vegetation. "Scrub" means low shrubs, mixed with grasses, herbs, and geophytes. Scrublands are sometimes known as heathlands. Scrublands may develop naturally or as result of human activity. They may be the mature vegetation type in a particular region and remain stable over time, or a transitional community that occurs temporarily as the result of a disturbance, such as a major fire. 


</doc>
<doc id="89872" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89872" title="Lower Egypt">
Lower Egypt

Lower Egypt is the fertile Nile Delta region, which stretches from the area between El-Aiyat and Zawyet Dahshur, south of modern-day Cairo, and the Mediterranean Sea.

Lower Egypt was known as "Ta-Mehu" which means "land of papyrus." It was divided into twenty districts called nomes. Lower Egypt was mostly undeveloped scrubland, undeveloped for human life and filled with all types of plant life such as grasses and herbs.

The climate in Lower Egypt is milder than that of Upper Egypt. Temperatures are less extreme and ther is more rainfall.

The capital of Lower Egypt was Buto. Its patron goddess was the cobra goddess Wadjet. Lower Egypt was represented by the Low Red Crown "Deshret", and its symbol was the papyrus.



</doc>
<doc id="89873" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89873" title="Category:Municipalities in Bavaria">
Category:Municipalities in Bavaria


</doc>
<doc id="89874" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89874" title="Category:Municipalities in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania">
Category:Municipalities in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania


</doc>
<doc id="89876" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89876" title="Evelyn Barbirolli">
Evelyn Barbirolli

Evelyn Barbirolli (born Wallingford-on-Thames, Berkshire, 24 January 1911; died 25 January 2008) was a famous oboist. She was an honorary member of the Royal Philharmonic Society. Only 116 people have ever been made honorary members. She was the wife of the conductor Sir John Barbirolli. She was born Evelyn Rothwell, and was always known by that name until after the death of her husband, John Barbirolli, when she changed her professional name to “Evelyn Barbirolli”. She became famous at a time when there were very few women in orchestras.

Evelyn Rothwell’s father was a tea dealer in the City of London. Her mother was related to Charles Reade, a 19th century novelist. She started to learn the oboe at her school, Downe House, near Newbury. Her father did not want her to study music, but in the end she was allowed to go to the Royal College of Music. She studied the oboe there, and the piano as a second instrument. She also played the cello and timpani. She was a student there at the same time as Benjamin Britten, who sometimes asked her to play some of the oboe music he had just written.

Evelyn started her professional career as an oboist in the Drury Lane orchestra. She soon got a job with the Royal Opera House touring company whose conductor was John Barbirolli. Barbirolli was married, but his marriage did not last long.

Barbirolli was then made conductor of the Scottish Orchestra (now called the Royal Scottish National Orchestra). He gave Evelyn the job of first oboe in this orchestra. He made an arrangement of a concerto by Handel for her to play. She played several other concertos with him conducting, and they made several recordings. Vaughan Williams was very pleased with their recording of his oboe concerto. Several composers wrote music especially for her. Henry Wood made her first oboist in the New Queen’s Hall Orchestra. 

Evelyn married Barbirolli in 1939, after he had divorced his first wife. By this time Barbirolli was conductor of the New York Philharmonic. He had taken this job after Toscanini had left. Barbirolli and his new wife lived in New York until 1943 when they returned to England so that Barbirolli could be the conductor of the Hallé Orchestra in Manchester. Sometimes she played in the orchestra, but not very often because she thought people might say that it was because her husband was the conductor. When the Hallé Orchestra went to Austria in 1948 she played Mozart’s oboe concerto with them. People at that time only knew this work in an arrangement for the flute.

In Manchester Evelyn helped her husband by being his secretary. She drove him everywhere, and was always by his side at rehearsals to help him. As Barbirolli gradually became ill she spent nearly all her time with him instead of playing the oboe. She travelled with him to America when he became conductor of the Houston Symphony Orchestra. Barbirolli kept working hard although he was not well. During his last years they had financial problems when Barbirolli’s manager caused them to lose a lot of money.

After Barbirolli’s death in 1970 she started to play her oboe again. She taught at the Royal Academy of Music, and was always known as “Lady Barbirolli” (or “Lady B”). She often adjudicated at music competitions. Her pupils respected her for her honesty and kindness. She wrote a book about "Oboe Technique" and the "Oboist’s Companion", a book in 3 volumes. She also wrote an autobiography called "Living with Glorious John". She was made an OBE in 1984. She died the day after her 97th birthday.

Obituary: The Daily Telegraph, 26 January 2008.


</doc>
<doc id="89879" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89879" title="Category:Oboists">
Category:Oboists


</doc>
<doc id="89880" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89880" title="Category:Towns in Brandenburg">
Category:Towns in Brandenburg


</doc>
<doc id="89885" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89885" title="Template:Infobox German Location/Instructions">
Template:Infobox German Location/Instructions

Template Infobox_German_Location makes it possible to copy town-data from other infoboxes, such as:
For many fields, a simple copy-and-paste will suffice. But this template contains a few extra fields, and there are a number of translation issues that you must be aware of. 

IMPORTANT: This template is only to be used for municipalities, towns and cities (i.e. "Kreise" subdivisions). This template is NOT to be used for subdivisions of municipalities/towns/cities (eg. suburbs, borroughs, etc.). If there is sufficient demand for such infobox support, a different infobox will be built specifically for these further subdivisions.

Parameters with German names (plus geographical co-ordinates parameters) are the same names used in the German wiki infobox. Parameters with only English names are only used in the English wiki. There are English-name aliases for many of the German-name parameters (more in the future), so either the German or English parameter name can be used, depending on copying infobox data from other sources.

Required parameters are displayed in orange.

Delete any unneeded fields when using the full template syntax.

English name of location. Use only if name is different from article name.

German name of location. Use only if name is different from English name.

Needed. Type of location. Used for article categorisation. Accepts German and English names. Accepted values:

The top image, a representative photo of the location: skyline, notable landmark, etc. The image used should be wider than it is tall, to keep the infobox as compact as possible. No wikilinks.

Avoid. Use only when it is necessary to reduce the size of the above image from its default value of 268px. Tall images could be reduced, such as 220px, to balance the infobox appearance.

Caption underneath representative image. Keep as short as possible. Allows wikilinks.

Coat of arms image. No wikilinks. Leave blank if image is unknown or unavailable. If the location simply does not have a coat of arms, put: codice_1.

Avoid. Use only when it is necessary to reduce the size of the above image from its default value of 120px.

Needed. Geographical co-ordinates of location. Give location in degrees and minutes (seconds can be given, but will not be displayed).

Avoid. Name of locator-map image. However, from the given geographical co-ordinates, a common map will be generated showing the position of the location within Germany. If, for some reason, the generated map does not work properly, use this field to replace the generated map with a specific image. 

Needed Federal state to which the location belongs. No wikilinks. Accepts English and German names, translates many names to English.

Name of the administrative region ("Regierungsbezirk") that the location belongs to. Not used for all states. Regierungsbezirk articles on the English wiki are named "xxxx (region)", so only the name of the region is needed here (without wikilinks) and the infobox should link to the correct article. 

Needed. District that the location belongs to. If the location is an urban district, say codice_2. District articles on the English wiki are named "xxxx (district)" or without the "(district)" part. For most cases, only the name of the district (xxxx) is needed here (without wikilinks) and the infobox should link to the correct article.

Some locations belong to a collective municipality of some sort. Fill in the corresponding field and delete all unused fields.

Local subdivisions. When copying towninfo directly from the German wiki, please translate content of this field to English and remove any red links.

Name of the mayor/lord mayor/etc. Wikilinks automatically generated if the entry exists.

Title: Mayor / Bürgermeister, Lord Mayor / Oberbürgermeister, etc. Use wikilinks only if linking to a specific article (eg. Lord Mayor). Default is "Mayor"

Political party of Mayor/Lord Mayor/etc. Use standard party abbreviations (CDU, SPD, Green, FDP, PDS, FWG, etc.) and the correct wikilinks should be generated (if not, leave a comment on the ). For independent politicians, say codice_3

Party or parties that govern this location. Fill in this field in the same way as the "Partei" field.

Area in square kilometres. Will automatically calculate value in square miles. Enter value without spaces or commas, otherwise an error message will be displayed in the area field.

Are of metropolitan area in square kilometres. Will automatically calculate value in square miles. Enter value without spaces or commas, otherwise an error message will be displayed in the area field. Only the bigger cities will have a need for this field.

Elevation in metres. Will automatically calculate value in feet. For some entries, a range of elevation values is given in the German wiki. To prevent an error in the conversion to feet, any range values must use a simple minus sign instead of any other dash characters. Elevation ranges will not be converted to feet.

Population. If area is also given, population density will also be calculated. Enter value without spaces or commas, otherwise an error message will be displayed in the density field.

Date for population value. Enter in YYYY-MM-DD format (eg. 2006-12-31)

Population of metropolitan area. Only the bigger cities will have a need for this field.

Population of urban area. Only the bigger cities will have a need for this field.

Source for population statistic(s). Needed to make it easier to update population values in the future. The German wiki does not use this field, but the earlier English template does. This field must use the <nowiki></nowiki>

Car number plate code for the location (1-3 capital letters).

Telephone area code. If various values are given, display as a simple range (if possible). Avoid descriptions of each code.

Postal code. If various values are given, display as a simple range (if possible). Avoid descriptions of each code.

Year of foundation, NOT the year of the first recorded mention of the location.

Official website of the location. Trim displayed URL as much as possible. (eg. <nowiki>Website=samplesite.de</nowiki>)

Zoomed-in map image displaying location within a region of Germany (e.g., a state or a Kreis), with optional width, "plansize"=265px.

Caption for map image given by "Lageplan". The template will attempt to automatically create a caption, using values given for other fields. If the caption does not match with the image, use this field to manually enter a caption.

Give a value of "yes" to prevent auto-categorisation. Used only on draft articles (ie. in the User space)

The German wiki has a number of variables that are not displayed here if copied over:


</doc>
<doc id="89887" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89887" title="List of cities in Germany with more than 100,000 inhabitants">
List of cities in Germany with more than 100,000 inhabitants

This is a list of cities in Germany with more than 100,000 inhabitants.

The following table lists all towns in Germany that currently have a population greater than 100,000. The federal capital is shown in yellow, state capitals (except Schwerin, which does not meet the list rules because it is too small) in light blue.

<nowiki>*</nowiki> 2006 Population


List of German towns



</doc>
<doc id="89888" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89888" title="Regierungsbezirk">
Regierungsbezirk

A Regierungsbezirk is a government region of Germany in some federal states ("Bundesländer"). 

"Regierungsbezirke" are divided into districts ("Kreise"), either "Landkreise" or urban districts: cities which constitute a district in their own right ("kreisfreie Städte"). The "Regierungsbezirk" is governed by a "Bezirksregierung" and led by a "Regierungspräsident".

Not all "Bundesländer" have this sub-division; some are directly divided into districts. Currently, five states are divided into 22 "Regierungsbezirke", ranging in population from 5,255,000 (Düsseldorf) to 1,065,000 (Gießen):


The first "Regierungsbezirke" were created by the Kingdom of Prussia in 1808/16, which divided its provinces into 25 "Regierungsbezirke". The "Regierungsbezirke" of North Rhine-Westphalia are in direct continuation of those created in 1815. Other states of the German Empire created similar entities, named "Kreishauptmannschaft" (in Saxony) or "Kreis" (in Bavaria and Württemberg) (not to be confused with the "Kreis" or "Landkreis" today). During the Third Reich, the Nazi government unified the naming; since then all these entities are called "Regierungsbezirk".

On January 1 2000 Rhineland-Palatinate disbanded its three "Regierungsbezirke" Koblenz, Rheinhessen-Pfalz and Trier - the employees and assets of the three "Bezirksregierungen" were converted into three public authorities responsible for the whole state, each covering a part of the former responsibilities of the "Bezirksregierung".

On January 1, 2004, Saxony-Anhalt disbanded its three "Regierungsbezirke": Dessau, Halle and Magdeburg. The responsibilities are now covered by a "Landesverwaltungsamt" with three offices at the former seats of the "Bezirksregierungen". 

On January 1, 2005, Lower Saxony disbanded its four "Regierungsbezirke": Braunschweig, Hanover, Lüneburg, and Weser-Ems.

In 2005, North Rhine-Westphalia planned to abolish its five "Regierungsbezirke" and create three self-government entities. The old, "Prussian-style", Regierungsbezirk had no self-government organs.


</doc>
<doc id="89889" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89889" title="Template:Highlight4">
Template:Highlight4

bgcolor="#bbffbb"

</doc>
<doc id="89894" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89894" title="Joschka Fischer">
Joschka Fischer

Joseph Martin "Joschka" Fischer (born 12 April 1948) was German foreign minister and Vice Chancellor in the government of Gerhard Schröder from 1998 to 2005. He was a leading figure in the German Green Party and according to opinion polls , he was the most popular politician in Germany for most of the government's duration. He left office on 22 November 2005.

Fischer was born in Gerabronn in Baden-Württemberg. His parents were Germans from Hungary. His nickname Joschka is from "Jóska", which is the Hungarian nickname for Joseph (). Fischer dropped out of high school in 1965, and started working for a photographer which he quit in 1966.

In 1967 he became active in the German student movement and Left-wing politics. Working in a left-wing bookstore in Frankfurt was when he started going to leftist university events as a guest student. He studied the works of Marx, Mao and Hegel and became a member of the militant group "Revolutionary Combat" ().

Fischer took part in some street battles when the anarchist "Putzgruppe" attacked the police and hurt some officers a lot. (In German the word "Putz" can mean a cleaner, but in "Putz-group" it is an acronym. That means the letters stand for other words. "Proletarische Union für Terror und Zerstörung", i.e. "The Workers Union for Terror and Destruction"). Photos of one battle in March 1973 show Fischer clubbing policeman Rainer Marx . getting a workout (photo)

In the German Autumn () of 1977, there were a lot of terrorist attacks by the Red Army Faction (RAF). Fischer says that these attacks, especially the kidnapping and murder of Hanns-Martin Schleyer, made him give up violence as a way to get political change.

Instead, he became involved in the new social movements and later in the newly-founded German Green Party, mainly in the state of Hesse.

In May 1981 the Minister of Economics of the state of Hesse, Heinz-Herbert Karry, was murdered. The gun that killed the minister was stolen from an American army base in 1973, and Fischer's car was used in the robbery.

As Foreign Minister, Fischer apologised for the violence of his "Putzgruppe" days,

From 1983 to 1985, Fischer was a member of the Bundestag for the Green party. In 1985, he became Minister for the Environment in Hesse in the first Social Democrat-Green coalition (1985-1987). Fischer caused a stir when he arrived to take his oath of office ceremony wearing trainers. These trainers are now on display in a museum in Bonn.

Fischer was again Environment Minister in Hessen from 1991 to 1994, and, later on, became co-chairman of the Greens parliamentary party in the Bundestag. During his years in opposition, Fischer was respected for his speeches. For a large part of the 1990s, with the SPD was not very popular, and Fischers friends often called him "real" Leader of the Opposition.

In September 1998 the Social Democrats, led by Gerhard Schröder, beat the Christian Democrat government of Helmut Kohl. With the SPD's 42% and the Greens' 7%, a coalition government could be formed. After several weeks of talks between Social Democrats and Greens, the new government took power on 27 October 1998. Fischer became Minister of Foreign Affairs.

In 1999 Fischer supported German participation in the Kosovo War. This was very extremely controversial within the largely pacifist Green Party, because it meant that, for the first time since World War II, German soldiers would actively go into combat. He justified this war with allegations that Serbia was planning to commit genocide against the Kosovo Albanians.

Fischer was also in favour of stationing German troops in Afghanistan, but he advised Schröder not to join the war in Iraq. He is known as a good friend of Kofi Annan. By 2005 he was the second longest-serving foreign minister in German postwar history (after Hans-Dietrich Genscher).

In 2005 Fischer was accused by critics of carelessly relaxing controls on visa regulations for Ukraine, thus allowing many illegal immigrants to enter Germany with fake identities. A parliamentary committee was established to examine the case, and unlike in other such committee hearings, Fischer's statement (and that of other top officials) was shown live on public TV. Fischer's appearance before the committee took twelve hours. (See German Visa Affair 2005).

After the defeat of the coalition government in the 2005 election, Fischer announced that he would retire to the backbench. "After 20 years of power, now I want my freedom back", he was quoted as saying. On 13 October 2005, it was announced that Frank-Walter Steinmeier (SPD) would succeed Fischer as Foreign Minister.

Since the beginning of September 2006 Joschka Fischer has been a senior fellow at the Liechtenstein Institute on Self-Determination at Princeton University, a visiting professor at Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs at Princeton University. He has also spoken at other American universities, notably Brandeis University, on various topic in foreign affairs and international relations.

Fischer has often been the most popular German politician, even among supporters of other parties.

Until 1996, Fischer had been an outspoken lover of good wines and food. He often bet cases of expensive wine with other politicians on the outcome of elections. Fischer had also been overweight. Within a short time he lose a lot of weight. Fischer said that this was due to his giving up alcohol completely and changing his diet. He had also been doing fitness training and even running marathons. He cashed in on his weight loss by writing the book "My long race towards myself" about his experience, which became an immediate bestseller. Recently he has been putting on weight again.

Fischer has been married five times: his first four marriages, to Edeltraud Fischer (1967-1984), Inge Vogel (1984-1987), Claudia Bohm (1987-1999), and Nicola Leske (1999-2003), all ended in divorce. In October 2005 he married (in Rome) Minu Barati, who was his common-law wife for 2 years. With Inge, his second wife, he has two children: David and Lara. In April 2005 Fischer became a grandfather for the first time.


The following sources reflect the views of U.S. adversaries of Fischer and his policies, especially Germany's decision not to participate in the 2003 U.S.-led invasion of Iraq.

Fischer writes a monthly commentary series, "The Rebel Realist", for Project Syndicate, a non-profit association of newspapers around the world.


</doc>
<doc id="89900" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89900" title="Category:Government ministers of Germany">
Category:Government ministers of Germany


</doc>
<doc id="89901" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89901" title="Category:German politicians of Alliance '90/The Greens">
Category:German politicians of Alliance '90/The Greens


</doc>
<doc id="89906" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89906" title="Flora family">
Flora family

The Flora family of asteroids is a big group of S-type asteroids in the closer part of the main belt, whose origin and properties are not well understood right now. About 4-5% of all main belt asteroids belong to this family.

Because of its poorly defined edges, and the location of Flora itself near the edge, this asteroid group has also sometimes been called the Ariadne family, when Flora did not make it into the group during an analysis (e.g. the WAM analysis by Zappala 1995).

The biggest member is 8 Flora, which mesures 140 km in diameter, and takes up about 80% of the total family mass. Nevertheless, the parent body was almost for sure destroyed by the impact/s that made the family, and Flora is probably a gravitational aggregate of most of the pieces. 43 Ariadne makes up much of the remaining mass (about a further 9%, with the remaining family members being fairly small, below 30 km in diameter.

Because of the high background density of asteroids in this part of space, one might expect that a great number of asteroids unrelated to the collision that made the family would be present. However, few have been found. This is because unrelated asteroids are hard to distinguish from family members because the family is of the same spectral type (S) that dominates the closer main belt overall. The few unrelated asteroids that have been found are all small (Florczak et al 1998, and also by inspection of the PDS asteroid taxonomy data set for non S-type members.) They include 298 Baptistina, 422 Berolina, 2093 Genichesk, 2259 Sofievka (the biggest, with a 21 km diameter), 2952 Liliputia, 3533 Toyota, 3850 Peltier, 3875 Staehle, 4278 Harvey, 4396 Gressmann, and 4750 Mukai.



</doc>
<doc id="89913" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89913" title="Tseax River Cone">
Tseax River Cone

The Tseax River Cone (also known as Aiyansh Volcano) is a cinder cone in British Columbia, Canada. The volcano and the area aroudn it are protected as a provincial park called the Nisga'a Memorial Lava Beds Provincial Park.

In the 18th century it caused the death of about 2000 people. 


</doc>
<doc id="89924" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89924" title="Mike Dirnt">
Mike Dirnt

Mike Dirnt (born Pritchard Johnton on May 4, 1972, in San Diego, California) is the bass guitar player from the punk rock band Green Day, he also sings back up vocals. 

Mike was adopted. His adoptive parents divorced when he was 7, and both are now remarried. Mike owns a restaurant in California called "Rudy's Can't Fail Cafe". Mike married his long time girlfriend Anastasia in 1996 and their daughter, Estella-Desiree, "Stella", was born in April 1997. Mike loves his daughter very much, and his nickname for her is "Hero". Today, Mike and Anastasia are separated, but still remain very good friends. He recently was remarried in 2004, however his wife left him because he spent too much time in the studio recording American Idiot. Mike is currently married to girlfriend Brittney, and resides in Oakland, California.


</doc>
<doc id="89927" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89927" title="Tré Cool">
Tré Cool

Tré Cool (born Frank Edwin Wright III December 9 1972, in Frankfurt, Germany) is a German-born American drummer for the punk band Green Day. 

He has red hair and blue eyes. 

He has two children, Ramona, born January 1995 to ex-wife, Lisea Lyons; Frankito ("Little Frank"), born 2001 to Claudia. Tré grew up with his father and 2 siblings. He dated The Donnas, drummer Torry Castellano in 2003, they then separated in mid 2005. Tre' Cool is currently single.


</doc>
<doc id="89930" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89930" title="Plain White T's">
Plain White T's

Plain White T's are an alternative rock band from Chicago. Their newest release, "Every Second Counts" (2006), was the first Plain White T's album to reach the mainstream. When the album came out, one song, "Hey There Delilah", an acoustic love song, was played on many radio stations daily. Another famous song of theirs is "Our Time Now".

The singer of the band, Tom Higgenson, first wanted to be a drummer. He was in many bands during his High School. However, when Plain White T's were made, he decided to become a singer and a songwriter. Bassist, Ken Fletcher, and drummer, Dave Tirio, joined the band began performing in Downers Grove, Illinois.

They started out by playing other people's songs, but in the summer of 1999 the band was beginning to become known by record labels like Atlantic Recordings. In 2000 they released their first album, "Come On Over". They toured around Chicago to try and make the album sell more and to get more fans.

At the end of 2001, Plain White T's left Atlantic Recordings and signed to Fearless Records. They began recording for their next album, called "Stop". They chose in Downers Grove, Illinois and Santa Barbara, California. The album took four months to record, being finished in April 2001. The album was shown around Plain White T's home town before being released finally on August 20th 2002, a whole twenty months after it was started.

In October, the band went on their first big tour. The tour in the band ending up stopping being friends, this was solved with new members, with Dave switching from drums to guitar, Steve being replaced by Tim Lopez, Ken being replaced by Mike Retondo and De'Mar Hamilton taking up drums.

The band went into the studio to record their next album, called "All That We Needed",in May 2004. After recording the album, they toured the US by ]. During this tour, they released their first single, "All That We Needed". They then promoted the album internationally, gathering a growing fanbase, before heading back for the 2005 Take Action Tour.

During the "Take Action Tour '05", Plain White T's recorded their first music video with a single which they hoped would be more famous than "All That We Needed" .

In 2006 they signed to another new label, Hollywood Records, and then began recording a new album. Shortly before the release of the album, the single "Hate (I Really Don't Like You)" was released, it was the first single by them to achieve noticeable success.

Plain White T's started touring in Winter and Autumn of 2006. By this time they were starting to get noticed in the music industry at last. Although they were beginning to get noticed in the minor US rock industry, internationally Plain White Ts were not doing so well, by this point, they had not even sold 100,000 copies of any album anywhere outside of the US. Hollywood Records thought that re-releasing "Hey There Delilah" would make the band famous.

"Hey There Delilah" is an acoustic song, first released as a single in May 2006 as chasing cars, and was the last track in the band's first album, All That We Needed. One year later, in 2007, the song became the band's first mainstream hit. On 11 July 2007, the song reached number one for sales in the Billboard Hot 100. One month later, the song became a hit single all over the world. "Hey There Delilah" reached number two in the UK Singles Chart and Ireland Singles Chart, number four in the Australian chart and number six in the United World Chart. Its popularity made it to #1 in other countries like Germany and Canada.



</doc>
<doc id="89937" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89937" title="Suharto">
Suharto

Suharto (February 20, 1921 - January 27, 2008) was an Indonesian military and political leader. He was a military officer in the Indonesian National Revolution. He is better known as the second President of Indonesia. He held the office for a long time, from 1967 to 1998. 

Suharto seized power from his predecessor, the first president of Indonesia Sukarno. For this, he used some force, but also took some political maneuvers. At the time, there was instability and unrest inside and outside of Indonesia. This helped him come to power. He took three decades to change the regime to work along militarist lines, with a strong central government. His movement was known as ""Orde Baru"". As he took an anti-communist position which he could defend, several Western governments supported him both in economic and political matters. This was during an era that is known as Cold War. For most of his three-decade rule, Indonesia experienced significant economic growth and industrialization. His rule, however, led to political purges and the deaths of millions of suspected Indonesian communists and Chinese-Indonesians. He also made some laws against communist parties and ethnic Chinese.

His New Order administration's authoritarian and increasingly corrupt practices led to much discontent in the 1990s. Suharto's almost unquestioned authority over Indonesian affairs slipped dramatically when the Asian financial crisis lowered Indonesians' standard of living. People inside the military and other institutions no longer supported him. There were some problems inside the country during the early 1990s. Suharto became more and more isolated, in a political way. After mass demonstrations in 1998, Suharto was forced to resign. Suharto had been the face of Indonesia for over 30 years. After retiring, he lived in seclusion. There were people who wanted to try him for genocide. This failed however, because he had a very bad health. His legacy remains hotly debated and contested both in Indonesia and abroad.

Like many Javanese, Suharto has only one name. In contexts where his religion is being discussed he is sometimes called Haji or el-Haj Mohammed Suharto, but this Islamic title is not part of his formal name or generally used. The spelling "Suharto" has been official in Indonesia since 1947 but the older spelling Soeharto is still frequently used.

Suharto passed away at January 27, 2008, at 1:10 P.M. local time due to organ failure. He passed away at Pertamina Hospital in Jakarta, Indonesia.



</doc>
<doc id="89940" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89940" title="IG Farben">
IG Farben

IG Farben (short for Interessen-Gemeinschaft Farbenindustrie
AG), was a German conglomerate of companies formed in 1925 – including BASF, AGFA and Hoechst – and even earlier during World War I. "Farben" is German for "paints", "dyes", or "colors", and initially many of these companies produced dyes, but soon began to embrace more advanced chemistry. The founding of IG Farben was a reaction to Germany's defeat in World War I. IG Farben held a near total monopoly on chemical production, later during the Nazi regime, including manufacturing Zyklon B.


</doc>
<doc id="89941" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89941" title="Category:People from Hamburg">
Category:People from Hamburg


</doc>
<doc id="89944" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89944" title="Category:People from Rhineland-Palatinate">
Category:People from Rhineland-Palatinate


</doc>
<doc id="89945" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89945" title="Category:Presidents of Indonesia">
Category:Presidents of Indonesia


</doc>
<doc id="89949" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89949" title="Sukarno">
Sukarno

Sukarno (June 6, 1901 – June 21, 1970) was the first President of Indonesia. He helped the country win its independence from the Netherlands. He was President from 1945 to 1967, presiding with mixed success over the country's turbulent transition to independence. Sukarno was forced to resign by one of his generals, Suharto. Suharto formally became President in March 1967.

The spelling "Sukarno" has been official in Indonesia since 1947. The older spelling Soekarno is still frequently used, mainly because he signed his signature in the old spelling. Official Indonesian presidential decrees from the period 1947-1968, however, printed his name using the 1947 spelling. 

Indonesians also remember him as Bung" Karno or Pak" Karno. Like many Javanese people, he had one name; in religious contexts, he was occasionally referred to as 'Achmad Sukarno'. 


</doc>
<doc id="89950" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89950" title="Category:People from Schleswig-Holstein">
Category:People from Schleswig-Holstein


</doc>
<doc id="89954" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89954" title="Category:People from former German territories">
Category:People from former German territories

this category is for people who were born in places which are not now part of the Federal Republic of Germany, but were once part of Germany in Europe, eg Ernst Reuter, born in a part of Prussia which is now Denmark or Günther Grass, born in Danzig, which is now Gdansk, Poland.


</doc>
<doc id="89955" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89955" title="Cybele asteroid">
Cybele asteroid

The Cybele asteroids are a group of asteroids in the asteroid belt with an orbital radius usually between 3.27 AU and 3.7 AU, with an orbital eccentricity less than 0.3, and an inclination less than 25°.


</doc>
<doc id="89961" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89961" title="Category:Members of the Bundesrat">
Category:Members of the Bundesrat


</doc>
<doc id="89966" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89966" title="Category:Volcanoes in Canada">
Category:Volcanoes in Canada


</doc>
<doc id="89967" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89967" title="Category:Volcanoes in British Columbia">
Category:Volcanoes in British Columbia


</doc>
<doc id="89968" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89968" title="Mettembert">
Mettembert

Mettembert is a municipality of the district of Delémont in the canton of Jura in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="89970" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89970" title="Montsevelier">
Montsevelier

Montsevelier is a municipality of the district of Delémont in the canton of Jura in Switzerland.

<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>


</doc>
<doc id="89971" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89971" title="Movelier">
Movelier

Movelier is a municipality of the district of Delémont in the canton of Jura in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="89973" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89973" title="Pleigne">
Pleigne

Pleigne is a municipality of the district of Delémont in the canton of Jura in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="89975" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89975" title="Rebeuvelier">
Rebeuvelier

Rebeuvelier is a municipality of the district of Delémont in the canton of Jura in Switzerland.

<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>


</doc>
<doc id="89977" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89977" title="Rossemaison">
Rossemaison

Rossemaison is a municipality of the district of Delémont of the canton of Jura in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="89978" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89978" title="Saulcy">
Saulcy

Saulcy is a municipality of the district of Delémont in the canton of Jura in Switzerland.
<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>


</doc>
<doc id="89979" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89979" title="Soulce">
Soulce

Soulce is a municipality of the district of Delémont in the canton of Jura in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="89981" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89981" title="Soyhières">
Soyhières

Soyhières is a municipality of the district of Delémont in the canton of Jura in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="89983" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89983" title="Template:Lang-hu">
Template:Lang-hu


</doc>
<doc id="89985" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89985" title="Screamo">
Screamo

Screamo is musical genre which came from emo and hardcore punk in the 1990's. This kind of music uses vocalists, people who scream a lot, instead of singers like most other bands use. The music usually is fast paced.

Screamo bands include Saetia, Orchid, Circle Takes the Square, Envy and Thursday.

The term is also used for bands that use some screaming but have plenty of normal singing in the music, even more singing than screaming. Examples of that include bands Silverstein, Hawthorne Heights and The Used.

While many types of music have screaming vocals, screamo usually has a certain kind of harsher screaming, just like in heavy metal.



</doc>
<doc id="89990" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89990" title="Comcast">
Comcast

Comcast Corporation is the biggest cable television company, the second biggest Internet service provider and the third biggest telephone company in the United States.

In 2007, Comcast was accused of bandwidth throttling, or the provider slowing the internet connection they have, by its customers. The FCC has launched an investigation regarding the situation.



</doc>
<doc id="89991" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89991" title="Category:People from Brandenburg">
Category:People from Brandenburg


</doc>
<doc id="89993" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89993" title="List of victims of Nazism">
List of victims of Nazism

Millions of people were arrested, tortured or murdered by the Nazis. This is a list of victims of Nazism who were famous for some reason.

This list includes people from public life who, owing to their origins, their political or religious convictions, or their sexual orientation, lost their lives as a result of Nazism. This list includes those whose deaths were part of The Holocaust as well as people who died in other ways at the hands of the Nazis during World War II. People who died in concentration camps are listed alongside those who were murdered by the National Socialists or those who chose suicide for political motives or to avoid being murdered.

This list is sorted by occupation and within by nationality.

<br clear=left>

"See also: List of composers influenced by the Holocaust"



</doc>
<doc id="89994" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89994" title="Category:Victims of Nazism">
Category:Victims of Nazism


</doc>
<doc id="89999" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89999" title="Volcanology">
Volcanology

In geology, volcanology (also spelled vulcanology) is the study of volcanoes, lava, magma, and other related geology. The term "volcanology" comes from the Latin word "vulcan", the Roman god of fire. Volcanology is a sub-field of geology. 

A volcanologist is a person who studies volcanoes and their eruptions. Volcanologists visit volcanoes often, especially ones that are active, to look at volcanic eruptions, collect material from the eruptions, such as ash or pumice, rock and lava samples. 



</doc>
<doc id="90008" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90008" title="Birmingham Small Arms Company">
Birmingham Small Arms Company

The Birmingham Small Arms Company (BSA) was a British company that started making guns and bicycles in the 19th century. From 1910 the company started making motorcycles. At one time, It was the most popular maker of motorcycles in the world. Over half a million of the company's most popular model, the Bantam, were sold. The company went out of business in the 1970s. It has started again as a gun making company.


</doc>
<doc id="90010" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90010" title="BSA Bantam">
BSA Bantam

The BSA Bantam is a small two-stroke motorcycle that was made by the Birmingham Small Arms company from 1949 to 1972. 

The bike originally came from a German design, the DKW RT 125, from before World War II. There were more than 8 different versions of the bike, from the D1 to the B175, these bikes has engines that range from 125cc to 175cc


</doc>
<doc id="90018" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90018" title="Caló">
Caló

Caló or Spanish Romani is a dialect spoken by the Gitans or Zincarli (also "calés", "dark ones") that came from Spain. Caló uses Romani vocabulary with Spanish grammar,



</doc>
<doc id="90024" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90024" title="Industrialization">
Industrialization

Industrialization (or spelled Industrialisation in British English) is a process that happens in countries when they start to use machines to do work that was once done by people. Industrialization changes the society as it happens. During the industrialisation of a country people leave farming work to take higher paid jobs in factories in towns.

Industrialization is part of a process where people adopt easier and cheaper ways to make things. Using better technology, it becomes possible to produce more goods in a shorter amount of time. A single person can produce more things. 

After industrialization people also do more specialized jobs. For example before industrialization, a shoemaker produced the whole shoe. He worked on one pair of shoes, finished that, and then did the next pair of shoes. With industrialization, there are many people involved in making shoes. An individual shoemaker has a smaller task, however. There is one person that cuts the sole of the shoe. Another person stitches it on. In short there is division of labour. The machines to make the shoes cost a lot of money so the factory will be owned by a wealthy person who can afford the machines.

Industrialization started in England with the industrial revolution in the late 18th and early 19th century. It spread to Europe and North America and continues to spread today in Asia and Africa.


</doc>
<doc id="90031" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90031" title="The Falling Man">
The Falling Man

The Falling Man is the title of a story about a photograph taken by Richard Drew at 9:41:15 a.m., on September 11, 2001. The story was written by Tom Junod and appeared in the September 2003 issue of Esquire magazine. It is about the World Trade Center during the September 11, 2001 attacks in New York City.


</doc>
<doc id="90049" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90049" title="Avon">
Avon

Avon can mean:




There are also several Avon Townships.




</doc>
<doc id="90050" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90050" title="Template:Infobox">
Template:Infobox

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="90052" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90052" title="Template:Infobox/doc">
Template:Infobox/doc

<includeonly></includeonly>

This template is intended as a meta-template, that is, a template that's used when constructing other templates. It's not meant for use directly in an article. See for information on how to craft infoboxes in general.

Usage is similar to , but with an additional distinction. Each row on the table can either be a "header", or it can have a label/data pair, or it can just be a data cell. These are mutually exclusive states so if you define a row to be both a header and a label/data pair, the label/data pair is overridden.

Note that if you want to insert an image elsewhere other than the top of the infobox, or insert other "freeform" data, using a row with just a "data" field allows for that sort of thing.

Mandatory:
If no name or title are given, the pagename is used. 
Optional content:

Optional CSS styling:


A row with a label but no data is not displayed. This allows for optional infobox contents. To make a field optional, use a parameter that defaults to an empty string, like so:

For more complex fields with preformatted contents that would still be present if a parameter was unset, you can wrap it all in a simple "if" statement to make the whole thing vanish when not used. Example:

For this example bodystyle=width:20em; and labelstyle= width:33%;

Note that the template in its current form can handle up to 40 rows, only 20 are included in this blank template in order to make it easier to use.

<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="90054" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90054" title="BSA">
BSA

BSA could stand for:



</doc>
<doc id="90055" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90055" title="Template:Infobox Book">
Template:Infobox Book


</doc>
<doc id="90056" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90056" title="Template:Infobox Book/doc">
Template:Infobox Book/doc

<includeonly></includeonly>

This template is used to present a consistently-formatted table for use in articles about books. Please do not make major changes to this infobox without proposing and discussing it on the talk page first.


<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="90066" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90066" title="Blues-rock">
Blues-rock

Blues Rock is a type of music which mixes blues with rock and roll, and uses mostly electric guitar as a main instrument. It began in the mid 1960s in England and the United States with bands such as Cream and The Rolling Stones, who experimented with music from the older bluesmen like Elmore James, Robert Johnson, Howlin' Wolf and Bo Diddley.



</doc>
<doc id="90074" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90074" title="AboutUs.org">
AboutUs.org

AboutUs.org is a wiki Internet domain directory. It lists websites along with information about their content. As a wiki, AboutUs allows Internet users to add entries or modify information. It was created by Ray King in 2006. It started in Portland, Oregon, where the website's headquarters is today. Ray King started AboutUs with only five people working with him, but, now he has more then thiry-five employees. AboutUs is in two different continents now, and they have an office in the city of Lahore, Pakistan.

WebsiteWiki



</doc>
<doc id="90077" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90077" title="Nile Delta">
Nile Delta

The Nile Delta (Arabic: دلتا النيل ) is the delta formed in Northern Egypt (Lower Egypt) where the Nile River spreads out and drains into the Mediterranean Sea. It is one of the world's largest river deltas—from Alexandria in the west to Port Said in the east, it covers some 240 km of Mediterranean coastline—and is a rich agricultural region. From north to south the delta is approximately 160 km in length. The Delta begins slightly down-river from Cairo.

The Nile is considered to be an "arcuate" delta (arc-shaped), and resembles a triangle or lotus flower when seen from above. 

The Nile Delta has a Mediterranean climate, characterized by little rainfall. Only 100 to 200 mm of rain falls on the delta area during an average year, and most of this falls in the winter months. The delta experiences its hottest temperatures in July and August, averaging 30 °C, with a maximum of around 48 °C. Winter temperatures are normally in the range of 5° to 10 °C. The Nile Delta region becomes quite humid during the summer months.
The Nile Delta is eroding at a rate of 50km per year, and it has been predicted that this Delta will have vanished by the year 2550AD



1. p87 in W. Hayes, 'Most Ancient Egypt', JNES, 23 (1964), 73-114.



</doc>
<doc id="90078" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90078" title="Lotus">
Lotus

Lotus may refer to:

in horticulture:

in culture (Asian):

in corporate and computing:

in geography:

in maritime

in other meanings:



</doc>
<doc id="90079" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90079" title="Lotus position">
Lotus position

The lotus position (Sanskrit: "Padmasanam") is a cross-legged sitting position which is common in meditative practices of Hinduism. It is a part of the Hindu Yoga tradition. The position is said to resemble a lotus plant and to encourage proper breathing and to be helpful for physical stability.



</doc>
<doc id="90080" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90080" title="Polypropylene">
Polypropylene

Polypropylene is a type of fibre. It can either be a plastic or fabric. As a plastic it is opaque and often brightly colored. Sometimes it is very tough. But can also be very weak as well.

It is usually formed into a thin thread that is woven into a special strap that can be found on backpacks, bags, and other things.


</doc>
<doc id="90082" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90082" title="Millau Viaduct">
Millau Viaduct

Millau Viaduct is a large bridge in Millau, France in the Département of Aveyron. It was designed by the French structural engineer Michel Virlogeux and British architect Sir Norman Foster.

Before the bridge was built, traffic had to go down into the Tarn River valley and pass along the national route N9 near the town of Millau, causing heavy congestion at the beginning and end of the July and August vacation season. The bridge now crosses the Tarn valley above its lowest point, linking the Causse du Larzac to the Causse Rouge, and is inside the perimeter of the Grands Causses regional natural park.

The bridge forms the last link of the A75 autoroute, (la Méridienne) from Clermont-Ferrand to Pézenas (to be extended to Béziers by 2010). The A75, with the A10 and A71, provides a continuous high-speed route south from Paris through Clermont-Ferrand to the Languedoc region and through to Spain, considerably reducing the cost of vehicle traffic traveling along this route. Many tourists heading to southern France and Spain follow this route because it is direct and without tolls for the 340 km between Clermont-Ferrand and Pézenas, except for the bridge itself. 


</doc>
<doc id="90083" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90083" title="Shemale">
Shemale

Shemale (also she-male) is a slang word. It often means a transwoman with a penis and female breasts. Many trans women think "shemale" is a bad word because it is used mostly in pornography.


</doc>
<doc id="90086" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90086" title="Category:Bridges in France">
Category:Bridges in France


</doc>
<doc id="90089" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90089" title="Category:Power stations in Germany">
Category:Power stations in Germany


</doc>
<doc id="90093" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90093" title="Category:Churches in Germany">
Category:Churches in Germany


</doc>
<doc id="90094" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90094" title="Kaiser Wilhelm Gedächtniskirche">
Kaiser Wilhelm Gedächtniskirche

The Kaiser Wilhelm Gedächtniskirche is a ruined church in Berlin. It belongs to the Protestant Evangelical Church in Germany

It is on the Breitscheidplatz, at the end of the Kurfürstendamm.

The old church was built between 1891 and 1895 according to plans by Franz Schwechten.

Emperor Wilhelm II ordered the building of the church to honour his grandfather Wilhelm I. The neo-romanesque style is a reminder of the many Romanesque churches in the Rhineland like Bonn Minster.
Mosaics inside the church showed the life and work of Emperor Wilhelm I. During World War II, the church was destroyed during a British RAF bombing raid in 1943. The only remainder of the old building is the ruin of the belfry, which is also called ("the hollow tooth").

After the war, from 1951 to 1961, a new church was built right next to the site of the old one. the new church was designed by Egon Eiermann.

The new church has a cross made of nails from the old Coventry Cathedral, destroyed by German Luftwaffe bomb attacks in in what was called the Coventry "Blitz". It was consecrated on May 25 1962, the same day as the new Coventry Cathedral. Both churches were built next to the ruins of the old building, which were kept as reminders of the horrors of war.

As well as the Coventry cross, the "Gedächtniskirche" has a cross of the Russian Orthodox Church and a design known as the Stalingrad Madonna by Lieutenant Kurt Reuber, created in December 1942 in Stalingrad (now Volgograd), as symbols of peace between the three countries that were once at war.

In December 2007, Charles Jeffrey Gray, a former British pilot who carried out World War II bombing raids over Germany, joined a campaign to rescue the Kaiser Wilhelm Memorial Church from decay. After reading about the condition of the Church, Gray contacted Wolfgang Kuhla, the chairman of the church's advisory board, asking for its tower be restored. A fund was launched to help raise the costs of its repair.




</doc>
<doc id="90095" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90095" title="Catherine Zeta-Jones">
Catherine Zeta-Jones

Catherine Zeta-Jones (born 25 September 1969) is an Academy Award-winning Welsh actress living in the United States. She started acting at in theatre when she was young. After this, she has many small role British and American television and movies. She became a famous actor once she start acting in Hollywood movies such as The Phantom, The Mask of Zorro, and Entrapment in the late 1990s.

She won Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for acting as Velma Kelly in 2002 movie Chicago. She is the first and only Welsh actress to win that award. 

Zeta-Jones is married to American actor Michael Douglas, with whom she shares a birthday. They have two children - Dylan (named after Dylan Thomas) and Carys.



</doc>
<doc id="90096" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90096" title="John Bodkin Adams">
John Bodkin Adams

John Bodkin Adams (January 21, 1899 – July 4, 1983) was a British doctor, fraudster and suspected serial killer.

Adams was born in Randalstown in what is now Northern Ireland. His parents were from a very strict Christian sect called the Plymouth Brethren - and they believed that what ever they did in life, they would go to heaven anyway. He had one brother, William, born in 1903. His father died in 1914 and Adams was brought up by his mother. The family moved to Belfast but in 1918 William died from flu. Adams studied medicine at university. 

Adams worked for one year in a hospital in Bristol. He then moved to Eastbourne, England where he became a general practitioner. He cared for a lot of old female patients and many of them were very rich. 132 left him money or gifts when they died. Rumours started that Adams was killing them with heroin and morphine and the police decided to investigate. Many of the possible victims had been cremated (burnt), so there were few bodies for the police to analyse.

Adams was arrested and tried for the murder of one patient in 1957, but found not guilty. Another charge was withdrawn - an event the judge later criticised. The trial was reported in newspapers around the world and was described at the time as "one of the greatest murder trials of all time".

Some have claimed that the trial was not held fairly. Police files show that the prosecution gave secret records to the defence to help them defend Adams. Evidence (some notebooks written by the patient's nurses) was lost by the prosecution and then found later by the defence. When it was produced during the trial, the prosecution pretended that it had never seen it. Also, the case that was chosen (Mrs Morrell) was probably one of the least likely to succeed. 

One historian claims that the government did not want Adams to be convicted, because he would then have been hanged. If this had happened, many doctors would have refused to treat government (NHS) patients and the government would have become very unpopular.

Adams was later found guilty of 13 other crimes - prescription fraud, lying on cremation forms, obstructing a police search and failing to keep a register of the dangerous drugs he used.

He had his license to be a doctor taken away in 1957 but it was given back in 1961. He was banned from prescribing dangerous drugs for life.

Scotland Yard's files on the case were meant to be secret until 2033, but special permission was given in 2003 to open them.

Even though he was found not guilty, most experts now consider him to have been a serial killer. The judge in his trial later wrote a book in which he said Adams was probably guilty. The police thought that Adams killed 163 of his patients. 




</doc>
<doc id="90108" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90108" title="Category:952 births">
Category:952 births


</doc>
<doc id="90109" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90109" title="Category:952">
Category:952


</doc>
<doc id="90110" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90110" title="Category:1004 deaths">
Category:1004 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="90111" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90111" title="Category:1000s deaths">
Category:1000s deaths


</doc>
<doc id="90113" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90113" title="Category:Islands of New York">
Category:Islands of New York


</doc>
<doc id="90130" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90130" title="Category:Berlin Wall">
Category:Berlin Wall


</doc>
<doc id="90131" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90131" title="Category:Toronto, Ontario">
Category:Toronto, Ontario


</doc>
<doc id="90134" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90134" title="Category:Ottawa, Ontario">
Category:Ottawa, Ontario


</doc>
<doc id="90140" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90140" title="Category:Edmonton, Alberta">
Category:Edmonton, Alberta


</doc>
<doc id="90149" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90149" title="Category:Cities in New Brunswick">
Category:Cities in New Brunswick


</doc>
<doc id="90150" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90150" title="Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan">
Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan

Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan is the second "Star Trek" movie. It was made in 1982. It is a sequel to "". It is considered to be the best of the "Star Trek" movies. Most of the original actors are in the movie and it marked the return of Khan, a villain from the first season of the series. It won 2 Saturn awards, another 8 nominations. A notable scene in the movie consists of Kirk screaming the name of Khan very loudly when he is trapped in a planet. Because of this, many people will scream KHAN loudly as a way to connect to fellow fans of this movie.


</doc>
<doc id="90151" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90151" title="Category:Cities in Manitoba">
Category:Cities in Manitoba


</doc>
<doc id="90152" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90152" title="Category:Cities in Nova Scotia">
Category:Cities in Nova Scotia


</doc>
<doc id="90154" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90154" title="Alex Andrew Kelly">
Alex Andrew Kelly

Alexander Andrew Kelly (born May 8 1967) is an Irish-American from Darien, Connecticut, who was convicted of rape in 1997. He was born the middle of three children, having both an older and a younger brother.

Alex Kelly was charged with having committed two rapes in Darien, Connecticut, in 1986. Before his trial was due to begin in 1987, Kelly fled the United States and spent the next seven years on the run, mostly in Europe.In 1995, Kelly surrendered to authorities in Switzerland and was extradited to the United States in order to stand trial on rape and kidnapping charges. Kelly faced two trials in 1997. After the first was declared a mistrial, the second resulted in his conviction for the first rape and a sentence of 16 years in prison.

In 2005, after having served eight years of his 16-year sentence, Kelly appeared before a Connecticut parole board; his bid for release was rejected. On November 23, 2007, Kelly was released from prison on "good behavior". He is now required to serve 10 years probation, perform 200 hours of community service, pay a $10,000 fine, and register with the Connecticut Sex Offender Registry. While in prison, Kelly claims that he earned a bachelors degree in economics and third-world development.



</doc>
<doc id="90155" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90155" title="Category:Cities in Newfoundland and Labrador">
Category:Cities in Newfoundland and Labrador


</doc>
<doc id="90160" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90160" title="Dr. Phil (TV series)">
Dr. Phil (TV series)

Dr. Phil is an American talk show hosted by Dr. Phil McGraw. It debuted on September 16, 2002, after McGraw had success with the "Tuesdays With Dr. Phil" segment on "The Oprah Winfrey Show". On both shows McGraw offers advice in the form of "life strategies" from his experience as a clinical psychologist.

The show is in syndication throughout the United States and Canada, as well as a number of other countries. Also, the show's syndication contracts specifically state that if "Dr. Phil" is on another station, it cannot air at the same time as "Oprah".

The sixth season premiered on September 10, 2007.

It was announced on August 3, 2005 that "Dr. Phil" had been renewed through at least 2012-2013, lasting through the 11th season.

In 2007, Dr. Phil was nominated for a Daytime Emmy Award for "Outstanding Talk Show Host".


</doc>
<doc id="90161" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90161" title="Category:Nunavut">
Category:Nunavut


</doc>
<doc id="90162" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90162" title="Phil McGraw">
Phil McGraw

Phillip Calvin McGraw (born September 1, 1950), best known as Dr. Phil, is an American television personality, psychologist and author who is the host of the psychology themed television show "Dr Phil show". He became a celebrity after appearances on "The Oprah Winfrey Show".

McGraw was born in Vinita, Oklahoma. He is the son of Jerry Stevens and Joe McGraw. He grew up with two older sisters, Deana and Donna, and younger sister, Brenda. They lived in the oilfields of North Texas. His father was an equipment supplier there. During McGraw's childhood, his family moved so his father could become a psychologist. McGraw attended Shawnee Mission North High School in Mission, Kansas. In 1968, he was awarded a football scholarship to the University of Tulsa. He played middle linebacker. His coach was Glenn Dobbs. Glenn Dobbs is the father of Gary Dobbs. Gary Dobbs went into business with McGraw. On November 23, 1968, McGraw's team lost to the University of Houston 100-6. This is one of the most badly played games in college football history.

After that season, McGraw moved to Midwestern State University in Wichita Falls, Texas. He graduated in 1975 with a Bachelor of Arts degree in psychology. He next got a Master's degree in experimental psychology in 1976. He then got a Ph.D in clinical psychology in 1979 at the University of North Texas. At the University of North Texas, his dissertation was titled "Rheumatoid Arthritis: A Psychological Intervention."


</doc>
<doc id="90163" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90163" title="Category:Cities in Saskatchewan">
Category:Cities in Saskatchewan


</doc>
<doc id="90164" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90164" title="Category:Cities in the Northwest Territories">
Category:Cities in the Northwest Territories


</doc>
<doc id="90165" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90165" title="Category:Northwest Territories">
Category:Northwest Territories


</doc>
<doc id="90170" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90170" title="Dr. Phil">
Dr. Phil

Dr. Phil could mean:



</doc>
<doc id="90172" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90172" title="Miss USA">
Miss USA

The Miss USA pageant is a beauty contest that has been held every year since 1952, with winners competing in the Miss Universe pageant. The Miss Universe Organization operates both pageants, as well as Miss Teen USA. 

The reigning Miss USA is Rima Fakih, who was crowned on May 16, 2010, in Las Vegas by Kristen Dalton, Miss USA 2009. 


</doc>
<doc id="90176" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90176" title="Category:Vice Chancellors of Germany">
Category:Vice Chancellors of Germany


</doc>
<doc id="90177" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90177" title="Category:Television infobox templates">
Category:Television infobox templates


</doc>
<doc id="90178" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90178" title="Category:Templates for UK subdivision lookups">
Category:Templates for UK subdivision lookups


</doc>
<doc id="90181" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90181" title="Category:Green Day">
Category:Green Day

This category is for articles dealing with the American punk rock band Green Day.


</doc>
<doc id="90187" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90187" title="Template:Pokémon Character">
Template:Pokémon Character


</doc>
<doc id="90192" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90192" title="The Wife of Bath's Prologue and Tale">
The Wife of Bath's Prologue and Tale

"The Wife of Bath's Prologue and Tale" is a story from the well known book "The Canterbury Tales". It is about a knight who sets on a quest to find the object that women most desire. The story has been changed into many plays.

The story begins when a man rapes a young lady. He is sentenced to death by the King, but the Queen asks for mercy. She gives the knight a year and a day to find out what women really want. The man hunts the entire year, and gets many different answers, from the different women he asks. 

After a year passed he was on his way to back the castle to tell the queen his answer when he saw many young women. They disappeared and left one old lady. The old lady gives him the answer but in return wants to marry him. The man is forced to marry the old woman after she gives him the correct answer, which was mastery (sovereignty) from their husbands/men. On their honeymoon he hides from her and she gives him the choice of her old ugly self, who would never cheat on him or a pretty woman who might cheat on him. He gives her the power to make the decision on her own, and in return she turns herself into a pretty and faithful young woman he had truly wanted.


</doc>
<doc id="90196" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90196" title="Template:German">
Template:German

"This article incorporates text translated from as of ."

</doc>
<doc id="90197" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90197" title="Category:1900s establishments">
Category:1900s establishments


</doc>
<doc id="90198" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90198" title="Category:1910s establishments">
Category:1910s establishments


</doc>
<doc id="90199" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90199" title="Category:1920s establishments">
Category:1920s establishments


</doc>
<doc id="90200" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90200" title="Category:1930s establishments">
Category:1930s establishments


</doc>
<doc id="90201" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90201" title="Category:1940s establishments">
Category:1940s establishments


</doc>
<doc id="90202" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90202" title="Category:1950s establishments">
Category:1950s establishments


</doc>
<doc id="90203" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90203" title="Category:1960s establishments">
Category:1960s establishments


</doc>
<doc id="90204" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90204" title="Category:1970s establishments">
Category:1970s establishments


</doc>
<doc id="90205" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90205" title="Category:1990s establishments">
Category:1990s establishments


</doc>
<doc id="90211" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90211" title="List of state capitals in Germany">
List of state capitals in Germany


</doc>
<doc id="90215" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90215" title="Vuze">
Vuze

Vuze (formerly Azureus) is a Java-based BitTorrent used for file sharing. The program's logo is the Blue Poison Dart Frog (Dendrobates azureus). The Azureus name was given to the project by co-creator Tyler Pitchford, who uses the Latin names of poison dart frogs as "nickname" for his development projects.

Azureus was first released in June 2003 at SourceForge.net. It is now one of the most popular BitTorrent clients

Since version 2.5.0.4, Azureus was distributed under the GNU General Public License (GPL).




</doc>
<doc id="90217" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90217" title="Template:Sprotect">
Template:Sprotect

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="90218" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90218" title="Template:Protection templates">
Template:Protection templates


</doc>
<doc id="90219" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90219" title="Stabio">
Stabio

Stabio is a municipality of the district Mendrisio in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="90220" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90220" title="Template:Pp-dispute">
Template:Pp-dispute

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="90221" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90221" title="Tegna">
Tegna

Tegna is a municipality of the district Locarno in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="90223" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90223" title="Template:Pp-semi-vandalism">
Template:Pp-semi-vandalism

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="90225" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90225" title="Template:Pp-usertalk">
Template:Pp-usertalk

20px
</imagemap>
</div><includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="90226" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90226" title="Template:Pp-semi-usertalk">
Template:Pp-semi-usertalk

15px
</imagemap>
</div><includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="90227" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90227" title="Template:Pp-semi-spambot">
Template:Pp-semi-spambot

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="90229" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90229" title="Tenero-Contra">
Tenero-Contra

Tenero-Contra is a municipality of the district Locarno in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.



</doc>
<doc id="90231" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90231" title="Template:Table cell templates">
Template:Table cell templates


</doc>
<doc id="90232" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90232" title="Torre">
Torre

Torre may refer to:





</doc>
<doc id="90233" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90233" title="Template:Pp-semi-sock">
Template:Pp-semi-sock

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="90235" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90235" title="Template:Pp-semi-protected">
Template:Pp-semi-protected

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="90236" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90236" title="Template:Pp-protected">
Template:Pp-protected

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="90237" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90237" title="Template:Pp-protected/doc">
Template:Pp-protected/doc

This template is not to be used as a bluff. Only use it on FULLY PROTECTED pages. Only can protect pages.


Note that "(UTC)" will be added automatically.

<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="90238" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90238" title="Template:Pp-office">
Template:Pp-office

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="90239" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90239" title="Template:Reset">
Template:Reset


</doc>
<doc id="90241" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90241" title="Torre, Switzerland">
Torre, Switzerland

Torre was a municipality of the district Blenio in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.

It came together with 3 other villages to become the new municipality Blenio.


</doc>
<doc id="90242" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90242" title="Girolamo Savonarola">
Girolamo Savonarola

Girolamo Savonarola (September 21, 1452 – May 23, 1498), was an Italian Dominican priest and leader of Florence from 1494 until his execution in 1498. Savonarola is famous for burning books, and for the destruction of what he considered immoral art. Savonarola was a priest but he preached against the moral corruption of the clergy and the Church of Rome. His main enemy was Pope Alexander VI. He is sometimes seen as a forerunner of Martin Luther and the Protestant Reformation, however he remained a devout Roman Catholic.

In the twentieth century, a movement for the canonization of "Frà Savonarola" began to develop within the Roman Catholic Church, particularly among Dominicans. Many believe that his excommunication and execution were not legal. However, his beatification and canonization is opposed by many Jesuits, who think Savonarola's attacks on the papacy to have been a serious crime.

Savonarola was born in Ferrara, the which was the capital of the independent Duchy of Ferrara.

In his youth he studied the Bible, and then went to the University of Ferrara. He wrote two poems which showed his anger at morally corrupt clergymen. The first, about the end of the world, was written when he was only 20. Savonarola wrote the second poem "De Ruina Mundi" ("On the Downfall of the World") in 1475. In this poem he said the Roman Curia was "a false, proud whore".

Savonarola became a Dominican friar in 1475, and entered the convent of San Domenico in Bologna. He studied theology. In 1479 he went to the convent of Santa Maria degli Angeli. In 1482 the Dominicans sent him to Florence, the ‘city of his destiny’. After five years, he went back to Bologna where he became 'master of studies’.

He returned to Florence in 1490 and began to preach about the end of the world. He had visions and prophecies which he said had come to him from God and the saints. Several disasters made his prophecies real. He spoke about the failing power of the ruling Medici family. Savonarola never tried to make war on the Roman Curia. He wanted to put an end to the sins of the popes who cared more about their riches and power than they did about God .

After Charles VIII of France invaded Florence in 1494, the ruling Medici were removed. Savonarola became the new leader of the city, both as a secular leader and priest. He set up a rather modern democratic republic in Florence. Savonarola wanted to make Florence a city devoted to God, a good “Christian and religious Republic.” Homosexuality had been acceptable in Florence, and many were important people. One of Savonarola's first laws was to make sodomy a crime which would be punished by death.

In 1497, he and his followers went to the Piazza della Signoria, and began to burn mirrors, cosmetics, obscene pictures, pagan books, gaming tables, musical instruments, fine dresses, women’s hats, and the works of immoral and ancient poets. They also burnt paintings by some famous artists, such as Sandro Botticelli and Michelangelo. This event is now called the "Bonfire of the Vanities".

Florence soon became tired of Savonarola. The city had became an unhappy place to live. Savonarola's promises that God would change things in the city did not come true, and his predictions of the end of the world did not happen. During his Ascension Day sermon on May 4, 1497, groups of young men rioted in the streets, people began singing and dancing, and the taverns reopened. The riot became a revolution.

On May 13, 1497, Savonarola was excommunicated by Pope Alexander VI. In 1498, Alexander demanded his arrest and execution. On April 8, soldiers attacked the Convent of San Marco and after a bloody battle Savonarola's guards and religious supporters were killed. He surrendered and during the next few weeks was tortured to make him say that he was gulity of heresy, corruption, and other crimes against the Church.

On the day of his execution he was taken out to the Piazza della Signoria with Fra Silvestro and Fra Domenico da Pescia, two religious friends of Savonarola. They were stripped of their clerical clothing, and called heretics and schismatics. The three men were put on crosses,and burned alive. Savonarola died in the same place where he had burnt the paintings and books.

Niccolò Machiavelli, author of "The Prince", also saw and wrote about the execution. The Medici soon retook control of Florence.



</doc>
<doc id="90243" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90243" title="Template:Pp-meta/old">
Template:Pp-meta/old

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="90244" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90244" title="Template:Pp-meta/doc">
Template:Pp-meta/doc

<includeonly></includeonly>

This is , a meta-template used to create . 

This meta-template automatically uses the right style for each namespace. It also takes care of the code for the "small" case with just a small padlock icon at the top right corner of the page.

Note that the small padlock in the top right corner of this page also is an example created with this meta-template. This template uses a position that does not collide with icons such as the "Featured Article" star, the "" icon, or other top-right-hand-corner icons.

This template is designed to be both defining of the major types of protection notice, but flexible enough to allow exceptions. All parameters have some fallback to allow for graceful failure, but some should almost always be applied.




<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="90245" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90245" title="Crepe myrtle">
Crepe myrtle

The common crepe mirtle was introduced in South Carolina by Andre Michaux. 
This multistemmed shrub with crepe-like texture petals, and diverse colors is resistant to frosts.
The genus is dedicated to Magnus von Lagerstroem, who supplied Linnaeus plant he collected.


</doc>
<doc id="90252" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90252" title="Torricella-Taverne">
Torricella-Taverne

Torricella-Taverne is a municipality of the district Lugano in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.



</doc>
<doc id="90253" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90253" title="Tremona">
Tremona

Tremona is a municipality of the district Mendrisio in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="90255" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90255" title="Valcolla">
Valcolla

Valcolla is a municipality of the district Lugano in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="90256" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90256" title="Vergeletto">
Vergeletto

Vergeletto is a municipality of the district Locarno in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.

Since 1803, the municipality of Vergeletto also contained the current municipality of Gresso. Both municipalities were moved away from each other in 1882. 

The coat of arms of the municipality are taken from the Garbani, or Garban family for its French and Northern American branch, starting from the village, who are people who sell things or people of power.


</doc>
<doc id="90258" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90258" title="Vernate, Switzerland">
Vernate, Switzerland

Vernate is a municipality of the district Lugano in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="90259" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90259" title="Verscio">
Verscio

Verscio is a municipality of the district Locarno in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="90260" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90260" title="Vezia">
Vezia

Vezia is a municipality of the district Lugano in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.



</doc>
<doc id="90261" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90261" title="Vico Morcote">
Vico Morcote

Vico Morcote is a municipality of the district Lugano in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.



</doc>
<doc id="90264" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90264" title="Villa Luganese">
Villa Luganese

Villa Luganese is a municipality of the district Lugano in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="90265" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90265" title="Vira (Gambarogno)">
Vira (Gambarogno)

Vira is a municipality of the district Locarno in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.



</doc>
<doc id="90266" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90266" title="Vogorno">
Vogorno

Vogorno is a municipality of the district Locarno in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland. The village can be found above Lago di Vogorno. There is an old church with frescos from about 1400 in the village.


</doc>
<doc id="90267" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90267" title="Lago di Vogorno">
Lago di Vogorno

Lago di Vogorno is a lake near Tenero, in Ticino, Switzerland. The reservoir on the Verzasca river is made by the Verzasca Dam, built 1961-1965. The water surface area is 1.68 km


</doc>
<doc id="90269" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90269" title="Alt St. Johann">
Alt St. Johann

Alt St. Johann is a municipality of the Toggenburg in the canton of St. Gallen in Switzerland.



</doc>
<doc id="90288" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90288" title="Wikipedia:Proposed article demotion">
Wikipedia:Proposed article demotion

"List proposals here, newer ones at the top. Each proposal should list what needs to be fixed. Within two weeks from being listed, an article listed here must be fixed to again meet the criteria, or have its higher status removed."



</doc>
<doc id="90293" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90293" title="Mika Pohjola">
Mika Pohjola

Mika Pohjola (born December 1, 1971, in Helsinki, Finland) is a jazz pianist and composer. He lives in New York City.

Mika Pohjola lived in Vantaa, Finland, outside Helsinki until 1987. He started studying piano and music theory with his father, Heikki Pohjola in 1979. In 1982, he started singing in the Helsinki cathedral boy choir, Cantores Minores. He then studied classical piano, music theory and counterpoint at the Vantaa Music Institute. After completing his classical studies, Pohjola moved to Stockholm, Sweden to study jazz music. He met Alvaro Is Rojas while studying at the Södra Latin Gymnasium. Is Rojas taught him piano improvisation and jazz ear-training for five years. Pohjola received a Master's Degree in Jazz Education at the Royal Swedish College of Music in 1992. 

Encouraged by Alvaro Is Rojas, Pohjola moved to Boston, Massachusetts to study at Berklee College of Music. His teachers included Herb Pomeroy, Gary Burton, Phil Wilson, Ed Bedner and Hal Crook. Pohjola also met many new music collaborators, such as Johanna Grüssner, Matt Penman, Roberto Dani, Fernando Huergo, Sophie Dunér and Yusuke Yamamoto. Pohjola graduated from Berklee with honors in 1994. That same year he recorded his first album, "Myths and Beliefs" (GM Recordings) produced by Gunther Schuller.

In 1995, Pohjola moved to New York City and became a part of the downtown jazz scene. He briefly studied with pianist Sal Mosca. Pohjola performed at New York clubs such as the Blue Note, Birdland, the Five Spot, Smalls, The Jazz Standard and Visiones. His many bands featured saxophonists Chris Cheek, Mark Turner and Miguel Zenón, guitarist Ben Monder, bassists Matt Penman, Johannes Weidenmüller and Fernando Huergo, drummers Roberto Dani, Marlon Browden, Darren Beckett, Matt Wilson and Mark Ferber. In the 1990s, Pohjola often toured Europe, and performed in his native Finland, Sweden, Denmark, The United Kingdom, Germany and Italy. Pohjola was also invited to play in Ukraine in 1999, 2001 and 2002. In 2002 to 2005 Pohjola spent much time in his own recording studio, documenting ambitious arrangements of Scandinavian traditional and popular music. He released the catalogue of the original Moomin music on "Moomin Voices" (2003 in Swedish; 2005 in Finnish). His main collaborators included vocalists Theo Bleckmann, Rigmor Gustafsson, Lisa Werlinder, Sanni Orasmaa and Eeppi Ursin; and instrumentalists Alan Ferber, David Ambrosio, Christof Knoche, Laura Arpiainen and Ayumi Takeshima. He also recorded Scandinavian Christmas music on "Scandinavian Yuletide Voices" (2005), and a tribute to the Finnish legendary tango composer, Toivo Kärki on the album, "Leivonen lumimyrskyssä (A Lark in a Snowstorm)" (2006).

Pohjola has since 1995 been a jazz piano principal at the Nilsiä Music Camp in Finland. Additionally, he has been a guest lecturer at many conservatories in Scandinavia. In 2006 Pohjola was invited as a lecturer to Berklee College of Music as a major visiting artist.

Pohjola plays chacarera and jazz compositions with Argentinean bassist and composer Fernando Huergo. Pohjola also leads several groups in Finland, such as the popular Moomin Voices (in Finnish Muumilauluja-bändi) which often performs at children's events and festivals.



</doc>
<doc id="90295" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90295" title="Zug">
Zug

Zug is a small town at the northeastern corner of Lake Zug.


</doc>
<doc id="90303" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90303" title="BitTorrent">
BitTorrent

BitTorrent is a peer-to-peer program developed by Bram Cohen and BitTorrent, Inc. used for uploading and downloading files under the BitTorrent protocol. The protocol "fields" called Tracker for hosting files, after with BitTorrent users "Seeds" give files, and "leechers" users take the files. BitTorrent was the first client written for the protocol.

Since version 6.0, the BitTorrent client is a rebranded version of µTorrent. As a result, its source is closed.

Before the version 6.0, BitTorrent was written in Python, and was free software. The source code for versions 4.x and 5.x are released under the BitTorrent Open Source License, a modified version of the Jabber Open Source License. Versions up to and including 3.4.2 were distributed under the MIT license.

BitTorrent has many clients (programs that use the BitTorrent protocol), for example :





</doc>
<doc id="90305" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90305" title="List of BitTorrent clients">
List of BitTorrent clients

A BitTorrent client is a program that downloads files using the BitTorrent protocol.

The first client, known as BitTorrent, was created by Bram Cohen in the summer of 2002. Most of the other clients are based in part on BitTorrent. Programs that use BitTorrent protocol are:




</doc>
<doc id="90306" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90306" title="Bali Nine">
Bali Nine

The Bali Nine is the name given to nine Australian citizens arrested on April 17, 2005, in Denpasar on the island of Bali, Indonesia. They had tried to smuggle 8.3 kg of heroin valued at about AUD 4 million from Indonesia to Australia. Andrew Chan, Si Yi Chen, Michael Czugaj, Renae Lawrence, Tach Duc Thanh Nguyen, Matthew Norman, Scott Rush, Martin Stephens and Myuran Sukumaran, all aged between 18 and 28 at the time of their arrests. After the trial, five of the Bali Nine received death sentences, and the others got 20 years or life sentences. Renae Lawrence is currently serving her 20 year sentence in Kerobokan Prison along with fellow Australian Schapelle Corby.


</doc>
<doc id="90319" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90319" title="Eunuch">
Eunuch

A eunuch is a castrated man. His genitals are removed. This can be cutting off the testicles or removing the penis and the testicles.

Over the millennia since, eunuchs had a lot of different functions in different cultures such as domestics, treble singers, religious specialists, government officials, military commanders, and guardians of women or harem servants. When eunuchs ran a harem a monarch could be sure he was the one who fathered his wifes children since real eunuchs were always infertile.




</doc>
<doc id="90320" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90320" title="Template:Country data United Arab Emirates">
Template:Country data United Arab Emirates


</doc>
<doc id="90322" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90322" title="Antares Telescope">
Antares Telescope

The ANTARES Experiment is a telescope that is built at the bottom of the Mediterranean Sea. But it is not a normal telescope that uses light to see distant objects. Instead, it uses neutrinos, very small and light particles that can fly through the earth.

To detect these neutrinos, it uses 900 light sensors attached to 12 strings that float in the sea. The strings are fixed on the sea floor by an anchor and held straight by a buoy floating in the sea. Although the neutrinos are invisible, they can create a different particle, a muon, in water, which then gives off light by the Cherenkov effect because it travels faster than light in water. 
The sensors are so sensitive that they need only very little light and can even detect single photons. This is necessary because the muons produce only very little light.

The detector is located in the Mediterranean, about 40 kilometres off Toulon in southern France. There the sea is 2500 metres deep. It is built by a group of physicists from 12 European countries. Currently, 10 strings are running. The last two strings will be installed in May 2008.

It is the largest neutrino detector in the Northern hemisphere. Two similar detectors are located in the ice of the South Pole (AMANDA and IceCube).



</doc>
<doc id="90323" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90323" title="Čerenkov radiation">
Čerenkov radiation

The Cherenkov effect is an effect in physics discovered by Pavel Alekseyevich Čerenkov.

Whenever a particle with an electric charge moves faster than light in a medium, it sends out photons (light particles) and thereby loses energy. The photons that are sent out can be measured, as they are simple light.

Because nothing can move faster than light in a vacuum, there is no Cherenkov light in a vacuum. However, if we say that light in water moves only with 75% of its speed in vacuum, particles with very high energy are now able to move faster than light (through water) and create Cherenkov light.

Because the Cherenkov effect is strongest for light with short wavelengths, Cherenkov light often appears blue.


</doc>
<doc id="90324" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90324" title="List of German towns">
List of German towns

Complete list of 2,073 cities in Germany (as of September 1, 2005)

Only municipalities with independent administration and that have the "Stadtrecht" (city rights) are included.


</doc>
<doc id="90338" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90338" title="Foot-pound force">
Foot-pound force

The foot-pound force (symbol: ft·lb), or simply foot-pound (symbol: ft·lb), is a unit of energy and also a unit of torque. By definition it is one foot times one pound-force.

As a unit of energy, one foot-pound is energy it takes to push with one pound-force for one a distance of foot. 

1 foot-pound is equivalent to:

As a unit of torque, one foot-pound is the torque created by one pound force acting at a perpendicular distance of one foot from a pivot point. 

1 foot-pound is equivalent to:


</doc>
<doc id="90340" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90340" title="Dachau (disambiguation)">
Dachau (disambiguation)

Dachau can mean:


</doc>
<doc id="90343" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90343" title="Template:Country data Tanzania">
Template:Country data Tanzania


</doc>
<doc id="90351" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90351" title="Aeschlen bei Oberdiessbach">
Aeschlen bei Oberdiessbach

Aeschlen bei Oberdiessbach (also known as Aeschlen) is a municipality of the district Konolfingen in the canton of Bern in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="90352" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90352" title="Büren (district)">
Büren (district)

The district of Büren is a district of the Swiss canton of Bern. Its capital is Büren an der Aare.
It contains 14 municipalities in an area of 88 km²:


</doc>
<doc id="90354" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90354" title="Burgdorf (district)">
Burgdorf (district)

The district of Burgdorf in the Swiss canton of Bern has 24 municipalities in an area of 197 km²:


</doc>
<doc id="90364" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90364" title="Category:1803 deaths">
Category:1803 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="90365" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90365" title="Category:1910s disestablishments">
Category:1910s disestablishments


</doc>
<doc id="90366" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90366" title="Category:1920s disestablishments">
Category:1920s disestablishments


</doc>
<doc id="90367" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90367" title="Category:1930s disestablishments">
Category:1930s disestablishments


</doc>
<doc id="90368" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90368" title="Category:1940s disestablishments">
Category:1940s disestablishments


</doc>
<doc id="90369" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90369" title="Category:1950s disestablishments">
Category:1950s disestablishments


</doc>
<doc id="90370" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90370" title="Category:1970s disestablishments">
Category:1970s disestablishments


</doc>
<doc id="90371" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90371" title="Category:1990s disestablishments">
Category:1990s disestablishments


</doc>
<doc id="90374" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90374" title="Budai">
Budai

Budai (Chinese:布袋) or Budai Luohan, pronounced Hotei in Japanese, also known as the Laughing Buddha, is the person who might be the next Buddha after Gautama Buddha.

He has become incorporated into Buddhist, Taoist and Shinto culture and is based on a Chinese monk. He is in many temples, restaurants, and businesses. Budai has become a god of happiness and plenty, when taken in by Taoism and Buddhism. In Japan, Hotei is one of the Seven Lucky Gods ("Shichi Fukujin"). He is almost always shown smiling or laughing, hence his nickname in Chinese, the "Laughing Buddha" (Chinese:笑佛).

Budai comes from the time of Sakyamuni Buddha, where there was a monk named "Angida", whose name also meant "calico bag".. In the legend, Angida was an Indian snake catcher who caught poisonous snakes to stop them from biting people. Budai and Angida look similar, they both are plump, seen laughing and carrying a bag.

In the Chinese tradition, Budai was a monk who lived in china at about 907 to 923. He was a man who was good and loving. Apart from his character, his likeness with the Maitreya Bodhisattva (the future Buddha) is also a Buddhist hymn (Chinese: 偈语; Pinyin: Jiéyǔ) which he said before his death:

Budai is almost always shown carrying a sack, which never empties, and is filled with many precious things, including rice plants (which show wealth), sweets for children, food, and the sadness of the world. His duty is protector of the weak, the poor and children.

In Chinese Buddhist temples, Budai's statue is put in the front part of the entrance hall. He is shown as a stout, smiling or laughing man in robes with a largely shown stomach, which shows happiness, good luck, and plenty.

Some statues show small children at his feet. Another item that is usually seen in Budai statues, is a begging bowl; to show that he is a Buddhist. All of these images show Budai as a wandering monk who goes around and takes the sadness from people. Because he represents richness and happiness, statues are often found in homes and businesses in China and Japan.

The main story that concerns Budai in Chan is a short koan. In it, Budai travels, giving candy to poor children, only asking a penny from people he meets. One day a monk walks up to him and asks, "What is the meaning of Chan?" Budai drops his bag. "How does one get to Chan?" he continued. Budai then picks up his bag and walks away.

In Thailand Budai is sometimes confused with another monk very respected in Thailand, Phra Sangkadchai or Sangkachai (Thai: พระสังกัจจายน์). "Phra Sangkadchai", a Thai spelling of Mahakaccayanathera (Thai: มหากัจจายนเถระ), was a Buddhist in Pali in the time of the Lord Buddha. Lord Buddha praised "Phra Sangkadchai" for his excellence in explaining complicated dharma (or dhamma) in an easily and understandable way.

1. Phra Sangkadchai has a bit of hair on his head while Budai is bald.
2. Phra Sangkadchai wears the robes in Theravadin Buddhist fashion with the robes folded across one shoulder, leaving the other uncovered. Budai wears the robes in Chinese style, covering both arms but leaving the front part of the upper body uncovered.

One belief surrounding the figure of Budai in popular folklore is that if a person rubs his belly, it brings wealth, good luck, and prosperity. This belief however is not part of any Buddhist ritual, but more of a Chinese practice. He is often admired for his happiness, plenitude, and wisdom of contentment.




</doc>
<doc id="90376" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90376" title="Juroujin">
Juroujin

In Japan, Juroujin (寿老人), also known as Gama, is one of the Seven Lucky Gods, according to Taoist beliefs. He is the God of long life.

He has a staff and a fan. He is shown as an old man with a long beard, and a scroll is tied to the staff, which which has the lifespan of all living things written on it. The deer, the crane and the tortoise, symbols of long life, sometimes follow him.


</doc>
<doc id="90377" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90377" title="Category:1803 disestablishments">
Category:1803 disestablishments


</doc>
<doc id="90378" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90378" title="Category:1245 establishments">
Category:1245 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="90382" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90382" title="Category:Municipalities in North Rhine-Westphalia">
Category:Municipalities in North Rhine-Westphalia


</doc>
<doc id="90393" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90393" title="Source code">
Source code

In computer programming, source code is a text file version of a computer program or software that contains instructions that the computer follows to do something. Source code is written in a programming language which a human can read and change. A large program may contain many different source code files that all work together. These days most source code is compiled when it is finished. This translates the code into assembly language or machine language which is much faster and easier for the computer to read, but hard for a human to read.

A computer program may be open source, which means the source code is shared with anyone who wants to look at it and change it, or closed source, which means only the people who made the program can look at and change the code.

When compiled by a C compiler and executed, this will print "Hello world!" on the computer screen and then exit.


</doc>
<doc id="90396" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90396" title="Legendary Pokémon">
Legendary Pokémon

Legendary Pokémon are very rare Pokémon in the "Pokémon" world. Characters in the series often believe that the said Pokémon does not exist or claim that very few people have seen them. They are hard to catch, and are stronger than most other Pokémon. In the games some roam around, while others stay in one spot until the trainer knocks it out or captures it. If the player defeat a legendary Pokémon, they will not be available again, because there is only one of them. Because of this, players usually save their game before going to battle the Pokémon.

These Pokémon are in the Kanto region, which appears in "Pokémon Red and Blue", and its related games.

These Pokémon are in the Johto region, which appears in "Pokémon Gold and Silver", and its related games.

These Pokémon are in the Hoenn region, which appears in "Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire", and its related games.

These Pokémon are in the Sinnoh region, which appears in "Pokémon Diamond and Pearl", and its related games.



</doc>
<doc id="90397" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90397" title="Gilles Binchois">
Gilles Binchois

Gilles Binchois (probably born in Mons about 1400; died Soignies, 20 September ,1460), was a Franco-Flemish composer. His name is spelt in various ways: “Binchoys”, “Binch” or “Binche” or “Gilles de Bins”. He is one of the earliest composers of the group known as the Burgundian School. His style of composition had a very important influence on music at the Burgundian court. Together with Guillaume Dufay and John Dunstaple he belongs to the greatest of 15th century composers.

He was probably born in Mons in what is now Belgium. His father, a councillor to Duke Guillaume IV of Hainault, had a job in a church in Mons. Nothing is known about Gilles until 1419, when he became organist at the church of Ste. Waudru in Mons. In 1423 went to live in Lille. He may have worked as a soldier.

Sometime near the end of the 1420s he joined the court chapel of Burgundy. He sang with the choir there. He spent many years working at the Burgundian court. He was not allowed much time to be away, so he did not travel much. We know that he went to Mons in 1449 on which occasion he met Guillaume Dufay. When he retired he went to live in Soignes. He had a good pension.

Binchois wrote beautiful melodies which were much simpler than a lot of the music of the Middle Ages. They are easy to sing and remember. Many later composers used melodies by Binchois as a basis for their own masses. Most of his songs are rondeaux, which became the most common song form during the century. Binchois did not often write in strophic form. He preferred to write music which did not follow the rhyming rhythm of the verse.



</doc>
<doc id="90399" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90399" title="Category:1400 births">
Category:1400 births

Note that the year 1400 is actually the last year in the 14th century; 1401 is the first year in the 15th century.


</doc>
<doc id="90400" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90400" title="Category:1460 deaths">
Category:1460 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="90411" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90411" title="John Dunstaple">
John Dunstaple

John Dunstaple or Dunstable (born about 1390; died 24 December 1453) was an English composer who lived in the last part of the medieval era and the early part of the Renaissance. He was one of the most famous composers in the early 15th century. He had a lot of influence on music in England as well as on the continent. He helped to develop the style of the Burgundian School.

The spelling "Dunstaple" is more often used today because in documents from his time this is the spelling that is more common, although some documents spelt his name "Dunstable".

Dunstaple was probably born in Dunstable, Bedfordshire around 1390. We know very little about his life. He was well educated and he worked for the Duke of Bedford who was the fourth son of Henry IV and brother of Henry V. He may have spent some time in France because the duke was Regent of France from 1423 to 1429, and then Governor of Normandy from 1429 to his death in 1435. Dunstaple owned property in Normandy, and also in Cambridgeshire, Essex and London, according to tax records of 1436. He also worked for the Duke of Gloucester.

Many composers at that time were priests, but Dunstaple was not, although he had connections with St Albans Abbey. He was probably married.
During his life he was not just known as a composer but also as an astronomer, astrologer, and mathematician.

He died on Christmas Eve 1453, and was buried in the church of St Stephen Walbrook in London which was later destroyed in the Great Fire of 1666. 

We hardly have any original manuscripts of Dunstaple’s music. England was a very musical country at the time, but almost all that music was destroyed between 1536 and 1540 during the Dissolution of the Monasteries when Henry VIII was ruling. Most of Dunstaple’s works which survive were works which were found on the continent, mostly in north Italy. This shows that he must have been famous throughout Europe. He influenced Dufay and Binchois. The Flemish composer and music theorist Tinctoris wrote in 1476 that he was the most important musician of new music which had started in England.

Dunstaple was one of the first to compose masses using one melody as "cantus firmus." He wrote many carols, but we do not know which ones are by him because he did not sign his name to them. He wrote music, but it has been lost.



</doc>
<doc id="90413" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90413" title="Category:1390 births">
Category:1390 births


</doc>
<doc id="90415" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90415" title="Category:1453 deaths">
Category:1453 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="90416" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90416" title="Category:1453">
Category:1453


</doc>
<doc id="90417" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90417" title="Category:1450s deaths">
Category:1450s deaths

This category consists of people who died in the 1450s.

See also: .


</doc>
<doc id="90420" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90420" title="Equals sign">
Equals sign

The equal sign, equals sign, or "=" is a mathematical symbol used to indicate equality. It looks like two parallel horizontal lines. The equals sign is placed between the things stated to be exactly equal or the same. Computers display the equals sign with the Unicode or ASCII character 003D (in hexadecimal).

The symbol used to say items are approximately equal is "≈" (wavy lines), and the symbol used to say when items are not equal is "≠" (slashed equal sign).


</doc>
<doc id="90421" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90421" title="Crimean War">
Crimean War

The Crimean War (1853–1856), also called the Eastern War (), was a war fought between Russia and France, the United Kingdom, the Kingdom of Sardinia and the Ottoman Empire on the other side. Most of the fighting happened in the Crimean Peninsula, with other fighting in western Turkey, and around the Baltic Sea. 

The Crimean War is sometimes called the first "modern" war, since the weaponry and tactics used had never been seen before and affected all other wars after it. It was also the first war where a telegraph was used to quickly give information to a newspaper.

The Ottoman Empire was declining by the mid-1800s. European countries, which wanted as much land around the world as possible, looked to the Ottoman Empire. The war itself started after the Ottoman Empire said Russia, and not France, had the right to protect the Holy Land near the area of modern day Israel.

The Crimean War was a very important point in the history of warfare. It was not only different in the weapons it used, it was also the first war related to by press, by photography and journalists. Another very important factor was that it was the first war with real field hospitals, started by Florence Nightingale. The defeat of Russia in the war caused increased development of weaponry and the end of serfdom in 1861.




</doc>
<doc id="90423" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90423" title="Homophobia">
Homophobia

Homophobia is the fear or poor treatment of homosexuals. The word was created in the 1960s by a psychologist named George Weinberg. There are events to stop homophobia, like the "gay pride parades" and "International Day Against Homophobia" on May 17. In some places, it is illegal to treat homosexuals badly, and it is a hate crime to hurt them. Against such discriminations, the Declaration of Montreal and the Yogyakarta Principles were adopted in 2006. 



</doc>
<doc id="90425" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90425" title="Tickling">
Tickling

Tickling is to lightly scratch, touch, or rub a person or animal to make them laugh. Some think it causes pleasure and happiness. Other people hate it. Tickle spots are feet and armpits.


</doc>
<doc id="90426" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90426" title="English Springer Spaniel">
English Springer Spaniel

The English Springer Spaniel is a dog breed used to help hunters get their animals. It is one of many spaniel breeds. They can be brown and white, black and white, or have tan spots. They look like their cousins, the Welsh Springer Spaniel and Cocker Spaniel.


</doc>
<doc id="90429" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90429" title="Ottawa Hills, Ohio">
Ottawa Hills, Ohio

Ottawa Hills is a village in Ohio, United States. 4,564 people lived there in 2000. The village is a wealthy suburb of Toledo. They have a police and fire department. The high school is the second best public school in Ohio. Ottawa Hills is 13th out of 1065 places in Ohio by average income.


</doc>
<doc id="90432" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90432" title="Congo River">
Congo River

The Congo River (also known as Zaire River) is the largest river in Africa. Its overall length of 4,700 km (2,922 miles) makes it the second longest in Africa (after the Nile). The river and its tributaries flow through the second largest rain forest area in the world, second only to the Amazon Rainforest in South America. The river also has the second-largest flow in the world, behind the Amazon, and the second-largest watershed of any river, again trailing the Amazon; its watershed is a little larger than that of the Mississippi River. Because large parts of the river basin sit above and below the equator, its flow is very good, as there is always at least one river having a rainy season.
The Congo gets its name from the old Kingdom of Kongo which made their home in the lands at the mouth of the river. The Democratic Republic of the Congo and the Republic of the Congo, both countries sitting along the river's banks, are named after it. From 1971 to 1997, the Democratic Republic of the Congo was called Zaire and its government called the river the Zaire River.

The sources of the Congo are in the highlands and mountains of the East African Rift, as well as Lake Tanganyika and Lake Mweru, which feed the Lualaba River. This then becomes the Congo below Boyoma Falls. The Chambeshi River in Zambia is usually taken as the source of the Congo because of the accepted practice worldwide of using the longest tributary, as with the Nile River.

The Congo flows mostly west from Kisangani just below the falls, then slowly bends southwest, passing by Mbandaka, joining with the Ubangi River, and running into the Pool Malebo (Stanley Pool). Kinshasa (formerly Léopoldville) and Brazzaville are on opposite sides of the river at the Pool, where the river narrows and falls through a few cataracts in deep canyons (collectively known as the Livingstone Falls), running by Matadi and Boma, and into the sea at the small town of Muanda.

The mouth of the Congo was visited by Europeans in 1482, by the Portuguese Diogo Cão, and in 1816, by a British exploration under James Kingston Tuckey that went up the river as far as Isangila. Henry Morton Stanley was the first European to travel along the whole river.

Although the Livingstone Falls stop water coming in from the sea, almost all of the Congo is navigable in parts, especially between Kinshasa and Kisangani. Railways now cross the three major falls, and much of the trade of central Africa passes along the river, including copper, palm oil, sugar, coffee, and cotton. The river can also be valuable for hydroelectric power, and the Inga Dams below Pool Malebo are some of the first dams built.

In February of 2005, South Africa's power company owned by the state, Eskom, said that they had a proposal to increase the holding amount of the Inga a lot through improvements and the building of a new hydroelectric dam. The project would bring the highest output of the dam to 40 GW, twice that of China's Three Gorges Dam. 

In the Mesozoic period before the continental drift opened the South Atlantic Ocean, the Congo was the upper part of a river about 12,000 km (7,500 miles) long that flowed west across the parts of Gondwanaland, now called Africa and South America.

Listed from down a river, to up a river:

Though it is not easily known, it was the location of a book by Joseph Conrad




</doc>
<doc id="90433" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90433" title="Template:Infobox River">
Template:Infobox River


</doc>
<doc id="90435" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90435" title="Breast reduction">
Breast reduction

Breast reduction is a plastic surgery to make human breasts smaller. The doctor takes out fat, skin, and glands. It is done on women most of the time, but men can also get it. In 2005, more than 113,000 women had breast reductions.

Aside from aesthetic reasons, many women choose to undergo breast reduction surgery to help reduce back strain, skin irritation, or breathing problems caused by large breasts.


</doc>
<doc id="90437" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90437" title="Bachelor of Arts">
Bachelor of Arts

Bachelor of Arts is a college degree. It takes three years to get it in Australia, Austria, Denmark, Estonia, England, Wales, Northern Ireland, Germany, Iceland, India, Israel, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Quebec, Pakistan, Singapore, South Africa, and Switzerland. It takes four years in Canada, Republic of Ireland, Scotland, Japan, United States and the Philippines.


</doc>
<doc id="90460" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90460" title="Izanami">
Izanami

Izanami is a goddess of both creation and death in Japanese mythology. She died giving birth to one of her children and was sent to Yomi. Izanagi, her husband, came down to Yomi to bring her back to earth. While she Izanami was in Yomi, she felt hungry and ate the fruit. After eating the fruit, she turned into one of the undead, a rotting, maggot-infested pile of flesh. When Izanagi arrived, she would not step out from the shadows and told her husband to go back to earth. Izanagi tried to persuade her to come back with him and she agreed if she could take a rest in her bedchambers, forbidding Izanagi to enter. Izanagi, anxious to return to earth, snuck into her chambers and, taking his comb from his hair, lit it on fire, showing him her rotting body. Izanami woke up and seeing him, became enraged. Izanagi fled from the underworld and sealed the way with a giant rock. Izanami then became known as the Shinigami, the goddess of death.


</doc>
<doc id="90462" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90462" title="Computer architecture">
Computer architecture

In computer engineering, computer architecture is the conceptual design and fundamental operational structure of a computer system. It is the technical drawings and functional description of all design requirements (especially speeds and interconnections), it is how to design and implement various parts of a computer — focusing largely on the way by which the central processing unit (CPU) operates internally and how it accesses addresses in memory.

It can be defined as the science and art of selecting and interconnecting hardware components to create computers that meet functional, performance and cost goals.
Computer architecture includes at least three main subcategories:


Once both ISA and microarchitecture has been specified, the actual computing system needs to be designed into hardware. This design process is called "implementation". Implementation is usually a hardware engineering design process. 

Implementation can be further broken down into three but not fully separate pieces: 

For CPUs, the entire implementation process is often called CPU design; it can also be a family of related CPU designs, such as RISC and CISC. 

Some practitioners of computer architecture use more fine subcategories:







</doc>
<doc id="90468" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90468" title="Mary Harrison McKee">
Mary Harrison McKee

Mary Scott Harrison McKee (April 3], 1858–October 28, 1930) was the first lady to her father, President Benjamin Harrison. She became first lady when her mother, Caroline Harrison, became sick and died. She was born in Indianapolis, Indiana on April 3, 1858.


</doc>
<doc id="90480" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90480" title="Zella-Mehlis">
Zella-Mehlis

Zella-Mehlis is a town in the Schmalkalden Meinigen district, in Thuringia, Germany. It is in the Thuringian Forest, north of Suhl, and east of Meiningen.


</doc>
<doc id="90483" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90483" title="Port Said">
Port Said

Port Said (Arabic بورسعيد,
transliterated )
is an Egyptian city near the Suez Canal, with a population of about 500,000.

Port Said has fishing and industries, like chemicals, processed food, and cigarettes. Port Said is also an important harbour both for exports of Egyptian products like cotton and rice, but also a fuelling station for ships that pass through the Suez Canal. 


</doc>
<doc id="90484" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90484" title="Food processing">
Food processing

Food processing means the ways that are used to change raw ingredients into food so that they can be eaten by humans or animals. The food processing industry uses these processes. Food processing often takes clean, harvested or slaughtered and butchered components and uses these to produce attractive and marketable food products. Similar process are used to produce animal feed.

Food processing industries and practices include the following:




</doc>
<doc id="90485" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90485" title="60 (number)">
60 (number)

Sixty is a number. It comes after fifty-nine, but before sixty-one and is an even number.
It is divisible by 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 10, 12, 15, 20, and 30.


</doc>
<doc id="90486" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90486" title="72 (number)">
72 (number)

Seventy-two is an even number. It comes after seventy-one and before seventy-three. 


</doc>
<doc id="90490" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90490" title="Category:1974 establishments">
Category:1974 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="90491" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90491" title="Category:1801 disestablishments">
Category:1801 disestablishments


</doc>
<doc id="90492" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90492" title="Category:1276 establishments">
Category:1276 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="90493" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90493" title="Category:1240 establishments">
Category:1240 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="90496" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90496" title="Category:995 establishments">
Category:995 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="90498" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90498" title="Category:50 establishments">
Category:50 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="90499" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90499" title="Category:1st century establishments">
Category:1st century establishments


</doc>
<doc id="90502" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90502" title="Category:1827 establishments">
Category:1827 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="90504" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90504" title="Category:Settlements by year established">
Category:Settlements by year established


</doc>
<doc id="90506" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90506" title="Category:1715 establishments">
Category:1715 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="90507" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90507" title="Category:18th century establishments">
Category:18th century establishments


</doc>
<doc id="90508" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90508" title="Category:Settlements established in 18th century">
Category:Settlements established in 18th century


</doc>
<doc id="90510" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90510" title="Category:1232 establishments">
Category:1232 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="90513" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90513" title="Category:1214 establishments">
Category:1214 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="90515" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90515" title="Category:1158 establishments">
Category:1158 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="90516" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90516" title="Category:12th century establishments">
Category:12th century establishments


</doc>
<doc id="90526" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90526" title="CN Tower">
CN Tower

The CN Tower is a communications and tourist tower in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. It is tall. It became taller than the Ostankino Tower in Moscow while it was still being built in 1975, becoming the tallest free-standing structure on land in the world. The Burj Khalifa, while it was still being built, became taller than the CN Tower on September 12, 2007 . It is an important icon of Toronto and has more than two million visitors every year.

Construction of the tower started on February 6, 1973. It opened to the public for the first time on June 26, 1976.

The "CN" in the tower's name came from the "Canadian National" Railway, the railway company that built the tower. In 1995, the railway sold the tower to the Canada Lands Company (CLC). Local residents wanted to keep the name "CN Tower", though, so the abbreviation is now a shortened form of Canada's National Tower instead of the original Canadian National Tower. Neither of these names are commonly used, though; the tower is usually called the CN Tower.



</doc>
<doc id="90535" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90535" title="Category:Bridges in the United Kingdom">
Category:Bridges in the United Kingdom


</doc>
<doc id="90538" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90538" title="Category:Municipalities of Zug">
Category:Municipalities of Zug


</doc>
<doc id="90544" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90544" title="Freiburg im Breisgau">
Freiburg im Breisgau

Freiburg is a city in Baden-Württemberg, Germany. Its full name is "Freiburg im Breisgau".

Freiburg is on the western edge of the southern Black Forest ().
Freiburg has many twin cities throughout the world:

Iranian president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's, controversial comments, which included questioning the size of the Holocaust, have sparked questions about Freiburg's partnership with Isfahan. After the comments Freiburg's mayor postponed a trip to Isfahan, but most people involved, especially those in the Alliance '90/The Greens party, were opposed to cancelling the partnership.




</doc>
<doc id="90545" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90545" title="Baden-Baden">
Baden-Baden

Baden-Baden is a town in Baden-Württemberg, Germany. It is in the western foothills of the Black Forest, on the banks of the Oos River, in the region of Karlsruhe.

The springs of Baden-Baden were known to the Romans, and the foundation of the town is referred to the emperor Hadrian by an inscription of somewhat doubtful authenticity. The name of Aurelia Aquensis was given to it in honour of Aurelius Severus, in whose reign it would seem to have been well known. Fragments of its ancient sculptures are still to be seen, and in 1847 remains of Roman vapour baths, well preserved, were discovered just below the New Castle.

In 1931, the town of Baden-Baden was officially given its double name (a short form for "Baden in Baden", i.e. Baden in the state of Baden). In both World Wars, the town escaped destruction. After World War II, Baden-Baden became the headquarters of the French forces in Germany and the site of a displaced persons camp.

From September 23 to September 28 1981, the XIth Olympic Congress took place in the "Kurhaus" in Baden-Baden.

The Baden Airpark is 15 km west of Baden-Baden.

The Russian writer Dostoevsky wrote "The Gambler" while gambling at the famous Baden-Baden Casino.




</doc>
<doc id="90546" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90546" title="Coburg">
Coburg

Coburg is a town located on the Itz River in Bavaria, Germany. Its 2005 population was 42,015. It joined with Bavaria by popular vote in 1920. Before 1918, it was the larger of the two capital cities in the united duchy of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha.

Coburg's Coat of Arms honoring the city's patron Saint Maurice was granted in 1493.

Coburg lies about 90 km south of Erfurt and about 100 km north of Nuremberg. Coburg was first mentioned in a document dated 1056, although there was a settlement at the site that before then called Trufalistat. Following several changes of noble owners, it came into the hands of the House of Wettin in 1353 when Friedrich III, the Strong, married Katherina von Henneberg. In 1596, it became the capital of one of the new Duchy of Saxe-Coburg under the leadership of Duke Johann Casimirs (ruled 1596-1633).

Due to the royal connections among the royal houses of Europe, Coburg was the site of many royal Ducal weddings and visits. Britain's Queen Victoria made 6 visits to Coburg during her 64 year reign. In 1896 one ceremony brought together Queen Victoria, her son Edward (future Edward VII), her second son Alfred (Duke of Saxe-Coburg-Gotha), her daughter the German dowager Empress Friedrich (Victoria), and many of her grandchildren, such as Tsar Nicholas and Alexandra of Russia, Kaiser Wilhelm II of Germany, and the future King George V of Great Britain.

In 1920, two years after the abdication of the last duke, the locals voted to join Bavaria. Thus whilst the other Saxon-Thuringian principalities were later incorporated into the German Democratic Republic after World War II, Coburg became part of West Germany As a result, the town spent the Cold War years lying right next to the Iron Curtain, surrounded by East German territory on three sides.

Coburg has the typical features of a former capital of German little states. There are numerous houses from the 16th, 17th and 18th centuries. The most important landmarks include:

Most residents of Coburg are members of the Evangelical Church (Lutheranism). Other Christian communities are Baptists, Seventh-day Adventists, the ICF Movement, Jehovah's Witnesses, Catholics, Old Catholics and the New Apostolic Church, as well as The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. There are also three communities of Muslims. Coburg had a large Jewish community until the 1940s. Jews have lived there since the 14th century. The old synagogue was a former church. Today it is used by Old Catholics. Coburg became Protestant after the Reformation. All Catholics were persecuted. A new Catholic community was founded in the 19th century.

Coburg is divided into 15 districts:


Over two thirds of Coburg's population live in Coburg City.
Amongst the associated royalty, one individual's 20th century association with Coburg proved especially tragic. This was that of the British Royal Charles Edward, Duke of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha who was arrested and tried as a Nazi.

Besides various royalty, other famous individuals associated with Coburg include Hans Berger (graduated), William Frishmuth (born), and Eduard Study (born).

In 1530, Martin Luther stayed in the "Veste Coburg" to follow negotiations at the Imperial Diet in Augsburg. He also preached at St. Moriz church.

In 1887, Johann Strauss, the "Waltz King", left Vienna when the Roman Catholic Church would not let him divorce his 2nd wife. He moved to Lutheran Saxe-Coburg-Gotha with his future 3rd wife Adele, where he lived the last 13 years of his life in Coburg. He was however buried in Vienna.

In 1922, Adolf Hitler led several hundred stormtroopers in a march through the city, fighting pitched street battles with leftists. During the Nazi era, the Coburg Badge was one of the most prestigious party medals.

Hans Morgenthau, founder of International Relations as a field of study, was born here.

The US National Hot Dog and Sausage Council asserts that Frankfurt am Main is traditionally credited with originating the Frankfurter. According to the Council, this claim is disputed and that the hot dog was created in the late 1600s by Johann Georghehner, a butcher, living in Coburg. Coburg was the first German town to elect a Nazi Mayor.




</doc>
<doc id="90547" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90547" title="Görlitz">
Görlitz

Görlitz (, Upper Sorbian: |"Zhorjelc", , ) is a town in Germany on the river Lusatian Neisse, in the "Bundesland" ("Federal State") of Saxony, opposite the Polish town of Zgorzelec. Zgorzelec was a part of Görlitz until 1945.

Historically Görlitz has belonged at times to the regions of Lusatia and Silesia. Today it is the easternmost city in Germany.

When Nazi Germany lost the war, German troops blew up all bridges crossing the Lusatian Neisse. The redrawing of boundaries in 1945 – in particular the relocation of the German-Polish border to the Oder-Neisse line – divided the town, the right bank becoming part of Poland, and named Zgorzelec in 1948, while the main portion became part of the German state of Saxony. When the East German states were dissolved in 1952, Görlitz became part of the Dresden Bezirk (region), but the states were restored upon German reunification in 1990.

Today Görlitz and Zgorzelec, two towns on opposite banks of the river, have friendly relations. Two bridges have been rebuilt, a bus line connects the German and Polish parts of the town, and there is a common urban management, with annual common sessions of both town councils.

On June 27, 1994, the town was became a Roman Catholic diocese.

Görlitz is the hometown of current German football players Michael Ballack and Jens Jeremies.

In 2006 Görlitz/Zgorzelec was a candidate for European City of Culture 2010. It was hoped that the jury could be convinced by the concept of a Polish-German Cooperation but Essen got the award, with Görlitz achieving the second place. The Campaign was renamed City of Culture to intensify German-Polish relationship and to attract tourists from all over the world.

The dramatic courtroom scene, at the conclusion of John le Carré famous Cold War spy novel ""The Spy Who Came in from the Cold"", takes place in a secret Socialist Unity Party of Germany installation near Görlitz, in the middle 1960s.




</doc>
<doc id="90555" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90555" title="Visual spectrum">
Visual spectrum

The visible spectrum (or sometimes called the optical spectrum) is the part of the electromagnetic spectrum that is visible to the human eye. Electromagnetic radiation in this range of wavelengths is called visible light or simply light. 

A typical human eye will react to wavelengths in air from about 380 to 750 nm. 
The familiar colors of the rainbow in the spectrum include all those colors that can be produced by visible light of a single wavelength only, the "pure spectral" or "monochromatic" colors. 

But there are no clear boundaries between one color and the next.

Color displays (e.g., computer monitors or televisions) mix red, green, and blue color to approximate the color spectrum. In the illustration, the narrow red, green and blue bars show the relative mixture of these three colors used to produce the color directly above.


</doc>
<doc id="90560" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90560" title="MediaWiki:Cascadeprotected">
MediaWiki:Cascadeprotected


</doc>
<doc id="90561" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90561" title="Aach, Baden-Württemberg">
Aach, Baden-Württemberg

Aach [] is a small town in the German state of Baden-Württemberg. Being situated close to Lake Constance and the Swiss border, it is mostly known for the Aachtopf — Germany's biggest natural spring in terms of production.

Aach has a city council with twelve seats. The last elections in 2004 brought three seats for the CDU, three seats for the SPD and four seats for independent voters' associations. Aach's mayor is Severin Graf (CDU).



</doc>
<doc id="90562" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90562" title="Aach, Rhineland-Palatinate">
Aach, Rhineland-Palatinate

Aach is a municipality in the German state of Rhineland-Palatinate. It is part of Trier-Land, a "Verbandsgemeinde".

Aach has a council with sixteen seats. The last elections in 2004 brought the CDU twelve seats, the other four went to the free voters' association (FWG Aach e. V.) In the same elections Mayor Josef Klein (CDU) was voted into office with nearly 74% of the votes.

Aach lies about 6 km north of the center of Trier. It is situated in the southern Eifel mountains.


</doc>
<doc id="90563" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90563" title="Category:Municipalities in Rhineland-Palatinate">
Category:Municipalities in Rhineland-Palatinate


</doc>
<doc id="90567" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90567" title="Aach">
Aach

Aach can mean:



</doc>
<doc id="90572" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90572" title="Joachimsthal, Brandenburg">
Joachimsthal, Brandenburg

Joachimsthal is a town in the district of Barnim, in Brandenburg, Germany. It is northwest of Eberswalde, and northeast of Berlin-Mitte.


</doc>
<doc id="90573" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90573" title="Pieter Brueghel the Elder">
Pieter Brueghel the Elder

Pieter Brueghel the Elder (c. 1525 – 9 September 1569) was a Dutch or Flemish Renaissance painter and printmaker. He is known for his landscapes and peasant scenes. He is nicknamed 'Peasant Bruegel' to distinguish him from other members of the Brueghel family. But he is the most famous of them and therefore in most of the cases when someone speaks of "Brueghel" he thinks of him. From 1559 he dropped the 'h' from his name and started signing his paintings as Bruegel.

There are records that he was born in Breda, Netherlands, but it is uncertain whether the Dutch town of Breda or the Belgian town of Bree, called Breda in Latin, is meant. He was the son of a peasant living in the village of Breughel. He was an apprentice of Pieter Coecke van Aelst and he married his daughter Mayken. 

In Bruegel's later years he painted in a simpler style than the Italian art in his time. The most obvious influence on his art is the older Dutch master Hieronymus Bosch.

Bruegel specialized in landscapes populated by peasants. He is often credited as being the first Western painter to paint landscapes for their own sake.

He showed the rituals of village life—including agriculture, hunts, meals, festivals, dances, and games. These show the folk culture of 16th century life. 





</doc>
<doc id="90581" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90581" title="Category:Pokémon monsters">
Category:Pokémon monsters

This catagory contains Pokémon in the "Pokémon" media franchise, anime, video games, etc.


</doc>
<doc id="90582" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90582" title="Bad Tölz">
Bad Tölz

Bad Tölz is a town in Bavaria, Germany, and capital of the district of Bad Tölz-Wolfratshausen.

In 1937 a SS-Junkerschule (SS Officer Candidate School) was made at Bad Tölz which operated until the end of World War II in 1945. As well, a subcamp of the Dachau concentration camp was located in the town. It provided labour for the SS-Junkerschule and the Zentralbauleitung (Central Administration Building). The former SS-Junkerschule was the base of the U.S. Army's 1st Battalion, 10th Special Forces Group until 1991.

Bad Tölz is known for its spas, historic medieval town, and spectacular views of the alps. On the western bank of the Isar River lies the Kurverwaltung, or modern spa, whose iodine-rich waters are known for their soothing and healing powers. Another major attraction is Stadtpfarrkirche, a church made in 1466, which is a good example of German late-Gothic architecture.

Bad Tölz sits on the Isar River, 670 metres above sea level. It has an area of 




</doc>
<doc id="90583" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90583" title="Chris Brown (entertainer)">
Chris Brown (entertainer)

Christopher Maurice Brown (born May 5, 1989), is an American pop and R&B singer, dancer, and actor. "Forever" is one of his most famous songs. 

He was arrested and convicted in 2009 for beating his then-girlfriend, pop music singer Rihanna.

Chris Brown has released 3 albums:


</doc>
<doc id="90585" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90585" title="Bernau bei Berlin">
Bernau bei Berlin

Bernau bei Berlin (English "Bernau near Berlin") is a German city in the Barnim district. The city is located about northeast of Berlin.

In 1842 a railway line was opened. One of the first electrical suburban railway lines in the world has been opened in 1924. This line of the Berlin S-Bahn connected Bernau with station Stettiner Bahnhof (today Berlin Nordbahnhof) in Berlin. The Allgemeiner Deutscher Gewerkschaftsbund (ADGB) ("General German Confederation of Trade Unions") opened its school in 1930. The Waldsiedlung (engl. residential area in the wood) is a district of the city where the political leaders of the GDR lived isolated from the people.



</doc>
<doc id="90590" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90590" title="Bad Reichenhall">
Bad Reichenhall

Bad Reichenhall is a spa town, and capital of the Berchtesgadener Land district in Upper Bavaria, Germany.

It is located near Salzburg, and encircled by the Chiemgauer Alps (including Mount Staufen (  ( feet)) and Mount Zwiesel (  ( feet) )).

Bad Reichenhall is a traditional center of salt production, obtained by evaporating water saturated with salt from brine ponds.

The town was the site of a disaster on January 2, 2006, when the roof of the town's ice rink collapsed under snow, killing 15 and injuring 34 others.

Fifteen people, twelve of them children, died in the collapse of the Bad Reichenhall Ice Rink on 2 January 2006. Thirty-four people were injured in the accident .




</doc>
<doc id="90593" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90593" title="Chris Brown">
Chris Brown

Chris Brown may mean:

See also:


</doc>
<doc id="90594" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90594" title="Demmin">
Demmin

Demmin () is a town in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania, Germany. It is the capital of the Demmin Rural District.

German troops destroyed the bridges over the Peene while retreating from Demmin during World War II. This way, the advance of the Soviet Red Army was slowed down when they arrived in Demmin on April 30, 1945. During that night and the following morning, Demmin was handed over to the Red Army largely without fighting, similar to other cities like Greifswald.

Although there were only a few pockets of resistance, nearly 900 people committed mass suicides in fear of the Red Army. Coroner lists show that most drowned in the nearby River Tollense and River Peene, where others poisoned themselves. This was fuelled by atrocities and rapes committed by Red Army soldiers until the city commander had the access to the rivers blocked on May 3.





</doc>
<doc id="90595" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90595" title="Red Army">
Red Army

The Red Army was the name of the army of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. It was the name used mainly during World War II.

People who hated communists used the name Red Army to describe any left wing group which they said was trying to promote communism and was paid for by the USSR.


</doc>
<doc id="90596" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90596" title="Nienburg, Lower Saxony">
Nienburg, Lower Saxony

Nienburg is a town and capital of the district Nienburg, in Lower Saxony, Germany.

Nienburg is on the river Weser, approx. 55 km southeast of Bremen, and 45 km northwest of Hanover. Nienburg is the largest town in the "Mittelweserregion".


Nienburg, including quarters

The 38 members of the "Stadtrat" are made up of:
(September 10, 2006)

Nienburg has two twin towns:


</doc>
<doc id="90597" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90597" title="Querfurt">
Querfurt

Querfurt a town in Saalekreis district (Kreis) in the south of Saxony-Anhalt, Germany, in a fertile country on the Querne,  mi ( km) west from Merseburg, on a branch line from Oberroblingen. Pop. 12,935 (2005).


</doc>
<doc id="90604" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90604" title="Template:Demotion">
Template:Demotion

<includeonly>

</includeonly>


</doc>
<doc id="90605" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90605" title="Category:Proposed article demotions">
Category:Proposed article demotions

This category is for from or status.


</doc>
<doc id="90607" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90607" title="Saab 35 Draken">
Saab 35 Draken

The Saab 35 Draken ("kite" or "dragon") is a fighter aircraft made by Saab. It first flew in 1955 and was introduced in 1960. It was made to replace the Saab 29 Tunnan . The Draken used a delta wing, which gave it speed. In fact, it was Sweden's first aircraft to go twice the speed of sound .

The Draken is 50 feet, 4 inches (15.35 meters) long, 30 feet, 10 inches (9.42 meters) wide, and 12 feet, 0 inches (03.89 meters) tall. It weighs 18,188 pounds (8,250 kilograms) empty and can weigh up to 27,050 pounds (12,270 kilograms) with things in it. It is powered by a Volvo Flygmotor RM 6C jet engine. It carries 2 30mm cannon and can carry AIM-9 Sidewinder missiles .




</doc>
<doc id="90612" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90612" title="Template:Contradict">
Template:Contradict

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="90614" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90614" title="Departments of Haiti">
Departments of Haiti

Haiti is divided into 10 departments (French, "départements"). When Haiti was the French colony of "Saint-Domingue", there were three provinces: North, South and West. Under Toussaint L'Ouverture, the provinces were converted into departments.

The departments are further divided into 41 "arrondissements", and 133 "communes".



</doc>
<doc id="90622" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90622" title="Template:Vandalism information/descriptions">
Template:Vandalism information/descriptions

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="90629" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90629" title="Turquoise">
Turquoise

Turquoise is an opaque (cannot be seen through), blueish-green mineral. It is not common and can be valuable in finer grades. It has been prized as a gem and ornamental stone for thousands of years because of its interesting coloring.


</doc>
<doc id="90642" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90642" title="Template:User sw-4">
Template:User sw-4


</doc>
<doc id="90643" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90643" title="Category:User sw-4">
Category:User sw-4


</doc>
<doc id="90651" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90651" title="Yotsuya Kaidan">
Yotsuya Kaidan

Yotsuya Kaidan is one of the most famous Japanese ghost story of all time. It was written in 1825 by Tsuruya Nanboku IV. The story is a tale of , murder and ghostly revenge. It continues to be an influence on Japanese horror today.

Its original title was Tōkaidō Yotsuya Kaidan.


</doc>
<doc id="90652" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90652" title="Template:Infobox artist">
Template:Infobox artist


</doc>
<doc id="90653" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90653" title="Template:Image class">
Template:Image class


</doc>
<doc id="90656" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90656" title="Albrecht Dürer">
Albrecht Dürer

Albrecht Dürer (21 May 1471 – 6 April 1528) was a German painter, engraver and mathematician. 

He was born and died in Nuremberg, Germany and is best known as a maker of old master prints. His prints were often in a series, so that there is a group of different prints about a subject. The most famous series are the "Apocalypse" (1498) and his two series on the passion of Christ, the "Great Passion" (1498–1510) and the "Little Passion" (1510–1511). 

Dürer's best known individual engravings (that is, ones that are not part of a series) include "" (1513), "" (1514) and "Melencolia I" (1514). His most iconic images are his woodcuts of the "" (1497–1498) from the "Apocalypse" series, the "Rhinoceros", and numerous self-portraits in oils. Dürer possibly did not cut his own woodblocks but may have employed a skilled carver who followed his drawings faithfully. He painted a number of religious works in oils and made many brilliant watercolours and drawings, which through modern reproductions are now perhaps his best known works. 

Dürer's prints made him famous across Europe before he was 30, and many people say he is the greatest artist of the Renaissance in Northern Europe.

Dürer was the third child and second son of his parents, who had between fourteen and eighteen children. His father was a successful goldsmith from Ajtós, near Gyula in Hungary. 

Dürer's godfather was Anton Koberger, who left goldsmithing to become a printer and publisher in the year Dürer was born. He quickly became the most successful publisher in Germany, and owned twenty-four printing presses and had many offices in Germany and abroad. His most famous publication was the "Nuremberg Chronicle," published in 1493 in German and Latin. It had 1,809 woodcut pictures by the Wolgemut workshop. Dürer may well have worked on some of these, as the work on the project began while he was with Wolgemut. 

Dürer had started to learn goldsmithing and drawing from his father. His father wanted him to continue his training as a goldsmith, but he was so good at drawing that he started as an apprentice to Michael Wolgemut at the age of fifteen in 1486. A self-portrait, a drawing in silverpoint, is dated 1484 (Albertina, Vienna). Wolgemut was the leading artist in Nuremberg at the time, and had a large workshop making different types of works of art, in particular woodcuts for books. Nuremberg was a rich city, a centre for publishing and many luxury trades. It had strong links with Italy, especially Venice, a relatively short distance across the Alps.

After completing his term of apprenticeship in 1489, Dürer followed the common German custom of taking a "wanderjahre" — in effect a gap year. Dürer was away nearly four years, travelling through Germany, Switzerland, and probably, the Netherlands. Dürer wanted to meet Martin Schongauer, the best engraver of Northern Europe, but Schongauer died shortly before Dürer's arrival. He stayed at the house of Schongauer's brother, and got some pictures that Schongauer owned. 

His first painted self-portrait is now in the Louvre. It was painted in Strasbourg, probably so that Dürer could send it back to his fiancée in Nuremberg.. In fact, very soon after he got back to Nuremberg, on 7 July 1494 Dürer was married to Agnes Frey. She was the daughter of a well known brass worker (and amateur harpist) in the city. He was 23, and the marriage was arranged while Dürer was away travelling. his absence. They had no children, and most people think that they did not marry for love, but because it was good to link the two families. Also, a single man could not set up in business for himself in Nuremberg. Dürer painted some portraits of his wife, but experts say that they ""lack warmth"". The experts think that if Dürer loved his wife he would have taken more time over those pictures to make her look more beautiful and friendly.

Within three months Dürer left for Italy. The start of plague in Nuremberg was one reason for his leaving. 

In Italy, he went to Venice where artists were working in a more modern style. Dürer wrote that Giovanni Bellini was the oldest and still the best of the artists in Venice. 

On his return to Nuremberg in 1495, Dürer opened his own workshop. He started to use what he learned in Italy more and more, so his work was quite different from the other artists in Nuremberg who used only the traditional German style. 

Dürer's father died in 1502 and his mother died in 1513. 

Dürer probably did not cut any of the woodblocks himself. This was a job for experts. But he had designed and cut woodblocks for woodcut as part of his training in Wolgemut's studio, and he had seen many carved and painted altarpieces made in the studio. This means he knew what could be made into a woodblock print, and how to work with the expert block cutters. Dürer either drew his design directly onto the woodblock itself, or glued a paper drawing to the block. Either way his drawing was destroyed when the block was cut. 

His famous series of sixteen great designs for the "Apocalypse" are dated 1498. He made the first seven scenes of the "Great Passion" in the same year, and a little later, a series of eleven on the Holy Family and saints. Around 1503–1505 he produced the first seventeen of a set illustrating the life of the Virgin, which he did not finish for some years. Neither these, nor the "Great Passion," were published as sets until several years later, but prints were sold individually in considerable numbers.

The Venetian artist Jacopo de' Barbari, whom Dürer had met in Venice, visited Nuremberg in 1500, and Dürer said that he learned much about the new developments in perspective, anatomy, and Body proportions from him. de'Barbari did not want to tell Dürer everything he knew, so Dürer began his own studies, and he kept studying for the rest of his life. This is a series of drawings show Dürer's experiments in human proportion, before he made his famous engraving of "Adam and Eve" (1504). This is the only existing engraving signed with his full name.

Dürer made large numbers of other practice drawings, especially for his paintings and engravings, and many survive, most famously the "Praying Hands" (1508 Albertina, Vienna). He also continued to make images in watercolour and bodycolour (usually combined), including a number of very beautiful still lives of meadow sections or animals, including his "Hare" (1502, Albertina, Vienna).

In early 1506, he returned to Venice and stayed there until the spring of 1507. By this time Dürer's engravings were very popular and were being copied. In Venice he was given a valuable commission from the emigrant German community for the church of San Bartolomeo. This was the altar-piece known as the "Adoration of the Virgin" or the "Feast of Rose Garlands". It includes portraits of members of Venice's German community, but shows a strong Italian influence. Later, the Emperor Rudolf II took it to Prague. Other paintings Dürer made in Venice include, "The Virgin and Child with the Goldfinch", "Christ disputing with the Doctors" (supposedly produced in just five days), and a number of smaller works.

Dürer was admired by the Venetians, but he was back in Nuremberg by mid-1507. He stayed in Germany until 1520. His reputation had spread throughout Europe. He was on friendly terms with most of the major artists of Europe, and exchanged drawings with Raphael.

The years between and his journey to the Netherlands are divided according to the type of work he made. During the first five years, 1507–1511, after his return from Venice Dürer mostly painted. He made his four best paintings, "Adam and Eve" (1507), "Virgin with the Iris" (1508), the altarpiece the "Assumption of the Virgin" (1509), and the "Adoration of the Trinity by all the Saints" (1511). During this period he also completed the two woodcut series, the "Great Passion" and the "Life of the Virgin".

He complained that painting did not make enough money, so from 1511 to 1514 he concentrated on printmaking. The famous works he made in this period were the thirty-seven woodcuts for the "Little Passion", published first in 1511, and a set of fifteen small engravings on the same theme in 1512. In 1513 and 1514 he created his three most famous engravings, "The Knight, Death, and the Devil" (or simply, "The Knight", as he called it, 1513), "Melencolia I", and "St. Jerome in his Study" (both 1514).

'Melencolia I' has a magic square which is believed to be the first seen in European art. The two numbers in the middle of the bottom row give the date of the engraving, 1514.

In 1515, he created his woodcut of the "Rhinoceros". The rhinoceros was in Lisbon, but Durer never saw it. He made it from a sketch and description from another artist. It was not very lifelike, but still being used in some German school science text-books early last century.. The rhinoceros was from an extinct Indian species.

Up to 1520 he produced a wide range of works, including portraits in tempera on linen, experiments in etching on plates of iron, and parts of the "Triumphal Arch" and the "Triumphs of Maximilian" which were huge woodcut projects ordered by Maximilian I, Holy Roman Emperor.

In the summer of 1520 Dürer made his fourth and last major journey. 

He wanted to renew the Imperial pension Maximilian had given him. Maximilian had died in 1519, so the city of Nuremberg stopped paying it. Dürer also needed new patrons following the death of Maximilian, and to avoid an outbreak of sickness in Nuremberg.

He took his wife and her maid and left Nuremberg for the Netherlands in July 1520, to be at the coronation of the new emperor, Charles V. He travelled by the Rhine to Cologne, and then to Antwerp, where he made many drawings in silverpoint, chalk, and charcoal. 

Dürer went to Aachen for the coronation, but also made trips to Cologne, Nijmegen, 's-Hertogenbosch, Brussels, Bruges, Ghent, and Zeeland. In Brussels he saw "the things which have been sent to the king from the golden land" — the Aztec treasure that Hernán Cortés had sent home to Holy Roman Emperor Charles V following the fall of Mexico. Dürer wrote that this treasure trove "was much more beautiful to me than miracles. These things are so precious that they have been valued at 100,000 florins". Dürer appears to have been collecting for his own cabinet of curiosities, and he sent back to Nuremberg various animal horns, a piece of coral, some large fish fins, and a wooden weapon from the East Indies.

Dürer took many prints with him. He wrote in his diary to whom he gave, exchanged, or sold them, and for how much. This is some of the few times the price of prints was recorded, so historians think it very important to show the values of prints compared to paintings at that time. Dürer returned home in July 1521. He had an unknown illness which stayed with him for the rest of his life, and slowed his rate of work.

Back in Nuremberg, Dürer started work on a series of religious pictures. There are many practice sketches and "studies" (practice paintings for a bigger painting) but no big paintings from this time. This was partly because of his illness, but more because of the time he spent preparing to write books about geometry and perspective, the proportions of men and horses, and fortification. 

His writings show that Dürer was highly sympathetic to Martin Luther, and he may have been influential in the City Council declaring for Luther in 1525. However, he died before religious divisions had hardened into different "Catholic" and "Protestant"churches. Dürer probably thought of himself as a reform-minded Catholic. 

Dürer died in Nuremberg at the age of 56. He left money and goods worth 6,874 florins - a considerable sum. His workshop was a part of his large house. His widow lived there until her death in 1537. The house is now a museum.





</doc>
<doc id="90673" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90673" title="Category:People from Nuremberg">
Category:People from Nuremberg


</doc>
<doc id="90687" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90687" title="El Greco">
El Greco

El Greco ("The Greek", 1541 – April 7, 1614) was a painter, sculptor, and architect of the Spanish Renaissance. He usually signed his paintings in Greek letters with his full name, Doménicos Theotokópoulos (), showing his Greek origin.

El Greco was born in Crete, which was the center of Post-Byzantine art at that time. He trained and became a master of that kind of art before travelling at 26 to Venice, as other Greek artists had done. In 1570, he moved to Rome and opened a workshop and made a series of works. While he was in Italy, El Greco added elements of Mannerism and of the Venetian Renaissance to his style. In 1577, at the age of 36, he moved to Toledo, Spain, where he lived and worked until his death in 1614. In Toledo, El Greco painted his best-known paintings.

El Greco's dramatic and expressionist style puzzled other painters at the time, but came to be appreciated in the 20th century. El Greco is considered to have influenced both the Expressionism and Cubism styles. His personality and works inspired poets and writers like Rainer Maria Rilke and Nikos Kazantzakis. Many modern scholars think that El Greco belongs to no conventional school. He is best known for long figures and often fantastic or dramatic coloring, combining Byzantine traditions with Western painting traditions. His paintings generally have very bright parts contrasting with very dark parts.


</doc>
<doc id="90694" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90694" title="Lord Byron">
Lord Byron

Lord Byron (22 January 1788 – 19 April 1824) was the 6th Baron Byron. He was christened George Gordon Byron, but changed his name later in life. He adopted the surname Noel, so he that could inherit half his mother-in-law's estate.

He was an English poet and a leading figure in Romanticism. He was regarded as one of the greatest European poets and still many people read his works. Among his best-known works are the narrative poems "Childe Harold's Pilgrimage" and "Don Juan". 

Lord Byron is also famous for the way he lived his life. He was a dandy, living extravagantly, with many love affairs, and debts His fight against the Turks in the Greek War of Independence lead to his death from a fever in Messolonghi in Greece. He was probably bisexual (against the law at the time) and he was rumoured to be guilty of incest. Lady Caroline Lamb, who was his lover for a time, said that he was "mad, bad, and dangerous to know." 

His daughter Ada Lovelace was famous because she collaborated with Charles Babbage on the "analytical engine", a predecessor to modern computers.






</doc>
<doc id="90695" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90695" title="Byron (disambiguation)">
Byron (disambiguation)

Byron can mean:






</doc>
<doc id="90697" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90697" title="Greek War of Independence">
Greek War of Independence

The Greek War of Independence (1821–1829), also commonly known as the Greek Revolution , was a successful war by the Greeks who won independence for Greece from the Ottoman Empire. After a long and bloody struggle, and with the aid of the United Kingdom, France and Russia, independence was finally granted by the Treaty of Constantinople in July 1832. The Greeks were thus the first of the Ottoman Empire's subject peoples who were accepted as an independent sovereign power. 




</doc>
<doc id="90710" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90710" title="Ronald Sinclair">
Ronald Sinclair

Ronald Sinclair (January 21, 1924 - November 22, 1992), born Richard Arthur Hould and sometimes called Ra Hould or Ron Sinclair, was a child actor from New Zealand, who became a film editor.

Sinclair was a child actor turned film editor who was still considered a star in his home country of New Zealand, long after his Hollywood career ended. He appeared in films like "The Light That Failed", "Tower of London", "That Hamilton Woman" and "Desperate Journey". He also appeared in a series of children's adventure films featuring the "Five Little Peppers".

From 1955 on, Sinclair worked together with director Roger Corman. Together they edited films like "Swamp Women", "Day the World Ended", "The Intruder", "The Raven" and "The Trip".


</doc>
<doc id="90716" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90716" title="Affoltern im Emmental">
Affoltern im Emmental

Affoltern im Emmental is a municipality of the district Trachselwald in the canton of Bern in Switzerland. 



</doc>
<doc id="90718" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90718" title="Albligen">
Albligen

Albligen (also known in French as Albenon) is a municipality of the district Schwarzenburg in the canton of Bern in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="90720" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90720" title="Alchenstorf">
Alchenstorf

Alchenstorf is a municipality of the district Burgdorf in the canton of Bern in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="90722" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90722" title="Allmendingen bei Bern">
Allmendingen bei Bern

Allmendingen bei Bern is a municipality of the district Konolfingen in the canton of Bern in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="90723" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90723" title="Amsoldingen">
Amsoldingen

Amsoldingen is a municipality of the district Thun in the canton of Bern in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="90724" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90724" title="John Maynard Keynes">
John Maynard Keynes

John Maynard Keynes, 1st Baron Keynes, CB (5 June 1883–21 April 1946) was a British economist whose ideas, called Keynesian economics, had a big impact on modern economic and political theory as well as on many governments' tax and economic policies. He said governments should use tax and banking measures to stop the effects of economic recessions, depressions and booms. He is one of the fathers of modern theoretical macroeconomics.

Born at 7 Melville Road, Cambridge, John Maynard Keynes was the son of John Neville Keynes, an economics lecturer at Cambridge University, and Florence Ada Brown, a successful author and a social reformer. His younger brother Geoffrey Keynes (1887–1982) was a surgeon and bibliophile and his younger sister Margaret (1890–1974) married the Nobel-prize-winning physiologist Archibald Hill.

Keynes' early romantic and sexual relationships were almost all with men. One of his great loves was the artist Duncan Grant, whom he met in 1908, and he was also involved with the writer Lytton Strachey. Keynes appeared to turn away from homosexual relationships around the time of the first World War. In 1918, he met Lydia Lopokova, a well-known Russian ballerina, and they married in 1925.

Keynes was a successful investor, building up a big fortune. He nearly lost all of his money after the Stock Market Crash of 1929, but he soon got back his fortune. He enjoyed collecting books: for example, he collected and protected many of Isaac Newton's papers.

Bertrand Russell said Keynes was the most intelligent person he had ever known, commenting, "Every time I argued with Keynes, I felt that I took my life in my hands, and I seldom emerged without feeling something of a fool."

Keynes went to King’s College, Cambridge, in 1902, to study mathematics, but moved to economics, which he studied at Cambridge under A.C. Pigou and Alfred Marshall. Marshall is believed to have prompted Keynes's shift in interest from mathematics and classics to economics. Keynes received his B.A. in 1905 and his M.A. in 1908

Keynes accepted a lectureship at Cambridge in economics funded personally by Alfred Marshall. Soon he was appointed to the Royal Commission on Indian Currency and Finance, where he was able to put economic theory into practice.

During World War I he worked for the Adviser to the Chancellor of the Exchequer and to the Treasury on Financial and Economic Questions.

Keynes also attended the Conference on the Versailles Treaty to end World War I. He wrote "The Economic Consequences of the Peace" in 1919, and "A Revision of the Treaty" in 1922. In his books he said that the reparations which Germany was being made to pay would ruin the German economy and would lead to further fighting in Europe. These predictions were shown to be true when the German economy suffered in the hyperinflation of 1923. Reparations were only completed in 2010.

Keynes's "magnum opus" (latin for ""Great Work"", meaning his most famous book) was the "General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money", was published in 1936. The ideas in that book were very different from classical economics.

Historians agree that Keynes influenced U.S. president Roosevelt's New Deal, but disagree as to what extent. Spending more the government earned in taxes (called "deficit spending") was used in the New Deal from 1938. But the idea had been agreed to by President Herbert Hoover. Few senior economists in the U.S. agreed with Keynes in the 1930s. With time, however, his ideas became more widely accepted.

In 1942, Keynes was raised to the House of Lords as Baron Keynes, of Tilton in the County of Sussex, where he sat as a Liberal member.

During World War II, Keynes argued in "How to Pay for the War" that the war effort should be largely financed by higher taxation, rather than deficit spending, in order to avoid inflation.

Keynes died of myocardial infarction (heart attack) at his holiday home in Tilton, East Sussex. His heart problems were made worse by the strain of working on post-war international financial problems. He died soon after he arranged a guarantee of an Anglo-American loan to Great Britain. Keynes' father, John Neville Keynes (1852–1949) outlived his son by three years. Keynes's brother Sir Geoffrey Keynes (1887–1982) was a distinguished surgeon, scholar and bibliophile. His nephews include Richard Keynes (born 1919) a physiologist; and Quentin Keynes (1921–2003) an adventurer and bibliophile.







</doc>
<doc id="90726" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90726" title="American Robin">
American Robin

The American Robin ("Turdus migratorius") is a migratory songbird. It is also known as the North American Robin. It belongs in the thrush family, "Turdidae". It was named after the European Robin. This is because the European Robin has a bright orange-red face and breast. The two species are not closely related. The American Robin has seven subspecies. "T. m. confinis" is the most different subspecies.

The American Robin lives throughout North America. It is a rare vagrant to western Europe (a vagrant is a bird that is found outside its normal species' range). It has also been a vagrant to Greenland, Jamaica, Hispaniola, Puerto Rico, and Belize. The American Robin can be found in many different kinds of habitats. It likes open areas of ground to feed and areas with trees or shrubs to and sleep. Because it has a large range, the IUCN Red List says that the American Robin will not decline, and is listed as Least Concern.

The American Robin begins to breed shortly after returning to northern North America after spending the winter in the south. The female will choose where to build the nest. She will make the nest with grass, sticks, paper, feathers, rootlets, and moss. Once the nest is built, she will lay 3 to 5 eggs. After the chicks leave the nest, both parents will continue to take care of them, until they can live on their own.

American Robin eggs and juveniles are eaten by squirrels, snakes, Blue Jays, Common Grackles, American Crows, and Common Ravens. The adults are eaten by hawks, cats, and larger snakes. Sometimes, the Brown-headed Cowbird lays its eggs in the Robin's nest. This is called brood parasitism. However, the Robin usually rejects the cowbird eggs.

This species was first described in 1766 by Linnaeus. It was described in the twelfth edition of his "Systema naturae". He called it "Turdus migratorius". This name (called a binomial name) comes from two Latin words. The first word, "Turdus", means "thrush". The second word, "migratorius", comes from "migrare" which means "to go". The term 'robin' has been recorded and used for this species since 1703.

The American Robin is large songbird. It has a round body. Its legs are long. It has a long tail. It has a long, yellow bill. It is dark gray-brown on its head, back, wings, and tail. It has an orange-red breast. There is a white patch on the underside of the belly, near the tail. This can be seen when it is flying. American Robins that live in western North America are very pale (pale means light in color). American Robins that live in eastern Canada are very bright. They have a white throat. It has black stripes in it. Females have lighter gray-brown heads than males. They also have lighter orange-red breasts. A young American Robin (called a juvenile) is also lighter than the male. It has dark spots on its breast. Both sexes are 20–28 cm (7.9–11 in) long. They have a wingspan of 31–40 cm (12.2–15.7 in). American Robins that live in western North America are very pale. American Robins that live in eastern Canada are very bright.

The American Robin was named after the European Robin. This is because the European Robin has a bright orange-red face and breast. The two species are not closely related.

The American Robin has seven subspecies. They are very hard to tell apart. The different subspecies will breed with each other.








The American Robin can be found all over North America. It is found from Alaska and Canada south to Mexico. Most American Robins winter in Florida and the Gulf States to Mexico to the Pacific Coast. They will sometimes winter in southern Canada and the northern United States.

The American Robin is a rare vagrant to western Europe. Most of the American Robins have been found in Britain. The most recent sighting of an American Robin in Britain was in January 2007. It has also been a vagrant to Greenland, Jamaica, Hispaniola, Puerto Rico, and Belize.

American Robins are found in many different kinds of habitats. Some of them are gardens, parks, yards, fields, pastures, tundra, woodlands, pine forests, and shrublands. They like open areas of ground to feed. They like areas with trees or shrubs to breed and sleep.

The American Robin has a large range. It is estimated that its range is 16 million square kilometers (6 million square miles). It is also estimated that there are about 320 million individual American Robins. The IUCN Red List says that the species is not believed to reach the threat of decline. It is therefore considered Least Concern.

American Robins used to be killed for their meat. They were killed in the southern states. The meat was thought as a very good food. The American Robin is now protected in the United State by the Migratory Bird Act.

The American Robin is most active during the day. During the winter, it groups together in large flocks at night. They sleep together in thick vegetation. During the day, these large winter flocks break up into smaller flocks. They feed in these smaller flocks. During the summer, American Robins are less social. This is because they are defending their breeding territories.

Juvenile Robins spend their first four months of life near their nesting place. They then flock together with other American Robins before they migrate to their wintering places.

The American Robin eats invertebrates. In the spring, they like to eat earthworms and snails. Some other invertebrates that American Robins eat are beetles, grubs, and caterpillars. It will also eat fruits and berries. Some kinds of berries that they like to eat are chokecherries, hawthorn berries, dogwood berries, sumac fruits, and juniper berries.

The American Robin begins to breed shortly after returning to northern North America after spending the winter in the south. It is one of the first North American birds to lay eggs. It has two to three broods (a brood is a group of offspring) each breeding season. The breeding season starts in April and ends in July. It is one of the first birds to sing at dawn. Its song is made up of several small groups of sounds that are repeated.

The female chooses where to make the nest. She will usually make the nest on one or many branches that are hidden in leaves. In the west, the female will make the nest on the ground or in thickets. In Alaska, the female will make the nest on a cliff. The female makes the nest. She starts with the inside. She uses grass and sticks to make a cup-shaped center. Other things that the female will use are paper, feathers, rootlets, and moss. After the center is done, she uses mud on the outside of the nest to make it stronger. She then puts soft grass in the cup. The nest is usually 15.2 to 20.3 cm (6 to 8 in) long. It is 7.6 to 15.2 cm high (3 to 6 in).

The female will lay 3 to 5 eggs in the nest. They are blue or blue-green. They are 2.8 to 3cm (1.1 to 1.2 in) long. They are 2.1 cm (0.8 in) wide. Only the female incubates the eggs (incubate means that the adult will sit on the eggs and keep them warm and help the babies inside grow). It takes 12 to 14 days for the eggs to hatch.

For the first few days, the chicks have no feathers and their eyes are closed. The young live in the nest for about 13 days. As the chicks grow older, the female will protect them only at night and during bad weather. After the juveniles leave the nest, they will follow their parents around and beg them for food.

Both parents help feed and protect the fledged (fledged means a young bird that has just learned how to fly) juveniles until they can live on their own. The adults will give an alarm call to warn the juveniles that there is a predator near by. The parents will then attack the predator. Some of the predators they will attack are cats and dogs. They will even go after humans if the human gets close to their young. Fledged juveniles are only able to fly short distances. The coloring of the juveniles helps them hide better in bushes or trees. This kind of coloring is called camouflage.

Bird banders have found that only 25% of juvenile American Robins live through their first year. The average life of an American Robin lasts about 2 years. The longest known lifespan of a wild American Robin is 14 years.

Eggs and juvenile Robins that still live in the nest are eaten by squirrels and snakes. Some birds also eat eggs and juvenile Robins. These birds are Blue Jays, Common Grackles, American Crows, and Common Ravens. The adult American Robin is eaten by hawks, cats, and larger snakes. When feeding together in flocks, American Robins will watch each other for signs of predators. If a predator is seen, they will make a warning call. Sometimes, the Brown-headed Cowbird lays its eggs in the Robin's nest. This is called brood parasitism. The Robin usually rejects the cowbird eggs. Because of this, brood parasitism by the cowbird is rare.

The American Robin is known to carry a disease called the West Nile Virus. This disease comes from mosquitoes. Crows and jays are the first to die from this disease. The American Robin is more responsible for the transmission of the disease to humans. This is because the American Robin lives longer with the disease than the crows and jays. This allows the American Robin to spread the disease to more mosquitoes which then spread the disease to humans and other animals.

The American Robin is the state bird of Connecticut, Michigan, and Wisconsin. It was also shown on a 1986 Canadian $2 note, but it is no longer on the bill.

There is color named after the American Robin's eggs. It is called "Robin's egg blue".

The Robin is considered a symbol of spring. A good example is a poem by Emily Dickinson. It is called "I Dreaded That First Robin So". There are other poems about the first robin of spring. One of them is "The First Robin" by Dr. William H. Drummond. According to the author's wife, it is based on a Quebec false belief. The belief says that whoever sees the first robin of spring will have good luck.


</doc>
<doc id="90728" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90728" title="New Age music">
New Age music

New Age music is a type of music which is often related to New Age belief. It is usually soft and instrumental; it means, only few New Age music pieces have a singer. New Age music is good for resting, thinking and meditation.

One of the first people in this genre was Stephen Halpern. He created music to be used for meditation. He could not find a record company for his works, so he published them himself and sold them in New Age stores. His music is very relaxing and has a slow rhythm.

Some of the famous artists who work in this field are Yanni, Kitarō, Jean Ven Robert Hal, Loreena McKennitt, Vangelis, Enya and George Winston.


</doc>
<doc id="90729" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90729" title="Category:New Age music">
Category:New Age music


</doc>
<doc id="90730" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90730" title="Category:New Age musicians">
Category:New Age musicians


</doc>
<doc id="90737" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90737" title="Write Once Read Many">
Write Once Read Many

Write Once Read Many (times) or WORM is a classification of computer storage media. It is used to describe media that can only be written once. After they are written, they can only be read.

There are two different kinds of such media:


</doc>
<doc id="90738" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90738" title="Charles-Marie Widor">
Charles-Marie Widor

Charles-Marie Widor (born Lyons, 21 February, 1844; died Paris, 12 March, 1937) was a French organist and composer. He was one of the greatest organists of his time and he had many pupils who learned a lot from him and became famous. Widor is best known for his organ works which he called “symphonies”. The "Toccata" from his "Symphony no 5" is one of the best known of all organ pieces, often played at the end of wedding ceremonies.


</doc>
<doc id="90739" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90739" title="Category:French organists">
Category:French organists


</doc>
<doc id="90740" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90740" title="Category:Organists by nationality">
Category:Organists by nationality


</doc>
<doc id="90741" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90741" title="Category:Discrimination">
Category:Discrimination


</doc>
<doc id="90743" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90743" title="Category:Hanseatic League">
Category:Hanseatic League


</doc>
<doc id="90745" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90745" title="Marcel Dupré">
Marcel Dupré

Marcel Dupré (born Rouen, Normandy, 3 May 1886; died Meudon, near Paris, 30 May 1971), was a French organist, composer, and teacher. He became famous all over the world for his organ playing, and he composed a lot of music for that instrument.

Marcel Dupré was born in Rouen (Normandy, France). His family were musical. His father Albert Dupré was organist at the gothic abbey of St Ouen in Rouen. The young Marcel was a child prodigy. He entered the Paris Conservatoire in 1904, where he studied the piano and organ. His organ teachers were the most famous organists in France: Alexandre Guilmant and Louis Vierne, and also Charles-Marie Widor who taught him how to compose. In 1914, Dupré won the Grand Prix de Rome for his cantata, "Psyché". Twelve years later, he became professor of organ at the Paris Conservatoire, and stayed in that job until 1954.

Dupré became famous for performing more than 2,000 organ recitals in Europe, the United States, Canada and Australia. In 1920 he gave a series of concerts at the Paris Conservatoire in which he played all the organ works by Johann Sebastian Bach from memory. 

He soon became world-famous. In 1934 Widor resigned as organist at St. Sulpice in Paris, and Dupré took over the post, which he kept for the rest of his life.

From 1947 to 1954, he was director of the American Conservatory, which was in the Château de Fontainebleau near Paris. In 1954, Dupré took over from Claude Delvincourt (who had been killed in a car crash) as director of the Paris Conservatoire, where he stayed until 1956. He died at the age of 85.

When Dupré gave organ recitals he often played his own compositions as well as those of other composers, especially Bach. Like Widor and Vierne, he composed long works in several movements which he called “symphonies”. When he played in church services he would start by playing composed music which was suitable for the time of year. Then he would improvise, playing complicated fugues, trio sonatas and chorale improvisations. He was so good at improvising that many people thought he had composed the music beforehand.

When playing in concerts he was often given a tune, and then he would immediately make up a large work from that tune. In 1906, when he was still a student, he played for a wedding and two services when the famous Widor was going to be absent. Dupré asked Widor what music he should play. Widor told him to improvise something. Dupré waited for Widor to go out of the church before he started practising, but Widor crept back in and listened to him. He realized that Dupré would manage very well.

Dupré was famous as an organ teacher. He taught two generations of well-known organists including Jehan Alain, Marie-Claire Alain, Pierre Cochereau, Jeanne Demessieux,Jean Guillou, Jean Langlais, and Olivier Messiaen. 

Dupré composed a great deal of organ music. When he was a boy he got to know Aristide Cavaillé-Coll, the most famous organ builder in France. Cavaillé-Coll had built the organ that Dupré’s father played, so he was used to the sound of modern French organs. Most of Dupré's music for the organ is very difficult to play. It includes the "Three Preludes and Fugues", Op. 7 (1914). Even Widor thought that the Prelude of the third piece was simply impossible to perform. However, Dupré could play it, and many organists after him learned to play it, too. Other notable works of Dupré's include the "Symphonie-Passion", the "Esquisses" and "Évocation", and the "Cortège et Litanie". 

As well as composing lots of music, Dupré prepared study editions of the organ works of Bach, Handel, Mozart, Liszt, Mendelssohn, Schumann, César Franck, and Alexander Glazunov. He also wrote music for people who were learning to play the organ, and books on how to improvise on the organ.

“Marcel Dupré at Saint-Sulpice” – Gerard Brooks: Organist’s Review Aug 1986 p.161-166


</doc>
<doc id="90746" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90746" title="Paul Hindemith">
Paul Hindemith

Paul Hindemith (pronounce: POWL HIN-de-mit), (born Hanau nr. Frankfurt am Main, 16 November 1895; died Frankfurt am Main, 28 December 1963) was a German composer, violist, teacher, music theorist and conductor. He was the most important and influential German composer during the years between the two World Wars. His style was at first influenced by Schoenberg and Expressionism, but gradually it became more neo-classical, and he turned against Schoenberg's whole approach. He was also famous as a viola player and composed a concerto for viola and orchestra.


</doc>
<doc id="90748" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90748" title="Louis Vierne">
Louis Vierne

Louis Vierne (born Poitiers, France, 8 October 1870; died Paris, 2 June 1937) was a French organist and composer. Almost completely blind from birth, he wrote a lot of organ music, including six large works called symphonies, "24 Fantasy Pieces" (which includes his famous "Carillon de Westminster"), and "24 Pieces In Free Style", some of which can be played on the harmonium as well as on the organ. He died while giving an organ recital at Notre Dame.


</doc>
<doc id="90754" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90754" title="Jehan Alain">
Jehan Alain

Jehan Alain (born Saint-Germain-en-Laye, Paris, 3 February, 1911; died near Saumur, 20 June 1940) was a French organist and composer. He learned to play the organ at home on an organ that his father had built. In his short life he composed many works. His most famous organ pieces are "Trois Danses" (Three Dances) and a brilliant piece called "Litanies".

Alain was killed fighting in the World War II.

His youngest sister, Marie-Claire Alain, is an internationally-famous organist and has made several complete recordings of her brother's organ works.


</doc>
<doc id="90759" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90759" title="Shame">
Shame

Shame is an emotion. Shame is rooted in a social or cultural environment. Some people feel shame when some of the rules (that are accepted by the respective society) have been broken. A person can feel ashamed because he or she has thought or done something no one else knows about. Children are often told to be ashamed of something, because they sometimes have trouble telling cause and effect apart. When they grow up, they can better tell the two apart. At that stage, the feeling of guilt becomes stronger.


</doc>
<doc id="90764" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90764" title="Keynes (disambiguation)">
Keynes (disambiguation)

Keynes could mean:





</doc>
<doc id="90765" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90765" title="Moulin Rouge">
Moulin Rouge

Moulin Rouge (Translates from French to English as "Red Windmill") is a traditional cabaret and nightclub which began in 1889. It is situated near to the French quarter of Montmartre in the red-light district of Paris called Pigalle on Boulevard de Clichy in the 18th "arrondissement". It can be recognized by the large red windmill it has on its roof. 

The Moulin Rouge puts on cabaret shows including the Can-can every day. The current show is called Féerie (meaning 'fairy' in English).

The Moulin Rouge is where the famous French dance, the Can-can was first performed. It is also famous because many artists and writers have often gone there. Henri Toulouse-Lautrec designed many posters for the cabaret. Because of this, the management set aside a table where he could have a meal and watch the show every night. 

Several movies have been made about the Moulin Rouge. The latest is "Moulin Rouge!" directed by Baz Luhrmann. 




</doc>
<doc id="90766" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90766" title="Henri Matisse">
Henri Matisse

Henri Matisse (Le Cateau-Cambrésis, Nord, 31 December 1869 – 3 November 1954) was a French artist, known for his use of colour and his fluid and original draughtsmanship.

He was a draughtsman, printmaker, and sculptor, but mainly known as a painter. Matisse is regarded as one of the main artists who helped to create the revolutionary developments in art early in the 20th century. 

Although he was initially called a Fauve (wild beast), by the 1920s he was increasingly seen as an upholder of the classical tradition in French painting.
His mastery of the expressive language of form and colour, in work spanning over a half-century, won him recognition as a leading figure in modern art.



</doc>
<doc id="90768" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90768" title="AFI's 100 Years of Musicals">
AFI's 100 Years of Musicals

Part of the AFI 100 Years... series, AFI's 100 Years of Musicals is a list of the top American musical movies. The list was unveiled by the American Film Institute at the Hollywood Bowl on September 3, 2006. Unlike most of the previous lists, it only includes 25 winners and was not presented in a televised program.




</doc>
<doc id="90772" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90772" title="Abu Nuwas">
Abu Nuwas

Abu-Nuwas al-Hasan ben Hani al-Hakami (750–810), or Abū-Nuwās, was a great Arabic poet. He was born in Persia. He is in "The Book of One Thousand and One Nights".


</doc>
<doc id="90774" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90774" title="Montmartre">
Montmartre

Montmartre is a hill 130 metres high and is also the name of the district which surrounds the hill. It is situated in the north of Paris and famous for its nightlife.

Many artists had studios or worked around the community of Montmartre such as Salvador Dalí, Claude Monet, Pablo Picasso and Vincent van Gogh.

Montmartre means 'mountain of the martyr'; it owes its name to the martyrdom of Saint Denis, who was decapitated on the hill around 250 AD. Saint Denis was the Bishop of Paris and is the patron saint of France.

The hill's religious symbolism is thought to be even older, as it has been suggested as a likely druidic holy place because it is the highest point in the area. 



</doc>
<doc id="90776" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90776" title="Category:Departments of Haiti">
Category:Departments of Haiti


</doc>
<doc id="90777" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90777" title="Arnaut Danièl">
Arnaut Danièl

Arnaut Danièl wrote and performed music and poetry in the 13th century. He was Occitan. He has been called the best poet who ever lived.


</doc>
<doc id="90778" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90778" title="Cabaret">
Cabaret

Cabaret is a form of entertainment having comedy, song, dance, and theatre. Cabarets are mostly performed in a restaurant or nightclub with a stage for performances and the audience sitting at tables (often dining or drinking) watching the performance. The venue itself can also be called a "cabaret." 

The term is a French word for the taprooms or cafés where this form of entertainment was born, as a more artistic form of café-chantant. It comes from Middle Dutch "cabret", through Old North French "camberette", from Late Latin "camera". It essentially means "small room."

Cabaret also refers to a Mediterranean-style brothel — a bar with tables and women who talk, arouse, and entertain the clients. Traditionally these can also have some form of stage entertainment: often singers & dancers — the bawdiness of which varies with the quality of the place. It is the classier, more sophisticated cabaret that eventually engendered the form of place and art form that is the subject of the remainder of this article.


</doc>
<doc id="90779" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90779" title="Fox Studios Australia">
Fox Studios Australia

Fox Studios Australia is a major movie studio located in Sydney, Australia. Since opening in May 1998, the studio has been involved in the production of a number of successful movies, including "The Matrix", "Moulin Rouge!", "Mission Impossible II", "", "" and "Superman Returns".

The studio has been involved in a number of movies including:



</doc>
<doc id="90780" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90780" title="Thomas Aquinas">
Thomas Aquinas

St. Thomas Aquinas, (1225 – 7 March 1274) was a Catholic Dominican priest from Italy. He studied philosophy and theology. He was the theologian who came up with the Cosmological Argument. Catholics think Aquinas is the best teacher for one who wants to become a priest. His most famous books are "Summa Theologica" and the "Summa Contra Gentiles". Aquinas is one of the 33 Doctors of the Church. Many schools are named after him including the Pontifical Academy of St. Thomas Aquinas and the Pontifical University of St. Thomas Aquinas (Angelicum).


</doc>
<doc id="90781" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90781" title="Craig Pearce">
Craig Pearce

Craig Pearce is an Australian actor and screenwriter. He co-wrote the play "Strictly Ballroom" and the screenplay of the movie version with Baz Luhrmann. He also wrote the screenplay for the 1996 movie "Romeo + Juliet" and co-wrote the 2001 movie "Moulin Rouge!", also with Baz Luhrmann.


</doc>
<doc id="90784" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90784" title="Donald McAlpine">
Donald McAlpine

Donald McAlpine is an Australian cinematographer. He was born in 1934 in New South Wales, Australia. He has been involved in over fifty movies. His more recent work has been seen in Baz Luhrmann's hit musical "Moulin Rouge!" (2001), for which he earned an "Academy Award" nomination, Adam Sandler's "Anger Management" (2003), Universal Pictures' "Peter Pan" (2003) and the Walt Disney/Walden Media-produced "" (2005).


</doc>
<doc id="90785" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90785" title="Herbert Howells">
Herbert Howells

Herbert Howells CBE, CH, (born Lydney, Gloucestershire, 17 October 1892 was born to Oliver and Elizabeth Howells.He died London, 23 February 1983)and was an English composer, organist, and teacher. He wrote a lot of church music for the Anglican Church, including several Service settings of the Magnificat and Nunc dimittis. He taught for many years at the Royal College of Music.

One of his best known works is the "Hymnus Paradisi", a large, sacred work for choir. His organ works include 2 sets of 3 "Psalm-Preludes" and a piece called "Master Tallis’s Testament".


</doc>
<doc id="90786" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90786" title="Jill Bilcock">
Jill Bilcock

Jill Bilcock (born 1948, in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia) is a film editor. She is a graduate of the Swinbourne College of Technology. Bilcock won the 2002 Eddie Award (best edited comedy or musical movie) for "Moulin Rouge!". She also was nominated for the Academy Award for Film Editing for that movie. Bilcock has been nominated four times for the BAFTA Award for Best Editing . Three of these nominations were for the first three movies directed by Baz Luhrmann ("Moulin Rouge!" - 2002, "Romeo + Juliet" - 1996, and "Strictly Ballroom" - 1992). The fourth BAFTA nomination was for "Elizabeth" (1998).


</doc>
<doc id="90787" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90787" title="Category:English organists">
Category:English organists


</doc>
<doc id="90789" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90789" title="Ville Mönkkönen">
Ville Mönkkönen

Ville Mönkkönen, born in 1983, is a Finnish painter and PC game programmer. At this time, he is working on his next game, "Cormoon".

Ville's games have settings that range from fantasy to sci-fi, and they all include art created by himself. Some of this art is on his art gallery . A unique trait Ville has is how he will talk with fans of his games. He checks all of the game ideas written to him on his website's forums. "Notrium", his newest game, is at version 1.341, and has a number of modification files free for download. Ville's first two games were released in Finnish, and the rest in English, though versions of the Finnish ones have been translated into English and can be downloaded at the popular independent game site, Caiman .




</doc>
<doc id="90790" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90790" title="Jim Broadbent">
Jim Broadbent

James Broadbent (born May 24, 1949) is an Academy Award-, Golden Globe- and BAFTA-winning English theatre, movie and television actor.



</doc>
<doc id="90791" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90791" title="Category:German organists">
Category:German organists


</doc>
<doc id="90792" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90792" title="John Leguizamo">
John Leguizamo

John Leguizamo (born July 22, 1964) is an Emmy Award-winning and Golden Globe-nominated Colombian/Puerto Rican American comedian, actor and producer.


</doc>
<doc id="90793" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90793" title="Nut (fruit)">
Nut (fruit)

A nut is a very dry seed or fruit of some plants. A lot of seeds are called "nuts", but only some are really nuts. They are an important part of human and animal diets. Nuts mostly have one seed, but sometimes they have two. The wall is very hard.

Types of nuts include the oak, hickory, chestnut, stone-oak, birch, and hazelnut. The peanut, coconut, almond, macadamia, pistachio, pecan, walnut and cashew are not true nuts.



</doc>
<doc id="90794" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90794" title="Richard Roxburgh">
Richard Roxburgh

Richard Roxburgh (born January 1, 1962) is an Australian actor. He has starred in many Australian movies and has appeared in supporting roles in a number of Hollywood productions. Roxburgh normally plays the role of villains.







</doc>
<doc id="90796" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90796" title="Speed of sound">
Speed of sound

The speed of sound is per hour or per second in dry air. Sound moves faster through water and solids than air.
Sound cannot travel through a vacuum.
The speed of sound is based on temperature. It is lower at low temperatures.

You can calculate the speed of sound like this:

formula_1

Where:
formula_2 is the ratio of specific heats (1.4 for air)
R is the gas constant (formula_3 for air)
T is temperature (in Kelvins)

The speed of sound is also known as Mach 1.


</doc>
<doc id="90797" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90797" title="Notrium">
Notrium

Notrium is a freeware video game for the PC. It is at version 1.341. "Notrium" was developed by independent Finnish programmer Ville Mönkkönen. It is the seventh game that Ville has made, but it is only the fifth game to be made in English. Released in 2003, it won second place in the 'Adventure Game of the Year' contest on GameTunnel.

The game takes place on the invented planet Notrium. The game world is split up into squares, each of which has its own climate, land, and goals. The player can move between squares to reach the other areas, though some of the areas can only be reached by using vehicles or teleportation. There are climates such as jungle, desert, and tundra. All area squares can are changed by a day-night cycle, except for levels that are set indoors.

The game's graphics are all randomly generated (put together) at the start of the game, except in special game areas. This random generation changes where items and plants are, though most items and scenery will stay in their environment square. Environment squares do not change when the game is started. For example, a tree in the Jungle zone will be put in a different place each time a new game is begun, but the player character will still start in the same place as always.

The plot of the game is that a team of four, an Alien, a Human, an Android (a robot), and a Psionic creature, have left Earth in a spacecraft, because Earth was going to be destroyed. After the player has chosen the character he/she wants to control, the game begins. The spacecraft is shot at by missiles from the planet Notrium, which is close by. The player's character gets into an escape pod and crashes on the planet's surface. From there, the player must find a way to survive, as well as a way to escape.

Journal entries, which are different for each character, appear every game day for two game weeks. These entries tell about what happened to the characters while they were on the spacecraft. For example, the journal of the Human tells that he was the captain of the ship; while the journal of the Android shows that he was the ship's mechanic. Other happenings can be discovered by going to special places in the game, or finishing a goal.

"Notrium" has more than one ending to the game. Different characters can get different endings. Some endings can only be won by one character, while other endings can be won by other characters as well.

A person plays "Notrium" looking from a top-down view. The player may move in all directions while facing in a different one, similar to the way a first-person shooter is controlled, and similar to the freeware PC shooter game "Crimsonland". 

During the game, the player can find items and objects, such as plants, weapons, and machines. Most important items, like a force field to protect the character, are not found in one piece. The player can build them out of two or three other parts. 

Gameplay is about collecting parts to build, defending from enemies, and then winning one of the game's endings. Depending on the character the player has picked, the game is played in a different way. The fast-moving Alien starts with a very strong attack and gets more attacks over time, but it cannot use any weapons. The Human starts with a very weak attack, but he can make many weapons and armor to get more powerful. 

The game also has weather. If "Notrium" is played on a setting harder than 'easy', the character will be changed by the weather. Standing near a fire will make the player more hot, and standing under a tree will make the player less hot. In some areas of the game, there is dangerous weather, like sandstorms, blizzards, or acid rain.

"Notrium" was made to be easy to mod (change), and a guide about how to change is is on Ville's website. 
When the player starts a new game after getting a new mod, he or she can choose what mod they want to play. 

Mods can make many changes, such as putting new items or goals into the game, changing or making new environment squares. Mods can even make a new character that the player can choose, such as in the 'Werivar' mod.


</doc>
<doc id="90800" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90800" title="Sigfrid Karg-Elert">
Sigfrid Karg-Elert

Sigfrid Karg-Elert (born Oberndorf am Neckar, 21 November 1877; died Leipzig, 9 April 1933) was a German composer. He wrote in a late Romantic style. He is mainly remembered for his music for organ and harmonium, his favourite instrument. He wrote a set of 66 Chorale improvisations for organ, the best known of which is called "Nun danket alle Gott" ("Now thank we all our God"). 


</doc>
<doc id="90803" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90803" title="Category:1471 births">
Category:1471 births


</doc>
<doc id="90804" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90804" title="Category:1541 births">
Category:1541 births


</doc>
<doc id="90805" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90805" title="Category:1614 deaths">
Category:1614 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="90806" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90806" title="Louis-Claude Daquin">
Louis-Claude Daquin

Louis-Claude Daquin (born Paris, 4 July 1694; died Paris 15 June 1772) was a French composer. He was writing in the last part of the Baroque period and the early part of the Classical music period. He was a virtuoso organist and harpsichordist. He wrote a lot of excellent music for organ and for harpsichord. His most popular piece is called "Le Coucou" ("The Cuckoo").


</doc>
<doc id="90809" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90809" title="Category:1358">
Category:1358


</doc>
<doc id="90811" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90811" title="Category:14th century disestablishments">
Category:14th century disestablishments


</doc>
<doc id="90813" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90813" title="Category:1648 disestablishments">
Category:1648 disestablishments


</doc>
<doc id="90818" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90818" title="John Bull (composer)">
John Bull (composer)

John Bull (born 1562 or 1563; died March 15, 1628) was an English composer, musician, and organ builder. He was famous for playing the harpsichord and organ. Most of his compositions were written for keyboard instruments. He became a Gentleman, and then organist, at the Chapel Royal. He was also known for getting into trouble for adultery. He went to Europe and may have worked as a spy. He died in Antwerp.

Together with Sweelinck and William Byrd he was one of the great composers of keyboard music in the early 17th century. Many of his works are in the collection called the "Fitzwilliam Virginal Book".
he was a good guy


</doc>
<doc id="90819" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90819" title="Poliomyelitis">
Poliomyelitis

Poliomyelitis or polio is a virus that causes a serious disease. It is spread from person to person. Most of the time, polio has no symptoms unless it goes into the blood. It is uncommon for it to enter the brain or spinal cord. If this does happen, it can cause one to become paralyzed. Vaccines from World Health Organization, UNICEF, and Rotary International could stop the disease all over the world.
Franklin Delano Roosevelt probably had polio.


</doc>
<doc id="90821" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90821" title="Category:1628 deaths">
Category:1628 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="90822" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90822" title="Dystopia">
Dystopia

A Dystopia is the opposite of a Utopia, and can mean a Utopia that has become corrupt. This can be seen in George Orwell's book "1984". A dystopia often has many problems, such as poverty, pollution, or a cruel ruler. 

A dystopia is different from an anti-utopia. An anti-utopia is a place that is supposed to be a beautiful and perfect utopia, but where something has happened to ruin it. 


</doc>
<doc id="90823" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90823" title="Template:Departments of Haiti">
Template:Departments of Haiti

<br / clear="all">


</doc>
<doc id="90825" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90825" title="Centre Department">
Centre Department

Centre is one of the ten departments (French: "départments", singular "départment") of Haiti. It is located in the center of the country, along the border with the Dominican Republic. It is the only department of Haiti that does not border the sea.

The "Départment du Centre" has an area of 3,675 km². It is bordered to the northeast by the Nord-Est Department, to the northwest by the Nord Department, to the west by the Artibonite Department and to the south by the Ouest Department. It borders the Dominican Republic to the east.

The mountain chains here run from west to east and the most important are the "Montagnes Noires" (in English, "Black Mountains"). There is also part of the "Chaine du Trout d'Eau".

Lake Peligre, the second largest lake in Haiti, is in this department; it is an artificial lake created with the construction of the Peligre Dam on the Artibonite river.

The main rivers of the department are Boucan Carré, Fer-à-Cheval, Libon, Macacia, Thomonde and La Tombe, and all are tributaries of the Artibonite.

The department had, in the 2003 census, a population of 581,505 persons: 289,028 men and 292,477 women, with only 94,619 (16.27%) living in cities and towns.

The main city is Hinche, the capital of the department.

The department is divided into four "arrondissements" (like districts) and 12 "communes" (like municipalities). The "arrondissements" and their "communes" are:



</doc>
<doc id="90826" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90826" title="Burj Khalifa">
Burj Khalifa

Burj Khalifa or "Khalifa Tower" () is a very tall skyscraper in Dubai, United Arab Emirates. Before the building opened, it was called Burj Dubai. The building is 160 stories high. Construction of the tower was started in 2004. The building was opened on 4 January 2010. . It is the tallest structure made by humans in the world. The building is more than 


</doc>
<doc id="90828" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90828" title="Aswan Dam">
Aswan Dam

The Aswan Dam or Aswan Low Dam is a dam on the Nile River. Without the dam, the river would flood every summer. It was built to protect farms, make energy, and save water. It also helps the fishing around Lake Nasser.

The dam was built between 1899 and 1902. It was designed by William Willcocks. When it was first made, it was long and high. It was too short, so it was built higher two times: in 1912 and 1933. The dam was still too short. Instead of making if taller a third time, another dam (the Aswan High Dam) was built up the river in 1952. Many people had to move because of the dam being built.


</doc>
<doc id="90831" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90831" title="Category:Lipids">
Category:Lipids


</doc>
<doc id="90833" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90833" title="Billboard (magazine)">
Billboard (magazine)

Billboard is an American magazine that lists the top albums and singles of the week. It is most famous for the "Billboard" charts.



</doc>
<doc id="90836" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90836" title="Tom Brosseau">
Tom Brosseau

Thomas Anderson "Tom" Brosseau (born November 3, 1976) is an American singer-songwriter and guitarist. 

He was born and grew up in Grand Forks, North Dakota. His song "How to Grow a Woman from the Ground" was covered by Chris Thile, who released a 2006 album of the same name.

Right now, Brosseau is touring the United States playing his new album, "Cavalier".




</doc>
<doc id="90837" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90837" title="The Strokes">
The Strokes

The Strokes are an American band formed in 1998. They became famous in the early 2000s as a leading group in the garage rock . After their first album "Is This It" in 2001, many critics called the group as the "saviors of rock." "NME" made "Is This It" their Album of the Year. Since then, the band has kept many fans, especially in the US, UK and Australia.




</doc>
<doc id="90838" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90838" title="Henry Head Battery">
Henry Head Battery

The Henry Head bunker is found on the La Perouse side of the inlet to Botany Bay near the edge of a cliff that drops down into the ocean on Henry Head, La Perouse, New South Wales, Australia. 

This fort and bunker building was built in-between 1892 - 1895 with a large disappearing gun emplacement (a special hole in the ground that the cannon shoots from and then disappears into). The fort was used until 1910, upon which the fort became useless.

The fort that had 2 six inch gun emplacements and special lookout positions was reused during World War II to protect the entrance to Botany Bay. The underground bunker and tunnels inside the fort had vaulted weapons storage rooms with double walls and ceilings. The doubling up of walls and ceilings was a special way of stoppng the walls from collapsing if the fort suffered a direct hit from a missile (rocket) fired from an enemy ship. The battery is currently not in use.


</doc>
<doc id="90839" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90839" title="Georges Head Battery">
Georges Head Battery

The Georges Head Fort is located on the Georges Head, in the suburb of Mosman in Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. The Georges Head fort is one of many forts that were built on Sydney Harbour meant to defend the colony of New South Wales, just encase another country tried to invade our country Australia. The fort became the boss of all other forts in the 1890s organizing all of Sydney's harbour forts. 

The area where the fort now stands was once home to Aborigines that lived in the area for thousands of years and long before Europeans visited and decided to stay. 

Georges Head fort was built in 1871 after the British Army decided to leave Australia in 1870. When they left the responsibility for protecting Sydney and Sydney Harbour was now in the hands of rich colonies like New South Wales and Victoria who now had to organise its own defences.

Georges Head was near the entrance to Sydney Harbour and was meant to attack baddies (foreign ships that are not friendlies) before they could get into the harbour. The fort was on a very good spot and was positioned high above sea level with clear views to the entrance of Port Jackson (Sydney Harbour/Sydney Heads). Other forts were also on Middle Head, South Head, Shark Point and Bradleys Head, but none were ever used for fighting ships or troops from other countrys.

Georges Head was armed with four 80 pounder cannons and two 68 pounder cannons. These cannons were 'muzzle-loading', which meant the cannon balls or bullets along with the explosive charge (T.N.T dynamite) were loaded into the front of the cannons barrel. It took three months and 250 soldiers to roll the gun barrels all the way from North Sydney to the forts. They came along a dirt road which later became Military Road. Once they were put in place, the cannons had been placed so close together that it created the risk of one cannon firing upon another. Also, the cannons and the men could be seen from ships in the harbour. In 1877 large mounds of earth were placed between the pits to make sure the guns neither could fire upon each other and to help protect the gun crew from enemy fire. When construction of the fort was finalised, there were a total of 41 gun emplacements around Sydney Harbour.

The planning of defence was planned using telescopes and plotters sitting in the middle of the second gun pit. From the telephone exchange, the Port Jackson District Commandant could talk with all the other forts around the harbour. Telephone wires ran through tunnels, down the cliff and under the harbour to forts on the other side.

Georges Head was later chosen as the best place to spy and fire mines which were laid underwater. In 1888 Georges Head battery was upgraded for the latest in harbour defences in the form of submarine bombs. Minefields were laid across the main shipping channels of Port Jackson from 1876 to 1922 and a base was built at Chowder Bay for the submarine miners. From Georges Head, miners watched for ships entering the harbour. Their job was to explode the mine closest to an approaching enemy ship. Each underwater mine was attached to an electric cable that ran up the cliff to the firing post.

The work of the submarine miner was secretive, technical and dangerous. During a demonstration in 1891, a crowd of several thousand watched as a terrible accident killed four miners and injured another eight.


</doc>
<doc id="90846" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90846" title="Virgin Records">
Virgin Records

Virgin Records is a British record label. It was started by Richard Branson, Simon Draper, and Nik Powell in 1972. They sold it to Thorn EMI. In 2006, they came together with Capitol Records to become Capitol Music Group.


</doc>
<doc id="90849" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90849" title="Death Cab for Cutie">
Death Cab for Cutie

Death Cab for Cutie (Death Cab or DCFC) is an American indie band. The band was started in 1997 in Bellingham, Washington. The band members are Ben Gibbard (singer, guitar), Chris Walla (guitar, production), Nick Harmer (bass) and Jason McGerr (drums).

The band's name was taken from the song "Death Cab for Cutie", written by Neil Innes and Vivian Stanshall and performed by their band the Bonzo Dog Doo-Dah Band in The Beatles' 1967 film "Magical Mystery Tour".


Former




</doc>
<doc id="90850" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90850" title="Dave Matthews Band">
Dave Matthews Band

Dave Matthews Band (DMB) is a band from the United States. In 1991, Dave Matthews started the band in Charlottesville, Virginia. The other band members are LeRoi Moore, Stefan Lessard, Boyd Tinsley, and Carter Beauford. Since 1998, they usually performed with Butch Taylor, too. Rashawn Ross also performed with the band from 2006-2007. Dave Matthews Band has written 235 songs (included cover songs). They have sold over 31 million albums in the United States, and are one of the Top 100 Highest Selling Music Acts of all time. The Dave Matthews band has a unique style that stretches across many genres. Thus, they have a fan-base that stretches across many generations and types of people.


</doc>
<doc id="90857" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90857" title="Fuzûlî">
Fuzûlî

Fużūlī (فضولی) was the pen name of the poet Muhammad bin Suleyman (محمد بن سليمان) (c. 1483 – 1556). He is one of the greatest contributors to the Dîvân tradition of Turkish literature, 

Fuzûlî wrote his collected poems (dîvân) in three different languages: Azerbaijani Turkish, Persian, and Arabic. Although his Turkish works are written in Azerbaijani, he knew both the Ottoman and the Chagatai Turkish literary traditions as well. He was also very able in mathematics and astronomy.

Fuzûlî was born around 1483 in what is now Iraq; he was probably born in either Karbalā’ or an-Najaf. Fuzûlî's ancestors had been of nomadic origin, but his family had long since settled in towns.

Fuzûlî was educated by his father—who was a mufti in the city of Al Hillah — and then by a teacher named Rahmetullah. It was during this time that he learned the Persian and Arabic languages in addition to his native Azerbaijani. 

One of the few things that is known of Fuzûlî's life during this time is how he arrived at his pen name. In the introduction to his collected Persian poems, he says: "In the early days when I was just beginning to write poetry, every few days I would set my heart on a particular pen name and then after a time change it for another because someone showed up who shared the same name". Eventually, he decided upon the Arabic word "fuzûlî"—which literally means "impertinent, improper, unnecessary"—because he "knew that this title would not be acceptable to anyone else". Despite the name's pejorative meaning, however, it contains a double meaning—what is called "tevriyye" (توريه) in Ottoman Divan poetry — as Fuzûlî himself explains: "I was possessed of all the arts and sciences and found a pen name that also implies this sense since in the dictionary "fuzûl" (ﻓﻀﻮل) is given as a plural of "fazl" (ﻓﻀﻞ; 'learning') and has the same rhythm as "‘ulûm" (ﻋﻠﻮم; 'sciences') and "fünûn" (ﻓﻨﻮن; 'arts')".

In 1534, the Ottoman sultan Süleymân I conquered the region of Baghdad, where Fuzûlî lived, from the Safavid Empire. Fuzûlî now had the chance to become a court poet under the Ottoman patronage system, and he composed a number of poems in praise of the sultan, and as a result, he was granted a stipend. But he did not really get it. Therefore he citicized bureaucracy in one of his best-known works, the letter "Şikâyetnâme" (شکايت نامه; "Complaint"):

The loss of his stipend meant that Fuzûlî never became secure. He died during a plague outbreak in 1556, in Karbalā’, either of the plague itself or of cholera.





</doc>
<doc id="90858" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90858" title="Suleiman the Magnificent">
Suleiman the Magnificent

Suleiman I (سليمان "Sulaymān", Süleyman; almost always "Kanuni Sultan Süleyman" in Turkish) (November 6, 1494 – September 5/6, 1566), was the tenth Sultan of the Ottoman Empire. He reigned from 1520 to 1566. That was longer than any other Ottoman sultan. He is known in the West as Suleiman the Magnificent and in the Islamic world, as the Lawgiver (in Turkish "Kanuni"; , "al‐Qānūnī"), because he reconstructed the Ottoman legal system. 



</doc>
<doc id="90861" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90861" title="Category:Nutrients">
Category:Nutrients


</doc>
<doc id="90862" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90862" title="Category:Sultans of the Ottoman Empire">
Category:Sultans of the Ottoman Empire


</doc>
<doc id="90863" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90863" title="Category:Buildings and structures in Ancient Egypt">
Category:Buildings and structures in Ancient Egypt


</doc>
<doc id="90864" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90864" title="Category:Nile">
Category:Nile


</doc>
<doc id="90871" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90871" title="Kālidāsa">
Kālidāsa

Kālidās (Devanāgarī: कालिदास), was the author of "Meghadoot", "Shākuntal", and other works in Sanskrit. He has a similar place in Sanskrit as a poet and a dramatist, as Shakespeare in English. 

Kālidās's plays and poetry are based on Hindu mythology and philosophy. He is a master of imagination.

There is very little that one knows about the life of Kālidās pretty sure. It is not clear where he lived and the time range when he might have lived lasts from 130 BC to 600 CE.

Kālidās did not mention in his works any king as his patron.

Kālidās wrote three plays: "Mālawikāgnimitra" ("Mālavikā and Agnimitra"), "Abhijñānashākuntala" ("The Recognition of Shakuntala"), and "Vikramorwasheeya" ("Pertaining to Vikram and Urwashi"). Abhijñānashākuntala, that is regarded as a masterpiece was the first to be translated into English and German.

"Mālawikāgnimitra" tells the story of King Agnimitra, who falls in love with the picture of an exiled servant girl named Mālavikā. When the queen discovers her husband's passion for a servant girl, she becomes very angry and orders that this girl is sent to prison; but it turns out that the girl is a princess, therefore the affair is accepted in the end.

"Abhijñānashākuntala" tells the story of a king, "Dushyanta", who meets in the forests "Shakuntalā", the adopted daughter of a wise man who lives with him in a cottage in the forests. 
Dushyanta and Shakuntalā fall in love with each other and get married. Dushyanta stays with Shakuntalā in the forests for while until he gets called back to his court for some pressing matter. After many difficulties there follows a happy end. 

"Vikramōrwasheeya" is more mystical than the above two plays.

Kālidās wrote two very good epic poems, "Raghuvamsha" ("Dynasty of Raghu") and "Kumārasambhawa" ("Birth of Kumar Kartikeya"), and the lyrical "Meghadoota" ("Cloud Messenger") and "Rutusamhāra" ("The Exposition on the Seasons").
Some historians credit Kālidās with a few other works, including the following; however, scholars commonly believe that they were the creations of some other authors writing under the name Kālidās: 





</doc>
<doc id="90879" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90879" title="Category:Municipalities in Baden-Württemberg">
Category:Municipalities in Baden-Württemberg


</doc>
<doc id="90882" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90882" title="Water organ">
Water organ

The water organ or hydraulic organ is a kind of pipe organ. As in the pipe organ, the sound is made by air blowing through the pipes, but power to make the air blow does not come from bellows or from electricity as in the modern organ, but from water, for example from a waterfall.

A hydraulis is an early type of pipe organ that was powered by water. It was invented in the 3rd century B.C., probably by the Hellenistic scientist Ctesibius of Alexandria. It was the world's first keyboard instrument. Many centuries later it developed into the modern pipe organ.

The water organ works by having water and air arriving together in the camera aeolis (wind chamber). Here, water and air separate and the compressed air is driven into a wind-trunk on top of the camera aeolis, to blow the organ pipes. Two perforated ‘splash plates’ or ‘diaphragms’ stop the water spray from getting into the organ pipes. 

The water, having been separated from the air, leaves the camera aeolis at the same speed as it enters. It then drives a water wheel, which in turn drives the musical cylinder and the movements attached. To start the organ, the tap above the entry pipe is turned on and, given a continuous flow of water, the organ plays until the tap is closed again. 

During the Renaissance many Italian gardens had water organs. The most famous water organ of the 16th century was at the Villa d'Este in Tivoli. It was about 6 metres high and was powered by a beautiful waterfall. It could play three pieces automatically, but there was also a keyboard.


</doc>
<doc id="90897" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90897" title="User interface">
User interface

A User interface allows a user to interact with a machine. User interfaces mainly provide two things:
Many machines can be very dangerous. A machine should have a user interface that can be handled easily, even if the person operating the machine has panicked. The user interface should therefore be intuitive, and simple to use. An example of such a user interface is that of the kill switch. A kill switch must shut off the machine at all costs - the idea is to avoid injury or harm to people. This is very different from shutting off the machine at the end of the shift, or when it is no longer needed.

According to EN ISO 13850, the kill switch has to be red on a yellow background. 

The colors used to mark different states are close to those used by signals used on the road.

There may be additional symbols, for example:
In many cases, such symbols are better, because some people are color blind. They need to be explained, like warnings, though.


</doc>
<doc id="90900" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90900" title="Category:Thrushes">
Category:Thrushes

This category is for birds of the Thrush family, Turdidae.


</doc>
<doc id="90903" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90903" title="Category:League of Nations Mandates">
Category:League of Nations Mandates


</doc>
<doc id="90904" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90904" title="Category:Colombian people">
Category:Colombian people

This category is for people from the country of Colombia. This includes people born in Colombia, citizens of Colombia, and people with direct Colombian ancestry who identify themselves as Colombian.


</doc>
<doc id="90907" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90907" title="Category:1772 deaths">
Category:1772 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="90908" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90908" title="Category:1556 deaths">
Category:1556 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="90909" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90909" title="Category:1528 deaths">
Category:1528 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="90910" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90910" title="Category:1260 establishments">
Category:1260 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="90911" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90911" title="Category:1254 establishments">
Category:1254 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="90912" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90912" title="Category:1797 disestablishments">
Category:1797 disestablishments


</doc>
<doc id="90913" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90913" title="Category:1792 disestablishments">
Category:1792 disestablishments


</doc>
<doc id="90915" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90915" title="Category:1294 establishments">
Category:1294 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="90917" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90917" title="Category:1294">
Category:1294


</doc>
<doc id="90918" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90918" title="Pizza Hut">
Pizza Hut

Pizza Hut is a pizza restaurant, or pizza parlor. Pizza Hut also serves salads, pastas and bread sticks.

Pizza Hut was founded in 1958 in Wichita, Kansas, by Dan and Frank Carvey. The first Pizza Hut location was at a intersection in Wichita.


</doc>
<doc id="90919" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90919" title="Intersection">
Intersection

An intersection is where two or more roads come together. Intersections are also known as "junctions". At an intersection, there can be stop signs on one or both sides of the intersection. There can also be a stop light.

There are two major types of intersections.
<br>



</doc>
<doc id="90922" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90922" title="Package">
Package

Package can mean:


</doc>
<doc id="90933" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90933" title="Wikipedia:Requsts for deletion/ex1">
Wikipedia:Requsts for deletion/ex1

This is an example of the layout I was thinking of (see talk page).

"Reason for request"


</doc>
<doc id="90935" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90935" title="Chrysalis">
Chrysalis

A chrysalis is the pupa of a butterfly. The word "chrysalis" comes from the Greek language word for gold because butterflies often have a brighter pupa than other insects.


</doc>
<doc id="90938" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90938" title="Category:Spa towns in Germany">
Category:Spa towns in Germany


</doc>
<doc id="90953" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90953" title="Category:My Chemical Romance">
Category:My Chemical Romance


</doc>
<doc id="90954" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90954" title="Category:Writers by nationality">
Category:Writers by nationality


</doc>
<doc id="90957" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90957" title="Artibonite Department">
Artibonite Department

Artibonite is one of the ten departments (French: "départments", singular "départment") of Haiti. It is named Artibonite because the Artibonite river flows across the department from east to west. Its capital is Gonaïves.

The independence of Haiti was proclaimed in the "Place d'Armes" of Gonaïves on 1 January 1804 by Jean Jacques Dessalines.

The "Départment de l'Artibonite", with an area of 4,895 km², is the largest department of Haiti.

The main river of the department is the Artibonite. Other rivers are Ennery, de l'Estère, Montrouis, Quinte.

The mountain chains here run from west to east and the most important are the "Chaine de Terre-Neuve" and the "Montagnes Noires" (in English, "Black Mountains"). There is also part of the "Chaine des Mattheux".

It is bordered to the northwest by the Nord-Ouest Department, to the north and northeast by the Nord Department, to the east by the Centre Department and to the south by the Ouest Department. The Gulf of Gonâve is to the west.

The department had, in the 2003 census, a population of 1,299,398 persons: 625,690 men and 673,708 women, with 422,476 (32.51%) living in cities and towns.

The main cities are Gonaïves (the capital) and Saint-Marc.

The department is divided into five "arrondissements" (like districts) and 15 "communes" (like municipalities). The "arrondissements" and their "communes" are:

Most of the rice of Haiti is grown in the Artibonite department, along the valley of the River Artibonite.


</doc>
<doc id="90961" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90961" title="Category:Japanese writers">
Category:Japanese writers


</doc>
<doc id="90962" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90962" title="Category:Armenian writers">
Category:Armenian writers


</doc>
<doc id="90964" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90964" title="Category:Romanian writers">
Category:Romanian writers


</doc>
<doc id="90965" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90965" title="Category:Japanese poets">
Category:Japanese poets


</doc>
<doc id="90966" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90966" title="Category:Russian poets">
Category:Russian poets


</doc>
<doc id="90967" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90967" title="Bohemianism">
Bohemianism

The word Bohemian was first used in Paris to mean a Gypsy because many people thought that Gypsies came from Bohemia. The word was then used in the late 19th century (1800s) for poor painters, writers, musicians and actors who often travelled to Paris from other towns and tried to earn money. Paris was a famous town for painters, writers, and musicians to gather, to learn from each other and to enjoy the life of the city. Many of them lived at Montmartre, not far from the "Moulin Rouge". One of the most famous painters to live in Montmartre was Henri Toulouse-Lautrec. He loved to paint the can-can dancers and prostitutes. He did many posters to advertise the nightclubs. The posters are now famous works of art. 

In the 20th century the word "Bohemian" spread to other countries and was used to describe the lives of many different artists of different sorts. The sort of behaviour that was thought of as "Bohemian" included whether a person had a regular job, how they dressed, their political views, their religious views, their sexual behaviour and the entertainment they liked. 

People who were called "Bohemians" were often very poor, because they tried to live by painting, acting or writing. It was hard to make a living. They generally wore old or second-hand clothing, and could not afford a good hair-cut. They often shared the room in the roof of a house, which was cheap, because it was cold in winter, hot in summer and often had birds living there as well. In some ways the life of a bohemian artist was difficult, but it gave people freedom to express themselves, that was often not found in more conservative society, where everyone worried about what other people thought of them, and cared a lot about things like clothes and houses. Sometimes students from richer families would come to live a "Bohemian life style", so that they could feel the same freedom to express themselves. 

During the 20th century, many cities apart from Paris have areas where people have lived Bohemian lifestyles. One of the problems is that these areas often become fashionable for rich people. This soon drives away the poor artists and students, because they can no longer afford the rent. 

Bohemian areas in different cities are: 





</doc>
<doc id="90970" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90970" title="Henry Willis">
Henry Willis

Henry Willis (born: 27 April 1821, London - died: 11 February 1901, London) was a British builder of pipe organs. He built a very large number of organs, many of them for big cathedrals and concert halls in Britain, such as St. Paul's Cathedral, Truro Cathedral, and the Royal Albert Hall. He also built an organ for Queen Victoria at Windsor Castle. Many of the organs that he built are in other parts of the world, especially in countries that belonged to the British Empire. 

Many organists who gave organ recitals liked Henry Willis’s organs because they had lots of different sounds which helped to make the organ sound like an orchestra. He made organs for churches where the architects were getting rid of the central screen so that the organ could be heard better in the main part of the church (the nave). He used ideas that had been created by the French organ builder Cavaillé –Coll and by Barker. He made several inventions himself, including the thumb piston, which made it possible for an organist to change the combination of stops without taking his hands off the keyboard.

Four generations of the Willis family continued the family tradition of organ building until 1997, when Henry Willis the fourth retired and the new Managing Director of the firm was not a member of the Willis family. The Company, founded in 1845, Henry Willis & Sons, Ltd. still makes organs in Liverpool.



</doc>
<doc id="90972" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90972" title="Category:Organ builders">
Category:Organ builders


</doc>
<doc id="90973" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90973" title="Drug addiction">
Drug addiction

An addiction is a form of craving, or strong want of something, that is very hard or impossible to control. In this case, it is a craving for drugs.

A person who may easily become addicted to drugs is said to have an Addictive personality.


</doc>
<doc id="90974" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90974" title="Aristide Cavaillé-Coll">
Aristide Cavaillé-Coll

Aristide Cavaillé-Coll (born Montpellier, 4 February 1811; died Paris, 13 October 1899) was a French organ-builder. Most organists think of him as the greatest organ-builder of the 19th century, and one of the greatest who ever lived. He invented many new things and his organs changed the way that composers could write for the instrument. César Franck and Charles-Marie Widor, in particular, were strongly influenced by the new type of organ that he was building.

Cavaillé-Coll grouped the stops of the organ into different families, so that the result was similar to the families of instruments in an orchestra. He made the lowest of the three manuals (keyboards) the most important one. It was called the “Great” (French: “Grande Orgue”). The other manuals could be “coupled” to the Great. He made changes to the English swell box and divided the windchests on which the pipes were resting. This made it possible to have louder reed stops because of the higher wind pressure.



</doc>
<doc id="90977" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90977" title="Gottfried Silbermann">
Gottfried Silbermann

Gottfried Silbermann (born Kleinbobritzsch, 14 January 1683; died Dresden, 4 August 1753) was a very important German builder of keyboard instruments. He built harpsichords, clavichords, organs, and pianos. His organs were some of the best instruments in the south of Germany, some of them still exist. He had different ideas about organ building from Arp Schnitger who was an organ builder in the north of Germany. Silbermann also built some of the earliest pianos.



</doc>
<doc id="90978" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90978" title="Category:1753 deaths">
Category:1753 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="90980" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90980" title="Gulf of Gonâve">
Gulf of Gonâve

Gulf of Gonâve (French, "Golfe de la Gonâve") is a large gulf along the western coast of Haiti, at . Port-au-Prince, capital city of Haiti, is located on the coast of the gulf. Other cities on the gulf coast include Gonaïves, Saint-Marc, Miragoâne, and Jérémie.

Several islands are located in the gulf; the largest is Gonâve Island, followed by the much smaller Cayemites. The Artibonite River flows into this gulf.

Gonâve Island splits the gulf in two channels (a channel is a narrow part of the sea): the "Saint-Marc Channel" to the north and the "Gonâve Channel" to the south.


</doc>
<doc id="90985" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90985" title="Arp Schnitger">
Arp Schnitger

Arp Schnitger (born Oldenburg, 2 July? 1648; buried in Neuenfelde, near Hamburg, 28 July 1719) was a very important German builder of pipe organs. He mostly worked in Northern Europe, especially the Netherlands and Germany, where a number of his instruments survive to the present day. His organs are different from those of Gottfried Silbermann who worked in south Germany. Arp Schnitger had great influence on later organ builders, in particular in the 20th century when people wanted a change from the Romantic 19th century organs and tried to make instruments that sounded like they had done in the Baroque period.



</doc>
<doc id="90986" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90986" title="Category:1648 births">
Category:1648 births


</doc>
<doc id="90987" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90987" title="Category:1719 deaths">
Category:1719 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="90989" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90989" title="Hello Kitty">
Hello Kitty

Hello Kitty is a Japanese character of a cat made in 1974 by a Japanese design company named Sanrio. The character has a large head with, usually, a red bow between her ears with no mouth. Sanrio said that she was not given a mouth because she speaks from the heart instead of speaking one particular language. Hello Kitty is known all over the world.

Hello Kitty became very popular with young school-girls during the 1980s. In the 1990s the firm made more products with the picture of the cat which would appeal to teenagers and young women. During the later part of the first decade of the 21st century, Hello Kitty began targeting boys and young men with Hello Kitty for Boys. The character uses darker colours and a dark bow when it is targeted to males.

Hello Kitty has become very successful. The character's picture is on over fifty thousand products sold in 60 countries. Sanrio’s theme park Puroland opened in 1990. It is visited by more than 1.5 million visitors each year. Hello Kitty has been an animated character, such as in "Hello Kitty’s Furry Tale Theatre", shown on United States television during 1987 and 1991. 

Famous stars such as Mariah Carey and Britney Spears were photographed with products which had her picture. Hello Kitty is an example of a Japanese "kawaii" (cute in English) character.





</doc>
<doc id="90993" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90993" title="Category:Emergency services">
Category:Emergency services

This category contains information on international emergancy services.


</doc>
<doc id="90996" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90996" title="Herman's Hermits">
Herman's Hermits

Herman's Hermits were a rock band from England. They were part of the "British Invasion" of bands during the 1960s, and were most popular in that decade. Their business manager was an American named Allen Klein, who also worked for Donovan, The Animals, and later The Rolling Stones and The Beatles.
None of the members was really named Herman. Lead singer Peter Noone (pronounced "noon") was nicknamed Herman, because his bandmates thought he looked like Sherman, from "The Rocky and Bullwinkle Show". Noone was an actor before he became a singer. The other band members were Derek "Lek" Leckenby (guitar), Keith Hopwood (guitar, keyboards), Karl Green (bass guitar) and Barry Whitwam (drums). The band began as amateurs, playing at parties for friends, but turned professional as they improved. They made records, appeared on television, and also made movies.

The Hermits's included "I'm Into Something Good", "Can't You Hear My Heartbeat?", "There's A Kind Of Hush (All Over The World)", "I'm Henry VIII, I Am", "Listen People", and cover versions of "Silhouettes", "Sea Cruise", and "The End Of The World". "Hold On" was the title song of their first movie. "Mrs. Brown, You've Got A Lovely Daughter" was a hit song first, that was later fitted to a movie .

Herman's Hermits stopped having hits as music trends changed, but their old songs were well loved. They are still played today. The band members went on to other careers in the 1970s. Peter Noone went back to acting, but still appeared as a singer.

In the 1980s, Leckenby and Whitwam formed a new band, to tour under the old name. The singer sounded like Noone, and many fans did not know the difference. Other original members also sometimes rejoined. During the 1990s, Noone took over the name for his band, that appeared with him at concerts.


</doc>
<doc id="90999" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90999" title="Grand'Anse Department">
Grand'Anse Department

Grand'Anse, or "Grande Anse", is one of the ten departments (French: "départments", singular "départment") of Haiti. Its capital is Jérémie.

The "Départment de la Grand'Anse" has an area of 2,091 km². It is bordered to the north by the Gulf of Gonâve, to the east by the Nippes Department, to the south by the Sud Department, and by the Caribbean Sea to the west.

The "Massiff de la Hotte", an important Haitian mountain range, runs from west to east along the south of the department, with the Plymouth, Macaya and Casetaches mountain ranges. Because of this, rivers here are short; some of them are Baradères, Dame-Marie, de la Grande-Anse, de Nippes, des Roseaux and Voldrogue.

The department is divided into three "arrondissements" (like districts) and 11 "communes" (like municipalities). The "arrondissements" and their "communes" are:


</doc>
<doc id="91000" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91000" title="Nippes Department">
Nippes Department

Nippes is one of the ten departments (French: "départments", singular "départment") of Haiti.

It is the newest and smallest Haitian department; it was created in 2003 with the eastern part of the Grand'Anse Department. It has an estimated population of 266,379 (2003) and its capital city is Miragoâne.

Nippes has an area of 1,219 km². It is bordered to the south by the Sud Department, to the east by the Ouest Department, to the west by the Grand'Anse Department and to the north by the Gonâve Channel, the southern part of the Gulf of Gonâve.

The department is divided into three "arrondissements" (like districts) and 11 "communes" (like municipalities). The "arrondissements" and their "communes" are:


</doc>
<doc id="91001" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91001" title="Lara Veronin">
Lara Veronin

Lara Veronin is a Russian-Taiwanese-American singer born on 2 May 1988. She is famous for being the lead vocalist of the C-Pop band Nan Quan Mama. The band's first album Treasure Map and second album Nan Quan Mama, Version 2 both peaked at #4 on the Taiwanese Album Charts . She has also appeared as a featured voicalist on Jay Chou's sixth album November's Chopin on the track "Coral Sea".

Veronin was born and raised in Monterey Park, California, America and moved to Taiwan in her teens. Her father is a Russian American, and her mother a Taiwanese. She speaks fluent English and Mandarin as shown in her songs, but says she is unable to speak Russian.

Reportedly, Veronin's talent was discovered when she met C-pop singer Jay Chou at a restaurant where she was working. He was interested in her voice and recruited her for his band, Nan Quan Mama. Her role as the lead singer of Nan Quan Mama gave her instant fame.

She gained greater recognition as her songs "靠近一點點 Kao Jin Yi Dian Dian" and "Say You Love Me" were chosen to be theme songs for It Started With A Kiss, a Chinese romantic comedy television series in 2005.

In 2006, Veronin was cast in the television series "Engagement for Love", co-starring Alex To and Ambrose Hsu.

As of now, Veronin is studying in college in Taipei while continuing her music career.

Her musical style is often disputed (argued about). This is because most of her songs when she performs solo are in the alternative or pop-rock genre, but when she performs as a vocalist in the band Nan Quan Mama, she often sings blues- and soul-influenced dance music.



</doc>
<doc id="91007" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91007" title="Super Girl">
Super Girl

Super Girl (; "lit. Super Female Voice") is an annual national singing contest in People's Republic of China for female competitors. The official name is The Mengniu Yoghurt Super Girl Contest, after the company that sponsored the show. It is now one the most popular entertainment shows in China. However, after the third season, the show was banned by the Chinese government. The show was the feature of a 2007 documentary titled Super, Girls!, produced and directed by independent Chinese filmmaker Jian Yi on the 2006 Super Voice Girls contest, released at the Cambridge Film Festival. An ARTiSIMPLE Studio production, "Super, Girls!" is the only independent feature-length documentary ever made about the "Super Girls."

The competition was open to any female regardless of age, origin or appearance. The audition sessions had females ranging from 4 to 89 years old. The 2005 season of the contest attracted more than 120,000 applicants during the preliminary selection rounds, held in the provinces Hunan, Sichuan, Guangdong, Henan and Zhejiang. Many applicants travelled long distances to take part in the competition. Each contestant was allowed 30 seconds to perform to judges and find out if they were selected for the preliminary regional rounds. To prevent another overwhelming audition season, the minimum age of 18 was later set during the 2006 season.

Following the selection of contestants in the five regions, the competition began with the preliminary rounds. Preliminaries were held in each of the five locations where auditions were located. Vviewers were able to watch each of the preliminaries and vote for their favorite singers. Voting was conducted by telephone and SMS.

The regional preliminaries are followed by a weekly broadcast single-elimination (knockout) tournament held in Changsha, Hunan. The least voted two face-off subsequently in a "PK." The term "PK" comes from "Player Kill," a reference to kill-or-be-killed online games. The singer with the least number of votes is then eliminated. The last event is contested between the final 3.

Judges for the competition were selected from different backgrounds in society. "Audience judges" were selected in addition to several professional judges. 

The original version of the show was known as "Super Boy" and aired in 2003 on Hunan Entertainment Channel, a local broadcaster based in Changsha, Hunan. The show was a success and the counterpart "Super Girl" aired at the beginning of 2004 and became the most viewed show in Hunan. However, the programme's impact was limited as the channel does not broadcast outside the province.

On 6 May 2004, "Super Girl" was introduced to a national audience by its producer Liao Ke through Hunan Satellite Television. In addition to broadcasting the original episodes created by Hunan Entertainment Channel, the network also developed this show in other 3 cities: Wuhan in Hubei, Nanjing in Jiangsu and Chengdu in Sichuan. This show attracted an average of 10,000 contestants in each city and received nationwide attention.

Hunan Satellite Television introduced a second season of "Super Girl" on 19 March 2005. The preliminary rounds were filmed in five cities: Changsha in Hunan Province, Guangzhou in Guangdong Province, Zhengzhou in Henan Province, Hangzhou in Zhejiang Province, and Chengdu in Sichuan Province. By the middle of the season, the competition captivated a nationwide audience and became one of the most watched television entertainment shows in China with tens of millions of viewers.

The final episode of the 2005 season was one of the most popular shows in Chinese broadcast history, drawing more than 400,000,000 viewers, more than CCTV's New Year's Gala earlier that year. The final peaked at 280,000,000 viewers at a given time, higher than the 12,000,000-viewer figure for the finals of "Pop Idol". Despite the show being condemned by CCTV as being "vulgar and manipulative", season 3 of the show was launched and finished in early October 2006.

On 18 January 2006, China National Philatelic Corporation released a postage stamp issue featuring 2005 winner Li Yu Chun. The set was shortly earlier than Li's twenty-second birthday in her commemoration .

On 11 May 2009, "The Oprah Winfrey Show", a worldwide famous television show, invited Zhang Liangying, who ranked 3rd overall in the 2005 contest, to make an American television singing debut. The subtitle of the show was "The World's Got Talent" and Zhang Liangying was the only east asian singer in the show.

Some who were not chosen as winners have also been able to enter the recording industry through other means. Ji Min Jia, who ranked fifth overall in the 2005 contest, worked in Los Angeles in 2006 to help with production of the title song for Japanese anime series "The Galaxy Railways". On 15 March 2007, Japanese recording group Hello! Project announced Li Chun, one of the top 50 contestants in the 2006 Changsha regional, as one of two new members of Chinese ancestry of its pop group Morning Musume .

The contest has also inspired television producers to create other talent search shows .

One of the main factors contributing to the show's popularity was that viewers are able to participate in the judging process by sending SMSs with their mobile phones to vote for their favorite contestants. During the 2005 regional contest in Chengdu alone, 307,071 message votes were cast for the top three contestants, each vote costing ¥0.5 to ¥3.

Over 800,000,000 text messages were sent during the third season of "Super Girl", and fan clubs began to appear throughout the country. After the large response to the ability to vote, the Chinese government banned the show from continuing to a fourth season. The show was the feature of a 2007 documentary titled "Super, Girls!", produced and directed by independent Chinese filmmaker Jian Yi on the 2006 Super Voice Girls contest, released at the Cambridge Film Festival. An ARTiSIMPLE Studio production, "Super, Girls!" is the only independent feature-length documentary ever made about the "Super Girls."

While some culture and media experts praised "Super Girl" in blazing "a trail for cultural democracy" and breaking elitism in China's entertainment industry, others stated that "the show represented a superficiality in society, propelled by behind-the-scenes manipulation and state-of-the-art pomp and circumstance" .

Mengniu reportedly paid ¥14,000,000 to Hunan Television for rights to sponsor the show's broadcast outside Hunan province beginning with the 2005 season . The 2005 contest was estimated to have drawn in a total of ¥766,000,000. Indirect business impact of the competition was estimated at several billion yuan.

Television advertisement slots cost an average of ¥33,400 for 15 seconds in 2006, compared to the average of ¥28,000 in 2005. Advertising sales were expected to reach ¥200,000,000, nearly double that of the previous year.

The first season of "Super Girl" aired from 6 May to 22 September 2004. Although the winners of the competition were not promised recording contracts, the top three winners signed such deals.


The second season of "Super Girl" aired from 19 March to 26 August in 2005. There was much controversy about the Li Yu Chun being the season's grand champion as she had the most votes even though she had "the weakest voice among the top finalists" . Despite the heavy criticism that arose during the competition season, the three 2005 finalists have been considered the most successful singers from the entire show.

The third season of aired from 2 April to 30 September 2006. Shang Wen Jie's selection as grand champion over Tan Wei Wei, who is a professional vocalist from Sichuan Conservatory of Music, raised questions at each candidate's public appeal. Speculations arose that Shang, who appeared to be a copycat of Li Yu Chun's image, was voted grand champion due to the appeal of her Cinderella story.




</doc>
<doc id="91016" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91016" title="Category:Music in China">
Category:Music in China


</doc>
<doc id="91017" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91017" title="Category:Chinese culture">
Category:Chinese culture


</doc>
<doc id="91021" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91021" title="Voluntary (music)">
Voluntary (music)

In music a voluntary is a piece of music, usually for organ, which is played as part of a church service. The music that an organist plays before and after a service is always called a voluntary. (Needs to be confirmed, Preludes and Postludes also refers to music played before or after service.)

The word “voluntary” can be used for the title of a piece of music. The title was often used by English composers in the late Renaissance or Baroque periods for a piece of organ music that was free in style, i.e. it did not have to be composed in a strict form such as sonata form or a fugue. It was meant to sound as if it was being improvised (the word voluntary in general means “free”, i.e. not “forced to do something”).

Composers such as Orlando Gibbons, John Blow and Henry Purcell wrote voluntaries, although sometimes they preferred to use other titles such as "fancy" (an English form of the Italian word "fantasia"), or even "fugue". However, these "fugues" were not composed in the proper fugue style: they just started off with imitation as in a fugue, but continued in a freer style.

Some voluntaries were called "double voluntaries". These were pieces written for organs with two manuals (keyboards). The pieces contrasted a loud manual with a soft one.

Some voluntaries were known as "trumpet voluntaries". These were voluntaries which had a tune which was played (with the right hand) on a stop called a “trumpet” or a “cornet”. Two very famous trumpet voluntaries, often played at weddings, are the trumpet voluntary by Henry Purcell and the one by Jeremiah Clarke (which people used to think was composed by Purcell). In the 18th century the composer John Stanley wrote many trumpet voluntaries.



</doc>
<doc id="91025" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91025" title="Aalen">
Aalen

Aalen (pronounced ) is a town in the German state of Baden-Württemberg. It is the capital of the Ostalbkreis district, and its largest town.


</doc>
<doc id="91026" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91026" title="Bad Wörishofen">
Bad Wörishofen

Bad Wörishofen is a spa town in the district Unterallgäu, Bavaria Germany.

It is known for the water-cure of Sebastian Kneipp (* 1821, † 1897), a catholic priest, who was living there for 42 years. Many hotels and boarding-houses are in the town where guests can be treated using Kneipp's methods. 

There is a new spa complex out of town, called Therme Bad Wörishofen. 

Cult film director Rainer Werner Fassbinder was a native of Bad Wörishofen.


</doc>
<doc id="91028" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91028" title="Bürgermeister">
Bürgermeister

The German word Burgermeister often spelled in English as "Burgomaster" or "Burgomeister" means "master of the citizens".

A Burgermeister is chairman of the executive council (or cabinet) in many towns and cities in Germany. The title is usually translated into English as "Mayor".


"Ober-" is put in front of many title to show that it is higher than another, especially in military.



</doc>
<doc id="91030" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91030" title="Area codes in Germany">
Area codes in Germany

Area codes in Germany () for telephones have two to five digits, not counting the first zero. The first or "leading" zero must be dialled when calling from inside Germany and not when calling from outside Germany. The area code is not needed when dialling another telephone in the same area, unless one of the telephones is a mobile phone. Usually shorter area codes are used by larger cities, and longer area codes to smaller towns.

The first digit (after the leading zero) shows the region: 

(0)1 are special numbers such as mobile phones (015, 016, 017), shared cost service (0180), televoting numbers (013) and 010 for dial-around services. The OLD codes 0130 for free phone numbers and 0190 for premium-rate numbers are now moved to 0800 and 0900 to meet international standards.


</doc>
<doc id="91031" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91031" title="German car number plates">
German car number plates

German car number plates ("Kfz-Kennzeichen") show the place where the car carrying them is registered. When a person changes their main home in Germany, or buys a new car, they must buy new number plates. 

Number plates can be bought which are valid all year round or between 2 to 11 months within any 12 months. This allows changing between summer and winter cars, such as a convertible and a sedan/saloon without having the time and money wasted for de- and re-registering. 
The present number plate format, used since 1994, uses black print on a white background and first provides information about the country where the car is registered within the European Union. German licence plates show a "D" (for "Deutschland"="Germany") on the blue strip on the left, which shows the European Union's flag, 12 golden stars in a circle on blue ground.

After that, there are between one and three letters for the city or region where the car is registered, such as B for Berlin. These units usually coincide with the German districts, in few cases an urban district and the surrounding district share the same letter code. Usually if an urban district and a rural district share the code, the number of the following letters is different. For example, the urban district (Straubing) SR has one letter after the code (SR - A 123). The surrounding district Straubing-Bogen has two letters (SR - AB 123) after the code. It depends on the number of registered cars (or citizens) whether the City or the district has two letters, because there are more possibilities with two letters, so the part with more citizens usually has two letters. For example, the urban district Regensburg has more citizens than the rural district Regensburg, so the city has two letters after the code R. 

The number of letters in the city/region code usually shows the size and location of the district: the largest German cities generally only have one letter codes (B=Berlin, M=München (Munich), K=Köln (Cologne), F=Frankfurt am Main), most other districts in Germany have two or three letter codes. Districts in eastern Germany usually have more letters, for two reasons:

This is only a rule of thumb, there are a number of exceptions e.g. Germany's second largest city Hamburg (HH, Hansestadt Hamburg, because of its historical membership in the Hanseatic League) or the west German district Ammerland (WST, Westerstede is the capital of the district).

The reason for this scheme is however not to display size or location, but simply to have enough combinations available within the maximum length of eight characters per plate.

After the location name there are the emission test and vehicle safety test stickers (see below), followed by one or two letters and one to four numbers. These letters and numbers can be chosen by the vehicle owner or if they prefer, random ones can be allocated by the licensing office. The total quantity of letters and numbers on the plate is never higher than eight. One letter with low numbers are normally reserved for motorcycle use since the plate space of these vehicles is smaller.

Various combinations that could be considered politically unacceptable—mainly due to implications relating to Nazi Germany—are disallowed or otherwise avoided. The district Sächsische Schweiz uses the name of its main town, Pirna, in its code "PIR", to avoid the use of "SS", the name of the nazi group; similarly "SA" is also unused. This is why cars for the government and parliament in Saxony-Anhalt are registered with LSA (Land Sachsen Anhalt). In 2004 in Nuremberg, a car owner was refused a number plate beginning N-PD because of the connection to the political party, the NPD. 

Banned combinations include the Nazi abbreviations HJ ("Hitlerjugend", Hitler Youth), NS ("Nationalsozialismus", National Socialism), SA ("Sturmabteilung"), SS ("Schutzstaffel") and KZ ("Konzentrationslager", concentration camp). Some registration offices have overlooked this rule by mistake, however; there are a few cars registered carrying prohibited codes, such as "B-SS 12". Some counties also allow these combinations if they are the initials of the owner (e.g., Norbert Schmidt might be able to get XX-NS 1234), but in this case, if the car is sold and re-registered in the same county by the new owner, the number can be changed (otherwise the number stays with the car until it registered in a different area).

Certain types of vehicle bear special codes:



The German Federal President's license plate is 0-1, the Chancellor's 0-2, the Foreign Secretary's 0-3. The plate of the President of the Bundestag is an exception: it shows 1-1. This is to show that the Bundestag's President is not part of the government but still ranks higher in importance than the Chancellor. These vehicles are tax-exempt and need not to be insured since the German government acts as insurer.



</doc>
<doc id="91036" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91036" title="588 Achilles">
588 Achilles

588 Achilles is an asteroid found on February 22, 1906 by the German astronomer Max Wolf. It was the first of the Trojan asteroids to be found, and is named after Achilles, the fictional hero from the Iliad. It orbits in the L Lagrangian point of the Sun-Jupiter system. After a few such asteroids were found, the rule was made that the L point was the "Greek camp", while the L point was the "Trojan camp", though not before each camp had acquired a "spy" (624 Hektor in the Greek camp and 617 Patroclus in the Trojan camp).



</doc>
<doc id="91039" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91039" title="Mwai Kibaki">
Mwai Kibaki

Mwai Kibaki (born November 15, 1931) is currently the president of Kenya. He is the first President of Kenya to belong to a party other than KANU. Since he became President he has done many good things. Kenya has seen economic growth spurts of up 6%. He however has had many complaints from people who think the changes that were needed are slow to come. Many Kenyans living in diaspora have began to return to Kenya as the promise of the future has created a plenty of high paying jobs that are appealing to foreign educated Kenyans.

In 2007, several people got angry at him. They thought that he changed the election results so that he would win. They started to destroy houses and property.


</doc>
<doc id="91042" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91042" title="Socialist International">
Socialist International

The Socialist International is a worldwide group of social democratic and the labour political parties. 

Its name is from the Second International, which was formed in 1889 and dissolved on the eve of World War I in 1914. 

Some of the Second International's most famous actions were its 1889 declaration of 1 May as International Labour Day and its 1910 declaration of 8 March as International Women's Day. The Second International was split by the outbreak of World War I. A small part carried on as the International Socialist Commission. The International re-formed in 1923 (as the Labour and Socialist International), and was re organised again, in its present form, after World War II. Many social democratic and socialist parties had been suppressed in Nazi-occupied Europe).

Since World War II, the SI helped social democratic parties to re-start themselves when dictatorship gave way to democracy in Portugal (1974) and Spain (1975). 

Until its 1976 Geneva Congress, the Socialist International had few members outside Europe and no formal involvement with Latin America. In the 1980s, most SI parties gave their backing to the Nicaraguan Sandinistas (FSLN), whose left-wing government had incited hatred from the United States. Since then, the SI has admitted as member-parties not only the FSLN but also the centre-left Puerto Rican Independence Party, as well as the ex-Communist parties such as the Italian Democrats of the Left (Democratici di Sinistra (DS)) and the Front for the Liberation of Mozambique (FRELIMO).

The Party of European Socialists, a European political party active in the European Parliament, is an associated organisation of the Socialist International.

In 2006, George Papandreou, leader of the Panhellenic Socialist Movement, became the president of the Socialist International.













</doc>
<doc id="91043" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91043" title="Template:KNA">
Template:KNA


</doc>
<doc id="91044" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91044" title="Category:September 11, 2001 attacks">
Category:September 11, 2001 attacks


</doc>
<doc id="91045" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91045" title="Template:BIH">
Template:BIH


</doc>
<doc id="91046" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91046" title="Template:BUR">
Template:BUR


</doc>
<doc id="91047" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91047" title="Template:EQG">
Template:EQG


</doc>
<doc id="91048" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91048" title="Template:AZE">
Template:AZE


</doc>
<doc id="91049" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91049" title="Template:FJI">
Template:FJI


</doc>
<doc id="91050" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91050" title="Template:TGO">
Template:TGO


</doc>
<doc id="91051" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91051" title="Template:NER">
Template:NER


</doc>
<doc id="91052" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91052" title="Template:PRY">
Template:PRY


</doc>
<doc id="91053" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91053" title="Template:DMA">
Template:DMA


</doc>
<doc id="91054" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91054" title="Template:TUN">
Template:TUN


</doc>
<doc id="91055" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91055" title="Template:BWA">
Template:BWA


</doc>
<doc id="91056" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91056" title="Template:JOR">
Template:JOR


</doc>
<doc id="91057" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91057" title="Template:PSE">
Template:PSE


</doc>
<doc id="91058" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91058" title="Template:Zh-tp">
Template:Zh-tp


</doc>
<doc id="91060" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91060" title="ISO 3166-1 alpha-3">
ISO 3166-1 alpha-3

ISO 3166-1 alpha-3 codes are three-letter country codes in the ISO 3166-1 standard to represent countries and dependent territories. They are published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) as part of its ISO 3166 standard. They were first included as part of the ISO 3166 standard in its first edition in 1974.

They are used in ISO/IEC 7501-1 for machine-readable passports.

Below is a complete list of the current officially assigned ISO 3166-1 alpha-3 codes, with country names being English short country names officially used by the ISO 3166 Maintenance Agency (ISO 3166/MA):
The following alpha-3 codes can be user-assigned: from AAA to AAZ, from QMA to QZZ, from XAA to XZZ, and from ZZA to ZZZ. These code elements are at the disposal of users who need to add further names of countries, territories or other geographical entities to their in-house application of ISO 3166-1, and the ISO 3166/MA will never use them in the updating process of the standard.

Reserved code elements are codes which, while not ISO 3166-1 codes, are in use for some applications in conjunction with the ISO 3166 codes. The ISO 3166/MA therefore reserves them, so that they are not used for new official ISO 3166 codes, thereby creating conflicts between the standard and those applications.

The following alpha-3 codes are subject to an exceptional reservation:

The following three codes were also under exceptional reservation, until the update from 2006-03-29 included them in the standard:

The following alpha-3 codes are subject to a transitional reservation:

The following alpha-3 codes are subject to an indeterminate reservation, having been notified to the United Nations Secretary-General under the 1949 and/or 1968 Road Traffic Conventions:

The following code has been reassigned:

For the time being, ISO 3166/MA has agreed not to use the following codes, taken from ISO/IEC 7501-1 (machine readable travel documents), as alpha-3 country codes:

Besides the codes currently transitionally reserved and FXX (now exceptionally reserved), these alpha-3 codes have also been withdrawn since the first edition of ISO 3166 in 1974:




</doc>
<doc id="91061" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91061" title="Template:VCT">
Template:VCT


</doc>
<doc id="91062" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91062" title="Template:MAR">
Template:MAR


</doc>
<doc id="91063" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91063" title="Template:GTM">
Template:GTM


</doc>
<doc id="91064" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91064" title="Template:GRL">
Template:GRL


</doc>
<doc id="91066" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91066" title="Template:COD">
Template:COD


</doc>
<doc id="91067" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91067" title="Bellows">
Bellows

A bellows is something that blows air into a small opening in order to make something work. The bellows will have a kind of sack which has air in it. When the sack is squeezed the air is pushed out. Bellows can be quite small and operated by hand, for example for stoking a fire in an open fire place. They can also be very large, such as bellows that produce air for a large pipe organ to be played. Such bellows used to be pumped by hand (sometimes by several people), but nowadays electricity is used. Bellows are used by blacksmiths or metalworkers for smelting and welding. They are also used in small musical instruments such as bagpipes, accordions and concertinas. The harmonium has bellows which the player operates by pumping with the his feet.


</doc>
<doc id="91068" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91068" title="1999 Chi-Chi earthquake">
1999 Chi-Chi earthquake

Chi-Chi earthquake, also known as the 921 earthquake, was an earthquake in central Taiwan. The earthquake happened on September 21, 1999 at 1:47 am local time (September 20 17:47 GMT). It measured 7.3 on the Richter scale. The epicentre of the earthquake was at in Chichi Township of Nantou County, about 12.5 km west of the Sun Moon Lake. The depth of the epicenter was 7.0 km. 

The earthquake caused much damageNational Fire Agency, Ministry of the Interior R.O.C. This damage included:

The earthquake continued to shake Taiwan throughout the night. People tell stories about a house that was not destroyed but moved by the earthquake from one county to another. The story says that because of this, the owners of the house had to change their address.

The epicenter of the earthquake was Chichi Township. The 921 Earthquake happened along the Chelungpu fault line in western part of the island of Taiwan. The fault is located along the foothills of the Central Mountains in Nantou and Taichung counties. Some sections of land near the fault were changed in elevation by as much as 7 meters (23 feet). Near the northern end of the fault line, a 7-meter tall waterfall was created by the earthquake. In the middle-western part of the island, bridges were destroyed. This stopped traffic for weeks.

In Wufeng, a village in southern Taichung County, the damage was very bad. The village's Guangfu High School was located on the fault line. It was badly damaged by the quake. Today the high school is the site of the National Museum of Natural Science's 921 Earthquake Museum of Taiwan.



</doc>
<doc id="91069" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91069" title="Category:Earthquakes">
Category:Earthquakes


</doc>
<doc id="91070" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91070" title="Category:Nuclear accidents">
Category:Nuclear accidents


</doc>
<doc id="91071" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91071" title="Visibility">
Visibility

"Visibility" is a word used in meteorology. It is used to talk about how far a normal person can see depending on the weather. If there is low visibility, such as in a blizzard, a person will not be able to see far. If there is high visibility, such as on a bright, sunny day, a person will be able to see a long way.

Visibility less than is often called zero. When it is this low, roads may be closed, or lights and signs are turned on to warn drivers. These are put in areas that often have very low visibility. Warning lights help stop accidents. Automobile crashes with many cars happen often in places like this if the warning lights and signs are not put up.

Visibility is said to be good when a person can see farther than about 10 kilometers.

An advisory is put out by meteorologists to warn of low visibility, such as a dense fog advisory from the U.S. National Weather Service. These tell drivers to not travel until the fog leaves. Airport travel sometimes is delayed, or slowed down, by low visibility. 


</doc>
<doc id="91080" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91080" title="Lothar Bisky">
Lothar Bisky

Lothar Bisky (born 17 August 1941 in Rummelsburg, Germany, now Miastko, Poland) was the chairman of the Left Party.PDS, a socialist political party with its base in the east of Germany. In June 2007 he became of the leaders of The Left, formed by a merger of Left Party.PDS and Labour and Social Justice – The Electoral Alternative.

As a child he was very poor, so when he was 18 he moved from northern West Germany to GDR. He was allowed to join the Socialist Unity Party in 1963, but did not became a leader of the party until just after the fall of communism and the old "hardliners" were throwm out of the party. 

He was rector of the University of Film and Television (Potsdam-Babelsberg) from 1986 to 1990. In 1991 he became a member of the board of directors of regional television channel ORB (now part of RBB.)

In 1990 he was a member of the Volkskammer and since 1990 he has been a member of the state parliament in Brandenburg.

He was chairman of the PDS from 1993 until his resignation in 2000. He was re-elected chairman in 2003. Bisky is seen to be on the moderate, social democratic wing of the party and he is a long-time close ally of the party's most prominent figure, Gregor Gysi.

The party returned strongly to the Bundestag in the 2005 election. Bisky, one of 54 Left MPs, was going to become one of the six vice presidents of the Bundestag. When the new Bundestag met on October 18, however, he failed three times to be elected. Some MPs explained this with allegations (denied by Bisky) that he was an informant of the Stasi. Later, he failed a fourth time, and gave up his bid to be elected.

Lothar Bisky is married and the father of three sons. The oldest son, Jens Bisky, is a journalist and writer and the second-oldest, Norbert Bisky, is a painter.



</doc>
<doc id="91081" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91081" title="Louis-Nicolas Clérambault">
Louis-Nicolas Clérambault

Louis-Nicolas Clérambault (born Paris, 19 December 1676; died Paris, 26 October 1749) was a French organist and composer.

Clérambault (pronounce “CLAY-ram-bow”) came from a musical family. He learned to play the violin and harpsichord when he was young, and also learned the organ, composition and singing. He became the organist at the church of the Grands-Augustins and then at Saint-Sulpice. He worked for Madame de Maintenon who arranged concerts for King Louis XIV. He also had a job at the royal house of Saint-Cyr, which was a school for young girls from the poor nobility. He directed the music there, played the organ and trained the choir.

Clérambault was the first important French composer of cantatas. They were often about Greek and Roman myths. He also composed for the organ, harpsichord and violin. He was thought of as France’s greatest organist. Two of his sons took over jobs held by their father after his death.



</doc>
<doc id="91083" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91083" title="Category:1749 deaths">
Category:1749 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="91088" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91088" title="Blizzard">
Blizzard

A blizzard is a large winter storm. It brings low temperatures, strong winds, and a lot of blowing snow. Blizzards start when a high pressure system touches as low pressure system. The word "blizzard" is sometimes used incorrectly by news media to talk about big winter storms, even if the storm is not a blizzard.

Some areas are more likely to be hit by blizzards than others, but a blizzard can occur in any place where snow falls. In North America, blizzards happen often in the northern-east states, and in the provinces of Canada. In this region, blizzards can happen more than twice each winter. They also occur often in the mountain ranges of western North America. Because these regions have low populations, blizzards sometimes are not reported.

A very dangerous type of blizzard is a whiteout. In a whiteout, downdrafts and snowfall are so thick that people cannot tell the ground and sky apart. People caught in a whiteout lose their sense of direction very fast. This is a large danger to pilots when they are flying airplanes, because they cannot tell how close they are to the ground, and may crash.

The Great Blizzard of 1888 was very damaging for the Northeastern United States. In that blizzard, 400 people died, 200 ships sunk, and snowdrifts were 10 or 15 feet high. In the Great Plains, states were hit by the Schoolhouse Blizzard that trapped children in schools and killed 235 people. 

In 1880–1881 there was a winter that people in the Dakotas called the "Hard Winter". The author Laura Ingalls Wilder wrote her book "The Long Winter" about that winter's story. It talks about one blizzard after another, and how it changed Laura's family and everybody around her. The book is almost all true. Her story of two men from the town of DeSmet, South Dakota, going after some wheat stored some miles south of DeSmet in February 1881 is true, and Ingalls later married one of the men, Almanzo Wilder). If the two men had not found and brought back the wheat, the people would have starved. The snow and ice thawed in April, and the railroads could start again. The train picture above was photographed on March 29, 1881, not far from DeSmet.

34 people died during a 3-day spring blizzard on March 1920 in North Dakota. One of the people who died was Hazel Miner, a teenage girl who died of freezing to death when she got lost on her way home from her one-room-school. 

The Armistice Day Blizzard in 1940 surprised many people with how fast the temperature dropped. It was in the morning, but by noon, it was snowing. Some of the people froze to death in the snow. 154 people died in the Armistice Day Blizzard. 

105 years after the Great Blizzard of 1888, a giant blizzard, named the Storm of the Century, hit the U.S in 1993. It dropped snow on 26 states and reached as far north as Canada and as far south as Mexico. In many southern U.S. areas, such as parts of Alabama, more snow fell in this storm than ever fell in an entire winter. Highways and airports closed across the U.S. The blizzard also made 15 tornadoes in Florida. When the storm was over, 270 people died and 48 were reported missing.





</doc>
<doc id="91091" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91091" title="Nord Department">
Nord Department

Nord (English: "North") is one of the ten departments (French: "départments", singular "départment") of Haiti. After the Haitian Revolution, the country was divided into only three departments: Nord, Ouest and Sud. The Nord-Est and Nord-Ouest departments were part of the Nord department.

Its capital and largest city is Cap-Haïtien, founded in 1670 by Bertrand d'Orgeron and the old capital city of "Saint-Domingue". It had the nickname of "Paris of Saint-Domingue".

The "Départment du Nord" has an area of 2,106 km². It is bordered to the northwest by the Nord-Ouest Department, to the east by the Nord-Est Department, to the southeast by the Centre Department and to the west by the Artibonite Department. The Atlantic Ocean is to the north.

The main rivers of the department are Grande Rivière du Nord, Haut du Cap and Limbé. The rivers Trois-Rivières and Bouyaha have their sources in this department. All these rivers, except Bouyaha that is a tributary of the river Artibonite, flow to the north, into the Atlantic Ocean.

The "Massif du Nord" mountain range, known in the Dominican Republic as "Cordillera Central", runs from the northwest to the southeast along the southern half of the department. This Massif du Nord is formed by several chains and the most important, in this department, are the "Chaine de la Grande Rivière du Nord" and the 'Chaine de Saint Raphael".

The "Pleine du Nord" (in English, "Northern Plain") is in the northern half of the department.

The department had, in the 2003 census, a population of 823,043 persons: 393,547 men and 429,496 women, with 325,318 (39.53%) living in cities and towns.

The department is divided into seven "arrondissements" (like districts) and 19 "communes" (like municipalities). The "arrondissements" and their "communes" are:


</doc>
<doc id="91092" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91092" title="Apache HTTP Server">
Apache HTTP Server

Apache HTTP Server, also called Apache, is a web server notable for helping the growth of the World Wide Web.



</doc>
<doc id="91094" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91094" title="Nord-Est Department">
Nord-Est Department

Nord-Est (English: "North-East") is one of the ten departments (French: "départments", singular "départment") of Haiti. It is located in the northeastern corner of the country, along the border with the Dominican Republic. Its capital is Fort-Liberté.

After the Haitian Revolution, the country was divided into only three departments: Nord, Ouest and Sud. The "Nord-Est" department was part of the "Nord" department.

The "Départment du Nord-Est", with an area of 1,805 km², is the second smallest department of Haiti; only the Nippes department is smaller.

The department is bordered to the north by the Atlantic Ocean, to the west by the Nord Department and to the south by the Centre Department. It borders the Dominican Republic to the east.

The only important river in the province is the River Dajabón, known also as "Massacre". This river marks the Dominican-Haitian border from the Dominican city of Dajabón to its mouth.

The "Massif du Nord" mountain range, known in the Dominican Republic as "Cordillera Central", runs from the northwest to the southeast along the southern half of the department.

The "Pleine du Nord" (in English, "Northern Plain"), with several savannas, is in the northern half of the department.

The department had, in the 2003 census, a population of 308,385 persons: 150,525 men and 157,860 women, with 117,872 (38.22%) living in cities and towns. The population density was, in that year, of 171 persons/km².

The main cities are Fort-Liberté (the capital) and Ouanaminthe.

The department is divided into four "arrondissements" (like districts) and 13 "communes" (like municipalities). The "arrondissements" and their "communes" are:


The main economic activity in the department is agriculture, with many very small farms where beans, peanut, maize and other things are grown. In the mountains, coffee is grown.

Fishing is an important activity along the coast, and commerce is the main activity in Ouanaminthe.


</doc>
<doc id="91095" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91095" title="Samuel Wesley">
Samuel Wesley

Samuel Wesley (born Bristol, 24 February 1766; died London, 11 October 1837) was an English organist and composer 

Samuel Wesley was the son of Methodist hymn-writer Charles Wesley, the grandson of the poet Samuel Wesley and the nephew of John Wesley, the founder of the Methodist church. His illegitimate son Samuel Sebastian Wesley was the greatest English composer of church music of the 19th century. 

Samuel played the violin as well as the organ, and worked as a conductor as well as a music lecturer. He lived at a time when most English composers were writing sentimental music which was not very important. Wesley was one of the best composers of his time.


</doc>
<doc id="91096" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91096" title="Nord-Ouest Department">
Nord-Ouest Department

Nord-Ouest (English: "North-West") is one of the ten departments (French: "départments", singular "départment") of Haiti. It is located in the northwestern part of the country. Its capital is Port-de-Paix.

After the Haitian Revolution, the country was divided into only three departments: Nord, Ouest and Sud. The "Nord-Ouest" department was part of the "Nord" department.

The "Départment du Nord-Ouest" has an area of 2,176 km². The Tortuga Island is part of this department. The department is in the Northern, or Northwestern, Peninsula. It is a very dry region, except for the Tortuga Island and the area around Port-de-Paix.

The department is bordered to the north by the Atlantic Ocean, to the east by the Nord Department and to the south by the Artibonite Department and the Gulf of Gonâve. To the east is the Windward Passage that separates the islands of Hispaniola and Cuba. On clear nights, it is possible to see the Guantánamo Province of Cuba.

The "Massif du Nord-Ouest" (in English, "Northwestern mountain range"), with several smaller mountain chains, covers most of the department. Its western end is almost flat and is called the "Plateau de Bombardopolis" ("Bombardopolis Plateau").

Low lands are found only close to the coast and the most important are the "Jean Rabel Valley" and the "Valley of the Trois-Rivières" on the northern part, and the "Plain of L'Arbre" on the southern part of the department.

The river "Trois-Rivières", one of the most important river in Haiti, is in this department. Other smaller rivers are "Jean Rabel" and "du Mole".

The northern coast of the "Départment du Nord-Ouest" was the area that European people first visited in the Hispaniola island during the first visit of Christopher Columbus to the Americas in 1492.

On the night of 5 December 1492 he saw the Cape Saint-Nicolas and the next day he went into the Bay of the Môle-Saint-Nicolas and to the land where now is the town "Môle-Saint-Nicolas".

On 7 December, he visited the bays "Port-à-l'Écu" and "Moustique"; he named the Moustique Bay ("Mosquito Bay") as "Puerto de la Concepción" and he stayed there till 13 December. Then he went to the bay of Port-de-Paix and named it "Valle del Paraíso" or "Valparaiso" (Spanish for "Paradise Valley") on 15 December.

The department had, in the 2003 census, a population of 531,198 persons: 256,238 men and 274,960 women, with 118,798 (22.36%) living in cities and towns. The population density was, in that year, of 244 persons/km².

The department is divided into three "arrondissements" (like districts) and 10 "communes" (like municipalities). The "arrondissements" and their "communes" are:

The main economic activity in the department is agriculture, with many very small farms where different crops are grown. On the mountains, coffee is grown.

Fishing is an important activity along the coast.


</doc>
<doc id="91097" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91097" title="Apache">
Apache

Apache is the name for several culturally related groups of Native Americans in the United States. They hunted deer and lots of other animals. They also ate berries and lots of fruit.


</doc>
<doc id="91098" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91098" title="Samuel Sebastian Wesley">
Samuel Sebastian Wesley

Samuel Sebastian Wesley (born London, 14 August 1810; died 19 April 1876) was an English organist and composer. He was the greatest English composer of church music of his day. He lived at a time when the standard of music in England had become very bad. He did a lot to improve it, especially church music. He had a hard life earning enough money. This was largely his own fault: he was a difficult man with a bad temper and often argued with his employers. 

He was born in London, the illegitimate son of the composer Samuel Wesley and his partner Sarah Suter. He was given the name of his father (Samuel) and the name Sebastian after the composer Johann Sebastian Bach. 

As a boy he sang in the choir of the Chapel Royal. The Chapel Royal was not nearly as good as it had been in the 16th and 17th centuries when it had been associated with many famous composers. When choirboys made mistakes the music teacher William Hawes would hit them with a riding whip. Samuel Sebastian was an excellent choirboy, and he and another boy were sent to Brighton to sing to King George IV who had gone there for his holiday. He also sang at St. Paul's Cathedral.

When he was a young man he played the organ in several churches in London and started to compose. He wrote some music for melodramas in theatres. When he was 22 he became organist of Hereford Cathedral. This changed his life, because his career now focussed on church music. The choir at Hereford was not very good. The organ was broken, and his lodgings were not nice. However, he was able to perform in the Three Choirs Festival and he composed some church music, including the popular anthem "Blessed be the God and Father", written for an Easter Day service when the choir only had boys and one male singer. He married the sister of the dean of the cathedral. Her family did not approve and did not go to the wedding.

In 1835 he moved to Exeter Cathedral. He improved the choir there and persuaded the authorities to renovate the organ. He had a good salary there, but soon got fed up because he argued with his employers. He often went fishing instead of going to work, sending one of his choir boys to play the organ instead. One day, when Wesley was supposed to play “God Save the King” he played “Rule Britannia”. This sort of behaviour did not do his reputation much good. He wanted to get a doctorate degree from Oxford University so he wrote an anthem "O Lord thou art my God". The professor at Oxford, William Crotch, wanted him to make some changes in the music, but he refused. In the end he was given the degree anyway. 

The next job he had was at Leeds Parish Church. This was the only job he had in his life which was not at a cathedral, but his choir at Leeds was probably better than any of the cathedral choirs he had. The services there were very good, and he improved the choir singing. Leeds was not a nice town in those days. It was very badly polluted through industry. Wesley earned extra money by giving music lessons. He was also in demand for giving organ recitals in different churches. He gave the choir more modern music to sing, including his own compositions. He wrote an introduction to a book of psalm tunes in which he critized the state of the church in England. He did it in a very personal way and it made his employers angry.

One day he went fishing when he should have been at choir practice. He fell when climbing over a stile and broke his leg. After that he always walked with a limp. While he was in hospital he wrote an anthem "Cast me not away" to words from Psalm 51. When the music gets to the words “the bones which thou hast broken” he set them to strange, crunching chords.

In spite of his awkward behaviour the people in Leeds were sorry when he left. He conducted a performance of the "Messiah" and he was given a portrait of himself.

He went to Winchester Cathedral. At first he got on very well with the clergy. He performed and composed new music. He spent a lot of time collecting and publishing all the anthems he had written. He composed hymn tunes. He persuaded his employers to spend money on improving the organ.

Although he was being paid a good salary (£80 a year) Wesley did less and less work. He performed less and left a lot of the playing to his pupils so that he could go fishing and sailing. He did not like the new precentor who was appointed in 1858. 

In 1863 he composed an anthem "Give the King thy Judgement" for the marriage of the Prince of Wales (the future King Edward VII and Princess Alexandra of Denmark). He did not like Winchester. He said there were no other good musicians to talk to.

When the job of organist at Gloucester Cathedral became available he took it and left Winchester very quicky. Once again he found himself in a cathedral with a bad choir and an organ in a bad state of repair, but this time he seemed to make little effort to do anything about it. He spent a lot of time editing other people’s music. Once more, after a gap of 30 years, he was able to perform in the Three Choirs Festival. He conducted the music of Louis Spohr, his father Samuel Wesley and also some music by the young Hubert Parry who was not yet well-known. When he conducted he often did not think about what he was doing and got muddled. In 1871 he conducted Bach’s St Matthew Passion, the first time it had been performed in England outside London. 

He was offered a knighthood but chose to be given money instead. He started to become ill. He had a kidney disease. The last time he played the organ was at Christmas in 1875. He died on 19th April 1876 and was buried next to his daughter in Devon. There was no music at all at his funeral.

Wesley is remembered for his music composed for the Church of England. He wrote many anthems, including "Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace", "Blessed be the God and Father", "The Wilderness" and "Ascribe unto the Lord". The last two of these are verse anthems (anthem which contrast sections for the full choir with sections for a few soloists). The popular short anthem "Lead me Lord" is part of "Praise the Lord, O my soul".

He wrote a number of organ works. One of his most charming pieces is "Holsworthy Church Bells" (1874). He also wrote chamber and orchestral music.

Wesley had an important influence on organ building. He went to the Great Exhibition in 1851 and saw organs with pedals that, instead of being exactly parallel, spread out at the top like a fan. He liked these radiating pedal boards and persuaded the great organ builder Henry Willis to put pedal boards like that in the organs he built. 

Samuel Sebastian Wesley was a very famous performer and throughout his life he was often asked to play the first concerts on new organs (“inaugural concerts”). His music is still very popular today, and some of his short anthems are not too difficult for the average church choir to sing.



</doc>
<doc id="91099" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91099" title="Quickborn (Kreis Pinneberg)">
Quickborn (Kreis Pinneberg)

Quickborn is a town in the district of Pinneberg, in Schleswig-Holstein, Germany. It is about 17 km east of Elmshorn, and 20 km north of Hamburg. 

Quickborn is twinned with Uckfield, East Sussex.


</doc>
<doc id="91100" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91100" title="Quickborn, Dithmarschen">
Quickborn, Dithmarschen

Quickborn is a municipality in the district of Dithmarschen, in Schleswig-Holstein, Germany. 


</doc>
<doc id="91101" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91101" title="Category:Municipalities in Schleswig-Holstein">
Category:Municipalities in Schleswig-Holstein


</doc>
<doc id="91102" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91102" title="Iguana">
Iguana

Iguana is a type of lizard that lives in tropical areas of Central and South America and the Caribbean. They were first described by Austrian naturalist Josephus Nicolaus Laurenti in 1768. There are two different species of lizard: the Green Iguana and the Lesser Antillean Iguana.

The two species of lizard both have a dewlap, a row of spines running down their back to their tail, and a third eye on their head. This eye is known as the Parietal eye, which looks just like a pale scale on the top of their head. Behind their neck are small scales which look like spikes, and are called tuberculate scales. They also have a large round scale on their cheek called a subtympanic shield.

Iguanas have excellent vision and can see long distances, shapes, shadows, color and movement. An iguana uses its eyes to navigate through trees and forests, as well as for finding food. They also use their eyes to communicate with members of the same species. An iguana's ear is called a tympanum. It is the iguana's ear drum and is found right above the subtympanic shield and behind the eye. This is a very thin, delicate part of the iguana, and is very important to its hearing.


</doc>
<doc id="91105" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91105" title="La bohème">
La bohème

La bohème is an opera by Giacomo Puccini. The title, which is French, is pronounced “La bo-EM”. The title refers to Mimi, the main female character in the story. She is a bohemian, which means: someone who was poor and goes to Paris to try to earn a living (it has nothing to do with Bohemia, part of the present-day Czech Republic).

Although the title is French, the opera is sung in Italian. The words (libretto) were written by Luigi Illica and Giuseppe Giacosa, who based it on a story called "Scènes de la vie de Bohème" "(Scenes of bohemian life)" by Henri Murger. 

"La bohème" was first performed in Turin on February 1, 1896 at the Teatro Regio (now the Teatro Regio Torino). The conductor was Arturo Toscanini, a young man at that time. Fifty years later, in 1946, Toscanini conducted a performance of it on U.S. radio, and this performance was put on to records and later on to compact disc. It is the only recording of a Puccini opera by its original conductor.

The composer Ruggero Leoncavallo also composed an opera called "La bohème". Although it is based on the same story the libretto is different. It is hardly ever performed, but Puccini’s opera is one of the most famous of all operas.

"In the four bohemians' attic room" 

Act 1 takes place in Paris around 1830. A group of bohemians live in a room in an attic. Marcello is painting while Rodolfo gazes out of the window. They are so poor and so cold that they burn a drama that Rodolfo has written. Colline, the philosopher, comes in shivering and cross because he had not been able to pawn some books. Schaunard, the musician of the group, arrives with food, firewood, wine, cigars, and money. He tells his friends that he has got these things because he has a job with an English gentleman. The others hardly listen as they are so hungry that they try quickly to eat the food. Schaunard interrupts them, taking the meal away, and saying that they will all celebrate his luck by having dinner at Cafe Momus instead. 

While they drink, Benoit, the landlord, arrives to collect the rent. They give him lots of wine so that he becomes drunk and starts to tell the people his adventures about love. He then says that he is married, but the others throw him out of the room. The money that should have been used for paying the rent is divided among the group so that they can have a good time 

The other Bohemians go out, but Rodolfo stays alone for a moment in order to finish a newspaper article, promising to join his friends soon. There is a knock at the door, and Mimì, a seamstress who lives in a flat below, enters. Her candle has blown out, and she has no matches; she asks Rodolfo to light it. She thanks him, but returns a few seconds later, saying she has lost her key. Both candles go out. It is dark, and the couple try to feel their way about. Rodolfo wants to spend time with Mimi. He finds the key, but does not tell her and puts it in his pocket. In two very famous arias (Rodolfo's "Che gelida manina — What a cold little hand" and Mimi's "Sì, mi chiamano Mimì — Yes, they call me Mimì"), they tell each other about their different backgrounds. Rodolfo’s friends call for him to come. He would prefer to stay there with Mimì but she decides they should both go together. They go out singing about their love for one another.

"Quartier Latin" 

In the part of Paris called the "Quartier Latin - (Latin Quarter)" a crowd has gathered. Street sellers are selling things. The friends are happy. Rodolfo buys Mimi a bonnet. The friends go into a café.

As the men and Mimi dine at the café, Musetta, who used to be Marcello's sweetheart, arrives with Alcindoro, an old, rich minister. She talks to him as if he is a little dog. She is tired of him. She sings a naught song ("Quando me'n vo — When I go along"), hoping that Marcello will be interested in her again. Soon Marcello becomes jealous. with jealousy. To be rid of Alcindoro for a bit, she pretends to have a tight shoe and sends him with it to the shoemaker. As the group sings, Musetta and Marcello fall into each other's arms.

The friends have to pay for the meal, but they have not got enough money. Musetta gets the bill to be paid by Alcindoro. The sound of soldiers is heard, and, picking up Musetta, Marcello and Colline carry her out on their shoulders while everyone claps. When all have gone, Alcindoro arrives with the repaired shoe. He looks for Musetta. The waiter hands him the bill. He is horrified by how much he has to pay, and sinks into a chair.

"At the toll gate" 

At the toll gate, peddlers pass through and enter the city. Amongst them is Mimì. She has a terrible cough. She tries to find Marcello, who lives in a little tavern nearby where he paints signs for the innkeeper. She tells him of her hard life with Rodolfo, who has left her that night. Marcello tells her that Rodolfo is asleep inside, but he wakes up and comes out looking for Marcello. Mimì hides and hears Rodolfo telling Marcello why he left Mimi. At first he says Mimi does not love him seriously, but then he tells the truth: he left her because she seems to be dying of a terrible illness: (tuberculosis, which was called "consumption" in the 19th century). Rodolfo is poor and can do little to help Mimi. He hopes that a rich man may fall in love with her and pay for her to have medical treatment. Out of kindness towards Mimì, Marcello tries to stop Rodolfo telling him all this, but she has already heard everything. She has to cough, and Rodolfo realizes she is there. They sing of their lost love, and agree that they should separate, but they love one another so much and agree to stay together until the spring. In contrast to this loving couple, Marcello and Musetta now quarrel.

"Back in the garret" 

Back in the attic Marcello and Rodolfo are both sad at losing their loved ones. Schaunard and Colline arrive with a tiny bit of food. They pretend they are having a big feast, and they all dance. Musetta arrives with news: Mimi, who had found a rich gentleman, has now left him and is wandering in the streets feeling very ill and weak. Musetta has brought Mimi back with her to the attic room. Mimi is helped into a chair. Musetta and Marcello leave to sell Musetta's earrings in order to buy medicine, and Colline leaves to pawn his overcoat. Schaunard leaves quietly to give Mimi and Rodolfo time together. Left alone, they remember their past happiness. They remember their first meeting. Rodolfo gives her the pink bonnet he bought her, which he has kept as a souvenir of their love. The others return, with a gift of a muff to warm Mimi's hands and some medicine, and tell Rodolfo that a doctor has been called, but it is too late. As Musetta prays, Mimi dies. Rodolfo collapses in tears.

In 1926, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer (MGM) made a movie based on the opera.


</doc>
<doc id="91106" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91106" title="La traviata">
La traviata

La traviata is an Italian opera in three acts by Giuseppe Verdi, libretto by Francesco Maria Piave, after Alexandre Dumas, fils's novel "La dame aux camélias", published in 1848. It was first performed at the Teatro La Fenice in Venice, on March 6, 1853. The title "La traviata" means literally "The Woman Who Strayed", or perhaps more figuratively, "The Fallen One". Although a failure at its premiere, the opera soon established itself and became one of the best-loved and most frequently performed, recorded and filmed of all operas.




</doc>
<doc id="91107" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91107" title="Dil Se">
Dil Se

Dil Se (, , translation: "From the Heart)" is a 1998 Hindi movie. It was directed by Mani Ratnam. The movie was also released in Tamil as Uyire and in Telugu as Prema Tho. It stars Shahrukh Khan, Manisha Koirala, and Preity Zinta. Mani Ratnam also wrote the screenplay for the movie. It was produced by Mani Ratnam and Ram Gopal Varma along with Shekar Kapur.

The movie was shot in Maqbuza Kashmir, Assam, Delhi and other parts of India and Bhutan over a period of 55 days. Its cinematography won a National Film Award for cinematographer Santosh Sivan. The movie score and soundtrack were composed by A. R. Rahman. A. R. Rahman received a Filmfare Award for the music. The movie became the first Indian movie to reach the Top 10 in the UK Box Office Charts, when released in 1998.


The movie has won the following awards since its release:

1999 Berlin International Film Festival (Germany) 

1999 National Film Awards (India) 

1999 Filmfare Awards (India)

The soundtrack features 5 songs composed by A. R. Rahman, with lyrics by Gulzar.

Track listing:


</doc>
<doc id="91108" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91108" title="Mani Ratnam">
Mani Ratnam

Mani Ratnam () (born June 2, 1956) is a Tamil Indian film director, writer and producer.
The following is the list of films directed by Mani Ratnam. For many of these movies, Mani Ratnam is also credited for the story, screenplay and producing:

Mani Ratnam established Madras Talkies for film production during the shoot of "Iruvar". Mani Ratnam had earlier produced "Thiruda Thiruda" under his personal name. All movies directed by Mani Ratnam subsequent to "Iruvar" have been produced through "Madras Talkies". Apart from production, Mani Ratnam also has written story and screenplay for movies directed by others.




</doc>
<doc id="91109" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91109" title="Chris Fehn">
Chris Fehn

Christopher Michael Fehn (born February 24, 1972) is an American musician and Percussionist for the band Slipknot. In Slipknot he is known as #3. He is the joker in Slipknot. He wears a Fetish type mask with a long Pinocchio style nose. He is a big fan of sports and is a good golfer.


</doc>
<doc id="91110" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91110" title="Category:Intelligent design">
Category:Intelligent design


</doc>
<doc id="91111" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91111" title="Brian Jacques">
Brian Jacques

Brian Jacques (15 June 1939 - 5 February 2011 ) was an English author. He is best known for his "Redwall" series of books, as well as the "Tribes of Redwall" and "Castaways of the Flying Dutchman" series. He also wrote two books of short stories called, "The Ribbajack & Other Curious Yarns" and "Seven Strange and Ghostly Tales".





</doc>
<doc id="91113" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91113" title="Cave Story">
Cave Story


</doc>
<doc id="91115" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91115" title="Courtney Love">
Courtney Love

Courtney Michelle Love (born Courtney Michelle Harrison on July 9, 1964) is an American rock musician and Golden Globe-nominated actress. Love is best known as lead singer, songwriter and lyricist for the now-defunct alternative rock band Hole and as the widow of Nirvana front man Kurt Cobain. "Rolling Stone" has called Love "the most controversial woman in the history of rock".





</doc>
<doc id="91118" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91118" title="Category:Abrahamic religions">
Category:Abrahamic religions


</doc>
<doc id="91122" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91122" title="Wikipedia:Simple talk/Archive 22">
Wikipedia:Simple talk/Archive 22

I've noticed that uncyclopedia and recently enWP have started using this special user access level which enables normal users the rollback tool, which all admins have. In other words, is basically normal users with one extra tool. Anyways, I think that this wiki should probably also start the rollback access too. -- 03:07, 11 January 2008 (UTC)

Oh, cool. That sounds like a good idea. I agree with Razorflame's first comment, only for users who have been here 2 or more months and have the approval of atleast 3 admins. Seems to make sence. 20:47, 13 January 2008 (UTC)

<reason for rollback> () 03:02, 17 January 2008 (UTC)


 § 03:02, 17 January 2008 (UTC)

How about adding an extra requirement such as "no blocks for six months" or so? () 22:04, 19 January 2008 (UTC)

(unindenting) I think the following would be good criteria
What do you think? -- () 16:22, 20 January 2008 (UTC)
Since several users above have shown some approval to have rollback, I think that the community as a whole should decide wether to have rollback access to this wiki. Support is to support for rollback while oppose is to oppose for rollback status. Just to let you know:-) -- 03:16, 18 January 2008 (UTC)




I'm not sure if this is a decision to be made by running a poll. Remember, . I think we should reach consensus here in a different way. - 07:03, 18 January 2008 (UTC)

Why do non admins think rollback is needed? None of those asking for it have said what it "actually" does?-- 16:29, 20 January 2008 (UTC)

(unindenting) I still think we can (someday?) have some users with this permission. Maybe (based on the comments so far) it is still soon for our wiki... - 21:16, 21 January 2008 (UTC)

this is an incredibly good idea, but cross-wiki experience should be taken into account. I cannot get TW working properly here (though I'm still fiddling), so having native rollback would be nice. – . |  17:57, 29 January 2008 (UTC)

Hello community, the very good article process in currently halted. Various poeple have put their ideas in a new guideline (, and ). The deadline we have set ourselves is January 14. Here are a few comments
I hope these points can be sorted out; so that we can take the version we have on the 14th as a basis to vote on. -- () 20:21, 12 January 2008 (UTC)

How do I make an infobox or put an infobox on a page?

How do I create a fancy, colourful signature? On this talk page I see lots of different signatures - can I do something to make my signature look bright too? 

Hello, I just reorganised the Christian denominations page.

As follows:

Any help would be appreciated-- () 17:13, 13 January 2008 (UTC)

I would not agree with your explanation of "Baptism", Creol. See: Baptist "Baptists do not practice "infant" baptism."-- () 19:06, 13 January 2008 (UTC)

on english wikipedia you're allowed to change your username. can you do that here? if so, i'd like to change my username to Drama Queen ?
Are you a bureaucrat? It's says you're a checkuser, does that mean you can change usernames, too? -- () 19:28, 13 January 2008 (UTC)

I'm not too sure of the policy on this Wiki, but are links to personal sites allowed on user pages? () 19:55, 13 January 2008 (UTC)

I have updated the statistics I gather for our wiki. This include some presented in graphs, and some presented in tables.

As you will notice, has been singnificantly the most active user in the past two months. Thank you, Lights!

Also, in my eyes, comparison of the graphs for the last six months of 2007 with those pertaining the first six months of this year, shows we are litterally "keeping up the good work"! Thank you every one!

Cheers, - 12:29, 14 January 2008 (UTC)

Today is the last day to talk about the criteria. A few points still remain short of having reached consensus. These are: , , , and .

We are also talking about whether to have a separate page for demotions or to put it on the Proposals for VGAs page. There are many voices we have not yet heard. I know you're all busy, but please take a few minutes to come say what you think so we can un-freeze the process. Thank you. · 15:53, 14 January 2008 (UTC)

I can use the HotCat Gadget on de: and nds: wikis. Commons has the tool too. Is there any chance of of the gadget being added or adapted for SEWP? -- 12:19, 16 January 2008 (UTC)

Hi there. With the new HotCat tool and a possible heightened interest in categories, I thought it was finally time to move forward with an idea I've had for a while to have a "WikiProject" (for lack of a better word) for categories. Hopefully it will serve as a centralized location for the few and the proud who actually enjoy categorizing :-) There's a lot to work on, and anyone is welcome to help. If you want to check it out, you can find it . · 18:11, 16 January 2008 (UTC)

I have recently updated to reflect our current handling of WikiProjects. There is also a list of current projects there. I did a quick search for wikiprojects and added the ones I found to the list of "Current WikiProjects". If I missed you--I'm sorry! You can go and add it yourself pretty easily, though. · 21:15, 16 January 2008 (UTC)
I think templates like shouldn't be used unless the wikiproject is accepted by the community as a wikiproject. User subpage wikiprojects shouldn't be allowed to mark articles.

Aside from that, I think such templates should only apear on the talk page of an article.

Any objections? - 22:29, 17 January 2008 (UTC)

I am a person contributing on English wikipedia ,wikiversity and wikitionary as well.I'm curious to know what good can i do here?Due to lack of time I only had a minor look at this wikipedia's main page.Is it possible to edit the same article here in simple English and on English wikipedia in that English.Waiting for suggestions...Cheers,-- () 16:37, 17 January 2008 (UTC)

I don't know if this has been mentioned before, but we were featured in an article in The Guardian on Monday :) ("") 12:11, 18 January 2008 (UTC)

Hello, I have started with a cleanup of the Category christianity. There are too many articles there.
I therefore want to propose a new structure:
The problem there is however in the details:
etc.

I would really be grateful for a few hands to reorganise this mess -- () 16:39, 19 January 2008 (UTC)

The popes are one of the 5 classical Patriarchates (The others are Constantinople (Istanbul), Antiochia, Alexandria, and Jerusalem); at the moment there seem to be 10 partiarchs in the Roman-Catholic Church as well - not including the pope, who got rid of the title in 2006. What makes the thing worse is that some churches have catholikoi (sig. catholkos); which are above the resp. patriarchs (Georgian Orthodox and Apostolic Church) -- () 19:08, 19 January 2008 (UTC)

As to "clergy": Most of the time, clergy is ordained. The instances where priests are made by pointing a finger at them and saying "You are a priest now"are relatively rare; And yes, Charles Wesley (1707-88) and John Wesley (1703-91) both studied theology; they both became priests; John was ordained in 1728. I will fix that.-- () 21:14, 19 January 2008 (UTC)

Hi, is there a way to create redirect pages on this wikipedia? -- () 14:50, 20 January 2008 (UTC)


I think we should redirect to but want to discuss it before making this potentially controversial change. Here is my reasoning: 
What do others think? · 22:32, 20 January 2008 (UTC)
As an admin (and regular user) on se:wikt, I don't see much problem just switching it over, even if the page doesn't currently exist there. In fact, a large portion of the words using don't have pages over there either. My current project there right now is creating those pages. If we had a big push to create them, it'd be really easy. To see a current list of what links to , click here. · 14:37, 21 January 2008 (UTC)

How much should you put into a game article? For example MotorStorm here has two complete sentences, how is that useful at all? How could it possibly inform someone of the game's mechanics or other useful information? Couldn't we add a little more and at least a picture? -- () 15:20, 21 January 2008 (UTC)

Hello,

there were no Roman empresses; I have therefore renamed the Category to Roman Emperors; also Since the Byzantine Empire arose as East-Rome; it Byzantine Emperors is now under Roman Emperors. Removed Roman-Emperors for the few Byzantine emperors we have (as a maintenance thing); An article cannot be in a category and in another category that is the parent of the first.

And no, Cleopatra (4 I think) was never Empress of the Roman empire. -- () 13:10, 22 January 2008 (UTC)

Hello there; we still have not reached consensus on two items in . There are four days to go. It is important that we reach consensus, vote and agree on these. Once we do that we can restart the process. We can also focus on which of the criteria for VGAs agreed on, Good Articles need to meet as well; in other words we can then start worrying about good articles.

Changes to the wording is still possible until the 25; From the 26 it will be possible to vote on the set of criteria we have, for one week. -- () 14:54, 22 January 2008 (UTC)

</doc>
<doc id="91123" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91123" title="Ouest Department">
Ouest Department

Ouest (English: "West") is one of the ten departments (French: "départments", singular "départment") of Haiti. Its capital is Port-au-Prince which is also the capital of the country and its largest city.

With an area of 4,827 km², it is the second largest department in Haiti after the Artibonite Department. It has a population of 2,943,200 (2002). The Gonâve Island (French, "Île de la Gonâve") is part of this department.

It is bordered to the northwest by the Artibonite Department, to the northeast by the Centre Department. The Gulf of Gonâve is to the west (and to the north of the southern part of the department). It borders the Dominican Republic to the east.

The department is divided into five "arrondissements":



</doc>
<doc id="91125" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91125" title="Sud Department">
Sud Department

Sud (English: "South") is one of the ten departments (French: "départments", singular "départment") of Haiti. Its capital is Les Cayes.

The "Départment du Sud" has an area of 2,794 km². It is bordered to the north by the Grand'Anse and Nippes departments, to the east by the Sud-Est Department and by the Caribbean Sea to the west and south.

The "Massiff de la Hotte", an important Haitian mountain range, runs from west to east along the centre of the department. Because of this, rivers here are short; some of them are Acul du Sud, Torbeck, Ravine du Sud, de l'Ilet, Cavaillon, des Anglais, Port à Piment, Saut Mathurine, de Tiburon.

The department had, in the 2003 census, a population of 621,651 persons: 312,729 men and 308.922 women, with only 109,623 (17.63%) living in cities and towns.

The department is divided into five "arrondissements" (like districts) and 18 "communes" (like municipalities). The "arrondissements" and their "communes" are:


</doc>
<doc id="91126" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91126" title="Sud-Est Department">
Sud-Est Department

Sud-Est (English: "South-East") is one of the ten departments (French: "départments", singular "départment") of Haiti. Its capital is Jacmel.

After the Haitian Revolution, the country was divided into only three departments: Nord, Ouest and Sud. The "Sud-Est" department was part of the "Sud" department.

The "Départment du Sud-Est" has an area of 2,023 km². The department is in the Southern Peninsula, also known as the Tiburon Peninsula.

It is bordered to the north by the Ouest Department, to the west by the Sud Department and to the south by the Caribbean Sea. It borders the Dominican Republic to the east.

The "Massif de la Selle" is the main mountain range in the departement and it covers almost all the department except for some small valleys near the coast, as the Jacmel valley. The highest mountain of Haiti, "Pic la Selle" (2,680 metres), is in the Massif de la Selle.

Rivers are short and they flow into the Caribbean Sea. The most important river is "La Grande Rivière de Jacmel". Other rivers are "Bainet", "Belle-Anse", "des Côtes-de-Fer", "Gauche", "de la Gosseline", "Marigot" and "Pedernales"; Pedernales marks the border with the Dominican Republic and is common to both countries.

The department had, in the 2003 census, a population of 484,675 persons: 235,187 men and 249,488 women, with 59,642 (12.31%) living in cities and towns. The population density was, in that year, of 240 persons/km².

The department is divided into three "arrondissements" (like districts) and 10 "communes" (like municipalities). The "arrondissements" and their "communes" are:

The main economic activity in the department is agriculture, with many very small farms where different crops are grown. On the mountains, coffee is grown.

Fishing is an important activity along the coast.


</doc>
<doc id="91127" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91127" title="Earth Angel">
Earth Angel

Earth Angel is the name of a 1950s love song by the Penguins. It reached number 1 on the billboard charts in 1954.


</doc>
<doc id="91128" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91128" title="Xanten">
Xanten

Xanten () is a historic town in the Wesel district of the North Rhine-Westphalia state of Germany. Xanten is known for the Archaeological Park as well as its mediaeval picturesque city centre with Xanten Cathedral and visited by approximately 800,000 tourists a year.

Xanten is the only German town whose name begins with "X".


</doc>
<doc id="91130" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91130" title="John Lee Hooker">
John Lee Hooker

John Lee Hooker (August 22, 1917 – June 21, 2001) was an American blues singer, guitarist, and songwriter born in Coahoma County near Clarksdale, Mississippi.

Hooker was born on August 22, 1917 in Coahoma County near Clarksdale, Mississippi. He was born to William Hooker and Minnie Ramsey and was the youngest of eleven children. He and his siblings were home-schooled and they were only allowed to listen to religious songs. His parents separated in 1921 and his mother married William Moore, a blues singer the next year. Moore introduced Hooker to the guitar. John would later credit Moore for his distinctive playing style.

All through the 1930s, Hooker lived in Memphis where he worked on Beale Street and sometimes performed at house parties. In 1948, he started working at Ford Motor Company.

Hooker's early solo songs were recorded by Bernie Besman. John Lee Hooker rarely played on a standard beat, changing tempos to fit the songs. This made it nearly impossible to add backing tracks. 

Hooker appeared and sang in the 1980 movie "The Blues Brothers". He recorded over 100 albums.

In 1989, he played with Keith Richards, Carlos Santana and Bonnie Raitt to record "The Healer" and won a Grammy Award. Hooker recorded lots of songs with Van Morrison, including "Never Get Out of These Blues Alive", "The Healing Game" and "I Cover the Waterfront".

He fell ill just before a tour of Europe in 2001 and died soon afterwards at the age of 83. The last song Hooker recorded before his death, is "Ali D'Oro".






</doc>
<doc id="91131" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91131" title="Son House">
Son House

Eddie James "Son" House, Jr. (March 21, 1902 – October 19, 1988) was an American blues singer and guitarist.





</doc>
<doc id="91132" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91132" title="John Hurt">
John Hurt

"Mississippi" John Smith Hurt (July 2, 1892, Teoc, Mississippi - November 2, 1966, Grenada, Mississippi) was an American blues singer and guitarist. 
He was raised in Avalon. He tought himself playing guitar at the age of nine. While he was working as a sharecropper he played at local dances and parties. He did his first recording in 1928 for Okeh Records but was not sucessful. So he worked on as a sharecropper and played on at the local parties.

1953 two songs of Hurt were included in the album "The Anthology of American Folk Music" and an Australian found a copy of "Avalon Blues". So the interest in finding John Hurt himself increased. In 1963 Tom Hoskins found him in Avalon and found out that his musical skill was still intact. He brought him to Washington, D. C. He started playing at greater festivals like the 1964 Newport Folk Festival. In his later years he often played in colleges, concert halls, coffee houses and also on the Tonight Show with Johnny Carson. He also recorded three albums for Vanguard Records and recorded most of his songs for the Library of Congress.

Hurt influenced different music genres like blues, country, bluegrass, folk and contemporary rock and roll. He died 1966 from a heart attack in Grenada, Mississippi.

Last Sessions - 1966 (Vanguard)

Mississippi John Hurt 1928 Sessions (Yazoo 1065, Yazoo Records)

Worried Blues (Piedmont PLP 13161, Piedmont Records)
Mississippi John Hurt Today (VSD-79220, Vanguard Records)
Mississippi John Hurt Last Sessions (VSD-79327, Vanguard Records)
The Best of Mississippi John Hurt (VSD-19/20, Vanguard Records) 
Recorded live at Oberlin College April 15, 1966

The Candy Man (QS 5042, Quicksilver Records) 
Volume One of a Legacy (CLPS 1068, Piedmont Records) 
Folk Songs and Blues (PLP 13757, Piedmont Records) 



</doc>
<doc id="91133" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91133" title="Biopsy">
Biopsy

A biopsy is a test in medicine where doctors remove cells and look at them closely under a microscope or do chemical analysis to see whether there is an illness.

Biopsy is a Greek word, from the Greek words bio meaning "life" and opsia meaning see.


</doc>
<doc id="91135" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91135" title="Jake Gyllenhaal">
Jake Gyllenhaal

Jacob Benjamin Gyllenhaal (born December 19, 1980) is an Academy Award-nominated American actor. He is the son of director Stephen Gyllenhaal and screenwriter Naomi Foner, Gyllenhaal began acting at 11 years old. He has appeared in diverse roles since his first lead role in 1999's "October Sky", followed by the 2001 cult hit "Donnie Darko", in which he played a psychologically troubled teen and onscreen brother to his real-life sister, actress Maggie Gyllenhaal. In the 2004 blockbuster "The Day After Tomorrow" he portrayed a student caught in a cataclysmic global cooling event, alongside Dennis Quaid as his father. He then played against type as a frustrated Marine in "Jarhead" (2005). The same year, he won critical acclaim portraying a role that entered popular shorthand as a "gay cowboy" in the controversial but highly lauded film "Brokeback Mountain".

 



</doc>
<doc id="91138" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91138" title="Achern">
Achern

Achern () is a city in Western Baden-Württemberg, Germany. It is located approximately 18 km southwest of Baden-Baden and 19 km northeast of Offenburg. Achern is the fourth largest city in the county of Ortenau (Ortenaukreis), after Offenburg, Lahr / Black Forest and Kehl.


</doc>
<doc id="91140" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91140" title="Adelsheim">
Adelsheim

Adelsheim is a small town in northern Baden-Württemberg, about 30 km north of Heilbronn. The state-recognized resort of Adelsheim in the Neckar-Odenwald-Kreis is 1,200-year years old.


</doc>
<doc id="91141" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91141" title="Aichtal">
Aichtal

Aichtal is a town in the district of Esslingen, in Baden-Württemberg, Germany. It is 18 km south of Stuttgart.


</doc>
<doc id="91142" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91142" title="Albstadt">
Albstadt

Albstadt [] is a city in the district of Zollernalbkreis in Baden-Württemberg, Germany. It is located on the Swabian Alb mountains, about halfway between Stuttgart and Lake Constance. Albstadt is the largest city in the district.


</doc>
<doc id="91143" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91143" title="Alpirsbach">
Alpirsbach

Alpirsbach is a town in the district of Freudenstadt, Baden-Württemberg, Germany. It is situated in the Black Forest on the Kinzig river, 13 km south of Freudenstadt.

Alpirsbach is twinned with the French commune of Neuville-sur-Saône.



</doc>
<doc id="91145" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91145" title="Altensteig">
Altensteig

Altensteig is a town in the district of Calw of Baden-Württemberg, Germany. It is in the eastern Black Forest, 18 km southwest of Calw, and 19 km northeast of Freudenstadt.


</doc>
<doc id="91146" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91146" title="Asperg">
Asperg

Asperg is a town in the district of Ludwigsburg, Baden-Württemberg, Germany. It is 15 km north of Stuttgart, and 4 km west of Ludwigsburg. The Hohenasperg fortress is in Asperg.


</doc>
<doc id="91150" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91150" title="Aulendorf">
Aulendorf

Aulendorf is a town in the district of Ravensburg, in Baden-Württemberg, Germany. It is situated 20 km southwest of Biberach an der Riß, and 19 km north of Ravensburg.


</doc>
<doc id="91170" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91170" title="Ruby">
Ruby

Ruby is a type of precious stone. It is often associated with emerald, sapphire and topaz. It is usually red, but can sometimes be other colors. It is formed of aluminum and oxygen, AlO.


</doc>
<doc id="91174" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91174" title="Scramjet">
Scramjet

Scramjet is a jet engine. It pushes mixed air and gas out of the back of the jet. Scientists think that scramjet will work at 15 times the speed of sound (mach 15).


</doc>
<doc id="91175" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91175" title="Pulse jet engine">
Pulse jet engine

A pulse jet engine is a very simple form of the internal combustion engine where the combustion happens in pulses. The propulsive effort is a jet that is a reaction to the backward flow of hot gasses.


</doc>
<doc id="91191" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91191" title="Stronger (Kanye West song)">
Stronger (Kanye West song)

"Stronger" is a 2007 song by rapper Kanye West.


</doc>
<doc id="91201" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91201" title="Good Eats">
Good Eats

Good Eats is an American TV series shown on Food Network. It was created and is hosted by Alton Brown. It started in 1999. In "Good Eats", Brown looks at the science behind the cooking, the history of various foods, and the best things of many kinds of cooking equipment. 



</doc>
<doc id="91202" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91202" title="Fame (David Bowie song)">
Fame (David Bowie song)

Fame is a song by David Bowie. It was written by David Bowie and John Lennon of The Beatles. The song combined funk and rock music. The song was released August 18, 1975. It was on Bowie's "Young Americans" album. The song reached the number 1 position on the US Billboard Top 100 in September 1975. 

The song has been sung by many other famous singers and bands. These include:


</doc>
<doc id="91211" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91211" title="Chiyoda, Tokyo">
Chiyoda, Tokyo

Chiyoda（Japanese:千代田区　ちよだく）is one of the 23 special wards of Tokyo. The ward has population of 45,543 people. The Imperial Palace, Diet of Japan, Supreme Court of Japan and home of the Prime Minister of Japan are all in Chiyoda. It is the political center of Tokyo. Bancho is a famous part of Chiyoda because many celebrities live there.

Chiyoda is located in the center of Tokyo. It is near Tokyo Bay. The ward has an area of . The Imperial Palace covers about 12 percent of this area. 


</doc>
<doc id="91213" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91213" title="Pianola">
Pianola

The pianola (pronounce: "pee-ah-NO-la"), also called the player piano, is a piano which has a pneumatic mechanism so that it can play by itself. The air for this system came from a pump operated by the players feet, and in some later models, an electric pump. Inside the piano are paper rolls which have holes punched in. These holes release air which in turn triggers the keys to play. When the pianola plays itself the keys of the piano can be seen "playing themselves".

The pianola was developed around the 1880s. It was fitted with control levers so that the player ("player pianist" or "pianolist") could play in the way he wanted. The pianola made it possible for the player to sound as if he was playing very difficult music that he was not capable of playing. At the same time he could control the performance.

The pianola became popular in the late 19th and early 20th century as mass-produced pianos became popular in people's homes and more and more people bought sheet music. By the 1920s it started to become less popular again as the gramophone had been invented.


</doc>
<doc id="91214" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91214" title="Category:1562 births">
Category:1562 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1562.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="91216" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91216" title="Sewing machine">
Sewing machine

A sewing machine is used to stitch fabric together with thread. Sewing machines were an invention of the industrial revolution that made it possible to sew faster than people could sew by hand. Some sewing machines are also used for embroidery. 

There are three main types of sewing machines:


</doc>
<doc id="91217" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91217" title="Jan Pieterszoon Sweelinck">
Jan Pieterszoon Sweelinck

Jan Pieterszoon Sweelinck (born May 1562 in Deventer, Netherlands; died 16 October 1621) was a Dutch composer and organist. Sweelinck (pronounce: ZVAY-link) lived at the end of the Renaissance and beginning of the Baroque periods. He was one of the greatest organists and composers of his day. He was the organist at the Oude Kerk (“Old Church”) in Amsterdam for 44 years. Many musicians travelled a long way to Amsterdam to hear him improvise at the organ. He composed music for the organ and harpsichord as well as vocal music.


</doc>
<doc id="91219" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91219" title="Hundred Years' War">
Hundred Years' War

The Hundred Years' War was fought between France and England during the late Middle Ages. It lasted 116 years from 1337 to 1453. The war started because Charles IV of France died in 1328 without a son. Edward III of England then believed he had the right to become the new king of France through his mother. 

The French did not want a foreign king, so Philip VI of France said he ought to be king because women could not transmit the right to rule to their sons. The two countries went to war because of this disagreement.

At the beginning of the war France was the stronger of the two countries. France had about 17 million people while England had only about 4 million people. France had an alliance with Scotland against England, and England tried to ally with parts of the Low Countries. The English won a great victory at sea in the Battle of Sluys in 1340 which prevented France from invading England. After that the war was fought almost totally in France. England won again at the Battle of Crécy in 1346: the English longbow was part of the reason for the victory.

From 1348 to 1356 there was very little fighting because of the Black Death. Then Edward, the Black Prince won the Battle of Poitiers for England. King John II of France was captured during the battle. The English invaded France again but were not able to take any more cities. A truce gave England about one quarter of France.

The new king Charles V of France was more successful, with Bertrand du Guesclin as his best knight. The Black Prince was busy at another war and Edward III was too old to lead an army again. So France allied with Castile against England and Portugal. France won back many French towns from the English during this time. A peace followed from 1389-1415.

Then the most famous part of the war began. Henry V of England invaded France and won the Battle of Agincourt with many bowmen. King Charles VI of France was insane and unable to rule, and nearly all his sons died young. The queen of France Isabeau of Bavaria married one of her daughters to Henry V and signed the Treaty of Troyes to make Henry V the next king of France. Both Henry V and Charles VI died at almost the same time. So the English believed Henry VI of England was the new king of France and many French people agreed. Charles VI's last son Charles VII of France said he ought to be the new king, but many people said he did not deserve to be king because somebody else had probably been his father.

The English continued to capture land in France until Joan of Arc led the army to success at the Siege of Orleans and the Battle of Patay in 1429. She regained many cities and brought Charles VII to his coronation, but she did not recover Paris. Her enemies captured and killed her. After her death the French continued to take back territory, although more slowly. France had a diplomatic win in 1435 with the Treaty of Arras. The war ended in 1453.




</doc>
<doc id="91222" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91222" title="Isabeau of Bavaria">
Isabeau of Bavaria

Isabeau of Bavaria (c. 1371 – September 24, 1435) was queen of France and wife of Charles VI of France. She married on July 17, 1385 and played an important role in running the country when her husband developed insanity. She was very unpopular and the country was losing the Hundred Years' War during this time.


</doc>
<doc id="91223" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91223" title="Cockroach">
Cockroach

The cockroach is an insect of the order Blattaria. There are 4,000 species. About 30 species invade human homes. This is less than 1% of all the cockroach species. Four species are pests. 

The families of Mantodea, Isoptera, and Blattaria are usually combined by entomologists into a larger group called Dictyoptera. Current evidence strongly suggests that termites have evolved directly from true cockroaches, and many authors now consider termites to be in the family of cockroaches.

Historically, the name Blattaria has been used largely interchangeably with the name Blattodea. Blattodea refers to a larger group that includes fossil groups related to roaches, but not true cockroaches themselves. These earliest cockroach-like fossils ("Blattopterans" or "roachids") are from the Carboniferous period between 354–295 million years ago. However, these fossils differ from modern cockroaches in having long ovipositors and are the ancestors of mantis as well as modern cockroaches. The first fossils of modern cockroaches with internal ovipositors appear in the Lower Cretaceous.
A proposed phylogeny of the families is shown in the diagram.

Cockroaches in the broader sense (Blattodea) have existed a very long time. The earliest cockroach fossils are 354–295 million years old. Science student, Cary Easterday, found a giant 300 million year old fossil cockroach long, in a coal mine in Ohio.

Most cockroaches are omnivores. They are tough, and hard to kill. A cockroach can live for two weeks without a head.

Cockroaches become adults in 3-4 months and can live up to one year. A female German cockroach can produce 8 egg cases in her lifetime and each egg case may contain 30-40 eggs.


</doc>
<doc id="91225" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91225" title="Category:German federal ministries">
Category:German federal ministries


</doc>
<doc id="91232" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91232" title="Anti-Armenianism">
Anti-Armenianism

Anti-Armenianism is hostility toward or prejudice against Armenian people, Armenian culture and the Republic of Armenia, which can range in expression from individual hatred to institutionalized persecution. Several organizations have stated that difficulties currently experienced by the Armenian minority in Turkey are a result of an anti-Armenian attitude by the Turkish government as well as by ultra-nationalist groups such as the Grey Wolves.

Modern anti-Armenianism often seems to lacks a racial and cultural basis and appears to be based more on geopolitics and history, in addition to diplomatic and strategic interests, involving the modern states of Turkey and Azerbaijan. The controversy and emotions surrounding the Armenian Genocide and Nagorno-Karabakh are two examples of intense anti-Armenianism in both countries. Modern Anti-Armenianism is usually associated with either extreme opposition to the actions or existence of the Armenian Republic, and belief in an Armenian conspiracy.

For several months in 1994, Ahmet Coşar going by the alias of Serdar Argic posted thousands of messages, claiming that the Armenian Genocide did not happen or that Armenians massacred Turks, on Usenet newsgroup threads mentioning the word Turkey. Samuel Weems published the book "Armenia: The Secrets of a "Christian" Terrorist State" where he has made such claims as the "number one export of Armenia is terrorism" and that there was no Armenian Genocide. American historian Justin McCarthy is known for his controversial support of Turkey's denial of the Armenian Genocide. Azeri cartoonist "Kerim Kerimov Mammadhan" has produced around 4500 Anti-Armenian cartoons, most of which depict crude caricatures of Armenians. His cartoons are often included with the phrase “Terrorism, narkomania, and armenism are the same disease”. His works also often mocks the Armenian Genocide and its recognition by foreign countries, especially countries in Europe. Murad Gumen is another individual who espouses anti-Armenian rhetoric in his website "Tall Armenian Tale". Barbaros Agri uses the social networking site Facebook to advocate anti-Armenianism by being the creator of "The Biggest Lie Ever Told: The Armenian Genocide". The cause has 5000 plus members.



</doc>
<doc id="91233" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91233" title="Istanbul pogrom">
Istanbul pogrom

The Istanbul Pogrom was a pogrom directed primarily against the Istanbul's Greek minority on September 6 and 7, 1955. Jews and Armenians living in the city and their businesses were also targeted in the pogrom, which was, according to some circles, orchestrated by the Turkish government.

A Turkish mob, most of which was trucked into the city in advance, assaulted Istanbul’s Greek community for nine hours. Although the orchestrators of the pogrom did not explicitly call for Greeks to be killed, between 13 and 16 Greeks (including two Orthodox clerics) and at least one Armenian died during or after the pogrom as a result of beatings and arsons.

Thirty-two Greeks were severely wounded. In addition, dozens of Greek women were raped, and a number of men were forcibly circumcised by the mob. 4,348 Greek-owned businesses, 110 hotels, 27 pharmacies, 23 schools, 21 factories, 73 churches and over a thousand Greek-owned homes were badly damaged or destroyed.

Estimates of the economic cost of the damage vary from Turkish government's estimate of 24.8 million US$), the British diplomat estimates of 100 million GBP (about 200 million US$), the World Council of Churches’ estimate of 150 million USD, and the Greek government's estimate of 500 million US$.

The pogrom greatly accelerated emigration of ethnic Greeks from the Istanbul region, reducing the 200,000-strong Greek minority in 1924 to just 2,500 in 2006.



</doc>
<doc id="91242" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91242" title="Gossip Girl">
Gossip Girl

Gossip Girl is an American television teen drama based on the popular novel series of the same name written by Cecily von Ziegesar. "Gossip Girl" revolves around the lives of socialite young adults growing up on New York's Upper East Side who attend private schools while dealing with sex, drugs, and other teenage issues.


</doc>
<doc id="91243" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91243" title="Lene Alexandra">
Lene Alexandra

Lene Alexandra Øien (born October 29, 1981 in Trøgstad, Norway) is a Norwegian singer and model for FHM magazine, as well as for Norwegian lad's mags Lek and Cats. She began her musical career in 2007 at age 25 when she released her first single entitled "My Boobs Are OK.


</doc>
<doc id="91244" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91244" title="Template:Warnings">
Template:Warnings


</doc>
<doc id="91246" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91246" title="Backnang">
Backnang

Backnang is a town in Germany, in the Bundesland of Baden-Württemberg (formerly the kingdom of Württemberg), northeast of Stuttgart. Its population has grown over the past century or so, from 7,650 (1900) to 35,761 (2005).

Backnang's twin towns include:



</doc>
<doc id="91248" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91248" title="Bad Buchau">
Bad Buchau

Bad Buchau is a small town in the district of Biberach, Baden-Württemberg, Germany. About 4,000 people live there. 

It is near Lake Federsee, which is separated from the town by a wide reed belt.


</doc>
<doc id="91249" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91249" title="Bad Dürrheim">
Bad Dürrheim

Bad Dürrheim is a town in the district of Schwarzwald-Baar, in Baden-Württemberg, Germany. It is north of Donaueschingen, and southeast of Villingen.



</doc>
<doc id="91251" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91251" title="Bad Friedrichshall">
Bad Friedrichshall

Bad Friedrichshall is a small town with about 18.000 inhabitants. It is in the district of Heilbronn, Baden-Württemberg, Germany. 

Bad Friedrichshall is at the "confluence" (place where two rivers join) of the Neckar and the Kocher, north of Heilbronn. 

Bad Friedrichshall is famous for its salt-mine.


</doc>
<doc id="91252" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91252" title="List of postal codes in Germany">
List of postal codes in Germany

Postal codes in Germany, (PLZ) (plural Postleitzahlen, have five numbers. The first two show the wide area, the three other show the postal district.

The present system was introduced on 1 July 1993. Before reunification, both the Federal Republic of Germany (FRG) and the German Democratic Republic (DDR) used four-digit codes.

There was a temporary system after reunification. Between 1989 and 1993 postal codes in the west started with "W", eg "W-1000 Berlin 30" (postal districts in western cities were separate from the postal code) and those in the east with "O" (for "Ost"), eg: "O-1234 Berlin".

Companies that posted a lot of letters, have their own postal codes, separate from those used for postal districts or PO Box number ranges.

Postal regions do not always follow state borders. This is because sometimes it is easier to deliver mail to a place on the border from the other state.

The postal regions and some postal codes are:









The rest under 04931 are outside Brandenburg







Codes 21450-21499 are in Schleswig Holstein







The rest are in Saxony





Some codes in this range are in Thuringia.


The rest are in Saxony


This list is incomplete.

The rest are in Saxony
The rest are in Saxony
The rest of the 07s are in Saxony

















The rest are in Rhineland-Palatinate






The rest are in North Rhine-Westphalia

The rest are in Saarland

Others beginning with 65 are in Hesse





























</doc>
<doc id="91253" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91253" title="Blizzard Entertainment">
Blizzard Entertainment

Blizzard Entertainment is an American video game maker and publisher. The company is in Irvine, California. The company makes the Diablo, Starcraft and Warcraft games. The next and most waited games are "World of Warcraft: Cataclysm" (expansion pack) and "Diablo 3".


</doc>
<doc id="91254" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91254" title="9-9-9">
9-9-9

9-9-9 or 999 (said nine-nine-nine) is the emergency telephone number for the emergency services in the United Kingdom and Ireland.

The police, fire & rescue, ambulance/paramedics, mountain rescue, coast guard and cave rescue can be reached by calling 9-9-9.

999 is also the emergency medical number in Poland.

1-1-2 can also be used to call these services. 1-1-2 is the European Union-wide emergency number, and the number used by all GSM mobile telephones throughout the world.



</doc>
<doc id="91263" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91263" title="Bad Herrenalb">
Bad Herrenalb

Bad Herrenalb is a small town in the district of Calw, in Baden-Württemberg, Germany. 

Bad Herrenalb is in the northern Black Forest, east of Baden-Baden, and southwest of Pforzheim.


</doc>
<doc id="91264" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91264" title="Bad Krozingen">
Bad Krozingen

Bad Krozingen is a spa town in the district Breisgau-Hochschwarzwald, in Baden-Württemberg, Germany. It is southwest of Freiburg.



</doc>
<doc id="91266" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91266" title="Category:Online games">
Category:Online games

This category contains different online games.


</doc>
<doc id="91273" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91273" title="Category:American animators">
Category:American animators


</doc>
<doc id="91275" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91275" title="The Blue Man Group">
The Blue Man Group

The Blue Man Group is a band that was made in the 1980s. The members paint themselves in blue, wear black clothes and wear caps that make their heads look bald. The band plays rock music and is very entertaining, humorous, and families of all ages can enjoy their shows. Also, they have appeared in several commercials.


</doc>
<doc id="91277" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91277" title="Shane McMahon">
Shane McMahon

Shane Brandon McMahon (born January 15, 1970) is the son of the Chairman of World Wrestling Entertainment, Vince McMahon. Shane used to work for the company as it's "Executive Vice President of Global Media". While working for the company, he sometimes competed as a wrestler.


</doc>
<doc id="91278" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91278" title="Template:McMahonFamily">
Template:McMahonFamily


</doc>
<doc id="91279" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91279" title="Plateau">
Plateau

A plateau is an area of raised land that is flat on top. The biggest, tallest plateau in the world is the Tibetan Plateau. A plateau with a lot of erosion is called a dissected plateau. A plateau that is also a volcano is called a volcanic plateau. Some plateaus are under the ocean, like the Seychelles plateau or the Ontong Java Plateau. Plateaus are often by themselves with no other plateaus around, sometimes standing on top of mountains.


</doc>
<doc id="91280" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91280" title="Template:Sort">
Template:Sort


</doc>
<doc id="91282" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91282" title="Template:Sort/doc">
Template:Sort/doc

<includeonly></includeonly>This template is for optionally sorting tables by specified sortkeys. 

If necessary one can apply sorting using a sortkey which : <nowiki>...</nowiki>. Javascript sorting is based on the text inside and outside the tags, without the tags themselves. A hidden sortkey can be put at the start.

This template makes that more convenient. The first parameter is the sortkey, the second the wikitext of what has to be displayed. By default this is the sortkey with link brackets.

It presently works through hidden CSS, as described at . If a cleaner way of doing this is developed, the template will be changed. A table using this template should use it in all rows.


<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="91283" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91283" title="Template:Template doc page pattern viewed directly">
Template:Template doc page pattern viewed directly

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="91286" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91286" title="Cervical cancer">
Cervical cancer

Cervical cancer is cancer of the cervix or cervical area that can result in malignance and death. One sign of the cancer is bleeding or discharge from the vagina. Sometimes, there are no symptoms until the cancer is very developed. For this reason, pap smears have become common to diagnose this cancer. They have made the cervical cancer rate drop 50 percent.

To treat the cancer, one can get surgery in the beginning and chemotherapy and radiotherapy if the cancer is far along. Most types of cervical cancer can be prevented by a vaccine. It prevents the types of HPV that cause 70% of cervical cancer. Experts say that women get the vaccine and normal pap smears.


</doc>
<doc id="91289" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91289" title="Widow">
Widow

A widow is a woman whose spouse has died. A widower is a man whose spouse has died.


</doc>
<doc id="91290" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91290" title="Broccoli">
Broccoli

Broccoli is a plant, "Brassica oleracea". It is a vegetable similar to cabbage. Broccoli has green flower heads and a stalk. It comes from Mexico and is one of the most bought vegetables in England.


</doc>
<doc id="91291" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91291" title="WWE Armageddon">
WWE Armageddon

WWE Armageddon was a Pay-per-view event produced by World Wrestling Entertainment from 1999 to 2008. The event was succeeded by .


</doc>
<doc id="91294" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91294" title="Hannah Murray">
Hannah Murray

Hannah Murray (born July, 1989) is an English actress. She is best known for playing the role of Cassie, a gentle, 'spacey' teen girl with an apparent eating disorder and unstated mental illness in E4's Drama/Comedy, "Skins".
She currently attends North Bristol post 16 centre studying German. 




</doc>
<doc id="91295" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91295" title="Larissa Wilson">
Larissa Wilson

Larissa Wilson (born 5 May 1989) is an English actress.

She is currently appearing as Jal Fazer in "Skins". She attended John Cabot Academy in Kingswood, Bristol, left last year.


</doc>
<doc id="91296" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91296" title="University of Toledo">
University of Toledo

The University of Toledo is a public university in Toledo, Ohio.

The University of Toledo's athletic team's are called the "Rockets" and there are 15 varsity teams including: Football, Basketball, distance running as well as others. Their rival is the "Bowling Green Falcons" and they fight over the "Peace Pipe" trophy. 


</doc>
<doc id="91297" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91297" title="April Pearson">
April Pearson

April Janet Pearson (born 23 January 1989 in Bristol) is an English actress.

In early 2007, Pearson appeared in the first series of "Skins" on E4 as Michelle Richardson. She also appeared in "Casualty" in 1998.

April currently lives in Bristol in the United Kingdom. She was headgirl at Colston's Girls' School.



</doc>
<doc id="91298" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91298" title="Pio Baroja">
Pio Baroja

Pío Baroja y Nessi (December 28 1872, San Sebastián–October 30 1956, Madrid) was a Spanish writer. He was one of the main novelists of the Generation of '98. He was a member of an well known family. One of his relatives was a painter and engraver. His nephew Julio Caro Baroja was a well known anthropologist.


</doc>
<doc id="91302" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91302" title="Cassie (Skins character)">
Cassie (Skins character)

Cassandra "Cassie" Ainsworth is a fictional character on the British television series "Skins". She is played by Hannah Murray.

Cassie is a very complicated character. She suffers from anorexia nervosa, self harm, and low self esteem. Her entire self worth is dependent on her weight, in one episode saying "I didn't eat for three days... so I could be lovely." She also drinks alcohol and takes drugs. In the episode "Tony" she is seen sorting food, showing that she has obsessive-compulsive tendencies. Despite Cassie's many "problems", she is a very gentle, caring, and loving person. Written on her "about me" section of the "Skins" website, she talks about how much she loves her baby brother, Reuben. Cassie will even act positive to bad news so that she will not offend.

Cassie is released from a clinic, where she received treatment for her eating disorder. In the first episode, called "Tony", she stays with Sid and offers to have sex so he can lose his virginity, but she passes out before anything happens. In the second episode "Cassie", it is shown that she is not better and is still sick. She has also developed a crush on Sid. In "Sid", the fifth episode of the season, Cassie tries to kill herself after Sid cancels a date they planned, so that he could be with Michelle Richardson. In "Michelle", Michelle takes Sid to see Cassie, but Cassie is dating someone called Simon, a patient in the hospital she is currently in. In the last episode of the season, Cassie says she is moving to Scotland with her family, away from Bristol. Cassie writes Sid a letter and leaves it at his house after sneaking out the hospital. She is also given a letter Sid wrote to her from Tony Stonem. In the last moment of the season, Sid finds Cassie and they sit together and hold hands.

Cassie and Sid are in a serious romantic long distance relationship. In "Sid", the third episode, Sid thinks Cassie is cheating on him and becomes angry at her. Cassie is also angry, but because Sid does not trust her. At the end of the episode Cassie takes a train from where she lives in Scotland to Bristol, to visit Sid. She waits in his bedroom for him, but when Sid enters the bedroom he is kissing Michelle (not noticing that Cassie is also there). In "Chris", the fifth episode, Cassie bitterly tells her friends that Sid is together with Michelle. She copes with her feelings by having sex with almost anyone, doing drugs, and partying. In "Effy" Sid finally confronts Cassie and her bad behavior. The two get back together, but in "Cassie", it is clear that Cassie is still angry towards Michelle. After Cassie's roommate and friend Chris Miles dies, she runs away to New York City, where she is taken care of by a boy called Adam. In the finale "Everyone", in the last moment of the episode, Sid looks for Cassie in New York, and stops in front of the diner she works in.


</doc>
<doc id="91308" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91308" title="Template:Infobox Skins character">
Template:Infobox Skins character


</doc>
<doc id="91310" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91310" title="The Puppy Bowl">
The Puppy Bowl

The Puppy Bowl is a show on Animal Planet that airs once each year before the Super Bowl. Puppies play with football-themed dog toys on a miniature, or very small, football field.



</doc>
<doc id="91311" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91311" title="Animal Planet">
Animal Planet

Animal Planet is a television network that is mainly about human and animal relationships. It is owned by Discovery Communications.


</doc>
<doc id="91313" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91313" title="Amberg">
Amberg

Amberg is a town in Bavaria, Germany. It is in the Oberpfalz ("Upper Palatinate"), roughly half way between Regensburg and Bayreuth. Population: 44,200 (2001).

Amberg is twinned with these towns:



</doc>
<doc id="91314" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91314" title="The Killers">
The Killers

The Killers are an American rock band from Las Vegas, Nevada. They are most famous for their songs "Somebody Told Me," "Mr. Brightside," "When You Were Young," "All These Things That I've Done", "Human" and "Spaceman." The Killers were formed in 2002 and are made up of Brandon Flowers, who sings (vocals and plays keyboards; Dave Keuning on the guitar and vocals; Mark Stoermer on (bass guitar and vocals); and Ronnie Vannucci Jr., who plays (drums and percussion). They released their first album, "Hot Fuss", in 2004. Their second album, "Sam's Town", was released in October 2006. The album "Sawdust", was released on November 12, 2007, and "Day & Age" was released in November 2008. Their first two albums have sold more than 10 million copies.


</doc>
<doc id="91316" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91316" title="Sufjan Stevens">
Sufjan Stevens

Sufjan Stevens () (born July 1, 1975) is an American singer-songwriter and musician from Petoskey, Michigan.

Some people think he is part of the folk revival in indie pop, but he gets ideas from many things. His music is similar to electronica and the minimalism of Steve Reich. Stevens says that he has plans to make a concept album for each of the 50 U.S. states. He began with "Michigan" (2003) and "Illinois" (2005).

Stevens was born in Detroit, Michigan, and grew up in Petoskey. He went to Harbor Light Christian School as well as the Interlochen Arts Academy. He also learned at Hope College in Holland, Michigan.

Sufjan is an Arabic name that famously belonged to Abu Sufyan, a man from early Islamic history. The name was given to Stevens by the person who founded Subud, a spiritual community. Stevens said in an interview, "It sounds like Devendra Banhart kind of grew up in this strange kind of cultish environment, and I don't mean that word in a demeaning way. I think we probably come from similar backgrounds. There's a little bit of that in my history."

Stevens is a multi-instrumentalist, a person who can play many musical instruments. He is well known for his use of the banjo, but also plays guitar, piano, drums, and several other instruments, often playing all of these on his albums by using multitrack recording. When he was in school, he learned the oboe and English horn, which he also plays on his albums. He is one of the few musicians in pop music to use these instruments. A lot of instruments are played in unison to give his songs a "symphony-like" sound. Strings and horns are used very often in many of his songs.

Stevens lives in the Brooklyn part of New York City in the neighborhood Kensington where he makes up the Asthmatic Kitty Records staff of the Brooklyn office. His brother Marzuki Stevens is a marathon runner.


</doc>
<doc id="91320" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91320" title="Greifswald">
Greifswald

Greifswald is officially known as "Universitäts- und Hansestadt Greifswald", which means "University and Hanseatic Town of Greifswald" (from German "Greif", "griffin", and "Wald", "forest"). It is a town in northeastern Germany. 

The town is on the Baltic Sea, about to the north of Berlin in the state of Mecklenburg-Vorpommern. The population is roughly 55,000, including about 11,500 students and some 5,000 employees of the University of Greifswald. 

The city council is elected for five year terms. Since the last election on 13 June 2004, the 42 city council seats are allocated as follows:





</doc>
<doc id="91322" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91322" title="Neubrandenburg">
Neubrandenburg

Neubrandenburg ("New Brandenburg", ) is a city in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, Germany. It is in the southeastern part of the state, at the shore of a lake called the "Tollensesee". 

Official site (German, English)


</doc>
<doc id="91323" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91323" title="Stal Mielec">
Stal Mielec

Stal Mielec is a Polish football club from Mielec. They play in Polish fourth league. The club was started April 10, 1939. Their home stadium is Stadion Stali Mielec. Their colours are white and blue.

Stal Mielec has won "I liga" (Polish first league) 2 times (in 1973 and 1976) and played in quarterfinals of UEFA Cup in 1976. They were one of the best teams of Poland in 1970s.

Famous players are Grzegorz Lato, Henryk Kasperczak, Andrzej Szarmach, Jan Domarski, all of them played in 1970s.



</doc>
<doc id="91324" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91324" title="Britpop">
Britpop

Britpop is a type of alternative rock that started in the United Kingdom. Britpop came out of the British independent music scene of the 1990s and affected, or changed, by British guitar pop music of the 1960s and 1970s. This kind of music began as a reaction against some trends, or styles, in the late 1980s and early 1990s, such as grunge from the United States. After American grunge bands such as Nirvana came to Britain, many British bands acted as opposites to the American bands, and wrote about only British topics and concerns. Influenced by The Beatles.

Britpop bands did not have one type of sound, but the media called them first a 'scene', or short-lasting trend. Later, the media called them a national importance. Blur, Oasis and Pulp have been called the most important bands.. Some bands were able to become popular overseas, but Britpop was mostly gone by the end of the decade.


</doc>
<doc id="91328" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91328" title="Template:-Class">
Template:-Class

style="background: transparent" align="center" | ???

</doc>
<doc id="91330" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91330" title="Template:Medium-importance">
Template:Medium-importance

style="background: #ffccff; text-align: center;" | Mid

</doc>
<doc id="91334" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91334" title="Red-light district">
Red-light district

A red-light district is a place (such as a part of a city) where prostitution is common. Prostitution in red-light districts is either legal or illegal, but tolerated. In the world there are many red-light districts, the most famous probably being the red-light district in Amsterdam. In the red-light district, prostitutes are often helped and protected, and every month doctors visit them. Condoms are given to the prostitute so they do not catch any sexually transmitted diseases (STD's). In some red-light districts, prostitutes pay taxes, as in the red-light district of Amsterdam. In other red light districts prostitutes do not pay taxes, because there they are illegal and often are put on the street with violence. In some parts of Africa there are villages of prostitutes, where they live and work, because they are not accepted by the people of other villages.



</doc>
<doc id="91335" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91335" title="Panic! at the Disco">
Panic! at the Disco

Panic! at the Disco , known as Panic at the Disco from 2008 to 2009, is a rock band from Las Vegas, Nevada, USA. Their music comes from a mix of pop, electronica, dance, and rock, along with many other types of music.






</doc>
<doc id="91338" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91338" title="Pretty. Odd.">
Pretty. Odd.

Pretty. Odd. is the second music album from the rock band Panic at the Disco, released on March 25, 2008.

Panic at the Disco began creating their new album after their first album, "A Fever You Can't Sweat Out". While on tour for about two years, they had no new songs to perform. In January 2007 the band went into "hibernation" in a cabin (just outside the strip), as they began writing new songs for the next six months hoping for a second album to be released during fall 2007. On July 7, 2007 they played the song "It's True Love" live during their first performance since going into writing. Later that night however, the band decided that they did not like the music had written and scrapped all the songs they had written (which was about 3/4 of an album, as they were almost done recording).

A month later Panic announced two newly written songs, the first named "Middle of Summer" (later changed to "When the Day Met the Night"), and "Nine in the Afternoon". In December, a part of "Nine in the Afternoon" was played on an episode of the television show "Heroes". Panic then began viral marketing, building puzzles on their official website. For about two weeks the puzzle gave snippets from an unknown song, along with the caption "YOU DONT HAVE TO WORRY...". On January 1, 2008, the snippets finally were revealed to be part of a new song entitled "We're So Starving". A rough version of this song was then released for listening on their official MySpace page, but was later pulled with the release of "Nine in the Afternoon". A review from "NME" magazine was published on the internet with descriptions of each song. These reviews show the big different direction that Panic have taken with their new album. 

The band announced the title of the new album, "Pretty. Odd.", through their website on January 9, and dropped the "!" from their band name at the same time. The band explained by saying "We've just traded the exclamation point for a few periods." They announced the next day that they would be headlining the Honda Civic Tour in support of the album. The band then began a second puzzle on January 17, challenging fans to find puzzle pieces scattered throughout Panic-related websites, in order to reveal the album cover. The cover was officially revealed on January 22. Four days later, a new scavenger hunt was hidden on the official site, showing the tracklist of the album and offering a prize to the first three people who could find all 15 song titles for the new album. This was completed later that day.

On January 28 the winners were revealed. That very same day, the band posted the final version of "Nine in the Afternoon" on their MySpace page. The band also revealed on their official site they were releasing a Deluxe Edition of "Pretty. Odd." along with a version with a different artwork.

iTunes made the Deluxe Edition and Standard Edition of the album available for pre-order on January 29, 2008.





</doc>
<doc id="91346" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91346" title="Nine in the Afternoon">
Nine in the Afternoon

"Nine in the Afternoon" is the first single from the second album by Panic at the Disco, "Pretty. Odd." The music video was filmed on December 20 and December 21. It was the first song written after the band decided to erase several worth of an album they had been planning on releasing in the fall of 2007. Panic at the Disco's first performance of "Nine in the Afternoon" was at Virgin Festival 2007.



</doc>
<doc id="91349" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91349" title="A Fever You Can't Sweat Out">
A Fever You Can't Sweat Out

A Fever You Can't Sweat Out is the first album made by the rock band, Panic at the Disco. It was released on September 27 2005 by Fueled by Ramen.

The album is split in two, with tracks 1 through 7 being played by electronic instruments such as synthesizers and drum machines and tracks 9 through 13 using traditional instruments such as the accordion and organ. Track 8 (Intermission) acts as a link between the two parts, starting with techno-style dance beats before switching to the piano. On the vinyl record version of the album, side A holds songs 1-8 while side B holds songs 9-13, further showing the split in the album.

The album mostly deals with social problems that the band shows on through various songs. Topics such as sanctity of marriage, adultery, alcoholism, prostitution, and religion are seen throughout the album. Guitarist Ryan Ross also relates two of the songs to living with an alcoholic father. The album has sold more than 1.6 million copies in the U.S. alone.



Additional instruments



</doc>
<doc id="91353" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91353" title="Template:MusicBrainz release">
Template:MusicBrainz release

"" at MusicBrainz

</doc>
<doc id="91355" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91355" title="Template:MusicBrainz release/doc">
Template:MusicBrainz release/doc

<includeonly></includeonly>

This template provides a link to a specified MusicBrainz album page, via it's permanent link.

Please do not use , it is a redirect to in accordance with MusicBrainz' URL structures.


<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="91356" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91356" title="Brendon Urie">
Brendon Urie

Brendon Boyd Urie (b. April 12, 1987 in Las Vegas, Nevada) is the lead singer of the rock band Panic at the Disco. He also plays keyboard, accordion, piano, organ, bass, guitar, cello and drums.



</doc>
<doc id="91358" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91358" title="Ryan Ross">
Ryan Ross

George Ryan Ross III, former guitarist and lyricist for the hit band Panic At The Disco, was born August 30, 1986 in Las Vegas Nevada. Ryan knew fellow Panic drummer Spencer Smith since he was five, and at the age of twelve, the two covered blink-182 songs at first in a band called Pet Salamander. Later, he was in The Summer League with Smith and ex-Panic! bassist Brent Smith before joining Panic At The Disco. After high school, Ryan attended one semester at the University of Las Vegas, but dropped out to pursue the band. During the times, his parents were having trouble and unhappy, and his father was struggling with alcoholism. While observing this, Ryan wrote two songs on the album about his experiences with his father, who passed away in July 2006. Ryan had to deal with the death of his father while in the middle of Panic's summer tour, but he was able to work through it. Ryan continues to focus on being the band's lyricist, building a strong and supportive fan following. In July 2009, Ryan announced that he would be leaving Panic At The Disco, because of "creative differences." However, he told fans not to panic about the band split and said that he and Jon Walker, who also left, would continue on with their own musical endeavors.


</doc>
<doc id="91360" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91360" title="Brent Wilson">
Brent Wilson

Brent Wilson is the former bassist for the rock band, Panic at the Disco. He was replaced by, Jon Walker on May 17, 2006.


</doc>
<doc id="91362" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91362" title="I Write Sins Not Tragedies">
I Write Sins Not Tragedies

"I Write Sins Not Tragedies" is the second single by the rock band Panic at the Disco, from their first album "A Fever You Can't Sweat Out" (2005). It was released on April 27, 2006 on both compact disc and 7 inch vinyl. Ryan Ross wrote the song. The edited version of the song with the lyrics "The poor groom's bride is a whore" and "Haven't you people ever heard of closing the goddamn door?" were changed. "Whore" was replaced with a "shhh" sound and "God" was removed in "goddamn." It was ranked #3 in Billboard's Best 2000's Video poll.


</doc>
<doc id="91363" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91363" title="Aesculus glabra">
Aesculus glabra

Aesculus glabra or Ohio buckeye is a type of tree. It is a medium-sized deciduous tree that grows to be to tall. It lives in several states in eastern North America: Pennsylvania, Ohio, Nebraska, Texas, and Georgia. It also grows in the far southwest of Ontario.

The leaves have 5 or 7 leaflets, to big. The tree grows yellow flowers in spring. The fruit is a small shell. The shell has 1-3 nuts inside of it. These nuts are called buckeyes. The buckeye got its name when Native Americans thought it looked like the eye of a buck (a male deer). Buckeyes have acid in them, and they cannot be eaten by humans.

The Ohio buckeye is the state tree of Ohio. It is also the nickname of the The Ohio State University mascot or any person who went or goes to the school.


</doc>
<doc id="91364" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91364" title="But It's Better If You Do">
But It's Better If You Do

"But It's Better If You Do" is the third single by Panic at the Disco, from their album "A Fever You Can't Sweat Out" (2005).

Written by Ryan Ross and released on May 4, 2006 as a CD single, "But It's Better If You Do" is the third single to be released by Panic at the Disco, and the second with an accompanying video.

"It's a song about being in a strip club but not actually liking being in there. So I wanted it to be about the sort of complex inner-monologue," he said. "It's not completely fiction, though. It's based on a scenario when I was going through a breakup with a girl, and I was in one of these clubs but wishing I didn't have to be. Because in reality, I don't like strip clubs. I think they're kinda ecch," says Ryan Ross. Ross went on to say, "When I wrote it, I never thought about it being played in strip clubs. But I guess it would be kind of a change from what they usually play in there," he said. "It would be a surreal experience, for sure. I think the tempo is too fast, though. So maybe someone would have to do a chopped and screwed version or something."

The title is a quote from the movie "Closer". In the movie, the character portrayed by Natalie Portman says, ""lying is the most fun a girl can have without taking her clothes off... but it's better if you do"". "Lying Is the Most Fun a Girl Can Have Without Taking Her Clothes Off" is also the title of another song by Panic at the Disco.

At the beginning of the song's music video, the song playing in the background is "Intermission", the song preceding "But It's Better If You Do" on the "A Fever You Can't Sweat Out" CD.

The music video starts with a black-and-white introduction of the band's lead singer, Brendon Urie, arguing with his wife. She is worried about him always singing at "illegal strip clubs"; he says he does not go to "illegal strip joints", but he goes anyway. The music video continues with the song in the overview of the strip joint. Urie plays onstage with the other members of the band and a Las Vegas showgirls dance group. Urie sees a woman who seems to be unusually interested in him. They retreat to a private room. The two begin to kiss, and Urie removes his mask. The woman likewise removes her mask to reveal that she was in fact his wife. A quick slap to Urie's face and his wife turns to leave. As she gains headway, however, the police bust into the club and arrest her. Urie fights with the chief, but is also arrested. They both are put into a police car, smile in an evil way at one and another, and the scene ends.

The video for "But It's Better If You Do" debuted on "Total Request Live" daily countdown on June 29, 2006 at #8.

UK CD/Digital - May 2006

UK 7" Poster Bag - May 2006

UK 7" Colored Vinyl - May 2006

WMI CD - October 2006

WMI CD/Digital - September 2006

Following release in the USA, the single reached number 4 on Billboard's Bubbling Under Hot 100 Singles chart, before dropping to number 8 on the chart dated September 23, 2006. It peaked at number 81 on the Pop 100 chart, and number 74 on the Billboard Hot Digital Songs chart.


</doc>
<doc id="91370" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91370" title="Template:YouTube/doc">
Template:YouTube/doc

NOTE: Do not use this template to link to material that .

 <nowiki></nowiki>

<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="91371" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91371" title="Template:YouTube">
Template:YouTube


</doc>
<doc id="91372" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91372" title="Lying Is the Most Fun a Girl Can Have Without Taking Her Clothes Off">
Lying Is the Most Fun a Girl Can Have Without Taking Her Clothes Off

"Lying Is the Most Fun a Girl Can Have Without Taking Her Clothes Off" is the fourth single by the rock band Panic at the Disco, from their album, "A Fever You Can't Sweat Out". It was released on August 7, 2006 as the fourth single, but is the third advertised single ("The Only Difference Between Martyrdom and Suicide Is Press Coverage" was not commercially released as a single).

The music video was filmed on June 19, 2006 in Los Angeles, California. The video was shown on MTV2 on July 14, 2006. It features people with fish tanks on their heads. The video only shows the band in one scene (the paramedics are the band members), because the band felt that their looks were distracting from their music.

The music video starts out with a woman walking on a sidewalk. For some reason, she has a fishtank on her head and all the people around her also have a fishtank. She quickly runs into a puddle and follows it to find a fish flapping around. She places it into her tank and stares at it. Then the woman heads over to a group of people to discover them gathered around a man who's tank broke and he is dying now. The woman has flashbacks to show that the man is her husband. She then attempts suicide by pouring out her own tank and collapsing. The band arrives in two ambulances (labeled Receiving Hospital) and takes them away in bathtubs. The band then carries the two across a beach and throws them into the ocean. There the woman holds the man.






</doc>
<doc id="91373" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91373" title="Jon Walker">
Jon Walker

Jonathan Jacob Walker (b. September 17, 1985 in Chicago) is the bassist for the Las Vegas based rock band Panic at the Disco, replacing former bass player Brent Wilson.


</doc>
<doc id="91374" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91374" title="Spencer Smith">
Spencer Smith

Spencer James Smith V (born September 2, 1987 in Summerlin, Nevada) is the drummer for the rock band Panic at the Disco. Spencer is one of the original members of the band. He is the youngest member of the band now that Brent Wilson is no longer a member. He founded the band along with Ryan Ross, who he grew up with.


</doc>
<doc id="91375" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91375" title="Live Session EP">
Live Session EP

Live Session EP is an EP released by the rock band Panic at the Disco on June 13, 2006. It is available only as a digital download from the iTunes Store. It has a more acoustic feel to the songs.



</doc>
<doc id="91376" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91376" title="The Only Difference Between Martyrdom and Suicide Is Press Coverage">
The Only Difference Between Martyrdom and Suicide Is Press Coverage

"The Only Difference Between Martyrdom and Suicide Is Press Coverage", also shortened to "The Only Difference" for radio plays and ease, is a song written by Ryan Ross for Panic at the Disco's debut, "A Fever You Can't Sweat Out". It was released as a radio only single.


</doc>
<doc id="91377" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91377" title="Build God, Then We'll Talk">
Build God, Then We'll Talk

"Build God, Then We'll Talk" is the fifth and last official single, written by Ryan Ross, from Panic at the Disco's 2005 album, "A Fever You Can't Sweat Out", including the radio-only single "The Only Difference Between Martyrdom and Suicide Is Press Coverage".

The song is the last song on Panic at the Disco's début album "A Fever You Can't Sweat Out".

The bridge melody of "Build God, Then We'll Talk" is a derivative of the melody of the chorus of "My Favorite Things" from "The Sound of Music". The lyrics in the bridge also directly satirize the lyrics of "My Favorite Things".

The song depicts the story of a young attractive lawyer who engages in intercourse with a prostitute. What the lawyer does not know is that this particular prostitute has struck a deal with the police. When the police arrive at the motel later, the prostitute is surprised and drops her purse, which holds illegal drugs. In exchange for not arresting her, the constable sleeps with her instead. The chorus' line, "what a wonderful caricature of intimacy," teases the falseness in many relationships, and particularly all the lies and double crossings in the song's relationships.

The video shows the story of a "pornomime" and a girl who falls in love after she watches one of his performances. Their relationship is a fake one. Both "relationships" includes a fake feeling of confidence and are really useless in meaning. 
The mime and his girlfriend both walk in on each other having affairs (pretended, of course), again showing the emptiness of their fake relationships. They are not making love to real people — it is a false impression. The video is the first from the band to be web-exclusive, mostly because they felt it was too offensive for television, but it has aired on MTV2 in the UK and is available on Music Choice On-demand.

The band does not appear in this video.


</doc>
<doc id="91378" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91378" title="Template:Navbox Musical artist/doc">
Template:Navbox Musical artist/doc

Please remove the parameters that are left blank.

The nowraplinks class is used by , which is used to build this template. These examples use that class and nowrap and codice_11 (where needed) to prevent the names breaking across. If there are non-linked portions of text that need to be controlled for wrapping use the , , and templates. If a small space between groups is desired leave an empty line between them.


<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="91380" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91380" title="Template:Navbox Musical artist/color">
Template:Navbox Musical artist/color

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="91381" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91381" title="Template:Infobox Musical artist/doc/type">
Template:Infobox Musical artist/doc/type

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="91382" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91382" title="Template:Talk">
Template:Talk


</doc>
<doc id="91384" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91384" title="Template:No">
Template:No


</doc>
<doc id="91385" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91385" title="Template:No/doc">
Template:No/doc

<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="91386" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91386" title="Template:Tn/doc">
Template:Tn/doc

<includeonly></includeonly>
This macro is used similarly to , to show the name of a template with the open and close braces around it. But this macro makes the inner braces part of the link, whereas does not make the braces part of the link. This is to allow shorter template names to be easier to click on. The "Tn" name is short for Template name.

It will render this:

Compare with:

Which renders this:

There are several similar templates, these two lists most of them with some examples:
<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="91389" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91389" title="Template:Yes">
Template:Yes


</doc>
<doc id="91390" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91390" title="Template:Yes/doc">
Template:Yes/doc

<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="91391" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91391" title="Template:Yes2">
Template:Yes2


</doc>
<doc id="91392" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91392" title="Template:Yes2/doc">
Template:Yes2/doc

<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="91400" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91400" title="Fueled by Ramen">
Fueled by Ramen

Fueled by Ramen is an independent record label started by John Janick and Vinnie Fiorello (drummer and song writer of Less Than Jake) in August 1996 in Gainesville, Florida.


</doc>
<doc id="91403" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91403" title="Decaydance Records">
Decaydance Records

Decaydance Records is the vanity label of Pete Wentz, Patrick Stump (of Fall Out Boy) and Travis McCoy (of Gym Class Heroes). It is an impression of the Fueled by Ramen record label. It uses the Pete Wentz's trademark 'Batheart' as its logo.



</doc>
<doc id="91404" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91404" title="RIAA certification">
RIAA certification

In the United States, the Recording Industry Association of America awards certification based on the number of albums and singles sold through retail and other secondary stores.

Currently, the normal RIAA certifications for albums are:

The following certifications are given only to recordings of which over 50% of the content is in the Spanish language: 



</doc>
<doc id="91406" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91406" title="Sound Tribe Sector Nine">
Sound Tribe Sector Nine

Sound Tribe Sector Nine is a United States band from Atlanta, Georgia. The band's name is commonly abbreviated as just STS9 or Sound Tribe. They are most notably recognized for their amazing live performances consisting of fascinating light shows. No show is ever exactly the same and people ALWAYS are wanting more. STS9 has redefined the electronic music genre and continues to improve with each show they play. The complexities of their songs, their ability to improvise, and their outstanding musical talent makes STS9 one of the best musical acts traveling the world today.



</doc>
<doc id="91411" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91411" title="Category:Web server software">
Category:Web server software

This category is about softwares which are used for web servers.


</doc>
<doc id="91412" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91412" title="Category:Servers">
Category:Servers


</doc>
<doc id="91413" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91413" title="Category:Web software">
Category:Web software


</doc>
<doc id="91423" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91423" title="Stralsund">
Stralsund

Stralsund is a city in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, Germany, situated at the southern coast of the Strelasund (a sound of the Baltic Sea separating the island of Rügen from the mainland).

In 1293 Stralsund became a member of the Hanseatic League. 

From 1949 until German Reunification in 1990, Stralsund was part of the German Democratic Republic.





</doc>
<doc id="91425" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91425" title="Template:Hanseatic League">
Template:Hanseatic League


</doc>
<doc id="91435" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91435" title="Category:1999 births">
Category:1999 births


</doc>
<doc id="91441" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91441" title="Category:14th century establishments">
Category:14th century establishments


</doc>
<doc id="91443" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91443" title="Category:1234 establishments">
Category:1234 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="91453" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91453" title="Category:Aircraft engines">
Category:Aircraft engines


</doc>
<doc id="91455" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91455" title="Hyper engine">
Hyper engine

The hyper engine was a possible aircraft engine model that could produce 1 horsepower per cubic inch of engine displacement. The term hyper engine was used only in the United States, where the Army Air Corps gave people money to make a hyper engine that had an area of 1,300 cubic inches. This happened in the 1930s. They thought that this would better help with streamlining and to help get a better range. Unfortunately, none of these designs ever made it past the production stage. 


</doc>
<doc id="91456" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91456" title="Autofeather">
Autofeather

Autofeather is a feature of the engines on turboprop or piston engine aircraft. When the power being made by the engine falls to the point where it is not helping add to the thrust, the propeller will go into a feathered mode to help lower the amount of drag.

An automatic feathering system was first brought out into the open on the Martin 4-0-4 aircraft, which was a piston engine airplane. The system was made to automatically feather an engine that failed during takeoff or the initial climb of the plane to its cruising altitude.


</doc>
<doc id="91457" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91457" title="Argus As 014">
Argus As 014

The Argus As 014 was a pulse jet engine used on the German V-1 flying bomber of World War II. This was meant to be a simple model that would have been easy to make a lot of for not very much money. The engine was made from a sheet of steel that was rolled into a tube. A shutter was placed at one of the ends of the tube, along with a fuel valve and an igniter (something that lights things on fire).

It was thought that this could become a good power source for some last ditch German fighters during the last few days of World War II. 


</doc>
<doc id="91458" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91458" title="Category:Pulsejet engines">
Category:Pulsejet engines


</doc>
<doc id="91459" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91459" title="List of aircraft engines">
List of aircraft engines

The following is a list of all the aircraft engines:

Two- and four-stroke rotary, radial, inline.
































































































see Le Rhône













































































































</doc>
<doc id="91461" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91461" title="Inductor">
Inductor

An inductor is an electrical device used in electrical circuits because of magnetic charge.

An inductor is usually made from a coil of conducting material, like copper wire, that is then wrapped around a core made from either air or a magnetic metal. If you use a more magnetic material as the core, you can get the magnetic field around the inductor to be pushed in towards the inductor, giving it better inductance. Small inductors can also be put onto integrated circuits using the same ways that are used to make transistors. Aluminum is usually used as the conducting material in this case.

While a capacitor does not like changes in voltage, an inductor does not like changes in current.

In general, the relationship between the time-varying voltage "v"("t") across an inductor with inductance "L" and the time-varying current "i"("t") passing through it is described by the differential equation:

Inductors are used often in analog circuits. Two or more inductors that have coupled magnetic flux make a transformer. Transformers are used in every power grid around the world. Inductors are also used in electrical transmission systems, where they are used to lower the amount of voltage an electrical device gives off or lower the fault current.
Because inductors are heavier than other electrical components, people have been using them in electrical equipment less often.




</doc>
<doc id="91466" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91466" title="Template:Symbols">
Template:Symbols


</doc>
<doc id="91487" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91487" title="Cast">
Cast

Cast can mean:


In popular culture:

In music:

Other



</doc>
<doc id="91502" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91502" title="Edward, the Black Prince">
Edward, the Black Prince

Edward, the Black Prince (15 June 1330 – 8 June 1376) was the eldest son of King Edward III of England. 

Edward was born at Woodstock Palace near Oxford. He was made Prince of Wales in 1343 and followed his father into battle against France. He became a famous soldier, helping win the Battle of Crécy and commanding the Battle of Poitiers. In 1361, he married his cousin, Joan of Kent. They had two sons, Edward and Richard. The older son, Edward, died when he was only six. 

Edward of Woodstock has become known in history as "the Black Prince", but no one is quite sure of the reason for the nickname. He died at the age of 45 and was buried at the Canterbury Cathedral. Because his father was still living, he never became king himself. He asked his father to give the title of Prince of Wales to his son Richard, who later became King Richard II of England.


</doc>
<doc id="91505" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91505" title="Charles IV of France">
Charles IV of France

Charles IV (18/19 June 1294 – 1 February 1328), was the King of France and Navarre (as Charles I) and Count of Champagne from 1322 to his death. Charles IV the last French king of the old Capetian line. He was crowned King of France in 1322 at the cathedral in Reims.

During his six years as king Charles IV raised taxes and took away land from people he did not like. In 1323 he made the Jews leave France because people thought they made secret plans with lepers and Muslims, although they did not really do those things.

Charles died without a son so there were questions about who would be the next king. He had two daughters, but the Salic law said daughters could not rule. 


</doc>
<doc id="91506" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91506" title="Philip VI of France">
Philip VI of France

Philip VI (1293 – 22 August 1350), called "the Fortunate", was King of France from 1328 to his death. He was also Count of Anjou, Maine, and Valois from 1325 to 1328. He was the first king from the House of Valois part of the Capetian dynasty.


</doc>
<doc id="91508" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91508" title="Category:1330 births">
Category:1330 births


</doc>
<doc id="91509" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91509" title="Category:1376 deaths">
Category:1376 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="91510" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91510" title="Category:1293 births">
Category:1293 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1293.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="91511" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91511" title="Category:1350 deaths">
Category:1350 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="91512" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91512" title="Category:1293">
Category:1293


</doc>
<doc id="91513" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91513" title="Category:1290s births">
Category:1290s births


</doc>
<doc id="91514" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91514" title="Category:1371 births">
Category:1371 births


</doc>
<doc id="91515" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91515" title="Category:1435 deaths">
Category:1435 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="91516" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91516" title="Category:1350s deaths">
Category:1350s deaths


</doc>
<doc id="91518" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91518" title="Category:1330">
Category:1330


</doc>
<doc id="91519" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91519" title="Financial endowment">
Financial endowment

A financial endowment is money given to something to be saved in an investment. This is done so that the money will make a bigger difference when it is saved up over time.


</doc>
<doc id="91529" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91529" title="MediaWiki:Undo-success">
MediaWiki:Undo-success

This change can be undone. Please check below to see that this is what you want to do, and then save the changes below to finish undoing.

"If you are undoing a change that is not , please give the reason in the change summary instead of using the default message."

</doc>
<doc id="91532" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91532" title="MediaWiki:Alllogstext">
MediaWiki:Alllogstext

This shows all the logs of Wikipedia. You can also view logs by log type, the user making the log, or the affected page or user.


</doc>
<doc id="91534" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91534" title="MediaWiki:Protect-cascadeon">
MediaWiki:Protect-cascadeon

This page is protected right now because it is included in the following cascading protection turned on. You can change this page's protection level, but it will not affect the cascading protection.

</doc>
<doc id="91550" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91550" title="Lisa Simpson">
Lisa Simpson

Lisa Marie Simpson is a character in the animated television series "The Simpsons". The person who does the voice for the character is Yeardley Smith. Matt Groening, the creator of the series, named her after his sister. She is the oldest daughter and middle child of Homer and Marge Simpson, and the sister of Bart and Maggie.

Lisa is a very intelligent 8 year old girl. She is one of the most intelligent characters on the series, with an I.Q. of either 156 or 159. She also plays the saxophone and is a vegetarian.
Despite her cleverness Lisa has typical childhood issues. In the episode "Lost Our Lisa" she gets lost after riding the bus alone.


</doc>
<doc id="91554" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91554" title="Farida Mammadova">
Farida Mammadova

Farida Mammadova (born 8 August 1936, Ali Bayramli) is an Azerbaijani historian who specialises in the history of ancient Caucasian Albania. 

She is the author of numerous research papers, articles and books on Azerbaijani ancient and medieval history. She lectures at the Baku State University, Azerbaijan Pedagogical University, and is the head of the Department of Humanities in the Western University in Baku. Farida Mammadova works at the Institute of History of the National Academy of Sciences of Azerbaijan. In her research, she is known to be a disciple of the late Azerbaijani historian Ziya Bunyadov.

Her theories were criticized by foreign authors for the misinterpretation of historical sources and revisionism..

According to Thomas de Waal, Mammadova "have grasped the Albanian theory to supersede completely Armenians from Caucasus. She has placed the Caucasian Albania in territory of present Republic Armenia: all the territories, churches and monasteries in Republic Armenia have appeared Albanian". He describes Mammadova's theories as "an improved version of what became a very rough tool in Azerbaijan".

During her interviews Mammadova has made anti-Armenian statements:
And, it is known, that on whole planet exactly the Armenian people is distinguished by the absence of spiritual and other human values.
In the world there are only two nations that have national identity, but have not statehood. They are Jews and Armenians. The difference is that Jews have created their state on their historical homeland, and Armenians have created their state not on their historical native land.




</doc>
<doc id="91560" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91560" title="Category:The Simpsons characters">
Category:The Simpsons characters

This category is for the fictional characters of the television series "The Simpsons". 


</doc>
<doc id="91564" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91564" title="Ibadi">
Ibadi

Al-Ibādhiyyah (Arabic الاباضية) is a form of Islam. It is different from the Shi'a and Sunni denominations. It is the dominant form of Islam in only one Muslim country, Oman. There are also Ibadis in Algeria as well as Libya. It is probably one of the earliest schools, founded less than 50 years after the death of the prophet Muhammad. The sect developed out of the seventh-century Islamic sect known as the Khawarij or Kharijites. Ibadis do not consider themselves to be Kharijite.

The name is from ˤAbdullāh ibn-Ibāḍ at-Tamīmī. Followers of this sect, however, claim its true founder was Jabir ibn Zaid al-'Azdi from Nizwa, Oman.

Ibāḍī communities are generally seen as conservative. Ibāḍiyyah rejects the practice of "qunūt" or supplications while standing in prayer. Sunni Muslims traditionally think the Ibāḍiyyah are a Kharijite group; Ibāḍīs reject this. Ibāḍīs think other Muslims are not "kuffar" "unbelievers" (as most Kharijite groups did), but as "kuffar an-niˤma" "those who deny God's grace". Today, this attitude has changed a lot. They believe that the attitude of a true believer to others is expressed in three religious obligations:

Unlike the Kharijites, Ibāḍī have abandoned the practice of assassination of mainstream Muslims.

Ibāḍīs agree with Sunnis in approving of Abū Bakr and Umar ibn al-Khattab, whom they regard as the two rightly-guided Caliphs. They think Uthman ibn Affan has introduced "bidˤa" "innovations" into Islām. They approve of the revolt which overthrew him. They also approve of the first part of ˤAlī's caliphate, and, like Shi'as, disapprove of ˤĀ'isha's rebellion against him and also disapprove of Muˤāwiyya's revolt. However, they regard ˤAlī's acceptance of arbitration at the Battle of Siffin against Muˤāwiyya's rebels as un-Islamic and as rendering him unfit for the Imamate, and they condemn ˤAlī for killing the early Kharijites of "an-Nahr" in the Battle of Nahrawan.

Ibadis also have several doctrinal differences with orthodox Sunni Islam, chief among them:




In their belief, the fifth legitimate Caliph was Abdullah ibn Wahb al-Rasibi. All Caliphs from Muˤāwiyya onwards are regarded as tyrants except Umar ibn Abdul Aziz, on whom opinions differ. However, various later Ibāḍī leaders are recognized as true imāms, including Abdullah ibn Yahya al-Kindi of South Arabia and the imāms of the Rustamid dynasty in North Africa.

Ibāḍī Muslims are also found in Jabal Nafusa in Libya, Mzab in Algeria, East Africa (particularly Zanzibar) and Djerba Island in Tunisia]. The early medieval Rustamid dynasty in Algeria was Ibāḍī, and refugees from its capital Tahert founded the North African Ibāḍī communities which exist today.



</doc>
<doc id="91568" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91568" title="Category:Mosques">
Category:Mosques


</doc>
<doc id="91569" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91569" title="Category:Islamic denominations">
Category:Islamic denominations


</doc>
<doc id="91573" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91573" title="German Workers' Party">
German Workers' Party

The or German Workers' Party ("DAP"), was a political party in Germany just after World War I. It did not last for very long, and became the Nazi Party (, acronym "NSDAP"). 

Eight days before elections in Bavaria, the DAP was founded in Munich in the "Café Gasteig" on 5 January 1919 by Anton Drexler and Michael Lotter. The DAP grew out of the ""Free Worker's Committee for a Good Peace" () which Drexler had also started. 

Most of the DAP's first members were friends of Drexler's from the Munich rail depot. Drexler wanted a party that was nationalist and aimed at ordinary people. Most other nationalist parties were middle class parties. The first membership was about forty people. 

On 24 March 1919, Karl Harrer (a sports journalist and member of the Thule Society) joined the DAP to try to get more control over the DAP for the Thule Society. There were still not many members, and meetings were often held in local pubs

When Adolf Hitler was still a corporal in the German army, he was ordered to spy on the DAP during one of its meetings at the "Sterneckerbräu" on 12 September 1919.

Hitler was very good at making speeches, so Anton Drexler asked him to join the party. Hitler thought about this, and then joined near the end of September 1919. There were no membership numbers or cards when Hitler joined the party. In January 1920 the DAP began to give membership cards and numbers. They started at number 500 to make the party look bigger. Hitler got number 555, but he was also committee member number 7. Later Hitler said he was party member number 7, to make it look like he was a founder member of the DAP). 

The small number of party members were quick to believe in Hitler's ideas. 

To try to make the party more popular the DAP changed its name on 24 February 1920 to the National Socialist German Workers' Party. The name was borrowed from a different Austrian party active at the time (Deutsche Nationalsozialistische Arbeiterpartei). At first Hitler wanted the new name to be the "Social Revolutionary Party"; but Rudolf Jung persuaded Hitler to use NSDAP.

Hitler was the 55th member of the party. Other well-known early members were:



</doc>
<doc id="91574" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91574" title="Cary, North Carolina">
Cary, North Carolina

Cary is the second largest city in Wake County, North Carolina, United States. After January 1, 2008, Cary had a population of 127,640. According to CNN, Cary is the 8th fastest growing city in the United States.

Cary began in 1750 as a settlement called Bradford's Ordinary. About 100 years later, the North Carolina Railroad was built between New Bern and Hillsborough and the railroad went through the settlement. Allison Francis Page, a farmer and lumberman, and his wife, Catherine Raboteau Page bought 300 acres (1.2 km²) of land surrounding the railroad in 1854 and named it Cary. Page made the first streets in Cary and built a sawmill, a store and a post office. In 1868, he built a hotel for railroad passengers coming through Cary. Cary officially became a town on April 6, 1871, and Page became the first mayor.

There are many schools in Cary. The public schools are run by the Wake County Public School System. There are also many private schools, both religious and non-religious. Private schooling and home schooling are popular among many Cary residents.

The Town of Cary operates a local bus system called C-Tran. Cary also has an Amtrak station and is just a few miles away from the Raleigh-Durham International Airport. Cary has many bike trails and many neighborhoods have sidewalks, so it is a good place to walk or ride a bike.


</doc>
<doc id="91576" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91576" title="Sultan Ahmed Mosque">
Sultan Ahmed Mosque

The Sultan Ahmed Mosque is a mosque in Istanbul, Turkey. It is also known as the Blue Mosque, but that name can also refer to other mosques. It was built between 1609 and 1616, when Ahmed I ruled the Ottoman Empire. Like with many other mosques, the founder of the mosque is buried in it. There is also a madrasah and a hospice associated with the mosque. Today it is one of the greatest tourist attractions in Istanbul.


</doc>
<doc id="91579" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91579" title="Shah Mosque">
Shah Mosque

Shah Mosque (Persian: ﻣﺴﺠﺪ ﺷﺎﻩ , Masjed-e Shāh) is a mosque in Isfahan ("Eşfahān"), Iran. It is on the south side of Naghsh-i Jahan Square. It has been renamed to Imam Mosque after the Islamic Revolution.

Built during the Safavids period, it is an excellent example of the Islamic architecture of Iran. Many people see it as the masterpiece of Persian Architecture. The Imam Mosque of Esfahan is one of the everlasting masterpieces of architecture in Iran and all over the world. It is registered along with the Naghsh-i Jahan Square as a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Its construction began in 1611. Its splendor is mainly due to the beauty of its seven-color mosaic tiles and calligraphic inscriptions. 

The port of the mosque measures 27 meters high. There are two minarets 42 meters tall on top of it.
The Mosque it is surrounded with four iwans and arcades. All the walls are ornamented with seven-color mosaic tile. The most magnificent iwan of the mosque is the one facing the Qibla. It is 33 meters high. Behind it is a space which is roofed with the largest dome in the city at 52 meters height. The dome is double layered. 

The acoustic properties and reflections at the central point under the dome is an amusing interest for many visitors. There are two seminaries at the southwest and southeast sections of the mosque.

The architects of the mosque are reported to be the following masters:


The mosque is one of the treasures featured on "Around the World in 80 Treasures" presented by the architecture historian Dan Cruickshank.





</doc>
<doc id="91581" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91581" title="Löbau-Zittau Rural District">
Löbau-Zittau Rural District

Löbau-Zittau (Sorbian: "Wokrjes Lubij-Žitawa") is a "Kreis" (district) in the east of the Free State of Saxony, Germany. It is on the borders of Germany and Poland (to the east) and the Czech Republic (to the south).

The district was formed in 1994 by merging the two previous districts Löbau and Zittau. Th district will change again in 2008, when the independent city ("Kreisfreiestadt") of Görlitz is merged with the district.



</doc>
<doc id="91582" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91582" title="Template:Infobox German District">
Template:Infobox German District


</doc>
<doc id="91583" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91583" title="Apex, North Carolina">
Apex, North Carolina

Apex is a town in the U.S. State of North Carolina. It is part of Wake County.



</doc>
<doc id="91595" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91595" title="Niederschlesischer Oberlausitzkreis Rural District">
Niederschlesischer Oberlausitzkreis Rural District

The Niederschlesischer Oberlausitzkreis () is the easternmost "Kreis" (district) of the Free State of Saxony and Germany. The urban district Görlitz is in the east, at the boundary to Poland. In July 2008 Görlitz will stop being an independent city, and become part of the districts of Niederschlesischer Oberlausitzkreis and Löbau-Zittau

The district was not part of Saxony before World War II. It was a part of German Silesia. When most of Silesia was givento Poland after the war, the part of Silesia on the west bank of the Rive Neisse was made part of Saxony.

The Niederschlesischer Oberlausitz district was formed in 1994 by joining the previous districts Niesky and Weißwasser, and most part of the district Görlitz.

The district is twinned with



</doc>
<doc id="91596" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91596" title="Luís de Camões">
Luís de Camões

Luís Vaz de Camões (c. 1524 – June 10, 1580) was Portugal's greatest poet. He has been compared to Homer, Virgil, Dante, Cervantes or Shakespeare. He wrote lyrical poetry (in Portuguese and in Spanish) and drama but is best remembered for his epic work "Os Lusíadas". (His philosophical work "The Parnasum of Luís Vaz" was lost, stolen with part of "Os Lusíadas" by envious enemies while he was staying at Mozambique.)


The definitive biography is "Life of Camões", by John Adamson, published by Longman in 1820.





</doc>
<doc id="91600" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91600" title="Kamenz Rural District">
Kamenz Rural District

Kamenz (Sorbian Kamjenc) is a Landkreis ( rural district) in the north-east of the Free State of Saxony, Germany. The independent city Hoyerswerda is completely surrounded by the district. They will be a reorganisation of districts in Saxony in July 2008, and Hoyerswerda will become a part of Landkreis Kamenz instead of having a separate government.

The district was formed in 1994 from the previous Kamenz district, the northern parts of the Dresden-Land district, around Radeberg, and the Hoyerswerda district, except the town of Hoyerswerda, which became a district-free city. From 1994 to 1996 it was called "Westlausitz - Dresdner Land", but then renamed to "Kamenz" again.

Since December 14, 1990 the district has been a twin town of the district Alzey-Worms in Rhineland-Palatinate.



</doc>
<doc id="91601" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91601" title="Emerald Isle, North Carolina">
Emerald Isle, North Carolina

Emerald Isle is a small town on the coast of North Carolina, United States. Emerald Isle is a beach town. About 50,000 people come every summer. Emerald Isle became a town in 1953.



</doc>
<doc id="91603" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91603" title="Template:Districts of Saxony">
Template:Districts of Saxony


</doc>
<doc id="91607" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91607" title="Theobromine">
Theobromine

Theobromine is a chemical substance, also known as xantheose It is an alkaloid. It occurs in the cacao plant. Chemically, it is very similar to caffeine. Because the cacao plant is used to make chocolate it also occurs in chocolate. Despite its name, there is no bromine in it — "theobromine" comes from "Theobroma", the name of the genus of the cacao tree, (which itself is made up of the Greek roots "theo" ("God") and "brosi" ("food"), meaning "food of the gods") with the suffix "-ine" given to alkaloids and other basic nitrogen-containing compounds.

Theobromine is a water insoluble, crystalline, bitter powder. It colour is listed as either white or colourless. It has a similar, but lesser, effect to caffeine, making it a lesser homologue. Theobromine is an isomer of theophylline as well as paraxanthine. Theobromine is categorized as a dimethyl xanthine, which means it is a xanthine with two methyl groups.

Theobromine was first isolated from the seeds of the cacao tree in 1878 and then shortly afterwards was synthesized from xanthine by Hermann Emil Fischer.


</doc>
<doc id="91610" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91610" title="Black tea">
Black tea

Black tea is a kind of tea. Often, it is stronger in taste than other varieties of tea, like green tea. It also has more caffeine. In some parts of the world, like China, it is called "Red tea". This is a better description of the colour of the drink. It has been traded a lot because it could be kept longer. It is generally the preferred form of tea in the West.


</doc>
<doc id="91611" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91611" title="Bautzen Rural District">
Bautzen Rural District

Bautzen (Upper Sorbian "Wokrjes Budyšin") is a district in the Free State of Saxony in Germany.

The district was created in 1994 by joining the former districts of Bautzen and Bischofswerda. The independent city of Hoyerswerda and the former district Kamenz became part of the district in 2008



</doc>
<doc id="91612" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91612" title="Gyrobus">
Gyrobus

A gyrobus is a special bus which does not use a normal engine. It has a big flywheel of steel or other materials (weighing about one ton) rotating at very high speed (RPM). By rotating at such high speed, the flywheel stores large amounts of kinetic energy. This big wheel moves the wheels of the bus. At special stations, electric engines accelerate the flywheel so the bus can still run. There are not many buses of this kind because they are very expensive.


</doc>
<doc id="91616" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91616" title="Decaffeination">
Decaffeination

Decaffeination is a process. It tries to remove most caffeine from things that contain it. Examples for plants that have caffeine in them are coffee beans, mate, tea leaves and cocoa. Soft drinks that do not have caffeine in them are sometimes called decaffeinated. While the caffeine is removed from some of them, it is simply not added to others, like Coca Cola. 

There are different processes to remove the caffeine.

Drinks that were produced from plants that had their caffeine removed are not free of caffeine; they still contain a little. It is simply not possible to remove all caffeine.


</doc>
<doc id="91618" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91618" title="Dresden Government Region">
Dresden Government Region

Dresden is one of the three Regierungsbezirke of the Free State of Saxony, Germany. It is found in the south-eastern part of the state.

Saxony is divided into urban (meaning in the city) and rural (meaning in the country) districts like all German states. The districts are grouped into government areas (regierungsbezirke) as well.



</doc>
<doc id="91619" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91619" title="Template:Infobox German Regierungsbezirk">
Template:Infobox German Regierungsbezirk


</doc>
<doc id="91621" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91621" title="Holly Springs, North Carolina">
Holly Springs, North Carolina

Holly Springs is a small town in North Carolina, United States. It is called the "Fastest growing town in the Carolinas" because so many people are moving there. In 2006, there were 17,425 people in Holly Springs.


</doc>
<doc id="91625" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91625" title="Gaustadt">
Gaustadt

Gaustadt is a district of Bamberg, Upper Franconia in Germany. In Gaustadt there is a brewery called Brauerei Kaiserdom (Brewery Kaiserdom). 

5,700 people live there. Since 1972, Gaustadt is not an own community.


</doc>
<doc id="91626" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91626" title="Super Tuesday">
Super Tuesday

In the United States, Super Tuesday commonly refers to the Tuesday in early February or March of a presidential election year when the greatest number of states hold primary elections to select delegates to national conventions at which each party's presidential candidates are officially nominated. More delegates can be won on Super Tuesday than on any other single day of the primary calendar, and accordingly, candidates seeking the presidency traditionally must do well on this day to secure their party's nomination. In 2008, Super Tuesday was February 5; 24 states held primaries or caucuses on this date, with 52 percent of all pledged Democratic Party delegates and 41 percent of the total Republican Party delegates at stake.


</doc>
<doc id="91629" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91629" title="Brauerei Kaiserdom">
Brauerei Kaiserdom

The Brauerei Kaiserom (English: Brewery Kaiserdom) is a brewery in Gaustadt, a quarter of Bamberg, Germany.

The brewery was founded in 1718 by Georg Morg. Since 1910 it has been managed by family Wörner. In 1953 they brewed 0,6 million litres. The production today is about 20-30 million litres. It is the biggest brewery in Bamberg.

They are producing 6 different kinds of beer:


They also make some soft drinks.

Homepage of the brewery in English


</doc>
<doc id="91630" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91630" title="Category:Government regions of Saxony">
Category:Government regions of Saxony


</doc>
<doc id="91645" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91645" title="Cleveland (disambiguation)">
Cleveland (disambiguation)

Cleveland is the name of a number of places around the world, and also some people.

The two biggest Clevelands are:








</doc>
<doc id="91646" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91646" title="Freiberg Rural District">
Freiberg Rural District

Freiberg is a rural district in the Free State of Saxony, in the country of Germany.

The district was established in 1994 by joining the former districts of Freiberg, Brand-Erbisdorf and Flöha.



</doc>
<doc id="91648" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91648" title="Freiberg">
Freiberg

Freiberg can mean several places:



</doc>
<doc id="91649" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91649" title="Mulda">
Mulda

Mulda is a municipality in Saxony, Germany.


</doc>
<doc id="91651" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91651" title="Dorfchemnitz">
Dorfchemnitz

Dorfchemnitz is a municipality of the Freiberg Rural District, in Saxony, Germany.


</doc>
<doc id="91653" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91653" title="Category:1294 births">
Category:1294 births


</doc>
<doc id="91656" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91656" title="Jodie Marsh">
Jodie Marsh

Jodie Louise Marsh (born 23 December 1978) is an English glamour model and television personality. She has appeared topless in many tabloid newspapers and has appeared on her own reality TV show, Totally Jodie Marsh.


</doc>
<doc id="91657" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91657" title="Frankenstein, Saxony">
Frankenstein, Saxony

Frankenstein is a municipality in the Freiberg Rural District, in Saxony, Germany.

About 1200 people live in the village.


</doc>
<doc id="91664" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91664" title="Trashware">
Trashware

Trashware is a computer system that was built using hardware from many other computer. Trashware computers will often use free software such as Linux operating system. These computers are mainly built for people who cannot normally afford a computer. Trashware is different from retrocomputing.




</doc>
<doc id="91667" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91667" title="Category:Geography by country">
Category:Geography by country


</doc>
<doc id="91670" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91670" title="Category:Geography by continent">
Category:Geography by continent


</doc>
<doc id="91673" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91673" title="Yearbook">
Yearbook

A yearbook is a book that students get when they graduate from school (usually at high school or college).

Yearbooks are generally put together by a student committee, which may or may not be advised by members of the faculty and staff. The committee usually has one or more editors who are responsible for collecting and putting together all of the information to be put into the book, also deciding the layout and giving of space for each contributor.

Often, yearbooks are distributed at the end of a school year to allow members to get the books and signatures/personal messages from classmates. In the US, those that distribute at this time may publish a supplemental insert with photographs from spring sports and milestone events (such as prom and graduation), as well as other important events. Many schools at which yearbooks are distributed at or before the end of a school year have a tradition of having students sign and leave notes on each others yearbooks.

Some schools distribute yearbooks before the end of the school year – such as during July, at Homecoming (US) in October or another designated time in order to include year-end activities. In some cases, yearbooks are mailed to the parents' homes of graduated seniors.


</doc>
<doc id="91684" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91684" title="Category:Lines of latitude">
Category:Lines of latitude


</doc>
<doc id="91696" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91696" title="Mario Gómez">
Mario Gómez

Mario Gomez (born 10 July 1985) is a German football player. He plays in the German Bundesliga for Bayern Munich. Since 2007 he has played in the Germany national team including in the UEFA Euro 2008, he has played 31 matches and scored 11 goals.

121||63||14||11||21||13||156||87
121||63||14||11||21||13||156||87

!Total||40||14


</doc>
<doc id="91698" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91698" title="Tim Borowski">
Tim Borowski

Tim Borowski (born May 2, 1980 in Neubrandenburg, Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, Germany) is a German football player. His team at the moment is Werder Bremen. A member of the Germany national team since 2002, he has played 33 matches and scored 2 goals.

195||28||24||11||40||7||259||46
195||28||24||11||40||7||259||46

!Total||33||2


</doc>
<doc id="91699" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91699" title="Marcell Jansen">
Marcell Jansen

Marcell Jansen (born November 4 1985 in Mönchengladbach) is a German football player. He plays for the Hamburg and for the Germany national team.

115||8||9||1||20||0||144||9
115||8||9||1||20||0||144||9

!Total||30||2


</doc>
<doc id="91700" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91700" title="Arne Friedrich">
Arne Friedrich

Arne Friedrich (born May 29, 1979) is a German football player His team at the moment is Hertha Berlin. In the Germany national team he made 64 matches and no goals.

247||14||18||2||26||0||291||16
247||14||18||2||26||0||291||16

!Total||69||0


</doc>
<doc id="91702" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91702" title="Oliver Neuville">
Oliver Neuville

Oliver Neuville (born 1 May 1973) is a German football player. At the moment he playes for Borussia Mönchengladbach. For the Germany national team he has played 69 matches and scored 10 goals.

123||49||colspan="2"|-||colspan="2"|-||123||49
33||5||colspan="2"|-||colspan="2"|-||33||5
356||106||43||4||38||10||437||120
508||158||43||4||38||10||593||174

!Total||69||10


</doc>
<doc id="91703" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91703" title="Thomas Hitzlsperger">
Thomas Hitzlsperger

Thomas Hitzlsberger (born April 5, 1982) is a German football player. He plays for West Ham United and Germany national team.

104||8||1||0||10||4||colspan="2"|-||115||12
125||20||16||7||0||0||19||1||160||28
6||1||||||||||colspan="2"|-||6||1
235||29||17||7||10||4||19||1||281||41

!Total||51||6


</doc>
<doc id="91704" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91704" title="Mike Hanke">
Mike Hanke

Mike Hanke (born November 5, 1983) is a German football player. His team at the moment is Hannover. In the Germany national team he made 11 matches and 1 goal.

167||37
167||37

!Total||11||1


</doc>
<doc id="91705" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91705" title="Gerald Asamoah">
Gerald Asamoah

Gerald Asamoah (born October 5 1978) is a German football player. His team at the moment is Schalke. While playing for the Germany national team, he made 43 matches and 6 goals.

350||72
350||72

!Total||43||6


</doc>
<doc id="91706" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91706" title="Clemens Fritz">
Clemens Fritz

Clemens Fritz (born 7 December 1980) is a German football player. He plays for Werder Bremen.

246||25||9||0||28||1||283||26
246||25||9||0||28||1||283||26

!Total||22||2


</doc>
<doc id="91707" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91707" title="Simon Rolfes">
Simon Rolfes

Simon Rolfes (born 21 January 1982) is a German football player. He plays for Bayer Leverkusen and Germany national team.

174||24
174||24

!Total||21||1


</doc>
<doc id="91708" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91708" title="Paul Freier">
Paul Freier

Paul Freier (born 26 July 1979) is a German football player. He plays for Bochum. In the Germany national team he played 19 matches and scored 1 goal.

257||34
257||34

!Total||19||1


</doc>
<doc id="91709" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91709" title="Jan Schlaudraff">
Jan Schlaudraff

Jan Schlaudraff (born 18 July 1983) is a German football player. He plays for Hannover.

112||24||6||2||7||0||125||26
112||24||6||2||7||0||125||26

!Total||3||0


</doc>
<doc id="91710" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91710" title="Riesa-Großenhain Rural District">
Riesa-Großenhain Rural District

Riesa-Großenhain is a district in the Free State of Saxony, Germany. The district was created in 1994 by joining the two previous districts Riesa and Großenhain.



</doc>
<doc id="91715" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91715" title="House of Valois">
House of Valois

The House of Valois was a younger branch of the Capetian dynasty that ruled France in the late Middle Ages and the Renaissance from 1328 to 1529. The kings of the House of Valois were descended from Charles of Valois who was the third son of Philip III of France. They claimed the Salic law put them ahead of Edward III of England to rule France. Edward III of England thought he had gotten the right to the French crown through his mother. The two countries fought the Hundred Years' War because of that disagreement.


</doc>
<doc id="91716" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91716" title="Salic law">
Salic law

The Salic law was a set of laws established by King Clovis I for the Salian Franks during the sixth century. It stayed important in parts of western Europe for a long time because Charlemagne based his laws on the Salic law. One part of Salic law that stayed very important was inheritance for kings. The Salic law said that land goes to sons and not daughters.


</doc>
<doc id="91727" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91727" title="Alizée">
Alizée

Alizée Jacotey (born August 21, 1984 in Ajaccio, Corsica) is a French singer. She goes by the stage name Alizée — which is the feminine form of "alizé" and means "trade wind". Alizée was found by Mylène Farmer, after Alizée's performance in the talent show, "Graines de Star", in 1999. While working with Mylène Farmer and Laurent Boutonnat, Alizée put out two albums. Both of which were hits both inside and outside of France.



</doc>
<doc id="91749" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91749" title="The Scarlet Letter">
The Scarlet Letter

The Scarlet Letter is a book by Nathaniel Hawthorne. It was first published on March 16, 1850. The setting of the story is in the stern 17th century New England. It is a story of adultery, its punishment and results. It is about a woman called Hester who commits adultery with a preacher. It is a very popular book and many movies have been made of it.


</doc>
<doc id="91755" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91755" title="Template:Right now">
Template:Right now

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="91756" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91756" title="Template:Right now/doc">
Template:Right now/doc

This template makes an orange box appear, similar to the "You have new messages" box, but it instead includes the current time and the amount of articles on Wikipedia at this moment. Put this at the top of your user page, or your user talk page. It is meant as a user space page header.

 becomes:

</doc>
<doc id="91757" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91757" title="Template:Right now British">
Template:Right now British

<includeonly>
</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="91758" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91758" title="Template:Right now British/doc">
Template:Right now British/doc

This template is for English-speaking people who do not use the American date notation (MM-DD-YYYY), but instead use the more common notation of "DD-MM-YYYY". This template is to be placed on the header of a user's talk page or user page, and serves purpose to indicate the current time and the current date.

<includeonly>
</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="91759" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91759" title="Template:Right now (User message)">
Template:Right now (User message)

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="91760" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91760" title="Template:Right now (User message)/doc">
Template:Right now (User message)/doc

This template is used at the top of your userpage. Like , this one lets you know the date, time, and the amount of articles on Wikipedia. However, is blue, and some people may not like blue. This template turns out orange, the same colors of the "You have new messages (last changes)" box. If you are British and do not use the American standard dating (MM/DD/YYYY), then you may want to see instead.


<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="91763" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91763" title="Uetersen">
Uetersen

Uetersen () is a small city in the district of Pinneberg, in Schleswig-Holstein, Germany. It is situated approx. 7 km (4 miles) south of Elmshorn, and 30 km (18 miles) northwest of Hamburg. Uetersen is home to the Rosarium Uetersen, the oldest and largest rose garden in Northern Germany, created in 1929.

Mathias Rust took off from Uetersen for his historic flight in 1987.



</doc>
<doc id="91777" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91777" title="New York City Subway">
New York City Subway

The New York City Subway is a rapid transit system that is in New York City, United States. It is one of the biggest rapid transit systems in the world, with 468 stations. It has 229 miles (or 369 km) of routes on 656 miles (or 1056 km) of track. The New York City Subway never closes; the trains always work.

The first trains started working on October 9, 1863, and the first underground trains started working on October 27 1904. The IRT main line, which is considered to be the first New York City "subway" line, opened in 1904; however, the Ninth Avenue Line, a predecessor elevated railroad line, operated its first trial run on July 3, 1868 and the West End Line railroad opened in 1863. A small portion of the latter line's original right-of-way is still in daily use near Coney Island.

There are subway stations in Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens, and the Bronx. About 40% of the tracks are above ground and the other 60% are below ground. Every day about 5,076,000 people take rides on the subway.

There are many routes on the subway. Many people who have never ridden on the Subway get confused because there are so many routes going to so many different places. These are the routes of the Subway:
Subway riders used to be able to pay for their ride with a token, but the subway stopped using tokens in 2003. Now riders must pay with one of these cards:

The subway started using MetroCards in 1994. Riders can buy MetroCards from the station booth or from vending machines that are in the stations.

The fare costs $2.25.

Riders are allowed to take pictures using cameras, but are not allowed to take pictures with cameras that flash or with cameras that are on tripods.

Subway police can search riders to make sure they do not have weapons or other items that could be used to hurt other people.

When riders get hurt, usually it is because they slip when they are getting in the train. This is because there is a small gap between the train and the platform. In recent times, workers have made the gaps smaller to prevent people from slipping. Often messages are played inside the subway and on the train that say "Please watch the gap when entering and exiting the train".


</doc>
<doc id="91778" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91778" title="Fundamentalism">
Fundamentalism

Fundamentalism is a term that can have different meanings. Originally it was used to describe some people in the Protestant community in the United States in the early 20th century. These people had a set of well defined ("fundamental") values. These values were in opposition to more modern ideas. The group also said it was important to stick to what faith (the Bible) told them.

Today, the term is used more generally. It is now used to describe groups of people who will stick to their (mostly moral, and religious) values even though these values may be criticised by many people. These values may also be unpopular. Modern-day fundamentalists want to go back to the roots of certain ideological or religious positions. Very often, they are prepared to use force, if that is necessary.

Fundamentalism began as a movement in the U.S., starting among conservative Presbyterian academics and theologians at Princeton Theological Seminary in the first decade of the Twentieth Century. It soon spread to conservatives among the Baptists and other denominations during and immediately following the First World War. The movement's purpose was to "reaffirm" orthodox Protestant Christianity and zealously defend it against the challenges of liberal theology, German higher criticism, Darwinism, and other movements which it regarded as harmful to Christianity.

The term ""fundamentalism"" has its roots in the Niagara Bible Conference (1878–1897) which defined those things that were "fundamental" to Christian belief. The term was also used to describe ""The Fundamentals"", a collection of twelve books on five subjects published in 1910 and funded by Milton and Lyman Stewart


</doc>
<doc id="91780" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91780" title="Agostino Carracci">
Agostino Carracci

Agostino Carracci (sometimes also spelled Agostino Caracci, August 16, 1557 – March 22, 1602) was an Italian painter and printmaker. His brother Annibale and cousin Lodovico Carracci were more famous than he was. 

He thought nature was an ideal. He founded a school that was competing with that of Caravaggio. Together with his brothers, he founded the Accademia degli Incamminati. The academy helped painters of the School of Bologna to become famous.



</doc>
<doc id="91786" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91786" title="Vogtlandkreis Rural District">
Vogtlandkreis Rural District

The Vogtlandkreis is a "Landkreis" (rural district) in the southwest of the Free State of Saxony, Germany. It borders Thuringia, Bavaria, and the Czech Republic. Plauen is the capital of the district.

The first German cosmonaut, Sigmund Jähn was born in the Vogtland. His hometown, the small village "Morgenröthe-Rautenkranz" in the south-west of the district houses a small space exhibition.



</doc>
<doc id="91790" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91790" title="Zwickauer Land Rural District">
Zwickauer Land Rural District

Zwickauer Land is a Landkreis (rural district) in the south-west of the Free State of Saxony, Germany. The independent city of Zwickau is in the middle of the district. It is nearly completely surrounded by the district. In July 2008, the city will lose its right to administer itself, and become a city under the control of the district government.

The rural district was created on 1 August 1994. Its capital is Werdau. On January 1, 1999, the district was reorganised. Cainsdorf, Mosel, Oberrothenbach and Schlunzig were made a part of to Zwickau even though the people living in those towns wanted to stay independent.
The district is located in the Ore Mountains ("Erzgebirge"), with the main rivers being the "Zwickauer Mulde" and the "Pleiße".



</doc>
<doc id="91792" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91792" title="Chemnitzer Land Rural District">
Chemnitzer Land Rural District

Chemnitzer Land is a district in the Free State of Saxony, Germany.

The district has a very big population because the East German government tried to make the area very industrial.

The district was created in 1994 by joining the old districts of Glauchau and Hohenstein-Ernstthal. In 2008, part of city of Zwickau will become part of the district. The rest of the city will become part of Zwickauer Land.



</doc>
<doc id="91796" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91796" title="Meißen Rural District">
Meißen Rural District

Meißen is a district ("Kreis") in the Free State of Saxony, Germany.



</doc>
<doc id="91797" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91797" title="Sächsische Schweiz Rural District">
Sächsische Schweiz Rural District

The Sächsische Schweiz ("Saxon Switzerland") is a rural district ("Landkreis") in the south of the Free State of Saxony, Germany. It borders the Czech Republic. Vehicles registered in the district have PIR, for the city of Pirna. This is because the districts own abbreviation would be "SS", and this is not used because it is the same as the Nazi SS, the "Schutzstaffel"

The district was created in 1994 when the two districts Sebnitz and Pirna were merged.

The district is named after the landscape - the "Saxon Switzerland" - as it is the most mountainous region of Saxony.




</doc>
<doc id="91800" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91800" title="Weißeritzkreis Rural District">
Weißeritzkreis Rural District

The Weißeritzkreis is a district ("Kreis") in the south of the Free State of Saxony, Germany. It borders the Czech Republic. The district was created in 1994 when the two districts Dippoldiswalde and Freital were merged.

During the flooding in August 2002 the river Weißeritz had to drain many times the normal amount of water, and a lot of buildings in the river valley - houses, streets and bridges were destroyed




</doc>
<doc id="91801" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91801" title="Category:Regierungsbezirk Dresden">
Category:Regierungsbezirk Dresden

This category contains pages on the independent cities (Kreisstädte), in the administrative region of Dresden, Saxony, as well as a subcategory for each rural district (Landkreis) in the region


</doc>
<doc id="91804" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91804" title="Category:1580 deaths">
Category:1580 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="91805" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91805" title="Category:1328 deaths">
Category:1328 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="91809" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91809" title="Category:1924 books">
Category:1924 books


</doc>
<doc id="91811" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91811" title="Category:18th century books">
Category:18th century books


</doc>
<doc id="91813" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91813" title="Category:1722">
Category:1722


</doc>
<doc id="91814" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91814" title="Category:1474">
Category:1474


</doc>
<doc id="91816" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91816" title="Category:Economists">
Category:Economists


</doc>
<doc id="91826" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91826" title="Category:Rastafari">
Category:Rastafari


</doc>
<doc id="91836" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91836" title="Sächsische Schweiz (tourism)">
Sächsische Schweiz (tourism)

Sächsische Schweiz means "Saxon Switzerland" in English. It is a mountainous climbing area and national park near Dresden in Saxony, Germany. Part of the area is in the Czech Republic. It is called the Bohemian Switzerland in the Czech Republic.

Sächsische Schweiz has some 1,000 climbing peaks, as well as several hollows. The area is popular with Dresden locals and international climbers.

The administrative district for the area is Sächsische Schweiz Rural District.

Sächsische Schweiz area has a number of fortresses built to protect trade routes; remaining fortresses include Festung Königstein and Castle Hohnstein. Hardly anything is left of other castles and fortresses.

The area became popular with tourists during the 19th century. Romantic artists were inspired by the beauty of wilderness, like the painter Ludwig Richter or the composer Carl Maria von Weber, who set his famous opera Der Freischütz with its Wolfsschlucht ("wolf's gorge") scene near the city of Rathen.

Saxon Switzerland is characterized by its sandstone rocks which draw many rock climbers. At the beginning of the 20th century the 'Saxon Rules' for rock climbing were made, the first ever of their kind worldwide.

Saxon Switzerland National Park
Elbe Sandstone Mountains



</doc>
<doc id="91847" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91847" title="Epic of Gilgamesh">
Epic of Gilgamesh

The Epic of Gilgamesh is an epic poem from ancient Mesopotamia. It is one of the earliest works of literary fiction known.

The most complete version that exists today was preserved on twelve clay tablets in the library collection of the 7th century BCE Assyrian king Ashurbanipal.
A series of Sumerian legends and poems about the mythological hero-king Gilgamesh were probably gathered into a longer Akkadian poem some time before the 7th century BCE.

The essential story is about the relationship between Gilgamesh, a king who has become distracted and disheartened by his rule, and a friend, Enkidu, who is half-wild and who undertakes dangerous quests with Gilgamesh. Much of the epic focuses on Gilgamesh's thoughts of loss following Enkidu's death. It is often credited as being one of the first literary works with emphasis on immortality.

The epic is widely read in translation, and the hero, Gilgamesh, has become an icon of popular culture.

Gilgamesh was the fifth king of Uruk, an ancient city of Sumer. His supposed historical reign is believed to lie within the period 2700 to 2500 BC, 200-400 years before the earliest known written stories. His father was the third king, Lugalbanda.
The "Epic of Gilgamesh" was about him.







</doc>
<doc id="91849" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91849" title="Sorbian language">
Sorbian language

The Sorbian languages are a Slavic branch of the Indo-European languages. 

They are the native languages of the Sorbs, a Slavic minority in eastern Germany. Historically the language has also been known as Wendish or Lusatian. 

There are two languages: Upper Sorbian ("hornjoserbsce"), spoken by about 40,000 people in Saxony, and Lower Sorbian ("dolnoserbski") spoken by about 10,000 people in Brandenburg. 
The area where the two languages are spoken is known as Lusatia ("Łužica" in Upper Sorbian, "Łužyca" in Lower Sorbian, or "Lausitz" in German).
In Germany, Upper and Lower Sorbian are officially recognized and protected as minority languages by the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages. In the home areas of the Sorbs, both languages are officially equal to German.
The city of Bautzen in Upper Lusatia is the centre of Upper Sorbian culture. Bilingual signs can be seen around the city, including the name of the city, "Bautzen/"Budyšin"".

The city of Cottbus ("Chóśebuz") is considered the cultural centre of Lower Sorbian. Cottbuss also has bilingual signs.

Sorbian is also spoken in the small Sorbian (“Wendish”) settlement of Serbin in Lee County, Texas. Until recently newspapers were published in Sorbian there. The local dialect has been heavily influenced by surrounding speakers of German and English.

American and Australian communities often prefer to call themselves “Wends” or “Wendish,”. They think that “Sorb” and “Sorbian” are bad words.




</doc>
<doc id="91850" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91850" title="Category:Sorbs">
Category:Sorbs


</doc>
<doc id="91852" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91852" title="Bautzen">
Bautzen

Bautzen , Upper Sorbian: Budyšin Lower Sorbian: "Budyšyn" ; ) is a city in eastern Saxony, Germany, and capital of the Bautzen Rural District. It is located on the Spree River.

In 2005, its population was 42,189. Asteroid "11580 Bautzen" is named in honour of the city.

Bautzen is historical capital of Upper Lusatia, and it is the most important cultural centre of the Sorbs, a Slavic minority.

During World War II and the Nazi era, there was a subcamp of the Groß-Rosen concentration camp in Bautzen. Ernst Thälmann was imprisoned there before being deported to Buchenwald.

After the war Bautzen was well known in the German Democratic Republic because of its prison. Bautzen I was used as an official prison, Bautzen II was a secret prison for prisoners of conscience (people arrested for their political beliefs, not because of an ordinary crime). Bautzen I is still used as a prison, and Bautzen II has been a memorial since 1993.

In 2002 the city commemorated its thousandth birthday.




</doc>
<doc id="91854" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91854" title="Category:Bautzen Rural District">
Category:Bautzen Rural District


</doc>
<doc id="91864" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91864" title="Jim Root">
Jim Root

James "Jim" Root (born October 7, 1971) is an American musician. He is the guitarist for both Slipknot and Stone Sour. In Slipknot he is named #4. he is the tallest member of the band at 6 foot 6. Jim wears a court jester's mask with a zip-up mouth. Over time he has sweated, snotted and puked in it so much that it makes everywhere it goes smell bad. Jim enjoys Fishing and playing Video games.


</doc>
<doc id="91866" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91866" title="Ghetto">
Ghetto

'Ghetto' has two possible meanings:

Originally the word "ghetto" meant the Jewish quarter of an European town. The term "ghetto" is now commonly used to refer to any poverty-stricken urban area with a concentration of minority groups. It is also used to refer to areas that are considered to be undesirable. A ghetto was also the name given to the area Jewish people were first kept in in the Holocaust.


</doc>
<doc id="91870" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91870" title="ECW (WWE)">
ECW (WWE)

ECW (which at one time stood for Extreme Championship Wrestling) was a professional wrestling brand of World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE), based on the independent Extreme Championship Wrestling promotion that lasted from 1992 to 2001. It started on June 13, 2006 with a weekly television series. The ECW brand was one of WWE's three brands, the other two being RAW and SmackDown.

WWE got Extreme Championship Wrestling and its video library in 2003 and later began reintroducing ECW through a series of DVDs and books. The big popularity of ECW merchandise prompted WWE to organize ECW One Night Stand, an ECW reunion pay-per-view in 2005. The financial and critical success of the event encourages WWE to start a second One Night Stand the next year. With rejuvenated interest in the ECW product, WWE began exploring the possibility of reviving the promotion full time. On May 26, 2006, WWE announced the launch of ECW as a stand-alone brand, congruous to Raw and SmackDown!, with its own show on the Sci Fi Channel. Despite initial concerns that professional wrestling would not be accepted by the Sci Fi Channel's demographic, network President Bonnie Hammer said that she believed ECW would fit the channel's theme of "stretching the imagination". Sci Fi Channel is owned by NBC Universal, parent company of USA Network and exclusive cable broadcaster of WWE programming.

The ECW brand initially tried to differentiate itself from WWE's other brands. The hard cameras were placed in a different location and the ring mat had an ECW logo on it. The male performers were also referred to as "Extremists" as opposed to Superstars, and female performers were called "Vixens" instead of Divas. It also had the first ECW talent. Later however, changes were made to differentiate it from the original ECW promotion, including changing the original promotion's rules where weapons were legal in all matches and there were rarely any count outs or disqualifications. WWE now classifies such matches as having "Extreme Rules", and are only fought when specified. The only pay-per-view event hosted exclusively by the ECW brand since its launch was December to Dismember in December 2006. On March 14 2007, before another one could be scheduled, WWE announced that all future pay-per-views would feature all three brands. 

Former ECW owner Paul Heyman served as the on air "ECW Representative". According to an interview in the UK newspaper The Sun, Heyman wrote the brand's weekly scripts and gave them to writers for possible changes, and then Vince McMahon for final approval. After the December to Dismember 2006 Heyman was relieved from both his on and off air duties with World Wrestling Entertainment. After Heyman left, there was no ECW authority figure until August 14 2007, when Armando Estrada was announced as the General Manager.

ECW's weekly series was first given a thirteen episode run as a "summer series" on the Sci Fi Channel. The first episode got a 2.79 rating, making it the highest rated show on cable in its time slot. Because of its good ratings it was given an extended run through the end of 2007. On October 23 2007, the network renewed the series through 2008.

While the show started out a ratings success, it began drawing criticism from fans of the original ECW early on. This was most evident by the negative crowd reaction "old school" fans gave the main event of Batista vs. the Big Show at the August 1 2006 show from Hammerstein Ballroom.

On October 16 2007 a "talent exchange" was started between the SmackDown! and ECW brands, allowing their respective talent to appear on either brand.

At ECW's launch, WWE.com introduced Hardcore Hangover, a video feature which allowed fans only in the United States to stream or download video footage from the weekly show. On October 16, 2007 it was replaced by a new feature which made full episodes of the show available for streaming on WWE.com the day after they were shown. After making a list of names from fans and conducting an online poll, the feature was named ECW X-Stream on October 31 2007.

ECW brand shows are held in big arenas as a part of the SmackDown! brand's Tuesday taping schedule. This is in sharp contrast to the first Extreme Championship Wrestling which ran most of its events in smaller venues. The show usually airs live on Tuesdays directly before — when touring the west coast — or after "SmackDown!" has taped, though it has been recorded and placed on a broadcast delay until later in the night depending on what circumstances dictate.

ECW's initial theme song was "Bodies" by Drowning Pool, which had been used by WWE for Extreme Championship Wrestling since before the brand was established. Since then the theme song has changed between a number of different songs before settling on ""Don't Question My Heart"", sung by Kyle Morrison of the band Shattersphere. A remix of ""Don't Question My Heart"" by Saliva featuring Brent Smith is now used. 

Starting with the January 22 2008 version, "ECW" began broadcasting in HD, along with a new HD set, which is shared among all three WWE brands.

ECW's initial theme song was "Bodies" by Drowning Pool, which had been used by WWE for Extreme Championship Wrestling since before the brand was established. Since then the theme song has changed between a number of different songs before settling on ""Don't Question My Heart"", sung by Kyle Morrison of the band Shattersphere. A remix of ""Don't Question My Heart"" by Saliva featuring Brent Smith was in use when the show ended. 

On February 2, 2010, WWE Chairman Vince McMahon announced that "ECW" would be going off the air and would be replaced with a new weekly program in its slot in what McMahon announced as "the next evolution of WWE; the next evolution of television history." It was later announced that the show would air its final episode on February 16, 2010. On the February 4, 2010 episode of "WWE Superstars", the new show's name was announced as "WWE NXT". The ECW brand is set to be disbanded, with every ECW wrestler becoming a free agent after the show ends.

In addition to being broadcast on Syfy in the United States, "ECW" was broadcast on a number of channels in many different countries.



</doc>
<doc id="91884" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91884" title="YHWH">
YHWH

For Jewish people YHWH is the most holy name of God, as written in the ancient Hebrew language. The language has no vowels, so the pronunciation is not agreed on. However, most academics agree that "Yahweh" is one guess of how to say it, but probably is not correct. 

It has also been pronounced as "Jehovah" in English, or "Yehowa" in Hebrew. This is because Hebrew pointing, or vowel symbols, are often put under the YHWH, making יְהֹוָה.

Traditionally, religious Jews do not say this name aloud. This is because it is believed to be too holy to be spoken when there is no Temple in Jerusalem. However, they often use substitutes when referring to the name of the their God. For example, they use HaShem ("The Name") or Shem HaMeforash (“the indescribable Name”). 

Today, all three Abrahamic religions (Judaism, Christianity and Islam) say that there is only one god. So, YHWH is often referred to as just "God", or "Allah" (which is the Arabic word for god). However, the Jewish Tanakh (also known by Christians as the Old Testament), is not clear on this point. It refers to other gods in several places – most notably in the versions of the Commandments given at either Mount Sinai or Mount Horeb, and detailed in Exodus () and Deuteronomy (), both of which command the Jews not to worship any other god besides YHWH.

Sometimes the four letters are called the "Tetragrammaton", which is Greek for "four letters"

These four letters are usually JHWH in German, French and Dutch, and either YHWH, YHVH, JHWH or JHVH in English. In some English language Bibles, it is written in all capital letters as "LORD," as in Jewish tradition. Others, such as the Jerusalem Bible use "Yahweh".

Jehovah and Yahweh are the most common English pronunciations of the Tetragrammaton.

The name Jehovah is used by the religious organisation of Jehovah's Witnesses.


</doc>
<doc id="91888" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91888" title="Oriana Fallaci">
Oriana Fallaci

Oriana Fallaci (29 June 1929 - 15 September 2006) was an Italian journalist, author, and political interviewer. A young partisan during World War II, she had a long and successful journalistic career. 

She has interviewed many internationally known leaders and celebrities such as the Dalai Lama, Henry Kissinger, the Shah of Iran, Ayatollah Khomeini, Willy Brandt, Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, Walter Cronkite, Omar Khadafi, Federico Fellini, Sammy Davis Jr, Nguyen Cao Ky, Yasser Arafat, Indira Gandhi, Alexandros Panagoulis, Archbishop Makarios III, Golda Meir, Nguyen Van Thieu, Haile Selassie and Sean Connery. 

After retirement, she returned to writing a series of articles and books critical of Islam and Arabs and for few people the articles were speaking about racism and Islamophobia. Oriana Fallaci hated Mexicans and Muslims, for their ideas and for the role of the muslim women in Islamic society.
Fallaci was born in Florence, Italy. During World War II, she joined the resistance in the democratic armed group "Giustizia e Libertà". Her father Edoardo Fallaci, was a famous antifascist political activist, in Florence.

Fallaci began her journalistic career in her teens, becoming a special correspondent for the Italian paper "Il mattino dell'Italia centrale" in 1946. Since 1967 she worked as a war correspondent, in Vietnam, for the Indo-Pakistani War, in the Middle East and in South America. For many years, Fallaci was a special correspondent for the political magazine "L'Europeo" and wrote for a number of leading newspapers and "Epoca" magazine. During the 1968 Tlatelolco massacre prior to the 1968 Summer Olympics, Fallaci was shot three times, dragged down stairs by her hair, and left for dead by Mexican forces. The demonstrations by immigrants in the United States these past few months "disgust" her, especially when protesters displayed the Mexican flag. "I don't love the Mexicans," Fallaci said, invoking her nasty treatment at the hands of Mexican police in 1968. "If you hold a gun and say, 'Choose who is worse between the Muslims and the Mexicans,' I have a moment of hesitation. Then I choose the Muslims, because they have broken my balls."
In the late 1970s, she had an affair with the subject of one of her interviews, Alexandros Panagoulis, who was a big rebel in the Greek resistance against the 1967 dictatorship, having been captured, heavily tortured and imprisoned for his (unsuccessful) assassination attempt against dictator and ex-Colonel Georgios Papadopoulos. In 1972 she interviewed Henry Kissinger.

Fallaci has twice received the St. Vincent Prize for journalism, as well as the Bancarella Prize (1971) for "Nothing, and So Be It"; Viareggio Prize (1979), for "Un uomo: Romanzo"; and Prix Antibes, 1993, for "Inshallah". She received a D.Litt. from Columbia College (Chicago). She has lectured at the University of Chicago, Yale University, Harvard University, and Columbia University. Fallaci’s writings have been translated into 21 languages including English, Spanish, French, Dutch, German, Greek, Swedish, Polish, Croatian, Hungarian and Slovenian.

Fallaci, smoked always during her life, died on September 15, 2006 where she was born, in Florence, from breast cancer.



</doc>
<doc id="91903" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91903" title="Solange Knowles">
Solange Knowles

Solange Piaget Knowles-Smith (born Solange Piaget Knowles, 1986) is an American actress and younger sister of Beyoncé. She is famous for acting in her sister's music video for B'Day and in "".

She married a man called Daniel Smith at age 17, birthing his child at 18 and then divorcing him. She now lives with her son and family. Her hometown is Houston, Texas. She also had a musical career started at age 14 and has been acting since 2003. She is now an entrepreneur promoting "Baby Jamz". She is of African American (from her father) and Louisiana Creole (from her mother) descent.



</doc>
