<doc id="18600" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18600" title="Golden Retriever">
Golden Retriever

Golden Retrievers are a very popular kind of dog. When the kind was first created, they were used for hunting. Now, they are sometimes used for hunting, but a lot of people like to have them as pets because they are very friendly. People also like them because their face looks like they are smiling all the time. Because they are so friendly, Golden Retrievers cannot be used as guard dogs, but they are good as drug dogs at airports and very good as service dogs for the blind (People who cannot see). They also like people, so when they are left alone for too long, they get very sad.

Golden Retrievers are very good family dogs because they extremely sweet and gentle with young children and do not bark very much. They are known for having a "soft mouth," and some have even been seen carrying raw eggs in their mouth without breaking them! Goldens are well-known for their calm and easy going temperament. They are great family dogs and provide good companionship. They are very smart eager to please, which allows them to be easily trained. Golden Retrievers are very active dogs and need a lot of exercise. Goldens make wonderful pets, but they need to be exercised regularly to prevent weight gain and promote overall health. They require a great deal of grooming, as they shed hair daily. Goldens also enjoy the cool water.

A good Golden Retriever has a nice, strong body and long hair that is yellow,red, or gold. Their fur even stops water because it has two special layers, one short and one long. They always have brown eyes and can show a lot of emotions with them. When they get old, their face turns white, but when they are young, they should not have any white on them. A normal male dog weighs about 50 to 70 kilogrammes (110 to 154 pounds) and a normal female dog weighs about 27 to 32 kilogrammes (60 to 70 pounds). From their front paws to their upper back, they are about 56 to 61 centimetres (22 to 25 inches) tall.

As said earlier, Goldens are used a lot for people who cannot see, but they are also used for obedience trials and as assistant dogs for people who have seizures or cannot hear. They are very good at smelling things, so they are also good for hunting. The second part of their name, retriever, is very true because they love to fetch things for their people! Goldens love to catch tennis balls and frisbees. Goldens also enjoy the water.

There are two different kinds of Golden Retrievers: show dogs and field dogs. Show dogs have very long hair and a lighter color, but field dogs have a lot more differences. They have short hair and can have any shade of hair. Because they have shorter hair, it is easier to brush them because they do not get as many things caught in it.

Like a lot of purebred dogs, Goldens can have bad health. A big problem for Goldens is hip dysplasia, which makes the dog's bones hurt at its hips. Also, a lot of Goldens have skin allergies, so people have to be very careful to not wash the dog too much and make sure that it does not get fleas. It is also important to clean a Goldens ears regularly because their long ears do not give the ear canal a chance to breathe. Goldens also have problems with their eyes sometimes, but it's mostly when they get older.It is important when purchasing a new Golden Retriever puppy to review the medical history of their parents. Oftentimes "backyard breeders" have been known to over breed or breed dogs with health problems. A reputable breeder should be able to supply the most current heatlth records for the dogs which they are breeding.

Golden Retrievers were developed by a man named Lord Tweedsmouth who lived in Scotland. He took a yellow dog and another dog called a Tweed Water Spaniel, which is a dog that does not exist anymore. The yellow dog was named Nous and the Spaniel was named Belle, and all Golden Retrievers are related to these two dogs. The breed was created to be stronger than other retrievers but more gentle with people so they could be trained very easily.

In 1903, the breed was added to the list of the Kennel Club of England, but it was not added to the list of the American Kennel Club until 1932. Now, there are millions of Goldens around the world, and people love them!



</doc>
<doc id="18603" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18603" title="Idea">
Idea

When a person thinks of something, that which he/she thinks about is called an "idea". Ideas are concepts created in the mind. No one really knows how this works. Ideas are the product of mental action. 

One idea can change the whole world. If someone has a better idea, they can sell it to others. 


</doc>
<doc id="18605" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18605" title="Connection">
Connection

A connection is when two things are put together. This can either be a 'real' connection, like a chain linking two objects, or you can use the word in a way. You might talk about a train connection between two cities, and mean the trains running between them.


</doc>
<doc id="18609" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18609" title="Nobuo Uematsu">
Nobuo Uematsu

Nobuo Uematsu (植松 伸夫; Uematsu Nobuo, born March 21, 1959) is a Japanese composer of video game music. He stays busy making lots of different types of music for games. A lot of the music he makes is for games produced by Squaresoft and Square Enix, including the "Final Fantasy" series of role-playing games, and some music for "Chrono Trigger".



</doc>
<doc id="18612" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18612" title="Category:Japanese people">
Category:Japanese people


</doc>
<doc id="18613" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18613" title="Dharma">
Dharma

Dharma or Dhamma is part of many religions or spiritual belief systems that began in India. The oldest is Hinduism. Buddhism, Ayyavazhi, Jainism, and Sikhism also believe in the same idea. It means "the law" to spiritual growth of the believers.

In Buddhism, the word "Dharma" also means the very old teachings of the Buddha. So, when a person "studies Dharma," they are studying what the Buddha taught people.

To learn more, read: Dharma (Buddhism)

In Hinduism, dharma is the spiritual law for human beings. It is the way of goodness, truth and duty. For example, for a youth, a big part of dharma is to be a good student. Parents’ dharma is to raise and support their family. Teacher’s dharma is to teach and the dharma of the police to protect others. Each age brings new responsibilities, so dharma will change. It is everyone’s dharma to be honest, kind and religious, and to be a good citizen. Hindus believe that following dharma fulfills the highest purpose on earth. When people follow dharma, they feel good about themselves, and life is most rewarding.


</doc>
<doc id="18615" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18615" title="Category:Turkish football clubs">
Category:Turkish football clubs


</doc>
<doc id="18616" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18616" title="Category:Welsh football clubs">
Category:Welsh football clubs


</doc>
<doc id="18617" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18617" title="Category:Spanish football clubs">
Category:Spanish football clubs


</doc>
<doc id="18621" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18621" title="Category:Waterfalls">
Category:Waterfalls


</doc>
<doc id="18622" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18622" title="Category:Cities in South Africa">
Category:Cities in South Africa

South Africa


</doc>
<doc id="18629" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18629" title="Nucleus">
Nucleus

Nucleus means the center of something. It could more directly mean:



</doc>
<doc id="18630" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18630" title="Walter Sisulu">
Walter Sisulu

Walter Max Ulyate Sisulu (18 May 1912 – 5 May 2003) was a South African freedom fighter. He fought against apartheid. Sisulu was the Secretary-General of the African National Congress from 1949 to 1954. Over the next 10 years he was put in prison seven times. He was one of many people, including Nelson Mandela to be found guilty of treason during trials between 1956 and 1961. He was sent to prison for 6 years because of this. While free on bail, he went into hiding. He was found in 1963 and put on trial again. In 1964, he as sent to prison for the rest of his life. He was released from prison in 1989. In 1991, he became the Deputy-President of the African National Congress. He held the position from July 1991 to 1994. 


</doc>
<doc id="18634" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18634" title="Template:United States state capitals">
Template:United States state capitals


</doc>
<doc id="18635" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18635" title="List of U.S. state capitals">
List of U.S. state capitals

This is a list of United States state capital cities. Each city is the center of government for a state in the United States, usually in the capitol building. The state capital city with the fewest people is Montpelier, Vermont, while the capital city with the most people is Phoenix, Arizona. 



</doc>
<doc id="18636" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18636" title="Juneau, Alaska">
Juneau, Alaska

The City and Borough of Juneau () is a unified municipality located on the Gastineau Channel in the panhandle of the U.S. state of Alaska. It has been the capital of Alaska since 1906, when the government of the then-District of Alaska was moved from Sitka as dictated by the U.S. Congress in 1900. The municipality unified in 1970 when the city of Juneau merged with the city of Douglas and the surrounding Greater Juneau Borough to form the current home rule municipality.

The area of Juneau is larger than that of Rhode Island and Delaware individually and almost as large as the two states combined. Downtown Juneau is nestled at the base of Mount Juneau and across the channel from Douglas Island. As of the 2010 census, the City and Borough had a population of 31,275. 

Juneau is named after gold prospector Joe Juneau, though the place was for a time called Rockwell and then Harrisburg (after Juneau's co-prospector, Richard Harris). The Tlingit name of the town is Dzántik'i Héeni (""river where the flounders gather""), and Auke Bay just north of Juneau proper is called "Aak'w" (""little lake"") in Tlingit. The Taku River, just south of Juneau, was named after the cold "t'aakh" wind, which occasionally blows down from the mountains.

Downtown Juneau sits at sea level, with tides averaging , below steep mountains about to high. Atop these mountains is the Juneau Icefield, a large ice mass from which about 30 glaciers flow; two of these, the Mendenhall Glacier and the Lemon Creek Glacier, are visible from the local road system; the Mendenhall glacier has been generally retreating; its front face is declining both in width and height.

The Alaska State Capitol in downtown Juneau was originally built as the Federal and Territorial Building in 1931. Prior to statehood, it housed federal government offices, the federal courthouse and a post office. It also housed the territorial legislature and many other territorial offices, including that of the governor. Today, it is still the home of the state legislature and the offices of the governor and lieutenant governor. Other executive branch offices have largely moved elsewhere, in Juneau or elsewhere in the state, in the ongoing battle between branches for space in the building, as well as the decades-long capital move issue. Recent discussion has been focused between relocating the seat of state government outside of Juneau and building a new capitol building in Juneau. Neither position has advanced very far. The Alaska Committee, a local community advocacy group, has led efforts to thus far keep the capital in Juneau.

Long before European settlement in the Americas, the Gastineau Channel was a favorite fishing ground for local Tlingit Indians, known then as the Auke and Taku tribes, who had inhabited the surrounding area for thousands of years. The native cultures are rich with artistic traditions including carving, weaving, orating, singing and dancing, and Juneau has become a major social center for the Tlingit, Haida, and Tsimshian of Southeast Alaska.

The first European to see the Juneau area was Joseph Whidbey, master of the "Discovery" during George Vancouver’s 1791-95 expedition, who explored the region in July–August 1794. Early in August he saw the length of Gastineau Channel from the south, noting a small island in mid-channel. He later saw the length of the channel again, this time from the west. He said it was unnavigable, being filled with ice.

In 1880, Sitka mining engineer George Pilz offered a reward to any local chief who could lead him to gold-bearing ore. Chief Kowee arrived with some ore and several prospectors were sent to investigate. On their first trip, to "Gold Creek", they found deposits of little interest. However, at Chief Kowee's urging Pilz sent Joe Juneau and Richard Harris back to the Gastineau Channel, directing them to Snow Slide Gulch (the head of Gold Creek) where they found nuggets "as large as peas and beans", in Harris' words.

On October 18, 1880, the two men marked a town site where soon a mining camp appeared. Within a year, the camp became a small town, the first to be founded after Alaska's purchase by the United States.

The town was originally called Harrisburg, after Richard Harris; some time later, its name was changed to Rockwell, after Lt. Com. Charles Rockwell. In 1881, the miners met and renamed the town Juneau, after Joe Juneau. In 1906, after the diminution of the whaling and fur trade, Sitka, the original capital of Alaska, declined in importance and the seat of government was moved to Juneau. Juneau was the largest city in Alaska during the inter-war years, passing Fairbanks in the 1920 census and displaced by Anchorage in 1950.

In 1911, the United States Congress authorized funds for the building of a capitol building for the Alaska Territory. Because of World War I, construction was delayed, also there were difficulties purchasing the necessary land. Local citizens of Juneau donated some of the required funds, and construction began on September 8, 1929. Construction of the capitol took less than two years, and the building was dedicated as the Federal and Territorial Building on February 14, 1931. The design of the building was drawn up by Treasury Department architects in the Art Deco architectural style. The building was originally used by the federal government in order to house the federal courthouse and post office. Once Alaska gained statehood in 1959, the building has been used by the state government.

The Alaska Governor's Mansion was built using the Public Building Act in 1910. The mansion was designed by James Knox Taylor in the in the old Federal Style.

Robert Atwood, then publisher of the Anchorage Times and an Anchorage 'booster,' was an early leader of a group that has tried to move the capital to Anchorage. Many people in both Juneau and Fairbanks have fought the proposal. One provision required the new capital to be at least from Anchorage and Fairbanks, to prevent either city from having undue influence; in the end Juneau remained the capital. In the 1970s, voters passed a plan to move the capital to Willow, a town north of Anchorage. But pro-Juneau people there and in Fairbanks got voters to also approve a measure (the FRANK Initiative) requiring voter approval of all bondable construction costs before building could begin. Alaskans later voted against spending the estimated $900 million. A 1984 "ultimate" capital-move vote also failed, as did a 1996 vote.

So, Alaskans voted several times on moving their capital, but Juneau remains the capital.
Once Alaska was granted statehood in 1959, Juneau grew with the growth of state government. Growth accelerated remarkably after the construction of the Alaska Pipeline in 1977, the state budget being flush with oil revenues; Juneau expanded for a time due to growth in state government jobs, but that growth slowed considerably in the 1980s. The state demographer expects the borough to grow very slowly over the next twenty years. Cruise ship tourism grew rapidly from about 230,000 passengers in 1990 to nearly 1,000,000 in 2006 as cruise lines built more and larger ships—even 'mega-ships', sailing to Juneau seven days a week instead of six, over a longer season, but this primarily summer industry provides few year-round jobs. Its population rank in 2000 was second in the state, closely ahead of Fairbanks; recent estimates have Juneau falling back to third, as it was in the 1960–90 counts.

Juneau is accessible only by sea or air. Cars and trucks are transported to and from Juneau by barge or ferry. The State-owned ferry is called the Alaska Marine Highway System (AMHS). Juneau is one of only five state capitals not served by an interstate highway.

Local government operates a bus service under the name Capital Transit. There are also several taxicab companies, and tour buses used mainly for cruise ship visitors. Many tourists arrive on cruise ships that sail from Vancouver or Seattle.

Juneau International Airport serves the city & borough of Juneau. Alaska Airlines is as of 2009 the sole commercial jet passenger operator. MarkAir and Western Airlines and its successor, Delta previously served Juneau. Alaska Airlines provides service to Anchorage and Sitka as well as to many small communities in the state. Seattle is a common destination for Juneau residents. Wings of Alaska, Alaska Seaplanes, and Air Excursions offer scheduled flights on smaller aircraft to villages in Southeast Alaska. Some air carriers provide U.S. mail service.
There is an extensive highway system around Juneau. The Juneau-Douglas Bridge connects Juneau mainland with Douglas Island. The road system does not connect to any other city. Avalanche hazards, steep slopes, cold weather and environmental protection concerns are factors that make road construction and maintenance difficult and costly.



</doc>
<doc id="18637" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18637" title="Phoenix, Arizona">
Phoenix, Arizona

Phoenix is the capital city of the U.S. state of Arizona. It is the largest city in that state. The city is the county seat of Maricopa County. It is the largest capital city in the United States. The city is located along the normally dry Salt River. It became a city on February 25 1881. People who live in Phoenix are known as Phoenicians.

Phoenix had an estimated 2005 population of 1,475,834 people. It was the sixth largest city in the United States in the 2000 census. Phoenix is a very large city. It has an area of 515 square miles. This makes it the 10th largest city by area. As of 2006, the Phoenix Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA) was the 13th-largest in the United States, with an estimated population of 4,039,182 people.

As early as 700 AD, the Hohokam people lived in the land that would become Phoenix. The Hohokam created about 135 miles (217 km) of irrigation canals. This let them grow things on the land. 

It is believed that between AD 1300 and AD 1450 drought and floods caused the Hohokam to no longer live in the area. Spanish and Mexican explorers knew of the area but they did not go as far north as the Salt River Valley.

In 1867, Jack Swilling of Wickenburg, Arizona came to the area. He saw that the land was good for farming. The only problems he saw were a lack of rain and good irrigation. Swilling corrected the problem by having a series of canals built. A small community was created about four miles (6 km) east of the where the city is today.

The farming community was named Swilling's Mill. The name was later changed to Helling Mill, Mill City, and East Phoenix. Swilling was a Confederate soldier during the Civil War. He wanted to name the city "Stonewall," after Gen. Stonewall Jackson. Other people had other ideas for names. Finally, Lord Darrell Duppa suggested the name "Phoenix". The name is the same as the mythological fire bird which is born again from its own ash after it dies. It was a good name for a city born from a former civilization.

On February 25 1881, Phoenix became an incorporated city. At that time it had a population of about 2,500 people. Phoenix held its first city election on May 3 1881. Judge John T. Alsap defeated James D. Monihon, 127 to 107, to become the city's first mayor. In early 1888, the city offices were moved into the new City Hall.

The coming of the railroad in the 1880s was the first of several important events changed the economy of Phoenix. Phoenix became a trade center. In response, the Phoenix Chamber of Commerce was created on November 4 1888.

Phoenix is located at 33°26'54" North, 112°4'26" West (33.448457°, -112.073844°) in the Salt River Valley, or "Valley of the Sun", in central Arizona. It lies at a mean elevation of 1,117 feet (340 m), in the northern reaches of the Sonoran Desert.

Other than the mountains in and around the city, the topography of Phoenix is mostly flat. This allows the city's main streets to run on a precise with wide, open-spaced roadways.

The Salt River runs westward through the city of Phoenix. The riverbed is often dry or just a trickle due to large irrigation usage. The river is full after infrequent rainstorms or when more water is released from upstream dams. The city of Tempe has built two inflatable dams in the Salt River bed to create a year-round recreational lake, called Tempe Town Lake. The dams are deflated to allow the river to flow unimpeded during releases. Lake Pleasant Regional Park is located in Northwest Phoenix within the suburb of Peoria, Arizona.

As with most of Arizona, Phoenix does not observe daylight saving time. In 1973, Gov. Jack Williams argued to Congress that energy use would increase in the evening. Refrigeration units were not used as often in the morning on standard time. He went on to say that energy use would rise "because there would be more lights on in the early morning." He was also concerned about children going to school in the dark, which indeed they were. Navajo Nation lands in Northeastern Arizona observe daylight saving time in conjunction with the rest of their tribal lands in other states.

Phoenix has an arid climate, with very hot summers and temperate winters. The average summer high temperature is among the hottest of any populated area in the United States and approaches those of cities such as Riyadh and Baghdad. The temperature reaches or exceeds 100°F (38°C) on an average of 110 days during the year, including most days from late May through early September, and highs top 110 °F (43 °C) an average of 18 days during the year. On June 26, 1990, the temperature reached an all-time recorded high of 122 °F (50 °C).

On average, Phoenix has only 5 days per year where the temperature drops to or below freezing. Frequently, outlying areas of Phoenix see frost, but the airport does not. The earliest frost on record occurred on November 3, 1946, and the latest occurred on April 4, 1945. The all-time lowest recorded temperature in Phoenix was 16 °F (-8.8 °C) on January 7, 1913.

Since 1986, the city of Phoenix has been divided into urban villages, many of which are based upon historically significant neighborhoods and communities. Each village has a planning committee. This committee is appointed directly by the city council. According to the village planning handbook issued by the city, the purpose of the village planning committees is to work with the city's planning commission to ensure a balance of housing and employment in each village. The committees also concentrate on development at identified village cores, and to promote the unique character and identity of the villages. 

There are 15 urban villages in the city at this time: Ahwatukee Foothills, Alhambra, Camelback East, Central City, Deer Valley, Desert View, Encanto, Estrella, Laveen, Maryvale, North Gateway, North Mountain, Paradise Valley (not to be confused with the town of Paradise Valley), South Mountain and Rio Vista. Rio Vista was created as New Village in 2004 and is currently very sparsely populated, with no large amount of development expected in the near future.

Commonly referred-to Phoenix regions and districts include Downtown, Midtown, West Phoenix, North Phoenix, South Phoenix, Biltmore Area, Arcadia, Sunnyslope, Ahwatukee.

The early economy of Phoenix was mostly agricultural. It was mostly dependent on cotton and citrus farming. In the last twenty years, the economy has changed as quickly as the population has grown. As the state capital of Arizona, many residents in the area are employed by the government. Arizona State University has enhanced the area's population through education and its growing research capabilities. Many high-tech and telecommunications companies have also recently relocated to the area. Due to the warm climate in winter, Phoenix benefits greatly from seasonal tourism and recreation, and the golf industry.

Phoenix is currently home to several Fortune 1000 companies. Companies in Phoenix include waste management company Allied Waste, electronics corporation Avnet, Apollo Group (which operates the University of Phoenix), mining company Freeport-McMoRan (recently merged with Phoenix based Phelps Dodge), retailer PetSmart, development company Tempo Creative, energy supplier Pinnacle West and retailer CSK Auto. Honeywell's Aerospace division is headquartered in Phoenix, and the valley hosts many of their avionics and mechanical facilities. Intel has one of their largest sites here, employing about 10,000 employees and 3 chip manufacturing fabs, including the $3 billion state-of-the-art 300 mm and 45 nm Fab 32. American Express hosts their financial transactions, customer information, and their entire website in Phoenix. The city is also home to the headquarters of U-HAUL International, a rental company and moving supply store, as well Best Western, a hotel chain. Mesa Air Group, a regional airline group, is headquartered in Phoenix.

The military has a significant presence in Phoenix with Luke Air Force Base located in the western suburbs. At its height, in the 1940s, the Phoenix area had three military bases: Luke Field (still in use), Falcon Field, and Williams Air Force Base (now Phoenix-Mesa Gateway Airport), with numerous auxiliary air fields located throughout the region.

As the capital of Arizona, Phoenix houses the state legislature. In 1913, the commission form of government was adopted. The city of Phoenix is served by a city council. The city council is made up of a mayor and eight city council members. The mayor is elected in a citywide vote to a four-year term. Phoenix City Council members are elected to four-year terms by voters in each of the eight districts.

The current mayor of Phoenix is Phil Gordon, who was elected to a four-year term in 2003. He was again re-elected to another four-year term in 2007. The mayor and city council members have equal voting power to govern the city.

Phoenix operates under a council-manager form of government, with a strong city manager. The city manage supervises all city departments and executing policies adopted by the Council.

The United States Postal Service operates post offices throughout Phoenix. The main Phoenix Post Office is located at 4949 East Van Buren Street.

As of February 9, 2009, Phoenix offers a domestic partnership registry open to opposite- and same-sex couples with no resident requirements for registrants. 

By the 1970s there was rising crime and a decline in business within the downtown core. The city's crime rates in many categories have improved since that time, but still are higher than state and national averages. The crime rate in Phoenix has gone down through the years. However, recent kidnappings and human trafficking due to the Mexican drug trade have brought negative attention to the city.

Car theft has been a problem in Phoenix. In 2001, Phoenix was number one for theft rate with 35,161 total thefts, giving a rate of 1,081.25 per 100,000. However, in 2003, Phoenix dropped to second for with 1,253.71 per 100,000, although it was first for total car thefts with 40,769.



</doc>
<doc id="18638" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18638" title="Little Rock, Arkansas">
Little Rock, Arkansas

Little Rock is the capital city and largest city of the U.S. state of Arkansas. 


</doc>
<doc id="18639" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18639" title="Hartford, Connecticut">
Hartford, Connecticut

Hartford is the capital city of the U.S. state of Connecticut. It is only 24 miles from Springfield, Massachusetts. Hartford has the third most people in the state behind Bridgeport and New Haven. Airline service is provided from Bradley International Airport. Hartford has a American Hockey League team called the Connecticut Whale, a rugby team called the Hartford Wanderers and a United Football League team called the Hartford Colonials. Hartford also used to have a National Hockey League team called the Hartford Whalers that played in the NHL from 1979 to 1997.

<references>


</doc>
<doc id="18640" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18640" title="Dover, Delaware">
Dover, Delaware

Dover is the capital city of the U.S. state of Delaware. It is the county seat of Kent County, which is in the middle of the state. Dover had 36,047 people in 2010.
William Penn founded Dover as the court town for newly established Kent County in 1683. Penn was the proprietor of the territory generally known as the "Lower Counties on the Delaware." In 1717, a special commission of the Delaware General Assembly laid out the city. The capital of the state of Delaware was moved here from Newcastle in 1777 because of its central location and relative safety from British raiders on the Delaware River. Because of an act passed in October 1779, the assembly elected to meet at any place in the state they saw fit, meeting successively in Wilmington, Lewes, Dover, Newcastle, and Lewes again, until the capital moved to Dover permanently in October 1781. The city's central square, known as The Green, was the location of many rallies, troop reviews, and other patriotic events. Today, The Green remains the heart of Dover's historic district and is the location of the Delaware Supreme Court and the Kent County Courthouse.

Dover was most famously the home of Caesar Rodney, the popular wartime leader of Delaware during the American Revolution.

Dover and Kent County were deeply divided over the issue of slavery, and the city was a "stop" on the Underground Railroad. It was also home to a large Quaker community that encouraged a sustained emancipation effort in the early nineteenth century. There were very few slaves in the area, but a majority of people wanted to keep slavery legal until the Civil War.
The main north–south highway through Dover is U.S. Route 13, which runs through the main commercial strip of Dover on the multi-lane, divided Dupont Highway. An alternate route of U.S. Route 13, U.S. Route 13 Alternate, passes through downtown Dover on Governors Avenue. The Delaware Route 1 turnpike, which provides the main route to Wilmington and the Delaware beaches, passes to the east of Dover. It ends near the Dover Air Force Base and DE 1 continues south on Bay Road. U.S. Route 113 formerly ran along Bay Road from Milford to US 13 near the State Capitol Complex, however it was decommissioned in 2004 to avoid the concurrency with DE 1 between the Dover Air Force Base and Milford. Delaware Route 8 is the main east–west route through Dover, passing through downtown on Division Street and West Dover on Forrest Avenue. It continues west toward Maryland to provide access to the Chesapeake Bay Bridge. Dover is one of only five state capitals not served by an interstate highway.

Dover Air Force Base is inside the southeast corporate limits of Dover, however the closest sizable civilian airport to Dover is the New Castle Airport in New Castle. The closest airports with commercial air service to Dover include the Wicomico Regional Airport in Salisbury, Maryland, the Baltimore-Washington International Thurgood Marshall Airport in Baltimore, Maryland, and the Philadelphia International Airport in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

Dover is on a former Pennsylvania Railroad line, which is now served by Norfolk Southern. At one time Dover had a daily Amtrak passenger service; however, the line now is just used for local freight. The closest passenger rail station is the Amtrak station in Wilmington.

DART First State provides weekday local bus service throughout Dover, speading from the Water Street Transfer Center in downtown. They also provide inter-county service to Wilmington and Georgetown and seasonal service to Rehoboth Beach.

Greyhound Lines are provided as inter-city bus transportation.
Dover has Delaware State University, a land-grant university and Delaware's only historically black university, and Wesley College. It is also home to the Terry Campus of the Delaware Technical & Community College and that college's administrative offices. Dover also has satellite locations of the University of Delaware and Wilmington University.

Three public high schools serve Dover residents. Caesar Rodney High School, in the Caesar Rodney School District (just outside the city in Camden); Dover High School, in the Capital School District; and Polytech High School, in the Polytech School District (in Woodside).

The Dover Air Force Base Middle School is on the grounds of the Dover Air Force Base. This school is unusual in that it is run by the Caesar Rodney School District and not the Department of Defense.


</doc>
<doc id="18641" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18641" title="Boise, Idaho">
Boise, Idaho

Boise is the capital city of the U.S. state of Idaho. 


</doc>
<doc id="18642" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18642" title="Springfield, Illinois">
Springfield, Illinois

Springfield is the capital city of the U.S. state of Illinois. It is close to the center of the state. In the 2000 census, Springfield had more than 110,000 people living in it.

The state Capitol, in the middle of Springfield, is where the General Assembly (the state's legislature) meets and where the governor's office is. The Capitol is a big building with a dome that can be seen from many miles away. Springfield also has an old capitol, which is now a historic site.

Springfield was the home of Abraham Lincoln before he was elected president in 1860. Lincoln was a lawyer and practiced law many places in Illinois. His office is near the old capitol. When he died, his body was brought back to Springfield. His home, his law office, his tomb are all open to the public. Springfield also has a new building with a museum and library dedicated to him and his presidency.

Springfield has two Interstate highways: I-55 and I-72. I-55 runs from Chicago to Springfield and then through St. Louis, Missouri. Springfield also has many smaller roads to other cities.


</doc>
<doc id="18643" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18643" title="Indianapolis, Indiana">
Indianapolis, Indiana

Indianapolis is the capital city and largest city in the state of Indiana, in the United States. In the 2000 census, it had more than 790,000 people living in it, making it one of the 15 largest cities in the country. It is the home of the Indianapolis Colts football team and the Indiana Pacers basketball team. Each May, the city hosts the "Indianapolis 500" car race. 


</doc>
<doc id="18644" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18644" title="Des Moines, Iowa">
Des Moines, Iowa

Des Moines is the capital city of U.S. state of Iowa. 

Des Moines was started in 1843 where the Raccoon River and Des Moines River meet. Des Moines became the capital of Iowa in 1857.

Today, Des Moines is the largest city in Iowa with a population of 194,163 as of 2005. 

Des Moines has many insurance companies in the city. It is also the location of the Iowa State Fair that happens every year.

The band Slipknot is from Des Moines.


</doc>
<doc id="18645" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18645" title="Topeka, Kansas">
Topeka, Kansas

Topeka () is the capital city of the U.S. state of Kansas. Topeka is the county seat of Shawnee County, and is located in the northeast part of the state. Topeka had a population of 127,473 at the 2010 census.

Topeka was established in 1854 when nine men founded the Topeka Town Association. At an election in November 1861, the people of Kansas chose Topeka as the permanent capital of the state.

The name "Topeka" is composed of three words from the Kaw, Omaha, and Iowa Native American tribes. The first, "to", means "potato". The second, "pe" (short for "pekae") is an adjective meaning "good". The third, "okae", means "to dig". Thus, the name "Topeka" means "a good place to dig potatoes". The name was chosen because "[i]t was a novel name of Indian origin, euphonious [pleasing] of sound and simple".

Charles Sheldon and Charles Fox Parham, both important people in the history of American Christianity, were preachers in Topeka. Many historians believe that the modern Pentecostalism movement started in Monroe's church in 1901. Sheldon was a preacher in Topeka around the same time, who is famous for coming up with the phrase "What would Jesus do?"

"Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka" was a lawsuit that went before the United States Supreme Court in 1954. Several families sued the public school board in Topeka for the right for black students to go to the same schools as white students. The Supreme Court decided that school districts could not make students go to different schools because of their race. Today, the government has a museum in Topeka about "Brown v. Board of Education" and civil rights for African-Americans.


</doc>
<doc id="18647" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18647" title="Baton Rouge, Louisiana">
Baton Rouge, Louisiana

Baton Rouge is the capital city of the U.S. state of Louisiana. 


</doc>
<doc id="18648" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18648" title="Augusta, Maine">
Augusta, Maine

Augusta is the capital city of the U.S. state of Maine. 18,560 people live in Augusta. 


</doc>
<doc id="18649" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18649" title="Saint Paul, Minnesota">
Saint Paul, Minnesota

Saint Paul is the capital city of the U.S. state of Minnesota. It is located across the Mississippi River from Minneapolis. When people talk about both cities, they call them the Twin Cities.



</doc>
<doc id="18650" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18650" title="Jackson, Mississippi">
Jackson, Mississippi

Jackson is the capital city and largest city of the U.S. state of Mississippi.


</doc>
<doc id="18651" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18651" title="Jefferson City, Missouri">
Jefferson City, Missouri

Jefferson City is the capital of the U.S. state of Missouri. It is also county seat of Cole County. (The Jefferson City metropolitan area includes all of Callaway and Cole counties.) As of the 2010 census, the population was 43,079. Jefferson City was named after Thomas Jefferson, the third president of the United States.

Jefferson City is on the northern edge of the Ozark Plateau on the southern side of the Missouri River near the geographic center of the state, in a region known as Mid-Missouri. It is at the western edge of the Missouri Rhineland, one of the major wine-producing regions of the Midwest.

In pre-Columbian times, this region was home of an ancient people known only as the Mound Builders. By the time European settlers began arriving, the Mound Builders had vanished into history. The contemporary indigenous peoples were called the Osage Indians. When the Missouri Territory was organized in 1812, St. Louis was the seat of government. St. Charles next served as the capital.

The new state legislature decided to build a new capital city in the middle of the state in 1821. They named it after Thomas Jefferson, who was still alive. A village was already there called Lohman's Landing. For years the village was little more than a trading post located in the wilderness about midway between St. Louis and Kansas City. In 1826 the Missouri legislature first met here and in 1839 the settlement was incorporated as a city. 

Jefferson City was selected as the site for a state prison and, in 1836, the Missouri State Penitentiary was opened. The prison was home to a number of infamous Americans, including: former heavyweight champion Sonny Liston, assassin James Earl Ray, and bank robber Charles "Pretty Boy" Floyd.
During the American Civil War, Jefferson City was occupied by Union troops. Many of the people in the state supported the Union, although Missouri's Little Dixie section along the river in western counties was strongly Confederate.

German immigrants created vineyards in small towns on either side of the Missouri River, especially on the north from Jefferson City east to Marthasville outside St. Louis. Known as the Missouri Rhineland for its vineyards, first established by German immigrants in the mid-19th century, this area has become a part of the agricultural and tourist economy.

Jefferson City is located at (38.572954, -92.189283). According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of , of which, is land and (3.61%) is water.

Jefferson City is served by the Jefferson City Public School District, which operates Jefferson City High School, Simonsen 9th Grade Center, Lewis and Clark Middle School and Thomas Jefferson Middle School, and eleven elementary schools. The district is currently considering building a second high school. There are 4 private elementary schools: St. Joseph's Cathedral, St. Peter, Immaculate Conception, and Trinity Lutheran.Calvary Lutheran, Helias Catholic, and Lighthouse Preparatory Academy are Jefferson City's private high schools.

Lincoln University is a public historically black university with open enrollment and certificate, associate, bachelor, and graduate programs. Columbia College, Linn State Technical College, William Woods University, Metro Business College, and Merrell University also have locations in Jefferson City with varying degree levels and options.

Jefftran operates a public bus system year-round. Jefferson City is one of five state capitols in United States that are not served by an interstate highway. Only four other state capitols nationwide share in this oddity. Interstate 70 passes by the city to the north, in Columbia. U.S. Highways in the city include U.S. Route 50, U.S. Route 54, and U.S. Route 63. Also Route 179 and Route 94 run through the city, giving it four highways that intersect with I-70. Jefferson City is also home to an Amtrak station.



</doc>
<doc id="18652" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18652" title="Helena, Montana">
Helena, Montana

Helena is the capital city of the U.S. state of Montana. 


</doc>
<doc id="18653" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18653" title="Carson City, Nevada">
Carson City, Nevada

Carson City is the capital city of the American state of Nevada. At the 2010 United States Census, Carson City had a population of 55,274.

Settlers who lived present-day Carson City named the area "Washoe", after the Washoe Native Americans who lived there. John C. Frémont and his party of explorers were the first European Americans to visit the Carson City area in 1843. Frémont named a river flowing through the valley Carson River for Christopher "Kit" Carson, who served as a scout on Frémont's expedition.

When Nevada became a state in 1864 during the Civil War, Carson City was confirmed as Nevada's permanent capital. Abraham Curry, the founder of Carson City, reserved an area equivalent to four city blocks (10 acres or 4.04 ha) at the center of the town for the future state capitol building. When the Capitol building was built ten years later, it was located there. The fourth session of the state legislature met in the still-incomplete building at the beginning of 1871. Construction was completed by May 1, 1871.

There are two highways in the city US Route 395 and US Route 50. Carson City has one under-construction freeway, Interstate 580. Phase 1 of the Carson City Freeway Project from US 395, just north of the city, to US 50 was completed in February 2006 and Phase 2A, extending from Rt. 50 to Fairview Drive, was officially opened on September 24, 2009. Phase 2B, Fairview Drive to Rt. 50, awaits funding. Until it is finished, Carson City is one of five state capitals without an Interstate highway.

Carson City's first bus system, called Jump Around Carson, opened in October 2005. There is almost no ground public transportation to other cities. Passenger train service stopped in 1948. Greyhound Lines stopped bus service there in 2006. Amtrak stopped their bus to Sacramento in 2008. Greyhound and Amtrak have busses to Reno, Monday to Friday.

Carson Airport is in the northern part of the city. Reno-Tahoe International Airport, away, has domestic commercial flights.


</doc>
<doc id="18654" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18654" title="Austin, Texas">
Austin, Texas

Austin is the capital city of the U.S. state of Texas. The University of Texas at Austin is located there. 

Austin is frequently called the Live Music Capital of the World.

Austin was first called Waterloo in 1835. In 1839 it was chosen to be the capital city of The Republic of Texas and named for Stephen F. Austin. The University of Texas at Austin was founded in 1883.

The mayor of Austin is Lee Leffingwell.

Austin also has a city council with seven members.

Many businesses have their main offices in or near Austin, including AMD, Dell, Freescale Semiconductors and Whole Foods.

Formula One has made an agreement with the city of Austin to host the Formula 1 United States Grand Prix. A new racetrack will be built to host the race. The last United States Grand Prix was in 2007 at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway.


</doc>
<doc id="18655" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18655" title="Montpelier, Vermont">
Montpelier, Vermont

Montpelier 
is a city in the U.S. state of Vermont that serves as the state capital. It is also the shire town (county seat) of Washington County. As the capital of Vermont, Montpelier is the site of the Vermont State House, seat of the legislative branch of Vermont government. The Vermont State House has a golden dome. The population was 7,855 at the 2010 census. By population, it is the smallest state capital in the United States. The Vermont History Museum and Vermont College of Fine Arts are located in Montpelier.

The state legislature made Montpelier the state capital in 1805. 



</doc>
<doc id="18656" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18656" title="Concord, New Hampshire">
Concord, New Hampshire

Concord is the capital city of the U.S. state of New Hampshire. The land which Concord now occupies along the banks of the Merrimack River was settled thousands of years ago by Native Americans. The broad sweeps of the river valley, good soil for farming, and easy transportation on the Merrimack made the site of Concord equally inviting to English-speaking settlers in the eighteenth century. Settled by immigrants from Massachusetts in 1725, the community grew in prominence during the eighteenth century. Some of Concord's earliest houses remain today at the north end of Main Street. In the years following the American Revolution, the City's central location made it a logical choice for the state capital, and in 1808 Concord was named the official seat of state government. Today the 1819 State House is the oldest state capitol in which the legislative branches meet in their original chambers. 
This area's first settlement in 1659 was named Penacook, for the Indian name Pannukog, meaning crooked place or bend in the river. The first land grant was in 1725, and the town was incorporated as Rumford in 1733. The name was changed to Concord in 1765 upon resolution of a bitter boundary dispute between Rumford and Bow. Its central location was the logical choice for state capital, and Concord was so named in 1808. The State House, built in 1818 and first occupied in 1819, is the oldest in continuous use in the country. In 1853, the State granted Concord a city charter. It was in Concord that the Abbotts built the famous Concord Coach, modeled after the coronation coach for King George III. Granite quarrying has been another major industry, and Concord's quarries supplied granite for the US Library of Congress. Concord was home to Franklin Pierce, 14th President of the United States, following his presidency.
Concord had the tenth largest numeric change in population, totaling 12,777 over 50 years, from 27,988 in 1950 to 40,765 in 2000. The largest decennial percent change was a 22 percent increase between 1980 and 1990; all other decades increased by ten percent or less. The 2005 Census estimate for Concord was 42,336 residents, which ranked third among New Hampshire's incorporated cities and towns.


</doc>
<doc id="18657" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18657" title="Trenton, New Jersey">
Trenton, New Jersey

Trenton is the capital city of the U.S. state of New Jersey. It is the county seat of Mercer County. Trenton is in the middle part of New Jersey, along the Delaware River.


</doc>
<doc id="18658" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18658" title="Santa Fe, New Mexico">
Santa Fe, New Mexico

Santa Fe (; Tewa: Ogha Po'oge, ) is the capital of the U.S. state of New Mexico. It is the fourth-largest city in the state and is the seat of . Santa Fe (literally 'holy faith' in Spanish) had a population of 67,947 in the 2010 census. It is the principal city of the Santa Fe, New Mexico Metropolitan Statistical Area which encompasses all of Santa Fe County and is part of the larger Santa Fe-Española Combined Statistical Area. The city's full name when founded was "La Villa Real de la Santa Fé de San Francisco de Asís" ("The Royal Town of the Holy Faith of St. Francis of Assisi").

In 1912, New Mexico became the United States of America's 47th state, with Santa Fe as its capital.
According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of 37.4 square miles (96.9 km), of which, 37.3 square miles (96.7 km) of it is land and 0.1 square miles (0.2 km) of it (0.21%) is water.

Santa Fe is at 7,199 feet (2134 m) above sea level, making it the highest state capital in the United States.

Santa Fe has many world-class museums. Many are around the historic downtown Plaza or close by:

Others are on Museum Hill:


</doc>
<doc id="18659" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18659" title="Albany, New York">
Albany, New York

Albany ( ) is the capital city of the U.S. state of New York, the seat of Albany County, and the central city of New York's Capital District. Roughly north of New York City, Albany sits on the west bank of the Hudson River, about south of its confluence with the Mohawk River.

Prior to the recession of the 1990s, Albany was home to two Fortune 500 companies: KeyBank and Fleet Bank. Both banks have since moved or merged with other banks.

It is home to the AHL ice hockey team the "Albany River Rats".

Albany is served by the Albany International Airport.
The Empire State Plaza has many state agency office buildings. It fills almost any view of Albany. Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller and architect Wallace Harrison led its construction between 1965 and 1978. The complex is a powerful example of late American modern architecture. It remains a controversial building project both for displacing city residents and for its architectural style. The most recognizable aspect of the complex is the Erastus Corning Tower. The tower is the tallest building in New York outside of New York City. The 19th-century New York State Capitol at the opposite (north) end of the plaza is the seat of the New York State Legislature and the home of the Governor's office.

Albany's initial architecture incorporated many Dutch influences, followed soon after by those of the English. The Quackenbush House, a Dutch Colonial brick mansion, was built c. 1736; Schuyler Mansion, a Georgian-style mansion, was built in 1765; and the oldest building currently standing in Albany is the 1728 Van Ostrande-Radliff House at 48 Hudson Avenue. Albany's housing varies greatly, with mostly row houses in the older sections of town, closer to the river. Housing type quickly changes as one travels westward, beginning with two-family homes of the late 19th century, and one-family homes built after World War II in the western end of the city.

Albany City Hall, designed by Henry Hobson Richardson, was opened in 1883. The New York State Capitol was opened in 1899 (after 32 years of construction) at a cost of $25 million, making it the most expensive government building at the time. Albany's Union Station, a major Beaux-Arts design, was under construction at the same time; it opened in 1900. In 1912, the Beaux-Arts styled New York State Department of Education Building opened on Washington Avenue near the Capitol. It has a classical exterior, which features a block-long white marble colonnade. The 1920s brought the Art Deco movement, which is illustrated by the Home Savings Bank Building (1927) on North Pearl Street and the Alfred E. Smith Building (1930) on South Swan Street, two of Albany's tallest high-rises.

Architecture from the 1960s and 1970s is well represented in the city, especially at the W. Averell Harriman State Office Building Campus (1950s and 1960s) and on the uptown campus of the SUNY Albany (1962–1971). The state office campus was planned in the 1950s by governor W. Averell Harriman to offer more parking and easier access for state employees. The uptown SUNY campus was built in the 1960s under Governor Rockefeller on the site of the city-owned Albany Country Club. Straying from the popular open campus layout, noted American architect Edward Durell Stone designed the SUNY Albany campus from 1954-1956 with a centralized building layout with administrative and classroom buildings at center surrounded by four student housing towers. The design called for much use of concrete and glass, and the style has slender, round-topped columns and pillars reminiscent of those at Lincoln Center in New York City.


Government

Economy

Culture

Travel


</doc>
<doc id="18660" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18660" title="Raleigh, North Carolina">
Raleigh, North Carolina

Raleigh (pronounced , ) is the capital and the second largest city in the state of North Carolina as well as the seat of Wake County. Raleigh is known as the "City of Oaks" for its many oak trees. This area of the state called the "Triangle." It is called this because there are a total of three cities near each other; besides Raleigh, there are also the cities of Chapel Hill and Durham in the area. Some other towns nearby are Cary, Apex, Wake Forest, Garner, Holly Springs, and Carrboro. It has about 405,000 people and is growing quickly. The population of the city and nearby area is about 1 million.

Raleigh was started in 1770. In 1788, it became North Carolina's state capital. The first state fair happened in 1853 and has kept on happening. Raleigh was not hurt by the Civil War. It did not grow much after the Civil War.

In the early 1900s, Raleigh had streeetcars, but they got rid of them later. Raleigh got its first TV station in 1956. In 1959, the Research Triangle Park was built. This caused people to move to the area for the jobs. In the late 1900s, Interstate 40 and Interstate 440 (freeways)were built, helping traffic. Since the late 1900s, Raleigh has grown quickly.

Raleigh is in north-central North Carolina. It is in a hilly area.

Raleigh has a mild climate. The summers are hot, with an average high of about 90°F (32°C). The winters are cool, with an average high of about 50°F (10°C). It snows about twice a year with a total of six inches (15 centimeters). Raleigh also gets around 45 inches of rain.

Raleigh has a lot of good transportation. Some freeways are Interstate 40, I-440, and I-540. Some highways are U.S. Route 1, 64, and 70, and N.C. highway 50. Raleigh also has a Amtrak station and a big airport.

Raleigh has a lot of museums. North Carolina State Universtity is also in Raleigh.

Raleigh is pretty rich, but there are some poor areas. The region also has a lot of suburban developments, but there are some crowded areas.



</doc>
<doc id="18661" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18661" title="Bismarck, North Dakota">
Bismarck, North Dakota

Bismarck is the capital city of the U.S. state of North Dakota. It is also the county seat of Burleigh County. As of the census held in the year 2010, its population was 61,272. The population of its metropolitan area was 108,779.

Bismarck was founded in 1872. It has been North Dakota's capital since it gained statehood in 1889.

Bismarck is situated on the east bank of the Missouri River, directly across the river from Mandan. The two cities make up the core of the Bismarck-Mandan Metropolitan Statistical Area.

The North Dakota State Capitol, the tallest building in the state, towers over the central part of Bismarck. The state government employs more than 4,000 in the city. As a hub of retail and health care, Bismarck is the economic center of a large portion of south-central North Dakota and north-central South Dakota.


</doc>
<doc id="18662" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18662" title="Columbus, Ohio">
Columbus, Ohio

Columbus is the capital city and largest city of the U.S. state of Ohio. It is located in the middle of the state. It is home to the Ohio State Buckeyes and Columbus Blue Jackets. In 2010 the population was 787,033.

Columbus is the third largest city in the American Midwest, and the fifteenth largest city in the United States of America. It is the county seat of Franklin County. The city has expanded and annexed portions of adjoining Delaware County and Fairfield County. It is named for explorer Christopher Columbus. The city was founded in 1812 at the confluence of the Scioto and Olentangy rivers. It became Ohio's state capital in 1816. The city has a diverse economy based on education, government, insurance, banking, fashion, defense, aviation, food, clothes, logistics, steel, energy, medical research, health care, hospitality, retail, and technology.

Columbus has many technology companies. It is home to the world's largest private research and development foundation, the Battelle Memorial Institute; CAS, or Chemical Abstracts Service, the world's largest clearinghouse of chemical information; NetJets, the world's largest fractional ownership jet aircraft fleet; and The Ohio State University, the nation's largest campus.

In 2008, "MarketWatch" named Columbus as the 7th best place to do business in the nation. In 2011, the city had five corporations named to the U.S. Fortune 500 list including Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company, American Electric Power, Limited Brands, Momentive Specialty Chemicals, and Big Lots. Major foreign corporations operating or with divisions in the city include Germany-based Siemens and Roxane Laboratories, Finland-based Vaisala, Tomasco Mulciber Inc., and A Y Manufacturing, as well as Switzerland-based ABB Group and Mettler Toledo.


</doc>
<doc id="18663" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18663" title="Oklahoma City, Oklahoma">
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma

Oklahoma City is the capital city of the U.S. state of Oklahoma, and the largest city in the state. As of 2006, the population of the city was about 537,734. The Oklahoma City bombing happened in Oklahoma in 1995. Oklahoma City has an NBA team called the Oklahoma City Thunder. It is the county seat of Oklahoma County.


</doc>
<doc id="18671" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18671" title="Casablanca (disambiguation)">
Casablanca (disambiguation)

Casablanca can mean:



</doc>
<doc id="18674" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18674" title="Wichita, Kansas">
Wichita, Kansas

Wichita is the biggest city in the U.S. State of Kansas.
Wichita is the 51st largest city in the United States with an estimated population of 354,865 in the year 2005. It is located in Sedgwick County, which is in the south-central part of the state.

Many parts of airplanes are made in Wichita. Also, Wichita State University is located in the city.

Official sites

More information


</doc>
<doc id="18675" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18675" title="Casablanca (movie)">
Casablanca (movie)

Casablanca is a 1942 movie set in the Moroccan city of Casablanca during World War II. It stars Humphrey Bogart, Claude Rains and Ingrid Bergman in lead roles.

From the time of its debut, it has been called one of the greatest movies ever made. Critics have loved it for the romantic performance of Bogart and Bergman.



</doc>
<doc id="18680" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18680" title="The Godfather">
The Godfather

The Godfather is a 1972 movie directed by Francis Ford Coppola. It is based on Mario Puzo's novel of the same name, and stars Marlon Brando and Al Pacino. The story of the movie takes place during 1945 and 1955.

It has been considered one of the best movies about the Mafia. In addition, many have called it the best movie of all time; it also appears on many such lists, including AFI's 100 Years... 100 Movies (where it was ranked at number three).

"The Godfather" won three Academy Awards: Best Picture, Best Actor (for Marlon Brando, who refused the award), and Best Adapted Screenplay.

A sequel, "The Godfather Part II", was released in 1974 and won another Best Picture Oscar. It was the only sequel to do so until 2003's "". The third movie in the Godfather trilogy, "The Godfather Part III", came out in 1990.


</doc>
<doc id="18688" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18688" title="Category:1972 movies">
Category:1972 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1972.


</doc>
<doc id="18690" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18690" title="Venus Flytrap">
Venus Flytrap

The Venus Flytrap, "Dionaea muscipula", is a carnivorous plant (a plant that feeds on small animals, such as insects). Carnivorous plants grow in soil that has little nitrogen. They receive nitrogen from the insects they trap.

The Venus Flytrap is one of a very small group of plants capable of rapid movement. When an insect or spider crawls along the leaves and touches a hair, the trap closes "only if a different hair is contacted within twenty seconds of the first touch". The two-touch trigger avoids wasting energy on objects with no food value.

The Venus flytrap is a small plant, with small leaves. Its clam-shaped leaves are a flower mimic: when open they show red, and smell sweet. They have bristles on each edge. Inside the leaves, there are very sensitive, tiny hairs which cause the leaves to snap shut when it is touched. Two hairs must be touched, to make the response and close the leaves. This makes it more likely that the thing that touched its hair is living.

The Venus Flytrap feeds on insects, such as ants, beetles, woodlice, worms, flies, grasshoppers, and moths.
First it traps the insect inside its leaves, and then lets out a liquid that helps digest the trapped animal. The plant takes the nitrogen from the insect's body, and consumes the insect.

The Venus flytrap makes its own sugar by photosynthesis. The flies give it nutrients which it cannot get from the waterlogged soil. With the nutrients it can build up enzymes and other molecules which need trace elements as well as sugars and amino acids.

Venus fly-traps were first discovered in North America on the coast of North and South Carolina, where it grows wild near the Cape Fear River. But people anywhere can grow Venus Flytraps in pots. There is a pretty sizable market for venus fly traps between collecters.
The name is sometimes spelled Venus flytrap, Venus' flytrap, or Venus's-flytrap. It is named after the roman god of love, Venus.



</doc>
<doc id="18701" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18701" title="Prime number">
Prime number

A prime number is a natural, whole number that has exactly two distinct whole numbers that divide it with no remainder. These divisors are the number itself and 1.

For example, 7 is a prime number, because the only numbers that divide it evenly are 1 and 7. 91 is not prime because 1, 7, 13, and 91 all divide it. 1 is not a prime number, since there is only one number that divides it with no leftover.

All natural numbers that are not prime are called composite numbers.

There is no biggest prime number, as there are infinitely many prime numbers. The way they are placed among all whole numbers is not understood very well, although mathematicians have some understanding of it. See the Prime number theorem.

There is a simple method to find a list of prime numbers. It was created by Eratosthenes, and has the name Sieve of Eratosthenes, because it catches some numbers that are not prime (like a sieve) and the rest of them that can get through are prime: 


The method is always the same:


As an example, if this is done up to the number 10, the numbers 2, 3, 5 and 7 are prime numbers, and 4, 6, 8, 9 and 10 are composite numbers.

This method or algorithm takes too long to find very large prime numbers. But it is less complicated than methods used for very large primes, like Fermat's primality test (a primality test is to test whether a number is prime or not) or the Miller-Rabin primality test.

Prime numbers are very important in mathematics and computer science. Some real-world uses are given below. Very big prime numbers are hard to find, so most of the time, numbers that are probably prime are used.





</doc>
<doc id="18703" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18703" title="Igloo">
Igloo

An igloo (or iglu) is a shelter (a place for people to stay warm and dry) made from blocks of snow placed on top of each other, often in the shape of a dome (like half of a hollow ball). They were used in winter as temporary shelters by hunters when they were away from their regular homes.

They were most often built in places where a lot of snow covers the land for weeks or months at a time, such as the far north of Canada and Greenland. Most igloos are built by native Inuit people (sometimes called "Eskimoes"). As they learned to build them better, sometimes people would build larger igloos that would last longer and hold more people, even for dancing.


</doc>
<doc id="18708" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18708" title="Dust">
Dust

'Dust' is fine, solid particles of matter.

Dust may also mean:
For articles on how the word "dust" is used as a technical term in physics, astronomy, cosmology, and
environmental science, see:


</doc>
<doc id="18710" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18710" title="Phantom of the Opera">
Phantom of the Opera

The Phantom of the Opera () is a French novel by Gaston Leroux. It was published in 1910; an English edition came out a year later.

The book was turned into a famous stage musical (play with songs) by Andrew Lloyd Webber in 1986.

Several movie versions have been made, most notably in 1925, 1943, 1974 (as Brian de Palma's "The Phantom of the Paradise") and 2004.


</doc>
<doc id="18712" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18712" title="Fleet, Hampshire">
Fleet, Hampshire

Fleet is a town in Hampshire, United Kingdom and tends to be a dormitory town serving London and Reading.

Fleet has one shopping center, and a music shop just off the High Street and many small, fun attractions.

There are a number of pubs there with some character, and even two small nightclubs. It has a lot of green, and is good for rambling but there is the danger of a field being an army firing range.

Its local business parks seem to be a focus for many CAD companies serving the local military in Fleet, Aldershot, and Farnborough. Notably there are AutoDesk and PTC.

There are also many good schools especially Heatherside Infant and Juniors and Court Moor!

It has its own train station on the London-Basingstoke line. It also has bus services running to and from local towns, including Reading. The local bus company did go bust a few times, notably at the same time as the major plague of train accidents and strikes in early 2002 - where combined with large snow deposits, made travel in or out of the town impossible or at least very unpleasant. Anyone who lived on the London-Basingstoke line will remember people being crammed into the guard-vans of the train after waiting 90 minutes, or being stuck between stations for what seemed like days.


</doc>
<doc id="18715" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18715" title="Hentai">
Hentai

Hentai is a Japanese word that literally means "strange appearance", but is also used to mean "perverted". Hentai, because of this, is a word used by countries outside of Japan to show pornographic and sex-related anime, manga and video games. The word is not used to mean this in Japan. In Japan, terms such as "ecchi" are used.

The word hentai is sometimes used to apply to cartoon characters that are not anime characters.
Hentai is the anime version of pornography. There is on screen sex, often very graphic and very imaginative. Since hentai is anime, the performers are not bound by physical laws. Makers of hentai often use this in very creative ways. Some of the acts performed in hentai would be physically impossible. Some of the performers are often impossible themselves. Fairies, monsters, and even new and strange creatures are stars of hentai. Monsters and demons with tentacles are seen so often that “tentacle porn” is its own sub-category of hentai.

Most of the hentai(anime)-films in the late 1990s to the present day are based on Ero-Games, where the only actual goal is to date the girls in the game and have sex with one of them. The games feature various character-types, like a bookworm, a tough girl, a younger girl, and a tomboy. Ero-games can include some very gross things (like scat or guro) and sometimes also taboo things (like incest, rape and pedophilia). Some examples of these kind of game-to-hentai-anime conversions are Immoral Sisters, Isaku, Pia Carrot, Five Card, Bible Black, Words Worth, Night Shift Nurses, and Milk Junkies.

Famous hentai films include:


</doc>
<doc id="18716" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18716" title="Template:Colours">
Template:Colours


</doc>
<doc id="18730" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18730" title="Snowboarding">
Snowboarding

Snowboarding is a sport that is much like skiing. A person stands on a "snowboard" and rides down a mountain covered with snow. A snowboard is a flat board with bindings that hold your feet in place while gliding down the mountain. It is different from skiing because both feet are on one board - like surfing.

Some snowboarders like to ride over jumps and do tricks. Some of the tricks you can do are: Indy, nosegrab, frontside 180, and backside 180. Most snowboarders also freeride. Freeride includes snowboarding on any available ground, which most often includes groomed runs. 


</doc>
<doc id="18735" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18735" title="Aquamarine">
Aquamarine

Aquamarine is a gemstone, named for its blue-green color, which looks like some shallow seas. It is a type of beryl.

Aquamarine is also a color, a pale tint between green and cyan.

It is named for the gemstone aquamarine.

The first recorded use of "aquamarine" as a color name in English was in 1598. 

The color "medium aquamarine" (shown below) is used for the uniforms of nurses and surgeons and also used to paint rooms in hospitals because it is regarded as a color that calms and relaxes the patients.



</doc>
<doc id="18736" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18736" title="Trinitrotoluene">
Trinitrotoluene

TNT (Trinitrotoluene) is an explosive similar to dynamite (based on nitroglycerin).

Sometimes TNT is used to mean dynamite, or dynamite is used to mean TNT, because they can both be used in similar ways. If a person has been involved in a crime using TNT, scientists track it down by testing the hair molecules or clothing molecules to see if TNT particles are found on clothing or hair. It stays on your hair EVEN if you clean the TNT particles in your hair! TNT Is a form of dynamite and very explosive if handled incorrectly. Caution should be taken when using TNT.


</doc>
<doc id="18744" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18744" title="Spore">
Spore

A spore is the way fungi and some non-flowering plants, such as ferns and mosses reproduce (make new fungi or plants), the same way seeds of other plants do.

Fungi (for example, mushrooms) produce spores, which may be asexual or sexual. The asexual spores have inside them the genetic material to make a whole new organism identical to its parent. 

Conidia are asexual, non-motile spores of a fungus; they are also called mitospores due to the way they are generated through the cellular process of mitosis. They are haploid cells genetically identical to the haploid parent, can develop into a new organism if conditions are favorable, and serve in dispersal.

Asexual reproduction in Ascomycetes (the Phylum Ascomycota) is by the formation of conidia, which are bourne on specialized stalks called conidiophores. The morphology of these specialized conidiophores is often distinctive of a specific species and can therefore be used in identification of the species.


Bacterial spores are extremely resistant. Spores of tetanus and anthrax, for example, can survive in the soil for many years. The origin of these spores was discovered in the 19th century, when a biologist noticed, under the microscope, a small, round, bright body inside bacterial cells. This survived even when the bacteria were boiled for five minutes. This killed the bacteria, but not the spores. They germinated when conditions were right.


</doc>
<doc id="18746" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18746" title="Radiohead">
Radiohead

Radiohead is an English rock band from the Oxford area. The lead singer and lyrics writer of the band is Thom Yorke, who also plays guitar and piano. Thom is known for his high voiced singing style and the band is known for their different style of rock music.

The band has five members, and three of them play guitar. In their early years, Radiohead was known for their layered and heavy guitar sound. In later years, the band began using other instruments too, and creating more electronic sounds. The band still performs live and attracts large crowds of fans to sold-out concerts, even though they play many different styles of music.

Most bands from England are not successful outside their home country of the UK. But Radiohead is successful in the UK and also in Europe, the United States, Canada, Latin America, Australia, Israel, Japan and other parts of Asia. Radiohead does not sell as much as the biggest pop artists in the world, but they are recognized by fans and music critics. Lots of people and magazines have called their albums some of the best ever made. They have made eight albums so far, the latest, "The King of Limbs" was released in 2011. The band also works to help environmental and peace causes.

Radiohead started in 1987. The members of the band went to school together at Abingdon School, a school only for boys in Abingdon. The band first called themselves "On a Friday". The band would usually rehearse on Friday in their school's music room. 

On A Friday signed a contract with EMI, a large record label, in 1991. They changed their name to "Radiohead". This name came from the song "Radio Head" on the album "True Stories" by Talking Heads.They released their first EP, called "Drill", in May 1992. It was not very popular. Radiohead started work on their first album. It was called "Pablo Honey" and it was recorded in 1992 in a studio in Oxford. They released their first single, "Creep", late in 1992. They released "Pablo Honey" in February 1993. The album did not become popular, but "Creep" did, and the band got a lot of fans because of it. At the time, Radiohead's style of music was not very popular, and people said it sounded like Nirvana, but was not as good. They said that other Britpop bands, like Suede, were better. "Creep" was played on the radio at a lot of colleges around the world, however. When Radiohead went on tour in the United States in early 1993, the music video for "Creep" was being played a lot on MTV.

Radiohead made an EP in 1994. This was called "My Iron Lung", and contained the title single, and seven songs known as B-sides (because they were not on a full length album). The main song, "My Iron Lung", was about the way fans had reacted to their song "Creep". The band was happy the song had been a hit, because otherwise they might not have been able to continue the band. But the band, especially Thom Yorke, were reluctant to be celebrities. They were already disturbed by the workings of the music industry. They felt they had no control over things. "Creep" was popular, so they felt under pressure to make more similar songs. They hated the way "Creep" was the only Radiohead song anyone listened to at their concerts, yet it was all that was keeping them popular and afloat in the record industry. The "iron lung" was a metaphor for such a "life support".

Their second normal album, "The Bends", came out in 1995. The song "My Iron Lung" was on it, along with 11 new ones. The band released four more songs as singles: "Fake Plastic Trees", "High and Dry", "Just" and "Street Spirit [Fade Out]". None of these songs were as popular as "Creep" around the world. Radiohead was now a one-hit wonder to many people in America. Songs from "The Bends" did not get played on the radio very much there. But the album became very popular in Radiohead's home of the UK. It also got excellent reviews from music critics, unlike the band's first album. Many said it was one of the best rock records in memory. The album was produced by John Leckie, a veteran at EMI's Abbey Road studios. As a young man Leckie had assisted on Pink Floyd albums in the 1970s.

The band's lineup was the same for "The Bends". Thom Yorke and Ed O'Brien played rhythm and auxiliary guitar; Thom sang and Ed sang backup. Phil Selway played drums and percussion. Colin Greenwood played bass guitar. Radiohead's lead guitarist was Jonny Greenwood, Colin's younger brother. Jonny was also younger than any of the other members. Jonny was the only member of the band who did not graduate from university. He was also the only member who had attended music school. Jonny had had to leave university after a few months to join Radiohead on a tour when they became popular. But he played in an orchestra when he was young, and he had a knowledge of classical and experimental music and jazz. Thus, Jonny became the band's musical expert. At this stage he already played many instruments, such as keyboard.

It was Jonny's complex and cathartic guitar solos in songs like "Just" and "The Bends" that soon began to attract notice. So did his simpler playing in other songs. The circle of Radiohead fans began to grow. Thom Yorke's lyrics also began talking about larger more political themes during this time. Mostly, they were still about personal disappointments, loves, losses, depression, unease, and anger. But Thom wrote songs like "Fake Plastic Trees" and "Street Spirit" which found the source of the unease in the larger structure of society, not the individual.

Radiohead's style of music had gotten more mature, according to most people, without changing too much. Some others felt their songwriting had improved so much it was no longer unrecognizable. The band used more keyboards and acoustic guitar this time, and made a more subtle atmosphere. But electric guitars were the main instrument used on the record. Some of Radiohead's influences this time were: the post-punk band Magazine, the singer-songwriter Jeff Buckley, Morrissey's (former Smiths singer) "Vauxhall & I", and the music of R.E.M. That band had inspired Radiohead from the beginning. Radiohead would get a chance to tour with them in summer 1995, after releasing the album. Lead singer Michael Stipe became a friend and mentor to Thom, and also a public fan of Radiohead. In 1995 he said "they're so good, they're scary".

The band's influences had expanded once more by the time of their next album "OK Computer".

With "OK Computer", the band started the next section of their career. They started using more sounds from electronic music. They released the album "Kid A" which had a lot less use of guitar than on previous albums, but was still called one of their best albums (with some people calling it their best). An album of songs recorded during this time, but that did not appear on "Kid A" was released, called "Amnesiac". In 2003 they released the album "Hail To The Thief" which was a return to a sound with more guitars and less use of electronic sounds. In 2008 they released "In Rainbows". It was first released for free on the band's website, then released properly on January 1, 2008.

Radiohead has been nominated five times at the BRIT Awards.
Radiohead has received three awards from fourteen nominations at the Grammy Awards.

Radiohead has received one Ivor Novello AwardsIvor Noevllo award.
Radiohead has received four Mercury Prize nominations.
Radiohead has received one award from ten nominations at the MTV Video Music Awards.
Radiohead has received one nomination at the PLUG Awards.
Radiohead has received two awards from the Q Awards.



</doc>
<doc id="18747" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18747" title="Ladino language">
Ladino language

Ladino is a Jewish language that is close to the Spanish language and other Iberian languages as Leonese language or Galician. It has many old Spanish words and Hebrew words.

During the Middle Ages, many Jews lived in Spain. These Jews were called Sephardic Jews or "Sephardim" (in Hebrew). They were forced to leave Spain after the country was taken over by Christians, and they brought this old Spanish with them to the countries they ran away to. Today some Sephardic Jews still speak Ladino in Israel, Turkey, Bulgaria, the United States, and other countries.

Ladino is written using the Latin alphabet and in Israel using the Hebrew alphabet.



</doc>
<doc id="18750" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18750" title="Guns N' Roses">
Guns N' Roses

Guns N' Roses is a popular American hard rock band. The band was formed in Los Angeles, California, USA. The five original members of the band were Axl Rose (lead vocals), Slash (lead guitar), Izzy Stradlin (rhythm guitar, backing vocals), Duff McKagan (bass, backing vocals), and Steven Adler (drums). The band's most known songs are "Welcome to the Jungle", "Paradise City", "Sweet Child O'Mine", "Patience", "Live and Let Die", "November Rain", "Knockin' on Heaven's Door", "Don't Cry", and "Civil War".

The music, they made, was different from the rock music that was popular in the 1980's. They played harder rock music. It was also closer to traditional rock. Because of this, many music fans became interested in Guns N'Roses. Guns N'Roses was created in Los Angeles in June, 1985. By singer W. Axl Rose, guitarists Tracii Guns and Izzy Stradlin, bassist Ole Beich and drummer Rob Gardner. Axl's old band was named Hollywood Rose, and Tracii's old band was named L.A. Guns. They joined the two names and got the name Guns N'Roses. 
In 1985, Guns N'Roses went to Seattle to perform. Tracii Guns and Rob Gardiner could not attend the show. Rose called guitarist Slash and drummer Steven Adler, who were his friends. He asked them for help. They agreed, and became permanent members. On the way back to Los Angeles, the five members wrote the lyrics for 'Welcome to the Jungle' which became one of their most famous songs. Then in 1990 Drummer Steven Adler got fired from the band because of his drug abuse. He was replaced by Cult Drummer Matt Sorum.

Slash, McKagan and Sorum are currently in Velvet Revolver with Stone Temple Pilots frontman Scott Weiland and Wasted Youth guitarist Dave Kushner.

Since parting ways with the "Appetite for Destruction"-line up, Rose has remained constant and many line ups have changed ever since. The band recently released a new album, titled "Chinese Democracy", which had been delayed for over ten years, to mixed reactions.




</doc>
<doc id="18756" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18756" title="1839">
1839






</doc>
<doc id="18759" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18759" title="Lake Chaubunagungamaug">
Lake Chaubunagungamaug

Lake Chaubunagungamaug, Chargoggagoggmanchauggagoggchaubunagungamaugg, or Lake Webster is a lake in the United States. It is in the state of Massachusetts. The lake is also known by the much shorter name of "Webster Lake", but some people prefer the long name Chargoggagoggmanchauggagoggchaubunagungamaugg, which is the Native American name for the body of water. The name is the longest place name in the United States.


</doc>
<doc id="18764" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18764" title="Hans Enoksen">
Hans Enoksen

Hans Enoksen (born 1956) was the Prime Minister of Greenland. He was the Prime Minister of Greenland from 2002-2009.


</doc>
<doc id="18765" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18765" title="Nunarput utoqqarsuanngoravit">
Nunarput utoqqarsuanngoravit

Nunarput utoqqarsuanngoravit is the national anthem of Greenland. It was written by Henrik Lund, and it became the national anthem in 1916.


</doc>
<doc id="18768" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18768" title="Dodgeball: A True Underdog Story">
Dodgeball: A True Underdog Story

Dodgeball: A True Underdog Story is a comedy movie from 2004, released by 20th Century Fox. It stars Ben Stiller, Rip Torn and Vince Vaughn.

A little-known gym, Average Joe's, tries not to go out of business by playing a game of dodgeball against a more expensive rival, Globo's Gym.



</doc>
<doc id="18769" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18769" title="Ben Stiller">
Ben Stiller

Ben Stiller (born November 30, 1965 in New York City) is an American movie actor, director, screenwriters and comedian. He is best known for his roles in "Zoolander" (2001), "Meet the Parents" (2001) (and its 2004 sequel "Meet the Fockers"), and "There's Something About Mary" (1998).

Stiller has also starred in "Flirting with Disaster" (1996), "Duplex" (2003) and "" (2004) among others. One of the first movies he starred in was Steven Spielberg's "Empire of the Sun" (1987) "Tropic Thunder"(2008).

He was the director of "Reality Bites" (1994) and "The Cable Guy" (1996).


</doc>
<doc id="18772" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18772" title="Sieve of Eratosthenes">
Sieve of Eratosthenes

The Sieve of Eratosthenes is a simple test to check if a number is a prime number.

If someone wants to check for a certain number "n" to be prime, they do as follows:


Do the following:


Repeat this for all numbers until you reach the square root of "n".

If "n" has been crossed out it is not prime.


</doc>
<doc id="18773" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18773" title="Benjamin Franklin">
Benjamin Franklin

Benjamin Franklin (January 17, 1706 – April 17, 1790), known as "the First American", was an American statesman. He was a very important person in the American Revolution and in making the 13 colonies one nation. As a leader of the Enlightenment, he influenced European scientists. He even was the first thing many Europeans associated with America at the time. His success with the French military was an important factor in America's win over Great Britain.

Franklin was born in 1707 in Boston. He was an apprentice when he was working in his father's candle-making shop. Ben loved books and reading. He grew to be quite rich, but he gave up his printing career to do other things related to the sciences.

He was scientist and he studied experiments.

Most people see Franklin as one of history's greatest inventors. One of his greatest contributions was his superior grasp of electricity, and the invention of the lightning rod and bifocals (a type of eyeglasses), among other things.

Although Franklin owned slaves, towards the end of his life he freed them, and became an abolitionist.

The city of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania (where he lived) marked his three hundredth birthday in 2006.

A picture of Franklin has been on the United States' hundred-dollar bill since 1928. He was also on the fifty-cent coin for a short time.

1. Feldman, Eve B. "Benjamin Franklin: Scientist and Inventor". New York: Library of Congress, 1990. Print.



</doc>
<doc id="18777" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18777" title="Template:User en-1">
Template:User en-1


</doc>
<doc id="18781" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18781" title="Noble Eightfold Path">
Noble Eightfold Path

In Buddhism, the Noble Eightfold Path (Pali: "ariya atthangika magga") is the path to the end of suffering. It is the fourth part of the Four Noble Truths. It can be summed up in three categories: wisdom ("pañña"), virtue ("sila"), and concentration ("samadhi"). It asks for the Right view and the right intention, as well as other things. It also asks for the right speech.

Here is a description of the path:




</doc>
<doc id="18785" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18785" title="Gone with the Wind">
Gone with the Wind

Gone with the Wind is a 1936 book by Margaret Mitchell. It tells the story of Scarlett O'Hara, and her adventures in the American South (and in the plantation of Tara) during the Civil War. During the book, she falls in love with Rhett Butler. It is one of the most famous books of its time, and was made into a movie with the same name.

The title takes its name from the lines an Ernest Dowson poem: "I have forgot much, Cynara! gone with the wind." (This line also appears in the book.)

Critics and historians have said of its views of Confederacy and the American South before the Civil War. But it is true to the events of the time, and also has a well-written account of the fall of Atlanta in 1864.

The book won the Pulitzer Prize on May 3, 1937.

In 1991, Alexander Ripley wrote its official sequel, "Scarlett". Three years later, it was made as a television miniseries.

In 2001, the copyright holders of the original book tried to stop sales of Alice Randall's "The Wind Done Gone". (The book retold Mitchell's story from a slave's point of view.) The resulting lawsuit allowed the book to be published; it was seen, based on rules in the First Amendment, as a parody.



</doc>
<doc id="18792" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18792" title="AFI's 100 Years... 100 Movies">
AFI's 100 Years... 100 Movies

AFI's 100 Years... 100 Movies is a list of the top one hundred movies in American cinema. It was made by the American Film Institute in 1998. The television station CBS aired the list's special.

Movies that were on the list:




</doc>
<doc id="18798" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18798" title="Flag of Greenland">
Flag of Greenland

The Flag of Greenland was designed by Greenlander Thue Christiansen. It features two equal horizontal bands of white (top) and red with a large disk at the center. The top half of the disk is red, the bottom half is white. 

Its local name in the Greenlandic language is "Erfalasorput", which means "our flag", but Aappalaartoq (meaning "the red") is also used for both the Greenlandic flag and the Dannebrog. Today Greenlanders display both the Erfalasorput and the Dannebrog, often side-by-side.

Greenland first thought of the idea of a flag of its own in 1973, when five Greenlanders proposed a green, white and blue flag. The following year, a newspaper printed eleven design proposals (all but one of which was a Nordic Cross), and polled the people to determine the most popular. The Dannebrog was better liked than any. Little came of this effort.

In 1978, Denmark granted home rule to Greenland, making it an equal member of the Danish Kingdom. The home rule government asked for flag proposals, receiving 555. 293 were made by Greenlanders. 

Out of all the designs, the current red-and-white design by Christiansen narrowly won over a green-and-white Nordic cross by a vote of fourteen to eleven. Christiansen's red-and-white flag was officially adopted on June 21, 1985.

To honor the tenth anniversary of the Erfalasorput, the Greenland Post Office issued commemorative stamps and a leaflet by its creator. He described the white stripe as representing the glaciers and ice cap; the red stripe, the ocean; the red semicircle, the fjords; and the white semicircle, the icebergs and pack ice. The design is also reminiscent of the setting sun half-submerged below the horizon and reflected on the sea.


</doc>
<doc id="18799" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18799" title="Greenlandic language">
Greenlandic language

Greenlandic can be divided into three dialects:

Kalaallisut, or in English Greenlandic, is the name given to the standard dialect and official language of Greenland. This standard national language is now taught to all Greenlanders in school, regardless of their native dialect. It reflects almost exclusively the language of western Greenland and has borrowed a great deal of vocabulary from Danish, while Canadian and Alaskan Inuit languages have tended to take words from English or sometimes French and Russian. It is written using the Roman alphabet. The dialect of the Upernavik area in northwest Greenland is somewhat different in sound from the standard dialect. 

Tunumiit oraasiat, (or Tunumiisut in Kalaallisut, often East Greenlandic in other languages), is the dialect of eastern Greenland. It differs sharply from other Inuit language variants and has roughly 3,000 speakers.

Avanersuaq is the dialect of the area around Qaanaaq in northern Greenland. It is sometimes called the Thule dialect or North Greenlandic. This area is the northernmost settlement area of the Inuit and has a relatively small number of speakers. It is reputed to be fairly close to the North Baffin dialect, since a group of Inuit from Baffin Island settled in the area during the 19th and early 20th centuries. It counts under 1,000 speakers.


</doc>
<doc id="18800" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18800" title="Anglophone">
Anglophone

An Anglophone is a person who speaks the English language. The "Anglophone world" is also a name for the English-speaking world.


</doc>
<doc id="18802" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18802" title="Worm">
Worm

A worm (worrum) is an invertebrate animal with a long body and (in most cases) no legs. The most common worm is the "earth worm", a type of annelid. In some countries, people eat earthworms.

There are over 5,500 known species of worms. They can be found everywhere, except in polar or dry climates. Their size varies: they can be between two centimeters and about three metres in length. The biggest known earthworm is the Giant Gippsland Earthworm, one of about 1 000 earthworm species found in Australia. They are usually about 80cm in length, but can grow to about 3 metres. Some other worms are Tapeworm and Ringworm. Both of those worms are parasites.

The most common earthworm (in Europe, and most other temperate climate regions) can grow to a size of about 20-25 cm when extended.

Most earthworms can regrow lost segments. This capability varies by species though.

Other common worms include roundworms and flatworms. Some animals are also called worms, but do not belong to this group. For example, the inchworm is a type of caterpillar, and the slow-worm is a legless lizard.

An earthworm has a pointy head and small mouth. The colour of an earthworm can be brown, pink or red. Earthworms have a long body. They look squishy and gushy and slimy, but they are not. They have tiny hairs called bristles. Earthworms have ringed segments. They have a saddle where it lays its eggs. Earthworms have 5 pairs of hearts. It has no thorax or abdomen.

Earthworms live in dark damp soil. They live in vegetable peels. They also live in meadows and dead plants. Earthworms live in gardens. They live under rocks. Earthworms live in wet woods. They also live in damp grass.

Despite the fact that worms are both male and female they still need a partner to reproduce. They will find another worm and transfer sperm to the egg by wriggling against each other till the spot where the egg is and the sperm is, thus fertilizing the egg. The egg is then laid. When the egg hatches the worms inside will come out and grow until they can mate which takes about 6 weeks.

Earthworms eat soil and rocks. The rocks they eat are tiny and earthworms crush and grind them with their guts. They eat oatmeal. Earthworms eat roots. Earthworms eat compost and also dead plants. An earthworm has enemies like hedgehogs, birds(such as cardinals), and snakes. Their defenses are camouflaging. Camouflage means you cannot see it because it is the same colour (or shade) as its background. 

Llewellyn, Clair (2000) Earthworms, Frank Watts, ISBN 0531146510
Henwood, Chris (2005) Earthworms, Watts Publishing Group, ISBN 1932889205
Kalman, Bobbie (2004) Earthworms, Crabtree Publishing Group, ISBN 077870666364


</doc>
<doc id="18803" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18803" title="Wire">
Wire

Wire is a long, thin and flexible piece of metal. Electricity can travel through a wire. They are all different shapes and sizes. The outside coating of wires is colourful.

The word "Wire" can be also used "Wire money to a bank account". That means that money is transferred to a bank account.

A wire can also be when law enforcement puts a device into a phone or other electronic device to hear what suspected criminals are planning.


</doc>
<doc id="18804" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18804" title="Whistle">
Whistle

A whistle is a thing to make a high sound, or the act of making a similar sound with a person's breath through their lips. 


</doc>
<doc id="18805" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18805" title="Whip">
Whip

A whip is a long strand of leather or other fabric with a hard handle. When a person shakes a whip fast, it makes a loud "crack" sound, because it has broken the sound barrier. It is used for directing or hitting animals or people.

Whip (instrument)
Whipped is an ancient word used to label friends when their a slave to their women. Also known in Cambodian scripts as Roy ban disorder.


</doc>
<doc id="18806" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18806" title="Die Toten Hosen">
Die Toten Hosen

Die Toten Hosen is a German punk band from Düsseldorf, Germany.

The band consists of the following members:

Most of their songs are in German, but some in English and in a few other languages like Spanish. So they have many fans in German-speaking countries, but also they have many fans in South America and other parts of Europe, too. Die Toten Hosen are the most popular punk rock band from Germany.

Their career started in 1982. Their first Album was released in 1984 and named "Opel-Gang"




</doc>
<doc id="18809" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18809" title="Balalaika">
Balalaika

The balalaika is a musical instrument from Russia. The Balalaika family includes the piccolo balalaika, prima balalaika, sekunda balalaika, alto balalaika, bass balalaika and contrabass balalaika. They all have three strings. There are many ways to tune balalaika; the most common tuning is E-E-A. The prima balalaika is played with the fingers, the sekunda and alto either with the fingers or a pick depending on the music being played. The basses and contrabasses, which have legs that rest on the floor, are played with leather picks.

Early pictures of the balalaika show it had between two and six strings, like some Central Asian instruments. Frets on earlier balalaikas were made of animal gut and tied to the neck so that they could be moved around by the player.

The balalaika was improved by a Russian, Vasily Vasil'yevich Andreev. He had heard peasants on his farm playing badly made instruments. Andreev wanted to improve the instrument and use it for concerts. He spent the rest of his life working on this instrument with help from two violin makers and a carpenter. They improved the soundboard, which made it louder. He came up with the idea of the prima balalaike, sekunda, alto, bass and controbass balalaika. He then spent several years writing and arranging music for groups of balalaikas to play. The first public performance by the Ensemble of Balalaika Players took place in 1888.
After the Russian Revolution, the Communist Party encouraged the playing of the instrument and large balalaika orchestras were started.



</doc>
<doc id="18810" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18810" title="Klezmer">
Klezmer

Klezmer is a kind of music. It was made by the Jews of Eastern Europe, and it is a mix of Russian, Turkish, and Gypsy folk music, based on and Jewish prayer music. 

In old times, it was played during Jewish weddings and religious festivals, and it was made for dancing. The most common klezmer instruments are the clarinet and the violin, because they are the best to play in the sad klezmer style.


</doc>
<doc id="18812" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18812" title="New South Wales">
New South Wales

New South Wales is one of the states of Australia. It the oldest state in Australia and is sometimes called the "Premier State". Of all Australian states, New South Wales has the most people. An inhabitant of New South Wales is referred to as a New South Welshman. The capital city of New South Wales is Sydney. Sydney is the biggest city in Australia. 

The name New South Wales came from the journal of Lieutenant James Cook (later Captain Cook), who sailed up the east coast of Australia in 1770. He thought that the land looked like the south coast of Wales. He named it "New Wales" but then changed the name in his journal to "New South Wales".

New South Wales was founded (begun) in 1788, by the British who set up a small colony which became known as Sydney Town, and grew into the city of Sydney. The British colony of New South Wales originally included more than half of the Australian mainland, as well as New Zealand, Lord Howe Island and Norfolk Island. During the 19th century large areas were separated to form the British colonies of Tasmania, South Australia, Victoria, Queensland and New Zealand.
New South Wales has four main geographical areas:

The state is bordered on the north by Queensland, on the west by South Australia, and on the south by Victoria. Its coast faces the Tasman Sea. New South Wales contains two Federal Territories: the Australian Capital Territory (ACT), and the Jervis Bay Territory.

New South Wales' three big cities are Sydney, Newcastle and Wollongong which all lie along the coast. Other settlements include Albury, a large town which borders with Victoria; Broken Hill, the most westerly large town; Dubbo; Orange, Bowral, Bathurst, home of the Bathurst 1000; Port Macquarie, Tamworth, home to the country music festival; Armidale, Inverell, Lismore, Nowra, Gosford, Griffith, Queanbeyan, Leeton, Wagga Wagga, Goulburn, where a lot of Australia's fruit is grown and Coffs Harbour, a popular tourist destination. 

The population of New South Wales at the end of June 2007 was 6.89 million people. Population grew by 1.1% over the preceding year, lower than the national rate of 1.5%.

62.9% of NSW's population is based in Sydney.

<br clear="both">


</doc>
<doc id="18813" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18813" title="Hemp">
Hemp

Hemp ("Cannabis sativa" subsp. "sativa") is a plant and the fibers made from it. It is a subspecies of the "Cannabis sativa" plant. It is usually used to make cloth and other textiles, and ropes.

Hemp is one of the oldest plants humans have grown and used. Hemp was domesticated in Asia over 10,000 years ago. It was already used to make clothes, ropes, and an early form of paper. The seeds were eaten, and the plant had medicinal uses. From there the use of hemp spread. In Europe, hemp was at least used 5,500 years ago. It is one of the earliest domesticated plants recorded. It is quite strong and does not need many pesticides (to keep away bugs) and no herbicides. Linen and hemp were the most important fiber plants in Europe for a long time.

hemp is a plant similuar to marijuana but has no THC(tetrahydrocannibinol) the ingrediant that gives marijuana smokers a high,thus making the plant impossible to get high from.hemp is completly legal in america,france,spain,idonesia,england,and Ireland

hemp is the female cannabis plant(no THC) 


</doc>
<doc id="18816" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18816" title="1000s">
1000s



</doc>
<doc id="18817" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18817" title="1010s">
1010s



</doc>
<doc id="18818" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18818" title="1157">
1157




</doc>
<doc id="18819" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18819" title="1512">
1512




</doc>
<doc id="18820" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18820" title="Lung">
Lung

The lung is an organ in many vertebrates (animals having a "spine", or backbone). It gives blood oxygen from the air, and takes away carbon dioxide. Most vertebrates have 2 lungs.

In animals, the lungs are the area where gas exchange takes place. Without gas exchange, oxygen would not pass into the blood from the lungs. The body cells would not be able to receive the oxygen needed for respiration. A lung is made up tubes that connect to millions of tiny air sacs called alveoli. 

The alveoli are moist to allow oxygen to move from the lung through the alevoli into blood vessels and red blood cells. Carbon dioxide passes from the blood into the alveoli. The oxygen-filled blood goes back to the heart and the carbon dioxide in the alveoli is pushed out of the lungs and into the air we breathe out.

Birds lungs do not have alveoli, instead they have millions of para-bronchi. These para-bronchi end up in tiny capillaries or very small blood vessels and they pass close to the body's blood vessels, so diffusion can occur and the oxygen and carbon dioxide is exchanged. The oxygen and carbon dioxide in birds lungs continuously be diffused into and out of the blood, not like mammals where diffusion can only happen in the alveoli.

Reptile lungs open and close because of the ribs surrounding them pressing down on them and then opening up with the help of muscles. The liver is also attached to the bottom of the lungs and when a muscle which is attached to the liver pulls, the liver moves away from the lungs and pulls them, making them bigger.

Frog lungs are very simple compared to most other lungs, they are simply balloons, with moist outsides allowing for diffusion. But frogs do not move around much and so do not need lots of oxygen, but they can also take in oxygen through their moist outer skin if a big demand of oxygen is needed (e.g. Fight or Flight).



</doc>
<doc id="18822" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18822" title="Kansas City">
Kansas City

Kansas City is the name of two cities in the United States of America.


</doc>
<doc id="18827" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18827" title="Rock music">
Rock music

Rock music is a genre of popular music. It developed during and after the 1960s in the United Kingdom and the United States. It originally started in the 1940s and 1950s with the start of rock and roll. Rock and roll has sub-genres such as rhythm and blues and country music. Rock music has a number of other genres such as blues and folk. It has influences from jazz, classical and other music genres.

Musically, rock uses the electric guitar as part of a rock group with bass guitar and drums. Rock music is song-based. It has a 4/4 beat and it has verse-chorus form. However, rock has become very different and it is hard to say what its common musical instruments are. Like popular music, rock music lyrics are mostly about "romantic love". They can also have social or have political themes, however. Nearly all rock musicians are white, male people. Rock focuses on musical skill, live performance, and it tries to be more real than pop music.

By the late 1960s, a number of different rock music below-genres had come out. These included hybrids like blues rock, folk rock, country rock, and jazz-rock fusion. Many of these contributed to the development of psychedelic rock influenced by the counter-cultural psychedelic scene. New genres that came from this scene included progressive rock, glam rock and heavy metal. Progressive rock made the music more artistic. Glam rock focused on showmanship and what you can see. Heavy metal which focused on loudness, power and speed. In the second half of the 1970s, punk rock both intensified and reacted against some of these trends to produce a raw, energetic form of music characterized by overt political and social critiques. Punk caused other below-genres to come about into the 1980s, including New Wave, post-punk and eventually the alternative rock movement. From the 1990s, alternative rock began to be the most popular type of rock music. It broke through into the mainstream in the form of grunge, Britpop, and indie rock. More merging of below-genres have since emerged. These include pop punk, rap rock, and rap metal, as well as conscious attempts to revisit rock's history, including the garage rock/post-punk and synthpop revivals at the beginning of the new millennium.


</doc>
<doc id="18829" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18829" title="Cream">
Cream

Cream (also called milkfat, milk fat, and butterfat) is the fatty part of regular milk. Skimmed milk (or skim milk) is milk sold with some or nearly all of the fat removed. Cream is usually used in coffee to make it lighter in taste.




</doc>
<doc id="18835" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18835" title="Category:Soap operas">
Category:Soap operas


</doc>
<doc id="18836" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18836" title="Time dilation">
Time dilation

Time dilation is a physics concept related to relativity and special relativity. 

In Albert Einstein's theories of relativity, there are two types of time dilation. In special relativity, clocks that are moving with respect to (according to) a stationary observer's clock run slower. For example, if Person A moves faster than Person B, Person A will experience time at a slower rate, and a clock he is carrying will tick slower than the clock person B is carrying.

In general relativity, clocks that are near to a strong gravitational field (such as a planet) run slower.

The formula for determining time dilation in special relativity is:
where
It could also be written as:
where
A simple summary is that more time is measured on the clock at rest than the moving clock; therefore, the moving clock is "running slow".

When both clocks are not moving, relative to each other, the two times measured are the same. This can be proven mathematically by

For example:
In a spaceship moving at 99% of the speed of light, a year passes. How much time will pass on earth?

Substituting into :formula_1

So approximately 7.09 years will pass on earth, for each year in the spaceship.
In ordinary life, where people move at speeds much less than the speed of light, even considering space travel, are not great enough to produce easily detectable time dilation effects, and such vanishingly small effects can be safely ignored. It is only when an object approaches speeds on the order of 30,000 km/s (10% the speed of light) that time dilation becomes important.

However, there are practical uses of time dilation. One such example is with regard to keeping the clocks on GPS satellites accurate. Without accounting for time dilation, GPS'es would be useless.


</doc>
<doc id="18848" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18848" title="Supreme Court of the United States">
Supreme Court of the United States

The Supreme Court of the United States is the highest court in the United States of America. Because of this, the Court leads the Judicial Branch of the United States Federal Government. It is the only U.S. court established by the United States Constitution, and its decisions are supposed to be followed by all other courts in the United States. The Court meets in its own building in Washington, D.C. However, until 1935, the Supreme Court met in the United States Capitol. 

The number of judges has changed over time. Now, there are 9 judges on the court: one Chief Justice, and eight Associate Justices. 

The Supreme Court decides what lawsuits it will decide on. Many people file lawsuits with the Supreme Court but most of them are refused.

To be accepted, lawsuits must be about federal law, not state or local law. Lawsuits must be decided by the federal District Court and the federal Court of Appeals. Even after that, the Supreme Court can decide not to consider lawsuits without giving a reason.

The judges serve for life unless they want to retire earlier. When a judge dies or retires, the President of the United States picks, or nominates, the replacement. Usually, the President tries to pick someone that is not too old and whom he thinks shares the same political beliefs. Sometimes, the judges have surprised people when they turn out to be more liberal or conservative than expected.

The current Justices are:


</doc>
<doc id="18849" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18849" title="Category:Family">
Category:Family

These articles are about English words for family members.


</doc>
<doc id="18852" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18852" title="Template:Mergefrom">
Template:Mergefrom

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="18853" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18853" title="Template:Mergeto">
Template:Mergeto

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="18859" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18859" title="Falling">
Falling

Falling is movement that happens due to gravity, such as when something rolls off a table and falls down to the floor. Falling is a common cause of people's injuries, especially for elderly people and for people who do sports and other leisure activities.

In some cases, elderly people become less steady on their feet. If elderly people fall to the ground, they are at a greater risk of having serious injuries, such as breaking their hip.

During sports and other recreational activities such as bicycling or skateboarding, people are more likely to fall. Some bicyclists and skateboarders wear protective clothing to protect their body in the event of a fall, such as a helmet, elbow pads, and knee pads.

There is also an expression "falling in love," which means when two people begin to feel romantic love or emotional attachment to each other.


</doc>
<doc id="18860" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18860" title="Autumn">
Autumn

Autumn is the season after summer and before winter. In the United States this season is also called fall. In the Northern Hemisphere, it begins with the autumnal equinox (22 September) and ends with the winter solstice (21 December). In the Southern Hemisphere, it runs from the autumnal equinox (20 March) to the winter solstice (21 June).

In many places, autumn is a time for harvesting most crops. Deciduous trees (trees that lose their leaves every year) lose their leaves, usually after turning yellow, red, or brown. Evergreen trees keep their leaves all year round. Also, in many countries, autumn is the time a new school year starts. In the UK, the period of school between the start of September and the end of December is known as the 'Autumn Term'.

When it is autumn in the Northern Hemisphere, it is spring in the Southern Hemisphere. When it is autumn in the Southern Hemisphere, it is spring in the Northern Hemisphere. On the Equator, autumn is very much like spring, with little difference in temperature or in weather. Autumn is a time when most animals are looking for food so they can store up for winter, because they soon will be going into hibernation. The weather gets colder and more windy.


</doc>
<doc id="18861" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18861" title="Fall">
Fall

Fall has several meanings:


</doc>
<doc id="18862" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18862" title="Holocaust denial">
Holocaust denial

Holocaust denial is the belief that The Holocaust (the killing of millions of Jews and others during World War II by the Nazis) did not happen, or happened on a smaller scale. Most history experts agree that the Nazis did kill millions of people in concentration camps. However, people who deny the Holocaust, who prefer to call themselves "Holocaust revisionists" say that the Holocaust is the product of a conspiracy.

It is against the law to deny the Holocaust in a number of European countries, especially in Germany. Ernst Zündel is a well known Holocaust-denier, he faces prosecution in Germany for it.


</doc>
<doc id="18863" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18863" title="John Locke">
John Locke

John Locke (; 29 August 1632 – 28 October 1704), known as the "Father of Liberalism", was an English philosopher and physician. His writings influenced Voltaire and Rousseau, a lot of Scottish Enlightenment thinkers, as well as the American revolutionaries. He is mentioned in the American Declaration of Independence.

Locke's theories were usually about identity and the self. Locke thought that we are born without thoughts, and that knowledge is instead determined only by experience.

Locke's father, who was also named John Locke, was a country lawyer. He had served as a captain in the early part of the English Civil War. His mother, Agnes Keene, was a tanner's daughter and was thought to be very beautiful. Both mother and father were Puritans. 
Locke was born on 29 August 1632, in a cottage by the church in Wrington, Somerset, about twelve miles from Bristol. He was baptized when he was born. After that, his family soon moved to Pensford.

In 1647, Locke was sent to Westminster School in London. During this time he was being sponsored by Alexander Popham, a member of the Parliament. After finishing his studies there, he went into the Christ Church. Although Locke was a good student, he did not like the schedule of the time spent there. He did not like the classical subjects taught at the university, and wanted to learn more about modern philosophy. Through his friend Richard Lower, whom he had met at the school, Locke learned about medicine. 

Locke was awarded a bachelor's degree in 1656 and a master's degree in 1658. In 1666, he met Lord Anthony Ashley Cooper, who had come to Oxford seeking treatment for his liver disease. Cooper was impressed with Locke and asked him to come.

Locke had been looking for a job and in 1667 moved into Shaftesbury's home at Exeter House in London, to serve as Lord Ashley's personal physician. In London, Locke continued his studies on medicine.

Locke's medical knowledge was put to the test when Shaftesbury's liver disease became worse until Shaftesbury was about to die. Locke used the advice of several physicians and persuaded Shaftesbury to go to an operation. Shaftesbury lived through the operation and thanked Locke with saving his life.
Shaftesbury, as a member of the Whig movement, was a big influence on Locke's political ideas. However, after Shaftesbury began to fall from favor in 1675, Locke decided to travel across France. He came back to England in 1679. At this time, due to Shaftesbury's insists, Locke wrote the "Two Treatises of Government". While it was once thought that Locke wrote the Treatises to defend the Glorious Revolution of 1688, recent scholarship has shown that the work was composed before this even started.

However, Locke ran away to the Netherlands in 1683. This is because people became suspicious of him being involved in the Rye House Plot. In the Netherlands, Locke had time to return to his writing, spending a great deal of time re-working the Essay. Locke did not return home until after the Glorious Revolution. Locke came with William of Orange's wife back to England in 1688.

Locke's close friend Lady Masham invited him to join her at the Mashams' country house in Essex. Although his time there was marked by variable health from asthma attacks, he nevertheless became an intellectual hero of the Whigs. During this period he discussed matters with such figures as John Dryden and Isaac Newton.

He died in 28 October 1704, and is buried in the churchyard of the village of High Laver, east of Harlow in Essex, where he had lived in the household of Sir Francis Masham since 1691. Locke never married nor had children. 

Events that happened during Locke's lifetime include the English Restoration, the Great Plague of London and the Great Fire of London. He did not quite see the Act of Union of 1707, though the thrones of England and Scotland were held in personal union throughout his lifetime. Constitutional monarchy and parliamentary democracy were in their infancy during Locke's time.






</doc>
<doc id="18864" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18864" title="Marcha Real">
Marcha Real

La Marcha Real (English translation: "The Royal March") is the national anthem (country's song) of Spain. It is one of the few national anthems in the world (our planet Earth) to have only music, and no words.


</doc>
<doc id="18867" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18867" title="Satellite (artificial)">
Satellite (artificial)

A satellite is an object that orbits another object. Usually, this means in space. Satellites may be made by man, or they may be natural. The moon is a natural satellite that orbits the Earth. Most man-made satellites also orbit the Earth.

Most of the man-made satellites are in a "Low Earth Orbit" or a "geostationary orbit". A satellite in a geostationary orbit moves around the Earth as fast as the Earth spins, so from the ground it looks like it is (not moving). To move this way, the satellite must be above the equator, about 35,786 kilometers above the ground.

Satellites in Low Earth Orbit are less than one thousand kilometers above the ground. They move much faster. Many are in tilted orbits.

Uses of man-made satellites include machines that relay television signals, take photographs, send telephone traffic, help with weather forecasting, space investigation, and pollution control. The first man-made satellite was Sputnik.

Man-made satellites have six main uses:

Man-made satellites are also known as 


</doc>
<doc id="18869" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18869" title="Césarville-Dossainville">
Césarville-Dossainville

Césarville-Dossainville is a French village, which is located in the ""département"" of Loiret and the ""région"" of Centre.






</doc>
<doc id="18870" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18870" title="La Marseillaise">
La Marseillaise

La Marseillaise is the national anthem of France.

It was written by Rouget de Lisle in Strasbourg on April 26, 1792. It was first called ""Chant de guerre pour l'armée du Rhin"" ("Marching Song of the Rhine Army").

Composers have often quoted La Marseillaise in their music, for example Tchaikovsky uses it in the 1812 overture.


</doc>
<doc id="18874" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18874" title="Nashville, Tennessee">
Nashville, Tennessee

Nashville is the capital city of the U.S. state of Tennessee. It is on the Cumberland River in Davidson County. Nashville is the home of the Grand Ole Opry, the Country Music Hall of Fame, and many major record labels.

Nashville has 569,891 people in it (according to the 2000 census), making it the second biggest city in Tennessee after Memphis. A resident of Nashville is called a "Nashvillian".

The City of Nashville and Davidson County joined in 1963 as a way for Nashville to fight the problems of urban sprawl. The joint metropolitan government offers services such as police, firefighting, electricity, running water, and waste water disposal.

Nashville sports teams include:




</doc>
<doc id="18875" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18875" title="Salem, Oregon">
Salem, Oregon

Salem (IPA: [ˈseɪ lm̩]) is the capital city of the state of Oregon in the United States of America, and county seat of Marion County. As of 2003 it has 142,940 people living in it. It is in the Willamette Valley, one of the best farming areas on Earth.



</doc>
<doc id="18876" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18876" title="Harrisburg, Pennsylvania">
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania

Harrisburg is the capital city of Pennsylvania, one of four U.S. states called a "Commonwealth" of the United States. As of the 2000 census, the city has 48,950 people living in it.

Harrisburg is the county seat of Dauphin County and is on the Susquehanna River, 105 miles (169 km) northwest of Philadelphia.




</doc>
<doc id="18877" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18877" title="Olympia, Washington">
Olympia, Washington

Olympia is the capital city of the state of Washington, in the United States of America. It became a city on January 28, 1859. As of the 2010 census, it has 46,478 people living in it. The people of Olympia are called "Olympians". Olympia is the county seat of Thurston County.

Olympia is located at 47°2'33" North, 122°53'35" West (47.042418, -122.893077).

According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total size of 48.0 km² (18.5 mi²). 43.3 km² (16.7 mi²) of it is land and 4.7 km² (1.8 mi²) of it is water. The total area is 9.77% water.

Olympia is on the water (Puget Sound) and close to dark green forests and high mountains (the Olympic Mountains and Mount Rainier). On most days of the year the sky is full of clouds and it rains, but sunny weather is more common in July, August, and September.

Many people in Olympia work for the government of the State of Washington. Every year, state representatives and state senators come to Olympia to make laws and to pass a budget for the state government.

Olympia is the home of the Olympia Farmers Market and The Evergreen State College.

Every April, the people of Olympia celebrate the "Procession of the Species," a parade. Many Olympians, of all ages, dress up to look like animals, birds, fish, plants, and even insects, and walk in the parade. Some also play drums or dance the samba.


</doc>
<doc id="18880" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18880" title="Invertebrate">
Invertebrate

Invertebrate is a kind of animal that does not have a spinal column or "backbone". It is the opposite of vertebrate, that means if an animal is not a vertebrate (fish, reptile, amphibian, bird, or mammal), it is an invertebrate.

The main phyla of invertebrate animals are:

Insects have no bones, but they have a skeleton on the outside of their bodies that scientists call an exoskeleton. It is like our skin, only it is hard.

There are 18 more phyla of invertebrates, mostly minor: see List of animal phyla.


</doc>
<doc id="18881" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18881" title="Sugar, We're Goin Down">
Sugar, We're Goin Down

"Sugar, We’re Goin' Down" is the first single from the "From Under the Cork Tree" album, by Fall Out Boy and it was the song that made them famous. It was released in 2005.


</doc>
<doc id="18884" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18884" title="Lawrence of Arabia">
Lawrence of Arabia

Lawrence of Arabia is an epic movie from 1962, based on the life of T. E. Lawrence. It stars Peter O'Toole as the title character, along with Omar Sharif and Alec Guinness. The opening scene of the movie shows Lawrence dying in a motorcycle accident. The movie then goes into a series of flashbacks (past events) from his life. 
The 1982 movie "Gandhi" follows "Lawrence of Arabia's"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s story pattern: after the main character dies at the start, it moves into a series of flashbacks from Gandhi's life.

"Lawrence of Arabia" won seven Academy Awards, one of them for Best Picture.

Considered one of the greatest movies ever made, it has appeared on AFI's 100 Years... 100 Movies list (as the number five selecion).

A Director's Cut of the movie, running at 216 minutes, has no women talking in it.



</doc>
<doc id="18892" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18892" title="Glyphosate">
Glyphosate

Glyphosate is a non-selective herbicide used in agriculture for the control of weeds, shrubs, and grasses. One brand name it is sold as is Monsanto's "Roundup". It is also used in genetically modified crops.



</doc>
<doc id="18896" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18896" title="Pudding">
Pudding

Pudding is a popular dessert and snack. It tastes sweet, and comes in many flavors. The most common kind of pudding is chocolate. Some other kinds are vanilla, butterscotch, banana, and pistachio. Most pudding today is made out of milk, sugar, flavoring, and flour. Eggs can be used, too. If you do not want to make the pudding, you do not have to. The grocery store sells pudding that is already made. One of the most popular makers of pudding in the United States is Jell-O.

In Britain, the word "pudding" is often used for any dessert, especially a dessert made with flour and eggs and cooked by steaming, boiling or baking, e.g. treacle pudding, chocolate pudding or Spotted Dick (pudding with raisins or currants). There are also milk puddings such as rice pudding or semolina.

Confusingly, "steak and kidney pudding" is a savoury dish, similar to "steak and kidney pie" but with a softer pastry.


</doc>
<doc id="18897" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18897" title="Sigmund Freud">
Sigmund Freud

Sigmund Freud (Moravia, 6 May 1856 – London, 23 September 1939) was an Austrian neurologist (a person who treats the nervous system). He invented the treatment of mental illness and neurosis by means of psychoanalysis.

Freud is important in psychology because he studied the unconscious. The unconscious is a part of a person's mind which he is not aware of, and which he cannot control easily. 

After Freud wrote his first book, he got married to Martha Bernays. They had six children.

Freud lived in Austria in the 1930s. After the Anschluss, Germany and Austria were combined. Because he was Jewish, he received a visit from the Gestapo. Freud and his family did not feel safe anymore. Freud left Vienna and went to England in June 1938. 

Freud developed a theory of the human mind (its organisation and operations). He also had a theory that human behaviour both conditions and results from how the mind is organised. 

This led him to favor certain clinical techniques for trying to help cure mental illness. He theorised that personality is developed by a person's childhood experiences.

Freud began his study of medicine at the University of Vienna. He got his M.D. degree in 1881 at the age of 25 and entered private practice in neurology for financial reasons. 

Freud hoped that his research would provide a solid scientific basis for his therapeutic technique. The goal of Freudian therapy, or psychoanalysis, was to bring repressed thoughts and feelings into consciousness in order to free the patient from suffering distorted emotions.

Classically, the bringing of unconscious thoughts and feelings to consciousness is brought about by encouraging a patient to talk in free association and to talk about dreams.

The origin of Freud's early work with psychoanalysis can be linked to Josef Breuer. In November 1880 Breuer was called in to treat a highly intelligent 21-year-old woman (Bertha Pappenheim) for a persistent cough which he diagnosed as hysterical. He found that while nursing her dying father she had developed a number of transitory symptoms, including visual disorders and paralysis and contractures of limbs, which he also diagnosed as hysterical. 

Breuer began to see his patient almost every day as the symptoms increased and became more persistent. He found that when, with his encouragement, she told fantasy stories her condition improved, and most of her symptoms had disappeared by April 1881. However, following the death of her father in that month her condition deteriorated again. Breuer recorded that some of the symptoms eventually remitted spontaneously, and that full recovery was achieved by inducing her to recall events that had precipitated the occurrence of a specific symptom. This recovery is disputed.

Freud famously proposed that unconscious memories of infantile sexual abuse were at the root of the psychoneuroses. However, patients were generally unconvinced that Freud's clinical procedure indicated actual sexual abuse. He reported that even after a supposed "reproduction" of sexual scenes the patients assured him emphatically of their disbelief.

As a medical researcher, Freud was an early user and proponent of cocaine as a stimulant as well as analgesic. He wrote several articles on the antidepressant qualities of the drug and he was influenced by friend and confidant Wilhelm Fliess, who recommended cocaine for the treatment of "nasal reflex neurosis". 

Freud felt that cocaine would work as a cure for many conditions and wrote a well-received paper, "On Coca", explaining its virtues. He prescribed it to his friend Ernst von Fleischl-Marxow to help him overcome a morphine addiction acquired while treating a disease of the nervous system. Freud also recommended cocaine to many of his close family and friends. 

Reports of addiction and overdose began to come from many parts of the world. Freud's medical reputation became somewhat tarnished because of this early ambition. Furthermore, Freud's friend Fleischl-Marxow developed an acute case of 'cocaine psychosis' as a result of Freud's prescriptions, and died a few years later. Freud felt great regret over these events.

Freud made arguments about the importance of the unconscious mind in understanding conscious thought and behavior. 

However the unconscious was not discovered by Freud. Historian of psychology Mark Altschule concluded, "It is difficult—or perhaps impossible—to find a nineteenth-century psychologist or psychiatrist who did not recognize unconscious thought as not only real but of the highest importance". Freud's advance was not to uncover the unconscious but to devise a method for systematically studying it.

Freud called dreams the "royal road to the unconscious". This meant that dreams illustrate the "logic" of the unconscious mind. Freud developed his first topology of the psyche in "The Interpretation of Dreams" (1899) in which he proposed that the unconscious exists and described a method for gaining access to it. The preconscious was described as a layer between conscious and unconscious thought; its contents could be accessed with a little effort.

One key factor in the operation of the unconscious is 'repression'. Freud believed that many people repress painful memories deep into their unconscious mind.

Freud hoped his model was universally valid and so turned to ancient mythology and ethnography for comparative material. Freud named his new theory the Oedipus complex after the famous Greek tragedy "Oedipus Rex" by Sophocles. "I found in myself a constant love for my mother, and jealousy of my father. I now consider this to be a universal event in childhood." Freud said. Freud sought to anchor this pattern of development in the dynamics of the mind. Each stage is a progression into adult sexual maturity, characterized by a strong ego and the ability to delay gratification (cf. "Three essays on the theory of Sexuality"). 

He used the Oedipus conflict to point out how much he believed that people desire incest and must repress that desire. The Oedipus conflict was described as a state of psychosexual development and awareness. 

Freud originally thought childhood sexual abuse was a general explanation for the origin of neuroses, but he abandoned this so-called "seduction theory". He noted finding many cases in which apparent memories of childhood sexual abuse were based more on imagination than on real events. 

During the late 1890s Freud, who never abandoned his belief in the sexual cause of neuroses, began to emphasize fantasies built around the Oedipus complex as the primary cause of hysteria and other neurotic symptoms. Despite this change in his explanatory model, Freud always recognized that some neurotics had in fact been sexually abused by their fathers. He explicitly discussed several patients whom he knew to have been abused.

Freud also believed that the libido developed in individuals by changing its object, a process called "sublimation". He argued that humans are born "polymorphously perverse", meaning that any number of objects could be a source of pleasure. He further argued that, as humans develop, they become fixated on different and specific objects through their stages of development— first in the oral stage (exemplified by an infant's pleasure in nursing), then in the anal stage (exemplified by a toddler's pleasure in evacuating his or her bowels), then in the phallic stage. 

Freud argued that children then passed through a stage in which they fixated on the mother as a sexual object (known as the Oedipus Complex) but that the child eventually overcame and repressed this desire because of its taboo nature. The repressive or dormant latency stage of psychosexual development comes before the sexually mature genital stage of psychosexual development.

In his later work, Freud proposed that the human psyche could be divided into three parts: Id, ego, and super-ego. Freud discussed this model in the 1920 essay "Beyond the Pleasure Principle", and fully elaborated upon it in "The Ego and the Id" (1923). The Id is the impulsive, child-like portion of the psyche that operates on the "pleasure principle" and only takes into account what it wants and disregards all consequences. 

The term "Ego" entered the English language in the late 18th century. "Ego" is Latin for 'I am', and hence represents the thought and behaviour derived from two other sources.

The term "Id" ('the It' or 'the Thing') represents the primitive urges to possess, conquer, dominate and achieve pleasure. It can be seen very clearly in young children, who have not yet learnt to mask their feelings.

The Super-ego is the moral component of the psyche, which makes a clear distinction between right and wrong, and makes no allowance for special circumstances.

The rational Ego attempts to get a balance between the impractical hedonism of the Id and the equally impractical moralism of the Super-ego; it is the part of the psyche that is usually reflected most directly in a person's actions. 

When overburdened or threatened by its tasks, the Ego may employ defense mechanisms including denial, repression, and displacement. The theory of ego defense mechanisms has received empirical validation, and the nature of repression, in particular, became one of the more fiercely debated areas of psychology in the 1990s.

Freud believed that humans were driven by two conflicting central desires: the life drive (survival, propagation, hunger, thirst, and sex) and the death drive (Thanatos). 

Freud recognized the death drive only in his later years and developed his theory of it in "Beyond the Pleasure Principle". 

Freud acknowledged the tendency for the unconscious to repeat unpleasurable experiences in order to desensitize, or deaden, the body. This compulsion to repeat unpleasurable experiences explains why traumatic nightmares occur in dreams, as nightmares seem to contradict Freud's earlier conception of dreams purely as a site of pleasure, fantasy, and desire. 

On the one hand, the life drives promote survival by avoiding extreme unpleasure and any threat to life. On the other hand, the death drive functions simultaneously toward extreme pleasure, which leads to death. Freud addressed the conceptual dualities of pleasure and unpleasure, as well as sex/life and death, in his discussions on masochism and sadomasochism. The tension between life drive and death drive represented a revolution in his manner of thinking.




</doc>
<doc id="18906" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18906" title="Snack">
Snack

A snack is a kind of food. It is usually small in size, and can be any kind of food that you do not eat in large amount. Because it is not meant to be a meal, a snack is not breakfast, lunch or dinner. People eat snacks if they are hungry between meals. For example, eating potato chips after lunch but before dinner is eating a snack. Snacks are easy to eat and portable, in most cases. Examples of snacks are: Mars, Snickers, Bounty and Twix. These are made of chocolate and with a different filling. If you eat a snack it will give you energy which usually comes from the large amounts of sugar and/or fat in the food, so eating snacks is good for you, most of the time. We need the energy from the food because we lose energy:walking, enduring in sport and even concentrating.


</doc>
<doc id="18907" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18907" title="Providence, Rhode Island">
Providence, Rhode Island

Providence is the capital and most populous city of Rhode Island. It was one of the first cities established in the United States. It is located in Providence County. It is the third largest city in the New England region. In the 2010 census, the city proper population was 178,042. The area is the 37th largest metropolitan population in the country, with an estimated MSA population of 1,600,856. This is more people than the population of Rhode Island due to the area reaching into southern Massachusetts. Providence is at the mouth of the Providence River, at the head of Narragansett Bay. The city's small footprint is crisscrossed by streets at odd angles and has a rapidly changing distribution of residents.

Providence was founded in 1636 by Roger Williams, a religious exile from the Massachusetts Bay Colony. He named the area in honor of "God's merciful Providence" which he believed was responsible for revealing such a haven for him and his followers to settle. The official name of the state includes the name of the city, "Rhode Island and Providence Plantations". After being one of the first cities in the country to industrialize, Providence became noted for its jewelry and silverware industry. Today, the City of Providence is home to eight hospitals and seven institutions of higher learning, which has shifted the city's economy into service industries, although it still retains significant manufacturing activity.

From colonial times to the mid-19th century, the Rhode Island General Assembly rotated meetings between the state's five county court houses. After 1853 the state legislature stopped meeting at the Kent, Washington and Bristol county courthouses, but continued to alternate its sessions between Providence State House and the Newport State House in Newport. Early in the 20th century, Providence became the only capital of the state.

I-95 runs from north to south through Providence. I-195 connects the city to eastern Rhode Island and southeastern Massachusetts, including New Bedford, Massachusetts, and Cape Cod. I-295 encircles Providence while RI 146 provides a direct connection with Worcester, Massachusetts. The city's Iway project is moving I-195 to free up land and to reunify the Jewelry District with Downcity Providence. I-195 currently separates these two neighborhoods. The project is estimated to cost $446 million and be completed in 2012.



</doc>
<doc id="18908" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18908" title="Columbia, South Carolina">
Columbia, South Carolina

Columbia is the capital and largest city of the U.S. state of South Carolina. As of the 2010 Census, it had a population of 129,272. It is the county seat of Richland County, but a small portion of the city is in Lexington County. It is home to the University of South Carolina.

Just east of the city is Fort Jackson, the U.S. Army's largest and most active initial entry training installation,
Columbia is on the fall line from the Appalachian Mountains. The fall line is the spot where boats cannot travel any farther upstream, and is also the spot farthest downstream where falling water can usefully power a mill.

The state capital was Charleston on the coast of the Atlantic Ocean. In 1786, the legislature decided to move the capital to the center of the state, and the site of Columbia was chosen for its location on the river just 13 miles (21 km) northwest of South Carolina's geographic center. The State Legislature first met there in 1790. After remaining under the direct government of the legislature for the first two decades of its existence, Columbia was incorporated as a village in 1805 and then as a city in 1854. Columbia received a large stimulus to development when it was connected in a direct water route to Charleston, by the Santee Canal. This canal connected the Santee and Cooper Rivers in a 22-mile (35 km) section. It was first chartered in 1786 and completed in 1800, making it one of the earliest canals in the United States. With increased railroad traffic, it ceased operation around 1850.

Columbia was one of the first planned cities in the United States. It is known for its wide streets.

On February 17, 1865, during the Civil War, a fire destroyed much of Columbia was destroyed while being occupied by Union troops under the command of General William Tecumseh Sherman. 

The 20th century saw Columbia emerge as a regional textile manufacturing center. In the 1920s, Columbia businessmen constructed a large dam on the Saluda River to make hydroelectric power. The dam, using the native red clay soil and bedrock, was the largest earthen dam in the world when it was completed in 1930. Lake Murray which was formed by the dam is 41 miles (66 km) long, and 14 miles (23 km) wide at its widest point. At the time when the lake was finished, it was the world's largest man-made reservoir. The company that built the dam grew to become SCANA Corporation, one of Columbia's largest employers.
The city of Columbia has recently accomplished a number of redevelopment projects and has several more planned. The historic Congaree Vista, a district running from the central business district toward the Congaree river, features a number of historic buildings that have been rehabilitated.
The Central Midlands Regional Transit Authority (CMRTA), operates mass transit in the greater Columbia area including Cayce, West Columbia, Forest Acres, Arcadia Lakes, Springdale, and the St. Andrews area. CMRTA operates express shuttles, as well as bus service serving Columbia and its immediate suburbs. The authority was established in October 2002 after SCANA released ownership of public transportation back to the City of Columbia. Since 2003, CMRTA provides transportation for more than 2 million passengers, has expanded route services, and introduced 43 new ADA accessible buses offering a safer, more comfortable means of transportation. CMRTA has also added 10 natural gas powered buses to the fleet.

The Central Midlands Council of Governments is in the process of investigating the potential for rail transit in the region. Routes into downtown Columbia originating from Camden, Newberry, and Batesburg-Leesville are in consideration, as is a potential line between Columbia and Charlotte connecting the two mainlines of the future Southeastern High Speed Rail Corridor.

Columbia's central location between the population centers of South Carolina has made it a transportation focal point with three interstate highways and one interstate spur.

The city and its surroundings are served by Columbia Metropolitan Airport (IATA:CAE; ICAO:KCAE). The city is served daily by Amtrak and Greyhound Lines buses.
Columbia has the main campus of the University of South Carolina, which was chartered in 1801 as South Carolina College and in 1906 as the University of South Carolina. The university has 350 degree programs and enrolls more than 27,500 students throughout 15 degree-granting colleges and schools. It is an urban university in downtown Columbia, just south of the Capitol.

Other colleges are: Allen University, Benedict College, Columbia College, Columbia International University, Lutheran Theological Southern Seminary and Midlands Technical College.


</doc>
<doc id="18909" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18909" title="Pierre, South Dakota">
Pierre, South Dakota

Pierre is the capital city of South Dakota, a state of the United States of America. As of the 2010 census, it had a population of 13,646. Pierre (pronounced "peer") is the county seat of Hughes County. Started in 1880 on the Missouri River across from Fort Pierre, Pierre has been the state capital since 1889.

Pierre lies on rough river bluffs overlooking the Missouri River. It is a few miles away from Lake Oahe, one of the largest man made lakes in the world and a very popular fishing destination.

Two airlines serving Pierre Regional Airport provide non-stop flights to Denver and Minneapolis-St. Paul.

The nearest interstate highway is Interstate 90, which is about 34 miles south of Pierre via U.S. Highway 83. Pierre is one of only five state capitals not served by an interstate highway.



</doc>
<doc id="18910" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18910" title="Charleston, West Virginia">
Charleston, West Virginia

Charleston is the capital city of West Virginia, a state of the United States of America. It is located where the Elk and Kanawha Rivers join in Kanawha County. As of the 2000 census, Charleston has 53,421 people living in it, which makes it the largest city in the state. It is the county seat of Kanawha County.



</doc>
<doc id="18912" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18912" title="Madison, Wisconsin">
Madison, Wisconsin

Madison is the capital city of Wisconsin, a state in the United States of America. As of the 2000 census, it has a population (people living in it) of 221,735, making it the second largest city in Wisconsin. It is the county seat of Dane County. Madison is also home to the University of Wisconsin.



</doc>
<doc id="18913" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18913" title="Cheyenne, Wyoming">
Cheyenne, Wyoming

Cheyenne is the capital and largest city of Wyoming, a state of the United States of America. As of September 2005, it had an estimated population (number of people living in it) of 55,362. It is the county seat of Laramie County. Cheyenne was founded in 1867 and the current mayor of Cheyenne is Richard Kaysen.



</doc>
<doc id="18918" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18918" title="Template:User ko-2">
Template:User ko-2


</doc>
<doc id="18922" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18922" title="Template:User ko">
Template:User ko


</doc>
<doc id="18925" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18925" title="Template:User ko-1">
Template:User ko-1


</doc>
<doc id="18929" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18929" title="Jeannie Longo">
Jeannie Longo

""Longo" redirects here. "Longo" is also the nickname of Evan Longoria."

Jeannie Longo (born October 31, 1958 at St. Gervais-les-Bains in Haute-Savoie, France) is a female French cyclist.

One of the greats of cycling, Jeannie's list of achievements follows:











</doc>
<doc id="18931" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18931" title="Buckminster Fuller">
Buckminster Fuller

Richard Buckminster "Bucky" Fuller (July 12, 1895 – July 1, 1983) was an American philosopher, architect, and inventor.

One of his most visible inventions was the geodesic dome.



</doc>
<doc id="18935" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18935" title="Bill Harry">
Bill Harry

Bill Harry is an English author, from Liverpool. He went to college with John Lennon and Stuart Sutcliffe, who were members of The Beatles. Using the name , they promised to make Liverpool famous with Lennon's music, Sutcliffe's paintings and Harry's writing. The Dissenters did not get far together, but each member later became well-known.

Harry founded "Mersey Beat", a newspaper about the local music scene in Liverpool, in 1961. He was the first person to write news articles about the Beatles.

Over the years, Harry has been on over four hundred television and radio shows in Britain, America, Europe and Asia. Shows he has been on include "Good Morning", "Good Morning America", BBC News, Sky News, CNN, ITV and many television and movies about the Beatles. The British Council had him represent them for their Beatles in Hong Kong. Harry has also appeared as a guest at Beatles conventions in Britain, Europe and America.

Harry moved to London in 1966, when he was a music journalist for "Weekend Magazine", and columnist for the Fleetway magazines "Marilyn" and "Valentine". 

He was given an award by the British Academy of Songwriters, Composers and Authors for everything he has done for the music business in his lifetime.

In London, Harry worked with many entertainers. His job as their was to deal with the media.




</doc>
<doc id="18941" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18941" title="Category:Basic English 850 words">
Category:Basic English 850 words

This is a page with . See also the .


</doc>
<doc id="18949" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18949" title="Paul Bremer">
Paul Bremer

Lewis Paul Bremer III (Paul Bremer and "Jerry" among his friends) is an American author and politician. Paul Bremer was born on September 30, 1941. He was named "Director of Reconstruction and Humanitarian Assistance" on May 6 for Iraq in 2003, after the war..

Jerry Bremer was born in Hartford, Connecticut. He grew up in New Canaan, Connecticut. He went to school at Phillips Academy and graduated in 1959. Then he went to Yale University. He received a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1963. In 1996, he received a masters degree from Harvard University. His degree was in business. He also received a degree in Paris.

In 1967, he joined the United States foreign service. At first he worked in Kabul, Afghanistan. He also worked in Blantyre, Malawi from 1968 to 1971. He worked for the United States State Department for 23 years. During that time, he worked for six different Secretaries of State, including Alexander Haig. A Secretary of State is the top government official in the U.S. State Department. A secretary of state is appointed by the United States President. He also worked as a deputy chief at an American embassy in the country of Norway. A deputy chief is a person in charge at the embassy.

In 1983, President Ronald Reagan appointed Paul Bremer to the position of Ambassador to the Netherlands. He also became "Ambassador at Large for Counter Terrorism." 

He retired in 1989. Then he spent the next 15 years working in private (non-government) companies. One of the companies he worked for was Kissinger Associates (a company that was run by someone who used to be a Secretary of State, Henry Kissinger). He also served as a board member for several corporations. A board member is someone who makes big or strategic decisions on how a company should operate. Mr. Bremer has served on the board for corporations such as Air Products and Chemicals Incorporated, Akzo Nobel NV (a Dutch company), and Marsh Crisis Consulting Company. 

Jerry Bremer speaks many languages besides English. He also speaks Arabic, French, Dutch, Norwegian, Persian, German, and Spanish.

He is married to a woman named Frances Winfield. They were married in 1966. They have two adult children and two grandchildren. 

After he worked in Iraq, Bremer wrote a book. The title of the book is "My Year in Iraq: The Struggle to Build a Future of Hope". The book was published in January, 2006.


</doc>
<doc id="18958" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18958" title="1770s">
1770s




</doc>
<doc id="18959" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18959" title="1530s">
1530s



</doc>
<doc id="18961" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18961" title="William P. Frye">
William P. Frye

William Pierce Frye (September 2, 1830 – August 8, 1911) was a United States politician from Maine. He served in both the United States Senate and House of Representatives.


</doc>
<doc id="18964" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18964" title="Headache">
Headache

A headache is when your head hurts. It is not when you hit your head with something and made it hurt that way, but when your head hurts from inside.

A headache can be caused by one of several things, which are listed here:


The 2nd Edition of the International Headache Classification (ICHD-2) defines more than 220 different types of headaches in three categories:


A headache can also be used as a figure of speech, to describe something that is very difficult to do.

Many headaches can be relieved with painkillers like aspirin.


</doc>
<doc id="18965" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18965" title="Fever">
Fever

A fever is when a person's body temperature is hotter than 37.5 degrees Celsius (99.5 Fahrenheit). Normal body temperature for humans is around 36.6 to 37 degrees Celsius (98 to 98.6 F) or a bit higher after a lot of exercise. These numbers are for a temperature taken from under the tongue. Rectal temperatures will read about 0.3 C (0.55 F) higher, and armpit temperatures will read about the same amount lower.

When people are ill, their body's immune system fights the disease, and so the body temperature rises. Fever is a defensive measure of the body against the germs: the metabolism of the germs become disoriented when the body temperature rises.

About 38.9 C (102 F) degrees is called a low-grade fever, and above 39.4 C (103 F) degrees is a high-grade fever.

Children usually have a higher fever than adults; their immune system is less mature. Infants have the highest normal temperature, which decreases as people age. Some animals, especially small ones like rabbits and cats, also have a higher normal temperature than humans.

In certain cases, high-grade fever can be considered a medical emergency. This is especially the case since at or above 42 °C (107.6 F) the organs start taking damage that may not be repairable. While most fevers are caused by Infection, whether bacterial or viral, some fevers can be caused by cancers, including Leukemia, Lymphoma, and Renal cell carcinoma.



</doc>
<doc id="18967" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18967" title="Peoria, Illinois">
Peoria, Illinois

Peoria is a city on the Illinois River in the U.S. state of Illinois. In the 2000 census, Peoria had more than 110,000 people living in it. It is the home of the Peoria Rivermen ice hockey team. One of Peoria's largest businesses is Caterpillar, a company that makes bulldozers, mining trucks, and other kinds of tractors.

Many people drive in and out of Peoria on Interstate 74. People also drive around Peoria on Interstate 474. Peoria is 157 miles (257 kilometers) southwest of Chicago, Illinois.

Peoria has become famous as a representation of the average American city because of its demographics and its perceived mainstream Midwestern culture. On the Vaudeville circuit, it was said that if an act would succeed in Peoria, it would work anywhere. The question "Will it play in Peoria?" has now become a metaphor for whether something appeals to the American mainstream public.


</doc>
<doc id="18969" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18969" title="Sedative">
Sedative

A sleeping pill (people also call it sedative) is a drug that people take to help them sleep. It calms them, and makes them very relaxed. 

There are different kinds of sedatives:

Some sedatives can act very fast, usually in 10-15 minutes. Those who consider taking sedatives should talk with their doctor, who can give them the sedatives which are best for them.

Most sedatives are highly addictive, so people need a prescription from their doctor to get sedatives.
If they take sleeping pills for a longer time, they can get addicted. Getting rid of the addiction is very hard to do. Addiction means that people who take the drug cannot stop taking it, without bad consequences (as described below). It's like people who want to stop smoking, but who cannot.

People who have taken sedatives may seem dull, and sleepy. Since sleeping pills act on their ability to react, those who have taken such pills should not do the following:

Some people are addicted to sedatives. When they stop taking the sedatives, they may experience the following

Some addictions can also be psychological; when the users stop taking the drug, they may feel depressed.


</doc>
<doc id="18971" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18971" title="Epilepsy">
Epilepsy

Epilepsy is a chronic condition of the brain. It is characterised by seizures that do not seem to have an obvious cause.
The condition is very common; about 50 million people have epilepsy worldwide. People with epilepsy are sometimes called "epileptic", but it is the fit or seizure that is "epileptic".
Many people have died from seizures.
There are many different forms of seizures, and there are also many different forms of epilepsy. Most forms of epilepsy cannot be cured. In most cases, drugs can make life easier for those suffering from it. In very few cases, (which are difficult treat), surgery may help. In some cases, only eating special things (called a diet) may help as well. The diet used is called Ketogenic diet. It was mainly used to treat certain children with epilepsy, before good drugs became available. Today, it is used to treat certain cases where drugs do not seem to help. 

Certain forms of the disease can disappear after a time, they do e.g. only occur in childhood. Epilepsy is not "one" condition. Rather, it stands for a number of health problems that all show in the same ways.
The condition has many forms, but generally the following is true:

In most cases, epilepsy is caused by scars in the brain. Some forms of the condition are caused by genetic disorders, which may be passed on from the parents to the children. Very often, the actual cause for an epileptic seizure is lack of sleep, too much alcohol, or other things that cause stress.

Many countries in the world say there are special rules for people who have epilepsy. They need to be without a seizure for some time before they may drive a car. They also need to take drugs to treat their illness. In many countries, such people may not drive autobuses, taxis or lorries.


</doc>
<doc id="18972" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18972" title="Trout">
Trout

A trout is a kind of teleost fish that belongs to the Salmoninae subfamily of the Salmonidae family. There are many different kinds of trout. They belong to the same family as the salmon. 

Most trouts are fresh water fish. They live in clear streams, rivers and lakes in America, Europe, and Asia. 

To distinguish a trout from other species, look for a second dorsal fin (or adipose fin). Also, look for spots in mature trout and parr marks in the young.


</doc>
<doc id="18973" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18973" title="Tijuana">
Tijuana

Tijuana is a city in Mexico. It is in the north of the country and across the border from California in the United States. It is the largest city in Baja California.


</doc>
<doc id="18974" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18974" title="Tampa, Florida">
Tampa, Florida

Tampa is a city in Florida, a state of the United States. It has a population of about 340,000 people as of 2008. Tampa is the 53th largest city in the USA.

Tampa is the home of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, Tampa Bay Lightning and Tampa Bay Storm.



</doc>
<doc id="18975" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18975" title="Diana Krall">
Diana Krall

Diana Krall (born November 16, 1964) is a Canadian jazz singer and pianist from Nanaimo, British Columbia.

Krall began to play the piano when she was four years old. She began to play in restaurants when she was 15. When she was 17, she won a Vancouver Jazz Festival scholarship (student money award) to study music at the Berklee College of Music in Boston. She later moved to Los Angeles to study with Jimmy Rowles. In 1990, she moved to New York City.

Krall's 1996 album "All For You," was a tribute (way to honour someone) to the Nat King Cole trio. It was on the Billboard jazz charts for 70 weeks. The album was considered for a Grammy Award. She won a Grammy in 1999 for "Best Jazz Musician of the Year". Her 2001 album "The Look of Love" was #1 in Canada. It also won the Juno Award as Canadian album of the year. Her 2002 album "Live in Paris" won the Grammy for Best Vocal Jazz Record. Also in 2002, Krall won the Juno for Canadian artist of the year. Her version of the Tom Waits song "Tempation" made #1 on the World Jazz Charts in 2004.

Krall married British musician Elvis Costello in December 2003.





</doc>
<doc id="18985" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18985" title="Juno Award">
Juno Award

The Juno Awards are awards given to Canadian musical artists and bands, similar to the United States' Grammy Awards. The Juno awards were first presented in 1970. 

The categories for the Juno Awards are:




</doc>
<doc id="18986" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18986" title="Half-Life 2">
Half-Life 2

Half-Life 2 is a first person shooter video game created by the company Valve and released in 2004. This game is the sequel to the original Half-Life video game which came out in 1998. It is sold through the "Steam" sales system also developed by Valve. (Steam is a gaming platform where all games made by Valve can be played.) It is also available in The Orange Box, along with and (sequels to Half-Life 2), Portal, and Team Fortress 2. is currently in development. Half Life 2 is based on a game engine called Source. There have been many other Source-based games, such as Portal, Team Fortress 2, and .

Half-Life was a very popular video game, and Half-Life 2 was also very popular. Many reviewers believe Half-Life 2 is better than Half-Life and one of the best games ever made. It took six years to create Half-Life 2 (from 1998 to 2004). It was supposed to be released in 2003, but it was not ready. Many fans were very angry and said Valve lied to them. However, it did release the next year (2004). It had much better graphics than Half-Life. It also had more complicated non-player characters and more of a story.

In Half-Life 2, the player is Gordon Freeman (the same character as in Half-Life). It begins about 10 or 20 years after Half-Life. The Combine, a group of evil aliens, took over Earth and made humans their slaves. Gordon Freeman wakes up on a train in a place named City 17. He finds the resistance, some humans who fight the Combine. In the game, he must help them and fight with them. The game ends with Gordon Freeman stopping Doctor Breen, the evil human who is helping the Combine.

There are many important characters in this game other than Gordon Freeman. Some are Eli Vance, who worked at Black Mesa with Gordon Freeman before the Combine came. He is part of the resistance. Alyx Vance is Eli's daughter. She travels with Gordon in part of the game. Doctor Mossman also worked at Black Mesa. She works with the resistance, but is also a traitor who helps Doctor Breen. Barney Calhoun was a guard at Black Mesa. Now he leads the resistance.



</doc>
<doc id="18987" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18987" title="The Texas Chainsaw Massacre">
The Texas Chainsaw Massacre

The Texas Chainsaw Massacre is a horror movie released in 1974, and based on real events. It was directed by Tobe Hooper.

It was followed by several sequels and a 2003 remake from New Line Cinema.



</doc>
<doc id="18988" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18988" title="Encryption">
Encryption

Encryption is a method which allows information to be hidden so that it cannot be read without special knowledge or tools. Once this is done the information is encrypted. Decryption is a way to change an encrypted piece of information back into unencrypted form. This is called the decrypted form.

A simple kind of encryption for words is ROT13. In ROT13, letters of the alphabet are changed with each other using a simple pattern. For example, "A" changes to "N", "B" changes to "O", "C" changes to "P", and so on. Each letter is "rotated" by 13 spaces. Using the ROT13 cipher, the words "Simple English Wikipedia" becomes "Fvzcyr Ratyvfu Jvxvcrqvn". The ROT13 cipher is very easy to decrypt. Because there are 26 letters in the English alphabet, if a letter is rotated two times by 13 letters each time, the original letter will be obtained. So applying the ROT13 cipher a second time brings back the original text.

Most kinds of encryption are more complex. Some are made only for text. Others are made for binary computer files like pictures and music. Today, the encryption system used the most is RSA. Any computer file can be encrypted with RSA.

Encryption is used on the Internet. Web sites use encryption to protect private information. On the Internet, several encryption protocols are used, such as Secure Sockets Layer (SSL), IPsec, and SSH. They use the RSA encryption system and others. The protocol for protected web browsing is called HTTPS.
Mostly URL encryption contain MD5 Algorithm. Various alogorithm are available on the internet/market depending upon the need.



</doc>
<doc id="18989" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18989" title="Gelsenkirchen">
Gelsenkirchen

Gelsenkirchen is a city in Germany in the state of North Rhine-Westphalia. It is located about north of Cologne in the so called Ruhr Area.

About 269,000 people live there. In the past it was dominated by coal mining and steel industry. The city is famous for its football (soccer) club FC Schalke 04.



</doc>
<doc id="18990" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18990" title="Pseudoscience">
Pseudoscience

Pseudoscience ("false science") is an idea that looks like science, but is not. Pseudoscience may fail one or more parts of science. Sometimes, pseudoscience are ideas that are thought to be wrong.

Essentially, pseudoscience is any idea about how nature works that is generally not accepted as true by the mainstream scientific community. An idea can be considered pseudoscientific for any number of reasons. The word pseudoscience literally means "false science." Creationism and Astrology are both well known pseudosciences.

Pseudoscience is often considered immoral by scientists not because its claims are undemonstrated, but because they are sometimes presented as facts and/or real. An average person might not recognize the differences in credibility between a television program about psychics supposedly reading people's thoughts versus one that presents evidence for and against global warming.


Ideas (more properly "hypotheses") about how nature works may be considered pseudoscientific for many reasons. Sometimes, the hypothesis is just simply wrong, and can be demonstrated to be wrong. An example of this is the belief that the Earth is flat, or the belief that human female skeletons have one more rib than mens' do. Ideas such as these are considered pseudoscientific because they are just simply wrong.

Sometimes, scientists agree that a certain idea may be true, but could never be demonstrated to be true, even in principle. For example, some people believe that the Earth and the universe came into existance last Thursday. They believe that when the universe came into existence last Thursday, it was created with the "appearance" of being many thousands or even millions of years old. According to these believers, even our memories of two weeks ago are actually just the false memories that came along with the creation of the universe, which took place last Thursday. Such a belief is considered pseudoscientific because it is not falsifiable -- scientists cannot even imagine an experiment that could shed light on whether this belief is true or false.

Other types of pseudoscience are considered pseudoscientific because they are based on deception, even though the idea being used is not impossible. Examples of this are people who claim to have build time travel devices, antigravity devices, or teleporters. Scientists simply do not have the technology to build such things in modern times, even though they may be able to someday.

Some ideas are "arguably" pseudoscientific. This means that some mainstream scientists consider the idea pseudoscientific and some do not. Certain ideas about how the stock market behaves fall into this category.

Pseudoscience is not exactly the same thing as biased research, where the scientist has some bad motive (such as personal gain, fame, or financial profit) for promoting their findings. It is also not the same as an untested hypothesis, which is an idea that scientists cannot test yet because they do not have the money or technology to do so. The theories of quantum gravity are untested hypotheses: scientists can easily imagine experiments to test them, but they just do not quite have the technology to do so at this time.


</doc>
<doc id="18991" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18991" title="West Coast">
West Coast

West Coast could mean several places:

It can also mean:



</doc>
<doc id="19002" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19002" title="Nuclear missile">
Nuclear missile

Nuclear missiles are missiles (rockets who land on the earth or hit something in the air, the water, or whatever) with atomic bombs inside.
In the time of Cold War the USA and the Soviet Union were enemies and thought the other side was going to attack them. To dissuade the other side from attacking, both sides built lots of nuclear missiles to make sure that in case they were attacked they would be able to do more damage than the other side. After the war, people realized too many missiles meant neither side was safe, so since then both sides have gotten many less missiles.


</doc>
<doc id="19007" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19007" title="Pituitary gland">
Pituitary gland

The pituitary gland is located at the base of the brain between the eyes, and is an important part of the endocrine system. The gland is attached to the hypothalamus and gives out hormones. It controls a whole range of vital functions.

The pituitary gland consists of two parts: the anterior pituitary and the posterior pituitary. It is functionally linked to the hypothalamus by the pituitary stalk (also called the 'infundibulum'). 

The hypothalamus releases factors down the pituitary stalk to the pituitary gland where they stimulate the release of pituitary hormones. While the pituitary gland is known as the 'master' endocrine gland, both of the lobes are under the control of the hypothalamus.

The gland releases several kinds of hormones.

The anterior pituitary synthesizes and secretes the following important endocrine hormones: 


The two 'Gonadotropins';
and; 


Oxytocin is one of the few hormones to create a positive feedback loop. For example, uterine contractions stimulate the release of oxytocin from the posterior pituitary, which, in turn, increases uterine contractions. This positive feedback loop continues throughout birth labour.


</doc>
<doc id="19008" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19008" title="Miskolc">
Miskolc

Miskolc is the third largest city of Hungary and the capital of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county. Its population is 178.950.

Miskolc is in the north-eastern part of the country, east from the Bükk mountains, in the valley of the river Sajó and the streams Hejő and Szinva. Its area is 236.68 km².

The first known people who lived in this area are the Celts. The Hungarians came here in the end of the 9th century. The area was named after the Miskóc family who were its owners, and it was first mentioned in 1210. The family lost a war against King Charles I and the king took away their properties.

A castle was built in Diósgyőr (a town near Miskolc; it is now a part of the city) in the 13rd century. It was the favourite castle of King Louis I who lived in the 14th century. 

When Hungary was in a war with the Ottoman Empire, the Ottomans burned down Miskolc in 1544. The Austrians also burned the city down in 1707 because Prince Francis Rákóczi, who started a freedom fght against the Austrians, lived in Miskolc for a while. 
In 1724 Miskolc became the capital of the county. The city developed. In the 18th and 19th centuries the people built many important buildings: schools, churches and a theatre. In the 1786 census (when they count the people) 14.719 people lived in Miskolc and there were 2414 houses.

After the first World War Miskolc became more important, because Hungary had to give Kassa, the other important city of the area, to Slovakia. Miskolc became a centre of iron industry. In 1945 Miskolc and Diósgyőr became one city. In 1949 a university was founded in Miskolc. Lots of people moved to Miskolc because they could find new jobs in the city. In the 1980s more than 200.000 people lived here. It was the second largest city in Hungary (the first was the capital Budapest). Now Miskolc is the third largest, the second is Debrecen.

Since the 1990s the iron industry is less successful and lots of people lost their jobs. 

Miskolc is now an important cultural city and tourists like it too. The theatre holds an opera festival every year. The most beautiful parts of the city are Tapolca (with a famous warm water bath in a cave), Lillafüred (with a hotel which looks like a palace and is called Palace Hotel) and the castle of Diósgyőr.

The Avas is a hill (234 m / 780 ft high). There is a TV tower, an old church (the oldest building in Miskolc) and a large housing estate (high houses with lots of flats) on Avas.

The Downtown is the centre of Miskolc. The most important street is the Széchenyi street which is often called Main street. There are lots of nice old buildigs and lots of shops here.

Diósgyőr has a castle, some factories and housing estates. 
The University of Miskolc is a new university because it was founded in 1949. Most universities in Hungary are older and have old buildings in the downtowns. The University of Miskolc has a whole city part for itself, the buildings of the university and the houses in which the students live are in a lare park.

Lillafüred is a small village outside Miskolc, but it belongs to the city. The Palace Hotel, some caves and a nice waterfall are here.

Tourists like Miskolc-Tapolca because of its famous Cave Bath where people can bathe in warm water inside of a large cave. The houses here are expensive.


</doc>
<doc id="19010" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19010" title="Boeing">
Boeing

Boeing is a company that makes airplanes, rockets, and space hardware. It is based in Chicago, Illinois, USA. Some kinds of Boeing products are:


Their main manufacturing plants are near where the company was founded in Seattle, Washington.


</doc>
<doc id="19012" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19012" title="Uterus">
Uterus

The uterus or womb is the part of the female body in which babies grow, and spend nine months developing during pregnancy. The uterus is located just under the fallopian tube, in between the hips.


</doc>
<doc id="19013" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19013" title="Satanism">
Satanism

Satanism is a word that has several different meanings. It can describe different religions and philosophies. 

Sometimes the word "Satanism" is just used to say that the person using it does not like a group, but the group themselves do not think of themselves as Satanists. Used like this, it is just used to say the speaker disapproves of a group. A lot of groups, like Pagans, or even Protestants have in the past been called Satanists by some people.

The word is often used by people who do not know much about or do not like Satanists, who think that Satanism means worshipping an evil being called Satan, and that Satanists want him to win in a war against good represented by "God". This is not true of most Satanists. For them Satan is only a symbol for the freedom to be themselves, also the word satan is used as symbol for man's inner desires and for knowledge. These people like the writings of Anton LaVey and are sometimes called LaVeyan Satanists. There are several modern Satanic groups of different types, but the most well known is the Church of Satan created in 1966 by Anton LaVey who also wrote The Satanic Bible. Even though these types of satanists are atheists,meaning they do not believe in a higher being, they do practice magic. Their basic view on how to behave on earth is that because they believe that there is no after life or god then your actions on earth do not matter. 

Other types of Satanist do worship Satan. They are called theistic or traditional Satanists, because they believe their religion is older. They think their religion is similar to that written about in books from the Witch trials in Early Modern Europe. People may believe these Satanists are criminals, but that is hardly ever true, they just feel a calling to worship Satan. 




</doc>
<doc id="19020" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19020" title="Decatur, Illinois">
Decatur, Illinois

Decatur is a city in the American state of Illinois. In the 2000 census, there were more than 80,000 people living in it. Many people drive in and out of Decatur on Interstate 72. There is a shopping mall in nearby Forsyth, a suburb of Decatur.

Decatur is the county seat of Macon County. Macon County was the home of the young Abraham Lincoln, later U.S. President, for a short time. The place where the Lincoln family built a log cabin and spent the winter of 1829-1830 is now a state park, the "Lincoln Trail Homestead State Park."


</doc>
<doc id="19023" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19023" title="Elba">
Elba

Elba (in Italian "Isola d'Elba") is third largest island of Italy, after Sardinia and Sicily. The land area of the island is about 224 square kms. The coastline is about 147 km. The highest mountain is Monte Capanne at 1018 metres (3340 feet). Elba and the other islands (Gorgona, Capraia, Pianosa, Montecristo, Giglio and Giannutri) of the Tuscan Archipelago are protected in the National Park of the Tuscan Archipelago. The French island of Corsica lies about 50 km to the west. Recently,the island has become famous for its wine.

The island is divided into eight communes: Portoferraio, Campo nell'Elba, Capoliveri, Marciana, Marciana Marina, Porto Azzurro, Rio Marina and Rio nell'Elba. The island has a population of about 30 000 people.

The island was well known in to the last century for the iron resources. Mines were created by the Etruscans first and (after 480 BC) the Romans. After the end of the Roman Empire, the island knew barbarians and Saracens. In the early 11th century it became a part of the Republic of Pisa. In 1398, was sold to the Visconti family of Milan. After a few years, the island was acquired by the Appiani, Lords of Piombino, who kept it for two centuries. In 1546 part of the island was controlled by Cosimo I de' Medici. He fortified Portoferraio and renamed it "Cosmopoli". In 1577, the rest of the island was returned to the Appiani. In 1603 Philip II of Spain captured Porto Azzurro and built two fortresses there.

In 1802 the island became a part of France. Following the Treaty of Fontainebleau, French emperor Napoleon I was exiled to Elba after his forced abdication in 1814 and arrived at Portoferraio on May 3, 1814 to begin his exile there. He was allowed to keep a personal guard of six hundred men. Napoleon stayed on Elba for 300 days before he escaped and returned to France on February 26 for the Hundred Days. Thanks to Napoleon Elba is well-known around the world. In the Congress of Vienna the island was given to the Grand Duchy of Tuscany. In 1860 it became part of the new unified Kingdom of Italy.

French troops landed on Elba on June 17 1944, freeing the island from the Germans in World War II.

There is an airport on the island, the "Airport Marina di Campo", that can connect the island with the big cities of: Friedrichshafen, Munchen and Zürich.



</doc>
<doc id="19025" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19025" title="1799">
1799



</doc>
<doc id="19026" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19026" title="Saint Helena (disambiguation)">
Saint Helena (disambiguation)

Saint Helena can mean:

See also: St Helens; St. Helena Parish, Louisiana


</doc>
<doc id="19029" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19029" title="1162">
1162





</doc>
<doc id="19030" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19030" title="1704">
1704



</doc>
<doc id="19031" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19031" title="North Africa">
North Africa

North Africa is the Northern part of Africa. It is usually made up of these countries:

Most of north Africa is desert, which means it is very dry and does not rain very much. The predominant ethnic groups are Arabs and Moors (mixed Africans and Arabs). The biggest religion is Islam, meaning that most of the people are Muslims.


</doc>
<doc id="19033" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19033" title="Sanskrit">
Sanskrit

Sanskrit is an ancient language. The main script used to write Sanskrit is Devanāgarī. Sanskrit is the sacred language of Hinduism and Buddhism. Today, 14,135 people in India use it as their daily language. It is one of the 22 official languages of India. Sir William Jones said,"The Sanskrit language, whatever be its antiquity, is of a wonderful structure; more perfect than the Greek, more copious than the Latin, and more exquisitely refined than either, yet bearing to both of them a stronger affinity, both in the roots of verbs and in the forms of grammar, than could possibly have been produced by accident; so strong, indeed, that no philologer could examine them all three, without believing them to have sprung from some common source, which, perhaps, no longer exists."


</doc>
<doc id="19054" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19054" title="Dementia">
Dementia

Dementia is a set of symptoms, which affect the way people think and interact with each other. It is not a disease, but can often be linked to a disease or damage done to the brain. Very often, short-time memory, mind, speech and motor skills are affected. Certain forms of dementia cause a change in the personality of the sufferer. A person suffering from dementia will lose certain skills and knowledge they already had. This is the main difference to other conditions affecting the mind. People who suffer from learning problems, or lower intelligence will never acquire certain skills, people suffering from dementia will lose skills they have acquired. Dementia is more common in older people. Certain forms of dementia can be treated, to some extent. The most common form of dementia is Alzheimer's disease, which accounts for between 50 and 60 percent of all cases.

Famous people who suffered from Dementia include Augusto Pinochet, the Chilean leader, and also Rosa Parks, the Civil Rights Activist.

People who see the following worsen may suffer from dementia:

Behavioral changes may include: 

Some types dementia are reversible. This means the damage can be undone. Other types are irreversible. This means that they cannot be undone. Irreversible dementia is usually caused by an incurable disease, such as Alzheimer's disease. 

Reversible causes of dementia also include diffuse axonal injury after injuries to the head or the brain, kown madicaly as Traumatic brain injury.

Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease causes a dementia that gets worse quickly, over weeks or months, and is caused by prions. On the other hand, other forms like encephalopathy or delirium may develop relatively slowly, over the years.

The two leading causes of dementia are Alzheimer's disease and Multi-infarct disease. Glioma related tumors are another kmown cause. Alcohol dementia, is sometimes associated with Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome ,and iscaused by long-term or uncontoled, heavy alcohol abuse.

Possible metabolic causes are such as liver failure or kidney failure; and chronic subdural hematoma. Possible other causes may include brain infection by ilneses like meningitis leading in cases to viral encephalitis drug toxicity (e.g. anticonvulsant drugs). 



</doc>
<doc id="19056" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19056" title="Elasticity (physics)">
Elasticity (physics)

Something that is elastic can be stretched or deformed (changed) and returned to its original form, like a rubber band. It tries to come back to its first shape. The "strain" is how much the shape is changed.

This idea was first suggested by Robert Hooke in 1675.


</doc>
<doc id="19058" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19058" title="Harmonica">
Harmonica

A harmonica is small musical instrument that is played with the mouth by blowing into holes in its side. Harmonicas are cheap and easy to play. Harmonicas make their musical sounds from the vibrations of reeds in the harmonica's metal case. Harmonicas are used in blues music, folk music, rock and roll music, and pop music. A special type of harmonica, the chromatic harmonica, is used in jazz and classical music. Harmonicas are made in several different keys: G, A♭, A, B♭, B, C, D♭, D, E♭, E, F, and F♯. Each key can play a different range of notes.

Harmonicas are played by blowing or sucking air into one side. On this side, there are many holes. Each hole has a different note. Different notes are played when you blow or suck air.


Another type of harmonica is the chromatic harmonica. More songs can be played on it than a regular harmonica, because chromatic harmonicas can play more different notes. Chromatic harmonicas have a button which moves a sliding bar. By pressing the button, the player can play a larger range of notes. 

The harmonica is called many different names, such as: mouth organ, mouth harp, Hobo Harp, French harp, Reckless Tram, harpoon, tin sandwich, blues harp, Mississippi saxophone, or simply harp.



</doc>
<doc id="19060" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19060" title="Straits of Florida">
Straits of Florida

The Straits of Florida (or Florida Straits) is a strait located between the Florida Keys and Cuba.


</doc>
<doc id="19064" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19064" title="Electron microscope">
Electron microscope

An electron microscope is a scientific instrument which uses a beam of electrons to examine objects on a very fine scale. In an optical microscope, the wavelength of light limits the maximum magnification that is possible. As electrons have a smaller wavelength, they can achieve a higher magnification, and can see very small objects - typically around 1,000 times smaller than those seen in an optical microscope. The outline of objects, as revealed by the flow of electrons, is changed into a picture using visible light for people to see.

There are several major types of electron microscope, such as: Transmission Electron Microscope (TEM), Reflection Electron Microscope (REM), Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM), Scanning Transmission Electron Microscope (STEM), and others. Some of those are listed below.

A beam of electrons is sent towards the specimen - some electrons are reflected, while some pass through. Those that pass through are detected and used to form an image of the specimen at a magnification of about 5000000 times.

Similar to a Transmission Electron Microscope, but the reflected electrons are detected. By measuring the reflected electrons, some information about the surface of the specimen can be gathered.

A narrow beam of electrons is moved across the specimen and a picture is built up piece by piece by detecting how the electrons are reflected or absorbed as it moves.

It combines the high magnification of TEM with the better surface detail of SEM. It can be used to perform complex analysis on the specimen, which cannot be done using TEM alone.

<br>


</doc>
<doc id="19066" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19066" title="Insomnia">
Insomnia

Insomnia is when people cannot sleep. A person with this problem is called an "insomniac". Insomnia can mean a problem with getting to sleep or a problem with staying asleep. Insomnia is a and not a disease or illness.

There are at least three different types of insomnia:

There are many causes of insomnia. Some of them are:






There are drugs available that can help treat the different kinds of insomnia. There are also certain herbs that can help, in some cases. A third way that seems to help is a therapy that aims at changing the behaviour of those affected. 


</doc>
<doc id="19069" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19069" title="Airbus A320">
Airbus A320

The Airbus A320 is an airplane made by multi-national company Airbus that first flew in 1987. At the most, it can hold about 180 passengers. Other versions have space for between 105 and 220 seats. First in 1988, the A320 was one of the first aircraft to use digital fly-by-wire flight control systems in a commercial aircraft. With more than 3,000 aircraft of the A320 family built, it is the second best-selling jet airliner family of all time after the Boeing 737.

The A320 has been involved in several accidents—some of these have killed a lot of people. The worst accident happened in 2007 when a TAM Airlines Airbus A320 crashed when it landed in São Paulo in Brazil during heavy rain. The crash killed almost 200 people. The A320 has also had a number of accidents involving the undercarriage.

The A320 was the world's first commercial jet to use a small joystick, also called a "sidestick", to fly it instead of a normal yoke (a steering-wheel like device). This matched the new digital 'fly-by-wire' system, the first use of this in a civilian aircraft, which makes the A320 much easier and safer to fly.

The A320 also has a full "glass-cockpit", where most instruments in the cockpit (the front part of the plane where the pilot is) have been replaced by television screens. Most of the technology first used on the A320 has been used in other Airbus aircraft made afterwards. Other manufacturers, like Boeing, have also used much of the technology like a glass-cockpit and fly-by-wire in the Boeing 777.

The A319, A320 and A321 have engines made by two different companies; International Aero Engines (IAE) supply the V2500 and CFM International provide the CFM56. Over 54% of A320s in the air today have CFM engines. 

The significantly smaller A318 has either Pratt and Whitney PW6000 engines or CFM56-5. The PW6000 was not as good as expected and this may have reduced the number of sales; several airlines cancelled their orders before the more efficient CFM engine arrived.

The A320 has been shortened to produce the A319 and stretched to produce the A321. Recently it was shortened even more to make the A318. However this version has not sold as well and the only large operator is Frontier Airlines.

These different versions are known as "A320 derivatives". When talking about all of them, they are known as the "A320 family" or "A32x".

Changes in size are done by removing or adding sections of fuselage (the part of the aircraft passengers sit in) and adjusting the power of the engines. Airbus try to keep the airplanes the same where possible, to reduce operating costs. 

Pilots only need one licence (called a type-rating) to fly all A320 derivatives.

The A320 has been very reliable in service. Many early problems were caused by pilots not being use to the new "glass cockpit" and "fly-by-wire", but these no longer happen. In recent years, the A320 has had a number of problems involving its front undercarriage. The following accidents are some of those which have occurred since 1988:


Seven incidents of nose gear malfunction, including JetBlue Airways Flight 292.




</doc>
<doc id="19070" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19070" title="Priest">
Priest

A priest or priestess is a person who is allowed to do religious rites. Their office or position is the priesthood, a word which can also be used for such persons collectively. In most religions and cultures in history there have been priests, although they have a lot of different names, and follow different rules. In Japan, priestesses who guide the shrine are called mikos.

A priest is a member of a church that has been told to look after his (spiritual) community. He is the head of a parish.


To become a Catholic priest, you are required to study Theology. The Orthodox and Protestant Churches also have laymen as clergy.

Catholic priests are not allowed to marry. Orthodox priests can be married, but they must not marry after they become a priest. Anglican priests can get married before or during the time they are a priest.

The Catholic Church does not allow women to become priests. However, some Anglican Churches allow women to be priests. An example is Canon Jane Steen, of St. Paul's Cathedral in London.

Higher priests are called Bishops and Archbishops in the Anglican Church. John Sentamua and Rowan Williams are the archbishops of York and Canterbury

The Orthodox Church has a higher priest called a Patriarch. The Coptic Orthodox, like the Roman Catholic Church has a Pope. Pope Shenouda IIII

Many Protestant churches have ministers or pastors instead of priests.


</doc>
<doc id="19072" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19072" title="Red Sea">
Red Sea

The Red Sea is a sea between Arabian peninsula of Asia in the northeast and Africa in the southwest. It is a part of the Indian Ocean. The Red Sea is about 2200 km long, but its width is less than 330 km. Many ships go through the Red Sea, because the Suez Channel connects the Red Sea to the Mediterranean Sea and Bab-el-Mandeb at the opposite end is a gate to the Indian Ocean. Ports of the Red Sea are, for example, Suez, Port Sudan, Massawa, Yanbu al-Bahr, Jeddah, Aqaba and Eilat. 

The water of Red Sea has more salt and is clearer than water of most other seas because almost no rivers run into it. The weather is dry and warm around the Red Sea and for this reason many people from Europe and other parts of the world come for their holiday to the Red Sea. Some of them are divers, who swim under the sea level, to see rich coral reefs and fish. Holiday places, for example, are Sharm el-Sheikh, Eilat or Hurghada. The countries next to the Red Sea are Egypt, Sudan, Eritrea, Yemen, Saudi Arabia, Jordan and Israel.

It plays an important role in the book of Exodus. 


</doc>
<doc id="19073" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19073" title="List of country calling codes">
List of country calling codes

The following is a list of country calling codes. These are area codes for telephone numbers.

Places in NANPA (North American Numbering Plan Area) have been given area codes as if they were all areas inside one country.














</doc>
<doc id="19075" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19075" title="Charles Lindbergh">
Charles Lindbergh

Charles Augustus Lindbergh (February 4, 1902 – August 26, 1974), known as "Lucky Lindy" and "The Lone Eagle", was a pioneering United States airplane pilot famous for making the first solo non-stop flight across the Atlantic Ocean in 1927. 

Lindbergh was born in Detroit, Michigan. His parents were Swedish immigrants. He grew up in Little Falls, Minnesota. His father, Charles August Lindbergh, was a lawyer and later a U.S. congressman who was against the United States entering into World War I; his mother was a teacher. While he was young, he was interested in machines. In 1922 he joined a pilot training program with Nebraska Aircraft, bought his own airplane, and became a stunt pilot. In 1924, he started training as a pilot with the United States Army Air Corps. 

After finishing first in his class, Lindbergh took his first job as pilot of an airmail route in St. Louis. He flew the mail in an airplane.

In April 1923, while visiting friends in Lake Village, Arkansas, Lindbergh made his first ever flight over Lake Village and Lake Chicot.

Lindbergh gained fame around the world as the first pilot to fly solo (alone) and non-stop across the Atlantic Ocean. He flew from Roosevelt Airfield (Nassau County, Long Island), New York, USA to Paris, France on May 20-May 21, 1927 in his single-engine airplane "The Spirit of St. Louis". He needed 33.5 hours for the trip. When he arrived back in the United States, many warships and aircraft escorted him to Washington, D.C. where President Calvin Coolidge gave him the Distinguished Flying Cross. 

Lindbergh's act won him the "Orteig Prize", which was 25,000 US dollars. A parade was held for him on 5th Avenue in New York City on June 13, 1927. At the end of the year, he was named "Time"'s first Man of the Year. His public respect following this flight was such that he became an important voice on behalf of aviation activities until his death. He served on a variety of national and international boards and committees, including the central committee of the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics in the United States. On March 21, 1929 he was presented the Medal of Honor for his historic trans-Atlantic flight.

Lindbergh is honored in aviation for mapping out polar air-routes, flying at high altitudes, and decreasing fuel use. These things are the basis of modern air travel.

Lindbergh married Anne Morrow in 1929. In 1932 he made headlines again, when his baby son, Charles Lindbergh III, was kidnapped and murdered. Bruno Hauptmann was convicted of the crime and later put to death in the electric chair. The Lindberghs later moved to Europe. He died on August 26, 1974.


</doc>
<doc id="19076" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19076" title="Pilot">
Pilot

A pilot is a person that drives a vehicle (form of transportation) such as an airplane, spacecraft, or boat. All types of pilots must pass a number of tests and obtain a licence before they can drive an airplane, spacecraft, or boat. 


</doc>
<doc id="19077" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19077" title="Charles August Lindbergh">
Charles August Lindbergh

Charles August Lindbergh, Sr. (January 20, 1859 – May 24, 1924), was a United States Congressman for 6th District of Minnesota from 1907 to 1917. He was the father of Charles Lindbergh.


</doc>
<doc id="19078" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19078" title="Faroe Islands">
Faroe Islands

The Faroe Islands or Føroyar (that meaning "Sheep Islands") are a group of eighteen islands in the north Atlantic Ocean between Scotland, Norway, and Iceland.

They are a part of the Kingdom of Denmark, but have had local (autocratic) rule since 1948, and people in the Faroe Islands have had the right to do business with people from all countries since 1856. Most government matters are controlled by the Farose government, except for military defense.
The Faroes have similarities to Iceland, Shetland, the Orkney Islands, the Outer Hebrides and Greenland. The island group, or archipelago, left Norway in 1815. The Faroes have their own representatives in the Nordic Council.

Administratively, the islands are divided into 34 municipalities within which there are 120 or so cities and villages. Traditionally, there are also the six "sýslur" ("regions"; Norðoyar, Eysturoy, Streymoy, Vágar, Sandoy and Suðuroy).

The Faroe Islands are eighteen islands off the coast of Northern Europe, between the Norwegian Sea and the north Atlantic Ocean. Its area is 1,399 square kilometres (540 sq. mi), and has no major lakes or rivers. There are 1,117 kilometres (694 mi) of coastline, and no land boundaries with any other country. The only island that does not have anybody living on it is Lítla Dímun.


Fish, raising sheep, and tourism are important parts of the economy of the Faroe Islands. The economy was in trouble around 1990. Now only 3% of adults in the Faroe Islands do not have jobs, which is one of the lowest unemployment rates in Europe. However, since fishing is so important to the economy, if there are problems with fishing, the economy could be in trouble Since 2000, new business projects have been created in the Faroe Islands to attract new investment. The introduction of Burger King in Tórshavn was widely publicized but no one know how will goes things about this branch. Trades on the Faroer are easy by the bridges or the tunnels that connect 80% of the population in the islands.

The national holiday Ólavsøka, is on the 29 July, commemorating the death of Saint Olaf. The celebrations are held in Tórshavn. They commence on the evening of the 28th, and carry on until the 31 July.

The official part of the celebration starts on the 29th, with the opening of the Faroese Parliament,in the day there is a procession,with many people,from the churches in the islands.

The Nordic House in the Faroe Islands (in Faroese Norðurlandahúsið) is the most important cultural institution in the Faroes. Its supports Nordic and Faroese culture, locally and in the Nordic region.The House is managed by a director changed every four years.

In the islands there are many artists and musicians, with the most famous listed below:

Musicians:

Bands:

In the Islands,there are too,music festivals,where international musicians participating,like

Traditional Faroese food is mainly based on meat and potatoes and uses few fresh vegetables. A very important meat in the islands,is the lamb,the first ingredient,of many dishes.Others typically dishes,from islands are fresh fish,blubber,whale,seabirds,and Faroese puffins, and their eggs.

The climate is defined as Maritime Subarctic,with not hot summers,and with cold winters,usually there is fog or a heavy wind,that causes air traffic problems.

Many species of birds live sometimes in the islands,like:Eider, Starling, Wren, Guillemot, and Black Guillemot.Only a few species of wild land seals are found in the Faroe Islands today,the Grey Seals.Sometimes tourists can see whales,in the waters near the islands.
Grey Seals are very common around the Faroese shores.The natural vegetation of the Faroe Islands is,like in the Scottish islands,or in Ireland; dominated by , wild flowers, grasses, moss and lichen.



</doc>
<doc id="19079" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19079" title="Faroese language">
Faroese language

Faroese is the Germanic language of the Faroe Islands spoken by about 70,000 people. The language came from Old Norse which was spoken in the Middle Ages. Faroese is the most similar to Icelandic; although speakers of Faroese and Icelandic can't understand each other, the written languages are quite similar. The alphabet has 29 letters that come from the Latin alphabet.


</doc>
<doc id="19080" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19080" title="Laura Ingalls Wilder">
Laura Ingalls Wilder

Laura Ingalls Wilder (February 7, 1867 - February 10, 1957) was an American writer. She is widely known as the original author of "Little House on the Prairie" series of books. A TV series, "Little House On the Prairie", was inspired by the story of her life as told in her books. The series starred Melissa Gilbert as Laura and Michael Landon as Charles 'Pa' Ingalls.



</doc>
<doc id="19081" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19081" title="Mestizo">
Mestizo

Mestizo (Meh-stee-tzo) is a Spanish term for a person who is of mixed European (usually Spanish) and Native American ancestry. 

Mestizos exist since the time when Spain controlled what is now Latin America. A mestizo was the son of a Spanish father and a Native American mother. Mestizos form the largest part of the population in many Latin American nations, a large minority of mestizos makes up part of the population in Mexico, which is the Spanish-speaking nation with the largest population in the world.

During the colonial era, many Native Americans were converted to Roman Catholicism and began using the Spanish language instead of their traditional one. This was because of the concept that existed in the Spanish colonies which gave more "value" to European people, over Native Americans and Africans. Because of this, many Native Americans gained better social status by calling themselves "mestizos" instead of "Native American."


</doc>
<doc id="19083" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19083" title="Royal Air Force">
Royal Air Force

The Royal Air Force (sometimes called RAF, its acronym), is the air force of the United Kingdom. The RAF was made in 1918. by putting the Royal Flying Corps (spoken as 'core') and the Royal Naval Air Service together. It is the oldest air force in the world. The first man to lead the RAF was Hugh Trenchard. The RAF have many bases across the world, including the UK, Falkland Islands, Cyprus and Gibraltar. Some examples of the UK bases are RAF Lossiemouth in Scotland, RAF Valley in Wales, RAF Aldergrove in Northern Ireland and RAF Linton-on Ouse in England. The RAF has very new planes including the Eurofighter Typhoon, Panavia Tornado and the BaE Hawk. The Hawk is used to train fast-jet pilots.

The RAF was very busy during World War II. A lot of important planes were built for the RAF during that time. The Spitfire, Hawker Hurricaine and Avro Lancaster bomber were some very important aircraft which helped defend Britain during the Battle of Britain. The RAF lost a lot of pilots and aircraft because they were shot down by the "Luftwaffe", the German Air Force.



</doc>
<doc id="19085" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19085" title="Tequila">
Tequila

Tequila is a Latin American drink from Mexico that contains alcohol. It is made from a plant called agave. It contains about 40 percent alcohol, and is often used in bars and nightclubs to make mixed drinks such as the "tequila sunrise" or the Margarita.


</doc>
<doc id="19087" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19087" title="The Book of One Thousand and One Nights">
The Book of One Thousand and One Nights

The Book of One Thousand and One Nights is a cycle of stories that come from Arabia and Persia. There are different layers of the stories:



</doc>
<doc id="19092" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19092" title="Coup d'état">
Coup d'état

A coup d'état (pronounced []), or just coup ([]) for short, is the removal of a head of state and/or head of government from power (overthrow). Unlike a revolution, which usually takes large numbers of people to take over, a coup can be done by a small number of people. Even one person can cause a coup if they, for example, control the country's army. Coups can also be done by other countries, such as the 1953 Iranian coup d'état. One well-known coup was the Beer Hall Putsch, where Adolf Hitler tried to take over the government of the state of Bavaria in Germany.

The term comes from French for "a (sudden) blow (or strike) to a state".

Informally, "coup" is sometimes used to refer to takeovers, or wins, in places other than government, such as inside a company or corporation.


</doc>
<doc id="19110" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19110" title="Walt Disney">
Walt Disney

Walter Elias Disney (December 5, 1901 - December 15, 1966) was a famous American entertainer, inventor, cartoonist, and entrepreneur. Along with his brother Roy Disney, he was the founder of Walt Disney Productions (now The Walt Disney Company). He is known as the father of modern theme parks.

Disney's best-known creation is the cartoon character, Mickey Mouse. Disney even provided the voice for Mickey Mouse for many years. Donald Duck is another famous creation. Minnie Mouse and Pluto are also his creations.

Walt Disney began as a cartoonist in the 1920's after serving in World War I. He created Oswald the Lucky Rabbit but lost ownership of the character due to a contract problem. He then created Mickey Mouse. Walt Disney started the Walt Disney Studios and created the first full length animated movie when he created Snow White and the Seven Dwarves. The movie was a huge success. The money from the movie helped Disney create many more cartoons and movies. He earned 32 academy awards 

In the 1950s Walt Disney created Disneyland in Anaheim California. Disneyland was the first modern theme park. Disney also bought the land for Walt Disney World Resort in Florida. Disney did not see Walt Disney World finished though because he died before it opened. Both Disneyland and Walt Disney World (and now other Disney theme parks) are famous for their design, level of detail, being very clean, and animatronics.

Disney died of lung cancer and was buried in 1966.



</doc>
<doc id="19124" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19124" title="Sunday School">
Sunday School

Sunday School is a kind of class found in many churches, mosques or religious communities. Before or after the main part of worship, a class is held to learn more about that church's teachings, and about the Bible or holy scripture of the religion. Sometimes the class is only for children, sometimes adults go there as well and sometimes there are different classes for adults and for children.


</doc>
<doc id="19125" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19125" title="Eucharist">
Eucharist

The Eucharist, also called holy communion, the sacrament, or the Lord's supper, is a kind of religious ritual in many Christian churches. It started when Jesus Christ told his followers to eat bread and drink wine in memory of him, at the Last Supper. 

According to the Roman Catholic Church, the Eucharist is the true presence of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. During a Mass, through the act of transubstantiation, the bread and wine offered change, and are no longer bread and wine. They truly become the Body and Blood of Jesus Christ. The bread and wine do not change appearance, but they truly are the Body and Blood of Jesus Christ, which Catholics in good standing (not in the state of mortal sin) come and receive Christ—they consume Him. This follows what was said by Christ "Eat my Body and Drink my Blood" (John ch.6). Most Protestant denominations believe that this was meant symbolically, while the Catholic Church bases its beliefs off of the tradition handed down through the history of the church. 

First century St. Ignatius of Antioch, disciple of the beloved disciple John, in speaking of "the heretics plaguing the church" in their day, wrote: "They abstain from the Eucharist because they do not confess that the Eucharist is the flesh of our Savior Jesus Christ" (Smyrnaeans, 7).

From the second century, St. Justin Martyr wrote:
"This food we call Eucharist, which no one is allowed to share except the one who believes that our teaching is true, and who has been washed with the washing that is for the remission of sins, and unto regeneration, and so lives as Christ has handed down. For we do not receive these as common bread and common drink; but just as Jesus Christ our Savior, having been made flesh by the word of God, had both flesh and blood for our salvation, so likewise we have learned that the food over which thanks has been given by the prayer of the word which comes from him, and by which our blood and flesh are nourished through a change, is the Flesh and Blood of the same incarnate Jesus" (The First Apology).

In most Protestant churches, not including Lutheranism, the sacrament of communion involves eating small wafers or Matzos and drinking wine or grape juice, and not believing that it is the actual body and blood of Jesus, but as a very important symbolic observance, and fulfillment of what Christ commanded. Some churches offer it daily, some weekly, some monthly, and some a few times a year.

Unlike the Catholic teaching, Lutherans teach that the bread and wine is Jesus' body and blood, but is bread and wine also.

In the Latter Day Saints or "Mormon" Church, followers eat small pieces of bread and drink water. They believe that this is a symbol of the body and blood of Jesus, and they call it the Sacrament. They also believe that it helps them to make the promises of baptism all over again.


</doc>
<doc id="19128" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19128" title="Stroke">
Stroke

Stroke can mean one of the following:


</doc>
<doc id="19131" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19131" title="Little House on the Prairie">
Little House on the Prairie

Little House on the Prairie is a book written by Laura Ingalls Wilder in 1935. It is one part of series of books about Laura's childhood. The books have been made many times into movies and television series. Some other writers have also written books about Laura and her relatives.






</doc>
<doc id="19133" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19133" title="Piccolo Coro dell'Antoniano">
Piccolo Coro dell'Antoniano

Piccolo Coro dell'Antoniano is Italian choir of children. It was created in Bologna in 1963 by Mariele Ventre. The children had to help singing children at Zecchino d'Oro festival. In 1995, Mariele Ventre died and the choir has a new director - Sabrina Simoni - and a new name - "Piccolo Coro "Mariele Ventre" dell'Antoniano".


</doc>
<doc id="19135" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19135" title="Ward Cunningham">
Ward Cunningham

Howard G. "Ward" Cunningham (born May 26, 1949) is an American computer programmer. He started the first wiki website on March 25, 1995, and is considered the inventor of that software. He currently lives in Beaverton, Oregon.

Ward got a Bachelor's degree in electrical engineering and computer science from Purdue University, and then got his master's degree in computer science from there as well. Over the years he has worked for Tektronix Computer Research Laboratory, the Eclipse Foundation, and Microsoft, among other places. He is now at AboutUs, an editable guide to websites.



</doc>
<doc id="19136" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19136" title="Chain">
Chain

A chain is like a rope, it can join two things together. It is made differently though:



</doc>
<doc id="19137" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19137" title="Rope">
Rope

A rope is made out of several threads. The material can be organic, like flax, or it can be small threads of steel (in case of a steel rope, wire or cable). A rope can be used to lift, or pull things, like pulling a ship into a harbour with another ship, or fixing the ship so it does not away.


</doc>
<doc id="19138" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19138" title="The X-Files">
The X-Files

The X-Files is a science fiction television series. It ran from its creation in 1993 until 2002, lasting for nine seasons in total. The series is about two FBI agents, Dana Scully (Gillian Anderson) and Fox Mulder (David Duchovny). Together, they work to find answers to strange cases. Many of these cases have to do with aliens and the paranormal.

"The X-Files" was a very popular show; it is the second longest running science fiction show behind "Stargate SG-1". It also won awards like the Emmy Awards and the Golden Globe Awards.

The plot of the show has to do with finding the answer to mysteries, or X-Files. Mulder believes that the answers to many of these mysteries have to do with aliens and the paranormal, while Scully believes that the answer can be found using science. Sometimes, there are monsters that are introduced into the show. Episodes with monsters in them are called "Monster-of-the-week" episodes.

There is a plot in the show about Mulder's sister, Samantha Mulder. She was taken by aliens when she was little. Mulder spends a lot of time looking for her. In season seven, Mulder finds out that both the aliens and the government took his sister for experiments. They wanted to make an alien-human hybrid and used Samantha as a test subject.

Mulder and Scully believe that there is a part of the government that is helping the aliens. They find out this is true. The part of the government that helps the aliens is called "The Syndicate." The Syndicate helps the aliens to take over Earth.

Eventually, Mulder is taken by the aliens and is replaced in the series by John Doggett, another FBI agent. Doggett and Scully then work together in season eight. In season nine, Scully is replaced by Monica Reyes.


In 1998, a movie called was made. In the plot of the series, it is between seasons five and six. It is mainly about aliens. It was directed by Rob Bowman.

Another movie, called , was made in 2008, six years after the season ended. The movie is more like a horror story than a story about aliens. It was directed by Chris Carter. It earned $20,982,478 in the US, earned $47,386,956 in countries outside the US, and in total earned $68,369,434.


</doc>
<doc id="19139" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19139" title="Patent">
Patent

A patent is an official letter that anyone can read. The letter is printed by a government. The letter describes an invention. The owner of the letter has the right to stop anyone from copying the invention. The letter is first owned by the inventor. The inventor can sell the letter to another person or a company. 

The government reads the letter to make sure that the invention is new. If the invention is not new, then the inventor will not get the patent. The invention also has to be hard to make. If the invention is too easy to make, the inventor will not get the patent.

An inventor can sue someone to stop them from copying the invention. The person or company that copies the invention will have to pay the inventor money. They must also stop copying. They are not sent to jail.

The letter only lasts for 20 years. After that, anyone can copy the invention. 

Each country has its own patents. China gives Chinese patents. India gives Indian patents. The United States gives United States patents. An inventor can get a patent in any country the inventor wants. An inventor can get patents in many different countries for the same invention. Each patent in each country costs money.

The rules for patents are similar for most countries. 

To get a patent, the inventor must ask the government by describing the invention in writing. This is called a patent application. The inventor can write the patent application, but it is usually written by a person trained to write patent applications. This person is called a patent agent or, if the person is a lawyer, a patent attorney.

The government does not usually just give the inventor a patent. Instead, the government tries to confirm whether the idea is actually new. This is called patent examination. The government will try to find books, stories, or even other patents that show that the idea was not new. The inventor, or his or her patent attorney, then try to show how the inventor's idea is different from anything that the government finds.

If the government finds that the inventor's idea is new and useful, it will publish the patent. The government will also send the inventor a copy of his or her patent application with a special seal. This copy is the patent.

The inventor must also pay the government a tax to get a patent. Usually, an inventor pays money to ask for the patent, and the inventor pays money when he or she gets a patent. In some countries, the owner of a patent must also pay money to keep the patent.

The owner of a patent can stop other people from using their idea. If someone other than the patent owner uses the patent, this is called infringing a patent. If the owner knows that someone is infringing his or her patent, the patent owner can ask a court to stop them. If the court agrees that the other person was using the patent, the court can make that person pay a fine to the patent owner.

The patent owner can give other people permission to use their patent. This is called a license. The person that wants to use another person's patent will usually pay money to the patent owner.

Patents most often cover products or processes that contain ‘new’ functional or technical ideas. They are concerned with how things work, how they are made or what they are made of. Patents cover many different things such as electronics, medicines, agriculture and transport – anything in fact from a small detail in an electric switch to an entire power station.

Often a product is marked with a text saying 'patent pending’ or 'pat. pending', which means that a patent has been asked for (part of) the product. Then people are warned that they should not copy the invention. 

Patents are usually very long. They include a number of smaller parts. A patent usually includes a section that briefly describes the idea called the abstract. It also may include a section that describes other people's inventions and how the inventor's idea is different called the "background of the invention."

The patent also includes a long description of the idea itself called a "detailed description." In this section, the inventor tries to describe every detail of his or her invention.

The patent also has a number of pictures called the "figures." The figures are usually drawn by people called draftsman that are trained to draw in a special way. The pictures are labeled with numbers to show different parts of the invention.

At the end of most patents is a section called the claims. These are usually numbered. They include the a short statement that lists all of the things needed for the invention. A court will use the claims to decide if another person is "infringing the patent."


</doc>
<doc id="19140" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19140" title="The Wizard of Oz (1939 movie)">
The Wizard of Oz (1939 movie)

The Wizard of Oz is a 1939 movie from 20th Century Fox, based on L. Frank Baum's novel of the same name.

The movie has been considered, among many others, to be one of the greatest ever made. In 1998, it was sixth on the American Film Institute's 100 Years... 100 Movies list.



Dorothy Gale (Judy Garland), a girl who lives in Kansas, and her dog Toto, are caught in a tornado that takes her to a fantastic land called Oz. The house that she is in kills the Wicked Witch of the East, she finds out from Glinda (the Good Witch of the North).

As the Good Witch and the Munchkins (a group of small people who live in Oz) help her, Dorothy follows the Yellow Brick Road, the only way to get back to her home. On the way, she meets:

Arriving at the Emerald City, their villain, the Wicked Witch of the West, flies over them, writing out "SURRENDER DOROTHY" in the sky. When Dorothy and the others go to see the title Wizard himself, he says that he will only help them if they can get the Witch's broomstick. Then flying monkeys capture the group and send them to the Witch's castle.

The Witch asks for Dorothy's ruby slippers, but, since they cannot be taken off, she orders one of her monkeys to kill Toto. The dog escapes, and finding Dorothy's friends, leads them to the castle.

Dorothy is now inside a chamber with an hourglass and crystal ball. She will die if the hourglass runs out of sand.

Meanwhile, the Scarecrow, Tin Man and Lion try to save their friend, dressed up as the Witch's guards. As the three are about to rescue her, the Witch stops them, but Dorothy grabs a bucket of water and throws its contents on her. In doing so, the Witch melts down to nothing.

When the four travellers return to the Wizard (with the broomstick), he tells them to come back tomorrow. Yet Toto discovers that the "Wizard" is no more than just an ordinary "humbug", who entered Oz after a balloon accident. This leaves them surprised.

However, he gives, using magic instead of psychology, a diploma to the Scarecrow; a clock in the shape of a heart to the Tin Man; and a badge of courage to the Lion.

Soon after, the Wizard gives Dorothy a chance to return to Kansas on his balloon. But, just as he is about to leave, Toto gets off the balloon to chase a cat. When Dorothy gets him, the Wizard takes off without both of them.

Now, her only chance to go back home is found in Glinda. She tells Dorothy to click her heels three times, and say "There's no place like home" over and over again.

When she and her dog finally return, she finds out it was all a dream, and tells her family and friends about her adventures. Dorothy hugs Toto, and says to her Aunt Em that there is truly no place like home, thus ending the movie.



</doc>
<doc id="19141" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19141" title="Category:1935 books">
Category:1935 books


</doc>
<doc id="19144" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19144" title="Gillian Anderson">
Gillian Anderson

Gillian Leigh Anderson (born August 9, 1968) is an American actress. Her best known role is Agent "Dana Scully" in the movie/series "The X-Files". 



</doc>
<doc id="19145" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19145" title="Debt">
Debt

Debt is what someone owes to someone else. Usually, debt is in the form of money, but it can also be items, favors, or other things.

Goods, services or money borrowed with the intent of repayment (in kind or not) creates a debt. Debt can be secured or unsecured in nature.

A secured debt involves the use of collateral, which is an asset that is obligated to the debt-holder until the debt has been repaid. If the repayment is not made in full, the collateral asset is forfeited. For instance, a car loan typically creates a secured debt. If you still owe money on the car loan and do not make timely payments, the note-holder can confiscate (or repossess) the car and sell it to recoup the money still due.

An unsecured debt is more risky to the debt-holder (the lender), because in the event of non-payment of the debt, the lender has no recourse to forfeited assets to help defray the loss incurred by not receiving the expected payment(s). Credit card debt is typically unsecured. If you charge items to a credit card and do not make the monthly payments due, the credit card issuer can report the non-payment to the credit-reporting agencies, which will negatively impact your credit score, but they generally can not repossess whatever you bought with the card. 


</doc>
<doc id="19146" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19146" title="Uranium">
Uranium

Uranium is a chemical element (a metal) on the periodic table. It has an atomic number of 92, which means that a uranium atom has 92 protons in its center, which is called a nucleus. A lump of uranium that is dug out of the ground will be made from three different isotopes, that is three different types of uranium with different numbers of neutrons in their nuclei. Most will probably be uranium-238, which has 238 protons and neutrons, a small amount will probably be uranium-235 with 235 protons and neutrons, and a very small amount will be uranium-234, with 234 protons and neutrons.

Uranium-235 can be used in nuclear reactors and nuclear weapons by having a neutron inserted into its nucleus by humans. This turns the uranium-235 into uranium 236 as the extra neutron is added to the 235 protons and neutrons already in the nucleus. This almost always splits the nucleus into two smaller nuclei. This makes two completely different elements with smaller atomic numbers. This process is called nuclear fission, and creates a huge amount of heat. This heat makes it very useful for making electricity in nuclear reactors, or for blowing things up with nuclear weapons.

Uranium is weakly radioactive. Uranium which has had all of its uranium-235 taken out of it is called depleted uranium. Depleted Uranium is very heavy and thick (as each atom has a lot of protons and neutrons). This makes it good for balancing weight in airplanes, and for making bombs which can destroy tanks easily. Uranium can also be used as a dye for glass or pottery, which is how it was used before people found out that it was radioactive and could be used for nuclear things.

Uranium is a dangerous substance. Because Uranium is radioactive it is often seen with the hazard sign for radioactive elements, a group of three triangles with curved outer edges pointing in towards the middle, as seen on the bottle on the right. A lot of people believe that Uranium is a light green, glowing colour. However, this is completely untrue, because Uranium is black.


</doc>
<doc id="19151" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19151" title="The Graduate">
The Graduate

The Graduate is a 1967 movie based on a novel by Charles Webb, and directed by Mike Nichols.

In the movie and book, a recent college graduate (played by Dustin Hoffman) is by Mrs. Robinson (Anne Bancroft), the wife of his father's business partner. He later falls in love with their daughter Elaine (Katharine Ross).

The movie was Hoffman's first major role (he had appeared before in just another one). He was nominated for an Academy Award for his performance.

The soundtrack album contained music by folk duo Simon and Garfunkel, and beat out the The Beatles's "White Album" for the number one position (most sales) on the music charts.

Scenes from "The Graduate" have been well-remembered by many people, since it appeared. In one of them, one-word advice for corporate success ("Plastics") is given by a family friend of Benjamin's. (Reportedly, sales of stock in plastics companies jumped in the months after the movie appeared.) Another scene, where Ben tries to stop Elaine from marrying another man, has been imitated and parodied in television programs, including the cartoon series "Daria".

In 1998, a play based on the movie in London and on Broadway; its stars included Kathleen Turner, Alicia Silverstone and Morgan Fairchild.



</doc>
<doc id="19156" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19156" title="Aquitaine">
Aquitaine

Aquitaine is a region in the soutwest of France. It was important to French history during the Middle Ages because it came into the control of England when Eleanor of Aquitaine married Henry II of England in 1152. It remained in English control until 1453 at the end of the Hundred Years' War.

Today's capital is Bordeaux, with about 800.000 people living in the city. About 3 million people live in the whole region.

<br clear="all">



</doc>
<doc id="19164" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19164" title="Frances Winfield">
Frances Winfield

Frances Winfield is the wife of an American politician, L. Paul Bremer III. They have two children.

She is an author. She was born in New England. She met her husband at a music concert. They fell in love in college. They got married in 1966. Both she and her husband are strong Roman Catholics. They are ministers in their home state of Maryland.




</doc>
<doc id="19168" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19168" title="Nightmare">
Nightmare

The term nightmare refers to very powerful dreams that the sleeper finds disturbing. They usually have either physiological causes, such as a high fever, or psychological ones, such as trauma or stress in the sleeper's life. Nightmares are common, but nightmares that happen very often can cause problems with sleep. They may cause people to get medical help.

Nightmares usually occur in REM sleep. 

In earlier times, people thought that such nightmares were really the work of demons. They thought people were having nightmares because an Incubus was sitting on the chest of the sleeper. This can also be seen on the image. Sometimes people also thought magic and demonic possession were involved. 

In the 19th century, people made the diet responsible. When Ebenezer Scrooge sees a ghost in A Christmas Carol, by Charles Dickens, he makes ""... an undigested bit of beef, a blot of mustard, a crumb of cheese, a fragment of an underdone potato..."" responsible for the apparition. Similarly, the "Household Cyclopedia" (1881) offers the following advice about nightmares:


</doc>
<doc id="19169" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19169" title="Melilla">
Melilla

Melilla is a city in North Africa, right opposite Spain. It belongs to Spain, and is all surrounded by Morocco, which believes it should belong to them. Ceuta is another such city.

Its surface is about 20 square kilometers, and there are almost 70,000 people living there. 



</doc>
<doc id="19171" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19171" title="Ceuta">
Ceuta

Ceuta is a city in North Africa, at the Strait of Gibraltar. The City area is about 20 square kilometers, and there are over 71,000 people living in the city. The city is surrounded by a border fence, which has been built to keep the Moroccans (and other Africans) from moving there unlawfully. Ceuta is part of Spain (and therefore the European Union). Until it became a self-governing city in 1994, it belonged to the Cadiz Province.

It was built by the Phoenicians at a strategic position.


</doc>
<doc id="19175" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19175" title="Burkina Faso">
Burkina Faso

Burkina Faso is a country in West Africa. It used to be called Upper Volta and the name was changed to Burkina Faso in 1984. The country was once ruled by France, but it has been independent since 1960. The capital is Ouagadougou.
In 2005, about 13,228,000 people lived in the country. It is next to Mali, Niger, Benin, Togo, Ghana and Côte d'Ivoire. It does not have any coast with an ocean or sea. People from Burkina Faso are called Burkinabé (pronounced burr-KEE-na-bay).
People have lived in the area of Burkina Faso for thousands of years. At first they were hunter-gatherers, hunting animals and collecting fruits and vegetables. Later they became farmers. People called the Mossi arrived between the 11th and 13th centuries. They ruled the area until the end of the 19th century. In 1896 France beat the Mossi kingdom and became the colonial rulers of Burkina Faso. After World War I, the country was called Upper Volta.

In 1960, Upper Volta became independent from France. The first president of the new country was Maurice Yaméogo. After he became the president, Yaméogo banned other political parties. For several years the people of Upper Volta were very unhappy with the government and in 1966 the military took over in a military coup. In 1983 the government was taken over again by military men called Thomas Sankara and Blaise Compaoré. Sankara became president. In 1984, he changed the name of the country to Bukina Faso. It means "land of honest people".

In December 1985, Burkina Faso went to war for five days with near-by country Mali. In 1987, there was another military coup and Sankara was assassinated (murdered). Blaise Compaoré became the president.


</doc>
<doc id="19176" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19176" title="Battle of Waterloo">
Battle of Waterloo

The Battle of Waterloo was a battle that was fought mostly between French and British forces. Napoleon was crowned as Emperor of France in 1804. Then he launched many of successful attacks on the other countries of Europe. France soon had an empire that stretched from Spain to the Russian border. The only country that was still not captured was Great Britain. The Royal Navy had many ships, so invasion was not possible. However, Great Britain was not strong enough to stop Napoleon and his army from taking over most of mainland Europe.

Napoleon seemed unstoppable until two separate campaigns caused his empire to fall apart. He gathered a huge army to invade and conquer Russia once and for all in 1812. However, he did not think that he would have vey many difficulties and it turned out he did. His army was caught by the Russian winter and destroyed by the weather and lack of food.

Now that Napoleon was much weaker, the countries of Eastern Europe, led by Austria and Prussia, began to ally against him, forcing his troops back towards France. Meanwhile, a small British army in Portugal and Spain, led by Arthur Wellesley (later to become Duke of Wellington) began to win victories over the French armies and to push Napoleon’s troops out of Spain.

By 1814, he faced total defeat, with the Austrians and Prussians invading from the east and the Duke of Wellington and the British army in the west. A peace treaty was arranged. Napoleon would abdicate (give up the throne) and be exiled to a small Mediterranean island called Elba, with a small army. He was replaced as ruler of France by Louis XVIII, brother of Louis XVI.

Once he was on the island of Elba, Napoleon was not happy. He had been promised money by the new French government, but the money did not come. His wife (an Austrian princess) and his sons were forbidden to visit him.

Messages from France showed that the new French King was unpopular because he was trying to ignore many events that had taken place during the revolution. The allies that had united against Napoleon were arguing in Vienna over the lands that they had recaptured. He seized his opportunity, going by ship in February 1815 and landing in France again. His welcome was very mixed. Many French were tired of war and the death and suffering that it led to. However, there were others who wanted a return to the power and glory of the old days and saw Napoleon as their best hope.

His first days were tense but, by personal leadership and persuasion, Napoleon managed to gain the support of the army. When the king panicked and fled the country, there was little to stop Napoleon returning to Paris and resuming his title of Emperor.

What Napoleon needed now was a period of time to organize himself and the French army. The allies were caught completely by surprise and their only chance to stop him lay with two small armies in Belgium: a British and Dutch army commanded by the Duke of Wellington and a Prussian (German) army commanded by Prince Blucher.

Napoleon decided on a further gamble. He gathered an army and prepared a surprise attack on Wellington and Blucher, hoping to catch them unprepared. His plan was successful at first and he crossed the Belgian border before Wellington and Blucher could join forces.

His first battle was at Ligny and, after a fierce day’s fighting, he defeated the Prussian army, forcing it to retreat. Thinking that Blucher would retreat back to Prussia, Napoleon turned his attention towards Wellington. There had already been a small battle at Quatre Bras, as Wellington tried to delay the French advance. This had given Wellington enough time to prepare a full defensive position across the road leading to Brussels, near the village of Waterloo.

The French army advanced towards them and set up their camp on a ridge facing the combined British and Dutch (Anglo-Dutch) army. Heavy rain caused delays and confusion and both armies settled down for the night in the mud to await the dawn and the forthcoming battle.

Napoleon’s army faced the Duke of Wellington’s Anglo-Dutch army near Waterloo on 18th June 1815. Wellington’s troops were deployed behind a low ridge, partially protecting them from the French massed artillery.

At 11.00 Napoleon ordered his guns to open fire. French infantry began an attack against the Château of Hougoumont, defended by the British Foot Guards. This was intended to draw Wellington’s reserves away from the centre, where Napoleon’s main attack would fall.
And according to records this battle was considered to be a vital key to who will win the Battle Of Waterloo.

At 13.30 Napoleon launched an infantry attack against Wellington’s centre. Men of the King’s German Legion resolutely defended the farm of La Haye Sainte, serving to disrupt the French attack. British artillery and musketry succeeded in repulsing the French assault and the British Household and Union heavy cavalry brigades charged after the retreating Frenchmen. Elated by their success, the British cavalry pursued their enemy too far and in turn suffered terrible casualties at the hands of the French lancers.

At 15.00 Marshal Ney, believing the Anglo-Dutch army to be retreating after the heavy bombardment they had received all day, led a massed French cavalry attack against Wellington’s centre. However, the British infantry, forming squares to defend themselves from cavalry attack, held firm. The French took terrible casualties as they circled these impregnable formations of infantrymen. The situation further deteriorated for Napoleon as Blucher's Prussian troops launched an attack at Plancenoit to his rear at 16.30.

By early evening the French attack at Hougoumont, intended as a diversion, was now having the opposite effect. The French committed more and more troops to the bitter fighting around the château, which was held by only a small force of British Guardsmen. More French reserves were being sent to meet the Prussian threat to the rear of Napoleon’s army at Plancenoit. However, the French had at last succeeded in capturing the farm of La Haye Sainte, only a short distance from Wellington’s centre.

At approximately 19.30 Napoleon committed his last reserves in a final effort to obtain victory. As Prussians arrived to bolster Wellington’s flank, veterans of the French Imperial Guard advanced. The British infantry, exhausted from the continuous cannonade they had received all day, rose to meet them. The musketry of the British Guards Brigade defeated Napoleon’s finest troops. They fled, and the whole French army joined them in retreat. Wellington ordered his entire line to advance and the French were chased from the field.


</doc>
<doc id="19178" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19178" title="São Tomé and Príncipe">
São Tomé and Príncipe

The Democratic Republic of São Tomé and Príncipe is the second smallest African country, formed by two islands: São Tomé, and Príncipe. 
They are located about 140 km apart and about 250 and 225 km, respectively, off of the northwestern coast of Gabon. 

The islands were a Portuguese colony, but have been independent since July,1975. Portuguese is the official language.

The Porguese arrived in São Tomé Island on December 21, 1471 and Príncipe Island on January 17, 1492. As these were days dedicated to saints, both islands had saints’ names but S. Antão Island, the former name of Príncipe Island, changed in 1500 in honour of a Portuguese prince. 

The official historical version says that the country was uninhabited before the arrival of the Portuguese sailors. 

The first successful Portuguese settlement in the archipelago was established in 1493 when the volcanic soil of the islands proved to be good for sugar plantation - the first economic cycle. But between the 17th and the 18th centuries, the islands suffered an economic and social decline as a consequence of a slaves’ revolt headed by King Amador.

In the 19th century the archipelago regained importance to Portuguese settlers when they decided to introduce coffee and cacao plantations.

On February 3, 1953 the Massacre of Batepá occurred, when thousands of local people were killed by Portuguese settlers as a consequence of a disagreement between them about hired labour. Since slavery had been abolished, the Portuguese needed workers for their cacao and coffee plantations and the local people refused to work under the conditions offered, which, for them, were similar to slavery.

The archipelago’s independence movement started with the constitution of the CLSTP (Committee for the Liberation of São Tomé and Principe), formed in the late 1950s, which changed its name to MLSTP (Movement for the Liberation of São Tomé and Príncipe), the first political party after the independence, on July 12, 1975. 

When São Tomé and Príncipe was declared independent and became the Democratic Republic of São Tomé and Príncipe, Manuel Pinto da Costa, the MLSTP`s General Secretary, was named the first archipelago president. From then on, the political system implemented was the single party regime which prevailed until the 1990s when there was a political and economic reform and the multiparty regime was implemented. In the first presidential election, Miguel Trovoada was elected as the second president of the islands. His successor, after two terms, was Fradique de Menezes, the current president who is in his second presidential term.

The president, like the prime minister, is elected by direct universal suffrage for a five-year term and can be re-elected. The PM is elected for a four-year term, and the thirteen members of the cabinet (the group of ministers) are chosen by him.

The cabinet constitutes the executive power and shares the legislative power with the National Assembly. The judiciary is independent from the other two.

As a multiparty regime, the country’s main political parties are: the Movement for the Liberation of São Tomé and Príncipe (MLSTP), the Party of Democratic Convergence (PCD), the Independent Democratic Action (ADI), and the Democratic Movement Force for Change - Liberal Party(MDFM-PL). 

São Tomé and Príncipe is formed by two volcanic islands - the biggest of which is S. Tomé - and several islets, and is located in the Gulf of Guinea, off the Western equatorial coast of Africa. Both islands belong to the Cameroon volcanic mountain line. 

The archipelago is 1,001km2 in size. The equator line passes through the Rolas’s Islet which is located in the South of S. Tomé Island. The biggest peak is located in S. Tomé, known as Peak of S. Tomé with 2,024m.

The climate is tropical, hot and humid, with an annual average temperature of 27 C. There are two main seasons: Gravana, the driest season when there is less or no rainfall and the temperatures are lower; and the rainy season, when the temperature is higher. The former goes from June to August, and the latter, from October to May.

Since the archipelago´s discovery, its economy has been based on agriculture and fishing. Nowadays its main crop is cacao; it represents 95% of the country’s exports, and is followed by copper, palm oil and coffee. Another economic activity is tourism, which the government and the private sector have been trying to promote and develop in the last few years.

After independence, the country’s economy was nationalized until the early 1990s when the government started an economic reform that consisted in privatization of the economic sectors.

Nowadays, the government budget is mainly based on foreign assistance from donors such as the UN Development Programme, the World Bank, and country donors.

The main importers of the archipelago's production are Portugal with 51%, France with 14%, Angola with 11%, and Japan with 10%.

In 2001, petroleum was found in the waters claimed by the archipelago and Nigeria. After negotiations, the two countries reached an agreement and, in 2003, a joint development zone was opened for bids. But so far, there is no petroleum exploitation yet.

According to the last census, the total population of the archipelago was about 163,000 inhabitants, of which 52,000 live in the capital and less than seven thousand live in Príncipe Island. 

São Tomé is the country’s capital and main city.

The inhabitants of S. Tomé and Príncipe are divided into the following ethnic groups: mixed-blood, descendents of Portuguese settlers and African slaves; Forros, the biggest ethnic group and descendents of freed slaves; Angolares, descendents of Angolan slaves; Tonga, mixed blood of Forros and hired workers from Angola, Mozambique and Cape Verde; and Cape Verdean descendents.

In the last few years, there has been a rural exodus of the population seeking better life conditions in the city S. Tomé.

The country’s official language is Portuguese. Other languages spoken are: Forro, a creole spoken by 80 % of S. Tomé Island`s inhabitants; Angolar, spoken mainly on the Southeast of S. Tomé Island; Lung`ié, spoken in Príncipe Island; and Creole from Cape Verde.

Almost everyone is Christian: Roman Catholic, Evangelical Protestant and Seventh-Days Adventist. But the Christian faith co-exists among the population with Animist practices.

The country’s culture is the product of Portuguese and African cultural influence. Typical dances on the islands are: Ússua, Socopé, Dêxa, and Puita. Tchiloli, Danço Congo and Auto dos Floripes are public theatrical performances, examples of the Portuguese cultural legacy. 

Important names of the archipelago history and culture are King Amador and Alda Espírito Santos(1926-2010). 

The illiteracy rate in São Tomé and Príncipe is above 70%, although children start school at age six. 

Nowadays, the country has three private universities. 


</doc>
<doc id="19180" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19180" title="Equatorial Guinea">
Equatorial Guinea

The Republic of Equatorial Guinea is a nation in west central Africa, and one of the smallest countries in Africa. It borders Cameroon on the north, Gabon on the south and east, and the Gulf of Guinea on the west. It used to be the Spanish colony of Spanish Guinea. The country's territory is both on the continent and on islands. (The continental part is known as Río Muni). On one island, Bioko, is the capital, Malabo. 

Equatorial Guinea is the only country in Africa where Spanish is an official language.


</doc>
<doc id="19181" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19181" title="Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo">
Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo

Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo (born June 5 1942) has been the President of Equatorial Guinea since 1979. Mbasongo did the military academy in Zaragoza, Spain. He came to power in a military coup, deposing the former leader Francisco Macías Nguema. Ngema had ruled the country for the previous decade. He was known to be very cruel. Ngema was sentenced to death and executed by a firing squad. Mbasonga promised to start over and to do a better job at governing the country.

In 1982, a new constitution was made. MBasogo was given the newly-created post of president. He was re-elected in 1989, 1996 and 2002. In 1989 he was the only candidate, in the 1996 and 2002, international observers said the election results were false. 

Obiang's regime kept clear authoritarian characteristics even after other parties were legalized in 1991. Most domestic and international observers consider his regime to be one of the most corrupt, ethnocentric, oppressive and undemocratic states in the world. Equatorial Guinea is now essentially a single-party state, dominated by Obiang's Democratic Party of Equatorial Guinea (PDGE). In 2008 American journalist Peter Maass called Obiang Africa's worst dictator, worse than Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe. The constitution grants Obiang wide powers, including the power to rule by decree. Nonetheless, Obiang has far less power than Macías. For the most part his rule has been considerably milder. Notably, there have been none of the atrocities that characterized the Macías era.

All but one member of the 100-seat national parliament belong to the PDGE or are aligned with it. The opposition is severely hampered by the lack of a free press to express their views. Around 90% of all opposition politicians live in exile, 550 anti-Obiang activists have been jailed unfairly, and several killed since 1979.

In July 2003, state-operated radio declared Obiang to be a god who is "in permanent contact with the Almighty" and "can decide to kill without anyone calling him to account and without going to hell." He personally made similar comments in 1993. Despite these comments, he still claims that he is a devout Catholic and was invited to the Vatican by John Paul II and again by Benedict XVI. Macías had also proclaimed himself a god.


</doc>
<doc id="19186" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19186" title="Dumbledore">
Dumbledore

Dumbledore can mean: 



</doc>
<doc id="19187" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19187" title="Hogwarts">
Hogwarts

Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry is a fictional boarding school in J. K. Rowling's best-selling "Harry Potter" series. It is a school of magic for witches and wizards between the ages of eleven and seventeen living in the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland.








</doc>
<doc id="19194" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19194" title="Toronto Maple Leafs">
Toronto Maple Leafs

The Toronto Maple Leafs are an ice hockey team in the National Hockey League (NHL). 

They were formed in 1917 as one of the six original NHL teams. They were called the Toronto Arenas, but changed their name to St. Patricks, then to Maple Leafs, in the 1920s.

The Maple Leafs have won the Stanley Cup championship 13 times, more than any team except the Montreal Canadiens. However, they have not won since 1967. 

They won in their first year, 1918, and then again in 1922 and 1932. In their early years, they had many NHL scoring champions: "Babe" Dye in 1923 and 1925, "Ace" Bailey in 1929, Harvey "Busher" Jackson in 1932, Charlie Conacher in 1934 and 1935, and Gordie Drillon in 1938. However, no Toronto player has been scoring champion since then.

They were a strong team in the 1940s. They won the Stanley Cup in 1942 against the Detroit Red Wings, four games to three, even though they were losing three games to none at one point. This was the first of six championships in ten years; they also won in 1945, then three years in a row: 1947, 1948, and 1949, and again in 1951. Some of their best players in that time included goaltender Turk Broda, forward Syl Apps, and defence "Babe" Pratt, who won the Hart Trophy as the most valuable player in 1944. Ted "Teeder" Kennedy won the Hart Trophy in 1955; but no other Maple Leaf has won that award.

The team won four Stanley Cups in the 1960s: three in a row - 1962, 1963, and 1964 - and again in 1967. Frank Mahovlich, a left winger, was the star player. They were also led by defenceman Tim Horton (who began the Tim Horton's doughnut shops), center Dave Keon, goaltender Johnny Bower, and winger George Armstrong. Keon won the Conn Smythe Trophy as the top player in the playoffs in 1967.

In the late 1970s, the Maple Leafs were a good team, with players such as centre Darryl Sittler (who scored a record 10 points in one game) and Swedish defence Borje Salming (one of the first Europeans to play in the NHL). However, there were 18 NHL teams by then, so it was hard to come first. Wendyl Clark was a strong player in the 1980s; he became the team's all-time top scorer. Mats Sundin was another Swedish star in the 1990s and 2000s. They also had some good goaltenders around this time: Curtis Joseph, then Ed Belfour. Currently, the Leafs are trying to rebuild the team around future star defenseman Luke Schenn.


</doc>
<doc id="19195" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19195" title="Detroit Red Wings">
Detroit Red Wings

The Detroit Red Wings are an ice hockey team in the National Hockey League. 
The Red Wings were formed in 1926. The Western Canada Hockey League (WCHL) folded that year, and many of the players from the WCHL's Victoria Cougars went to play for Detroit. As a result, the team was first called the Detroit Cougars, then later it changed to Detroit Falcons, before becoming known as the Red Wings.

In the late 1940s, the line of Sid Abel, Gordie Howe, and Ted Lindsey became very important to the team. Abel won the Hart Trophy in 1949, and Lindsey won the Art Ross Trophy as scoring champion in 1950. Howe then won six Hart and six Art Ross Trophies between 1951 and 1963. Terry Sawchuck was a star goaltender, who ended up with more career shutouts than any other goalie (103). Red Kelly won the first ever Norris Trophy as best defence. As a result of having such great players, the Red Wings won four Stanley Cups in six years: 1950, 1952, 1954, and 1955. Two of these were very close: they were won in overtime of the 7th and deciding game in 1950 (against the New York Rangers) and 1954 (against the Montreal Canadiens). These are the only two times the NHL championship has gone to overtime of game seven.

The Red Wings continued to be a strong team throughout the 1960. They lost the NHL Finals five times between 1956 and 1966. Norm Ullman was their star center in the 1960s.

They were not a strong team again until the late 1980s. Steve Yzerman became a star at this time. Sergei Fedorove became the first Russian to win the Hart Trophy in 1994. The Red Wings won the President's Cup as top team in the NHL regular season in 1995, 1996 (with a record number of wins), and 2002. They won the Stanley Cup in 1997, 1998, and 2002. Nicklas Lidstrom won the Norris Trophy as best defenceman three times beginning in 2001. The team was one of the richest in the NHL, which helped them get many good players.

The Red Wings have won eleven Stanley Cups, the third most of any team, and the most of the United States teams. They first won in 1936 and 1937, and again in 1943. Ebbie Goodfellow won the Hart Trophy as the NHL's most valuable player in 1940. Sid Howe was also a star on the team at this time.


</doc>
<doc id="19196" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19196" title="Wayne Gretzky">
Wayne Gretzky

Wayne Gretzky (born January 26, 1961 in Brantford, Ontario) was a Canadian ice hockey player in the National Hockey League (NHL) for 20 seasons. He is now coach and was part-owner of the NHL's Phoenix Coyotes until he stepped down on September 24, 2009. He also managed Canada's Olympic hockey teams in 2002 and 2006, as well as Canada's 2004 World Cup of Hockey team.

Gretzky was a star junior player with the Sault Ste. Marie Greyhounds of the Ontario Hockey League. In 1978, when he was 17, he began playing as a professional with the Indianapolis Racers of the World Hockey Association (WHA), but was sold to the Edmonton Oilers after only a few games. He was third in WHA scoring and rookie of the year.

The WHA folded in 1979, and the Oilers team joined the NHL. At the age of 19, Gretzky won his first Hart Trophy as the NHL's most valuable player (MVP). He won this trophy nine times. In 1981, he won his first of ten Art Ross Trophies as NHL scoring champion. He set many records in the 1980s, including most goals (92), assists (163), and points (215) in a season. In the 1981-82 season, he scored 50 goals in 39 games, when the record had been 50 games. He was named as Sports Illustrated athlete of the year in 1982. His amazing ability earned him the nickname "The Great One". He was also called "the greatest player of all time" in "Total Hockey: The Official Encyclopedia of the NHL".

Gretzky won four Stanley Cup championships with the Edmonton Oilers: 1984, 1985, 1987, and 1988. He won the Conn Smythe Trophy as MVP in the playoffs in 1985 and 1988. Then, in 1988, he was traded to the Los Angeles Kings. He helped them to the finals in 1993. In 1996, he was traded to the St. Louis Blues, and signed with the New York Rangers at the beginning of the 1996-97 season. He retired, and was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame, in 1999.

When he retired, he had 2857 career points, over 1000 more than the next highest player. To this day, no one else has reached 2000. He still holds the record for most career goals (894) and assists (1963) (he has more assists than anyone else has points). He holds many other records, such as most 100-point seasons (15), most points in the playoffs (47 in one year and 382 career), and most games in a row with at least one point (51). He was named to the first or second all-star team 15 times and was MVP of the NHL all-star game three times. He had 61 official NHL records when he retired.

Gretzky's number, #99, was retired by the entire league. He was named Canada's male athlete of the 20th century. He has also been honoured with Canada's highest honour for a civilian: the Order of Canada.

Gretzky married American actress Janet Jones in 1988. They have five children: Paulina, Ty, Trevor, Tristan, and Emma.


</doc>
<doc id="19197" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19197" title="Hart Memorial Trophy">
Hart Memorial Trophy

The Hart Trophy is given to the most valuable player of the National Hockey League every year. It was given to the NHL by Dr. David Hart, father of NHL coach and manager Cecil Hart. It was first awarded in 1924.

Wayne Gretzky has won the most Hart Trophies with nine, followed by Gordie Howe with six and Eddie Shore with four. Howie Morenz, Bobby Orr, Bobby Clarke, and Mario Lemieux have won the award three times each.

The closest vote for the trophy was in 2002, when Jose Theodore and Jarome Iginla tied; Theodore won because he had more first-place votes. In 1999, Chris Pronger won by one point over Jaromir Jagr; and in 1990, Mark Messier won by two points over Ray Bourque.

</onlyinclude>

<onlyinclude>
</includeonly></onlyinclude>



</doc>
<doc id="19200" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19200" title="Frankfurt am Main">
Frankfurt am Main

Frankfurt am Main is one of the biggest cities in Germany. The City of Frankfurt has a population of 670,000. The metropolitan area, called Rhine-Main after its two biggest rivers, has over four million people. Frankfurt is an important centre for traffic and for the financial business. The Frankfurt International Airport is the largest in Germany, and the third biggest in the world. Frankfurt's train station is one of the largest, and its highway crossing is the centre of Germany's street network. Frankfurt is the seat of the European Central Bank, the German Federal Bank (Bundesbank) and of the biggest German banks, and it has an important stock exchange where shares of German companies are traded.

Frankfurt is on the Main river. The city's name means "ford of the Franks" - a ford is a place in a river where it is so shallow that you can walk through it, and the Franks were a Germanic people which existed in the first millennium. So, this was a place where travellers could cross the river without a boat. The frankish kings built a palace and a church here. Over the centuries, this group of buildings grew to be a big city which was famous for international trade and fairs, like today. Frankfurt was one of the most important cities of the Holy Roman Empire, and its emperors were crowned here. In the 19th century, Frankfurt was the capital of the German Confederation which was founded after the Holy Roman Empire fell apart. During the revolution of 1848, the first freely elected German parliament worked in Frankfurt.

During the Industrial Revolution, many factories and railway lines were built in Frankfurt and its suburbs. In the city centre, a lot of big buildings were built, like an opera house, theatres, stock exchange, railway stations, department stores or museums. Tram lines were constructed to make travelling inside the growing city easier. In World War II, the old city was totally destroyed by airplane bomber attacks. After the war, Germany was divided into two parts, and Frankfurt became the economic capital of West Germany while Bonn was chosen to be the political capital.

Frankfurt is a very international city. Every third inhabitant is not German. Most immigrants come from southeastern Europe, Turkey and North Africa, but there are people from almost every country living in Frankfurt. There are also many international business companies here, and the big airport links Frankfurt with many countries in the world. Many banks are based in Frankfurt, and the city has some of the tallest buildings in Europe.

"Frankfurter" is also a name for a hot dog, or sausage, because they are said to have originated in the city.

The first Wikimania conference was hosted in this city in 2005.


</doc>
<doc id="19204" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19204" title="Hugh Capet of France">
Hugh Capet of France

Hugh Capet (French: Hugues Capet) (circa 940 – October 24, 996) was King of France from 987 until his death in 996. He was born in Paris, France and was the son of Hugh the Great and Hedwige of Saxony. He married Adelaide of Aquitane. She was the daughter of William III of Aquitane. Capet was the first person of the direct Capetian Dynasty to rule France.Hugh would make the office of the king hereditary and would pass his crown down to his son.The dynasty he establish would rule France unbroken for 300 years. "Capet" is a nickname for "wearing a ". Capet is buried in the Saint Denis Basilica.


</doc>
<doc id="19205" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19205" title="Disney Channel">
Disney Channel

Disney Channel is a cable television network that is owned by The Walt Disney Company. The channel shows programs that are made for family audiences, most of it for pre-teens and teenagers.

The channel began on the morning of April 18, 1983. Its programs ran for eighteen hours a day until December 1986.

It received a special citation from President Ronald Reagan in 1984.

Disney Channel currently airs such popular shows as Good Luck Charlie, Wizards of Waverly Place, The Suite life on Deck, Phineas and Ferb, Shake It Up, Fish Hooks, So Random!, A.N.T. Farm, and more.

They also make their own original movies called DCOM'S
Disney Channel tries its level best to make great movies like Wizards of Waverly Place The Movie, and Hannah Montana the Movie.

Disney Channel currently programs shows targeted at preschool-age children on Monday through Fridays from 7 a.m.-2 p.m. ET/PT and weekends from 7-11 a.m. ET, called Playhouse Disney. During the summer months, the Playhouse Disney block ends at 10 a.m. ET on weekdays. , the only programming featuring classic Disney characters is "Mickey Mouse Clubhouse" on the Playhouse Disney block.

Programming in this block includes "Special Agent Oso", "Imagination Movers", "Handy Manny", "Little Einsteins", "Mickey Mouse Clubhouse", "Jungle Junction" and "My Friends Tigger & Pooh".

On May 26, 2010 it was announced that the Playhouse Disney block will be rebranded under the name Disney Junior which will later become its own digital cable and satellite channel in January 2012, replacing SOAPnet. The Disney Junior channel will be a direct competitor to Nickelodeon's Nick Jr. network and PBS and Comcast's PBS Kids Sprout.


</doc>
<doc id="19211" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19211" title="List of dog breeds">
List of dog breeds

People have carefully bred dogs for thousands of years. Sometimes they inbreed dogs who have the same close ancestors, and sometimes they mix dogs from very different ancestors or even from different breeds. This continues today, resulting in hundreds of dog breeds, some that are similar to each other, and others that are very different. 

This list includes common breeds, rare breeds, and breeds that are still being developed into new breeds. See each article for more information.

Dog breeds are often grouped in different ways, such as:
Dog breeds are also sometimes grouped into similar , such as mastiff types, spitz types, pit bulls, or Lurchers.

Dog breeds include:
Nonsporting Dogs


































See the lists of dog breeds that these important breed registries allow:


</doc>
<doc id="19213" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19213" title="Milli Vanilli">
Milli Vanilli

Milli Vanilli was a German musical group. They were popular in the late-1980s. In 1990, people found out that the group never sang anything at all. Even at concerts, they would pretend to sing while a recording was played.



</doc>
<doc id="19218" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19218" title="Category:Fictional dogs">
Category:Fictional dogs


</doc>
<doc id="19221" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19221" title="Category:1706">
Category:1706


</doc>
<doc id="19222" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19222" title="1706">
1706


</doc>
<doc id="19223" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19223" title="Geology">
Geology

Geology is the study of the nonliving things that the Earth is made of. Geology is the study of rocks in the Earth's crust. People that study geology are called geologists. Some geologists study minerals and the useful substances the rocks contain (such as natural gas and oil). Geologists also study the history of the Earth. 

Some of the important events in the Earth's history are floods, volcanic eruptions, earthquakes, orogeny (mountain building), and plate tectonics (movement of continents). 

Geology is divided into special subjects that study one part of geology. Some of these subjects are: 


Rocks can be found in all sorts of shapes and colours. Some are very hard and some are soft. Some rocks are very common, while others are rare. However, all the different rocks belong to three categories or types, igneous, sedimentary and metamorphic. 

Igneous rock is rock that has been made by volcanic action. Igneous rock is made when the lava (melted rock on the surface of the Earth) or magma (melted rock below the surface of the Earth) cools down and becomes hard. Igneous rock formed from magma that has become solid inside the earth is called intrusive igneous rock. Igneous rock formed from lava that has become solid on the outside of the Earth is called extrusive igneous rock. This can happen because of the eruption of a volcano. Some extrusive igneous rock types are basalt, andesite, rhyolite, tuff, obsidian, and pumice. Examples of intrusive igneous rock types are gabbro, diorite, and granite.

Sedimentary rock is rock that has been made from sediment. Sediment is all solid pieces of stuff that are moved by the wind, water, or glaciers. Sediment can be made from clay, sand, gravel and the bodies and shells of animals. The sediment gets dropped in a layer at the bottom of a river or sea. As the sediment piles up, the lowers layers get squashed together. Slowly they set hard into rock. Some sedimentary rocks are made of just one type of sediment, all about the same size, such as sand. Other sedimentary rocks will have large and small lumps, and pieces made of different types of rock. Well-known sedimentary rocks are sandstone and limestone.

Metamorphic rock is rock that has been changed. The word "metamorphosis" means "change". Sometimes an igneous, or a sedimentary rock can be heated, or squashed under the ground, so that it changes. Metamorphic rock is often harder than the rock that it was before it changed. One well-known metamorphic rock is marble which is valued for its different colours, and because it can be carved and polished. Slate is a metamorphic rock that is a useful building material.

All three kinds of rock can be changed by being heated and squeezed by forces in the earth. When this happens, faults (cracks) may appear in the rock. Geologists can learn a lot about the history of the rock by studying the patterns of the fault lines. Earthquakes are caused when a fault breaks suddenly.

Soil is the stuff on the ground made of lots of particles (or tiny pieces). The particles of soil come from rocks that have broken down, and from rotting leaves and animals bodies. Soil covers a lot of the surface of the Earth. Plants of all sorts grow in soil.

To find out more about types of rocks, go to Rock (geology). 
To find out more about soil, go to Soil.

Geologists use some simple ideas which help them to understand the rocks and soil that they are studying. These ideas are called the 'Principles of Geology'. 




</doc>
<doc id="19224" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19224" title="Pisa">
Pisa

Pisa is a city in Italy. About 85.000 people live in the city. The city has a very long and turbulent history. The "Leaning Tower of Pisa" is a famous landmark of Pisa.





</doc>
<doc id="19225" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19225" title="Cheshire">
Cheshire

Cheshire is a county in England. It is the Northwest part of the country. It is most famous for making salt and cheese. Cheshire is made up off lots off little towns including the Borough of Macclesfield which covers a large area of plains the main attraction is in kerridge where there is the famous land mark 'White Nancy.'


</doc>
<doc id="19226" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19226" title="Cayman Islands">
Cayman Islands

The Cayman Islands are a territory of the United Kingdom in the Caribbean Sea. The three islands are Grand Cayman, Little Cayman, and Cayman Brac.

Its capital, George Town, is located on the main island (Grand Cayman).


</doc>
<doc id="19229" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19229" title="1167">
1167




</doc>
<doc id="19230" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19230" title="1097">
1097



</doc>
<doc id="19231" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19231" title="1782">
1782



</doc>
<doc id="19232" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19232" title="1197">
1197





</doc>
<doc id="19234" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19234" title="1210">
1210

1210 is a year in the 13th century.





</doc>
<doc id="19235" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19235" title="E-mail">
E-mail

Electronic mail (or e-mail or email) is an Internet service that allows those people who have an e-mail address (accounts) to send and receive electronic letters. Those are much like postal letters, except that they are delivered much faster than snail mail when sending over long distances, and are usually free. 

Like with regular mail, users may get a lot of unwanted mail. With e-mail, this is called spam. Some programs used for sending and receiving mail can detect spam and filter it out nearly completely.

To send or receive an email in the traditional way, you need a device (computer, phone etc.) connected to the Internet and an e-mail program (simply called mailer). Several formats exist for email addresses. The most common, called RFC 2822, looks like user@domain.com. E-mail messages are sent mostly by text, and sometimes by HTML style.

Some companies let you send and receive emails for free from a remote website. Gmail, Hotmail and Yahoo! do this kind of service, which is known as "web mail". Note: web mail does not follow the pattern below exactly because the webpage takes care of a lot of the details by itself. Rather, the below pattern is what takes place when using the traditional method (described in the previous paragraph).

Also, Microsoft invented its own "protocol" (or set of rules) for sending and receiving mail. The name of the protocol is "Exchange". Exchange protocol works entirely different from the traditional method and is not explained here.

This diagram gives an example of what happens when email is sent from one person to another using the traditional method. In this example, Alice is sending email to Bob.




</doc>
<doc id="19239" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19239" title="1231">
1231




</doc>
<doc id="19240" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19240" title="1242">
1242

1242 is a year in the 13th century


</doc>
<doc id="19241" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19241" title="1183">
1183



</doc>
<doc id="19242" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19242" title="1155">
1155



</doc>
<doc id="19243" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19243" title="1567">
1567



</doc>
<doc id="19244" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19244" title="The Dillinger Escape Plan">
The Dillinger Escape Plan

The Dillinger Escape Plan is an American Mathcore/metal music group. They formed in New Jersey. They are generally a heavy group, with punk roots and influences from punk bands like The Bronx and Bad Brains.


</doc>
<doc id="19245" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19245" title="Queensrÿche">
Queensrÿche

Queensryche is an American Progressive Rock / Metal band. They formed in Bellevue Washington in 1981.


</doc>
<doc id="19246" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19246" title="Midnight Oil">
Midnight Oil

Midnight Oil is a rock band. They formed in Sydney, Australia in 1975. The band became famous for its hard-rock sound and intense live performances. The band was politically active supporting environmentalist and indigenous causes.


</doc>
<doc id="19247" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19247" title="Jon Bon Jovi">
Jon Bon Jovi

Jon Bon Jovi (born John Francis Bongiovi on March 2, 1962 in Perth Amboy, New Jersey, USA) is a musician and actor. He is most famous as lead singer of the group, Bon Jovi.


</doc>
<doc id="19248" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19248" title="Maxi Priest">
Maxi Priest

Maxi Priest (born Max Alfred Elliot on June 10, 1962) is a English reggae singer.


</doc>
<doc id="19249" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19249" title="On the Waterfront">
On the Waterfront

On the Waterfront is a 1954 movie about mob violence among longshoremen (people who unload ships). Directed by Elia Kazan, it stars Marlon Brando, Eva Marie Saint and Karl Malden.

The movie won eight Academy Awards: for Best Picture, Best Actor (Brando), Best Supporting Actress (Saint), Best Art Direction, Best Director (Kazan), Best Cinematography (Boris Kaufman), Best Film Editing (Gene Milford) and Best Original Screenpaly (Budd Schulberg).

Its most famous line is "I could've been a contender", said by Brando's character, Terry Malloy. In 2005, it ranked third on AFI's list of the one hundred most famous quotes in movie history .

Five years earlier, it was the eighth most popular movie on the AFI's 100 Years... 100 Movies list.


</doc>
<doc id="19250" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19250" title="Faith No More">
Faith No More

Faith No More is an alternative rock band. They formed by bassist Billy Gould, drummer Mike Bordin, and keyboarder Roddy Bottum in San Francisco, California, USA, in 1981 and broke up on April 20, 1998.

They became successful with singer Mike Patton in the early 1990s. Their biggest hits were "Epic" and the cover song "Easy", originally from Lionel Ritchie.



</doc>
<doc id="19251" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19251" title="The Pretenders">
The Pretenders

The Pretenders are an English rock and punk rock band. They formed in London, England in 1978.


</doc>
<doc id="19254" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19254" title="Schindler's List">
Schindler's List

Schindler's List is a 1993 movie set in World War II, and directed by Steven Spielberg. It is based on "Schindler's Ark", a 1982 book by Thomas Keneally. The movie and the book owe their names to the list of over a thousand Jews who worked in the title character's factory.

It is about a businessman named Oskar Schindler who saves thousands of Jews from being killed in the Holocaust by putting them to work in a factory. His list was the list of Jews he wanted to save.

The movie was nominated for 12 and won seven Academy Awards, one for Best Picture. Spielberg won another for Best Director.

Among others such as "Citizen Kane" and "Sunset Boulevard", it has been called one of the greatest movies ever. In 1998, the American Film Institute selected it as the ninth most popular of all time in their 100 Years... 100 Movies list.

In February 1997, NBC aired a version without cuts of the movie (in two parts), much to the upset of many viewers. It was the first time a television broadcast had ever received the TV-M rating (soon to be called TV-MA).



</doc>
<doc id="19255" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19255" title="Chlorofluorocarbon">
Chlorofluorocarbon

Chlorofluorocarbons (CFC) are gases used in refrigerants and aerosols. They contain carbon, (sometimes hydrogen,) chlorine, an fluorine. In 1978, Sweden became the first country that banned CFC products. Later, the US and Canada did the same. Now, CFC products are not allowed in most countries, because they destroy the ozone layer. CFCs also are greenhouse gases, creating a natural-made greenhouse effect. An alternative is hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs). These do not destroy the ozone layer or increase global warming.



</doc>
<doc id="19256" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19256" title="Singin' in the Rain">
Singin' in the Rain

Singin' in the Rain is a 1952 movie musical starring Gene Kelly. It was directed by Kelly and Stanley Donen. It gives an amusing look at Hollywood's change from silent movies to "talkies".

It is considered to be among the best movie musicals ever made.

Shooting on the movie began on June 18, 1951, and ended on November 21.


</doc>
<doc id="19257" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19257" title="North and South">
North and South

North and South is a novel by John Jakes. It is the first of three books about two friends who must fight against each other during the American Civil War.

"North and South" had two sequels. They are called "Love and War" and "Heaven and Hell". The books were written in 1982, 1984, and 1987. 

There were also TV versions made. Three miniseries were done in 1985, 1986, and 1994. The two main characters were played by James Read and Patrick Swayze (Swayze's character does not appear in the third part).


</doc>
<doc id="19258" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19258" title="Category:Miniseries">
Category:Miniseries


</doc>
<doc id="19259" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19259" title="Category:1982 books">
Category:1982 books


</doc>
<doc id="19263" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19263" title="Apparatus">
Apparatus

An apparatus is an object which can be used for a certain function. Examples of apparatuses include coffee-makers, pencil sharpeners, and computers. These things are also often called tools, machines, or "equipment".

Apparatus can also be used to mean a process of an activity. For example a political party or governmental organization can be called an apparatus.


</doc>
<doc id="19264" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19264" title="Category:Cheshire">
Category:Cheshire


</doc>
<doc id="19265" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19265" title="Category:1097">
Category:1097


</doc>
<doc id="19267" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19267" title="Category:1210">
Category:1210


</doc>
<doc id="19270" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19270" title="Category:1231">
Category:1231


</doc>
<doc id="19271" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19271" title="Category:1242">
Category:1242


</doc>
<doc id="19272" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19272" title="Category:1183">
Category:1183


</doc>
<doc id="19273" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19273" title="Category:1155">
Category:1155


</doc>
<doc id="19274" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19274" title="Category:1197">
Category:1197


</doc>
<doc id="19275" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19275" title="Category:1567">
Category:1567


</doc>
<doc id="19277" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19277" title="Category:1010s">
Category:1010s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 1010s which begins in the year 1010 and ends in the year 1019.


</doc>
<doc id="19278" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19278" title="Internet Movie Database">
Internet Movie Database

The Internet Movie Database (IMDb) is an online database of information (facts) about actors, movies, television shows, and video games. The IMDb website started in October 1990, and has been owned by Amazon.com since 1998. 



</doc>
<doc id="19279" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19279" title="Category:Scientists">
Category:Scientists

This are articles about scientists.


</doc>
<doc id="19280" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19280" title="Chicago Blackhawks">
Chicago Blackhawks

The Chicago Blackhawks are an ice hockey team in the National Hockey League (NHL). They were formed in 1926, named after Chief Black Hawk, a native American leader. The team has won the Stanley Cup Championship four times, in 1933, 1937, 1960, and in 2010. The current captain of the Blackhawks is Jonathan Toews.

The Regina Capitals were a team in the Western Canada Hockey League until 1925, when they moved and became the Portland Rosebuds. One year later, the league folded. Most of the Portland players then played for the new Chicago team in the NHL.

In the 1930's, Charlie Gardiner was a star goaltender for the team. Players on the Blackhawks won four scoring titles (Art Ross Trophy) in the 1940's: Doug Bentley in 1943, his brother Ben in 1946 and 1947, and Roy Conacher in 1949. Max Bentley also won the Hart Trophy as the league's most valuable player in 1946. Goalie Al Rollins won the Hart Trophy in 1954. By 1960, however, the team had only made the Stanley Cup final four times, winning the Cup in 1934 and 1938, and losing in 1931 and 1944.

The team was much stronger in the 1960's. Bobby Hull led the NHL in goals seven times, more than any other player. He also won three Art Ross and two Hart Trophies. Stan Mikita won four Art Ross and two Hart Trophies. Between them, they led the NHL in scoring seven times in nine years. Star goaltender Glenn Hall was an all-star many times; and Pierre Pilote won the Norris Trophy as best defenceman three times. The Blackhawks won the Stanley Cup in 1961, and also made the finals in 1962 and 1965. Goalie Tony Esposito led them to the finals in 1971 and 1973.
Since that time, they have had many star players such as Doug Wilson, Steve Larmer, Jeremy Roenick, and Tony Amonte; but they have not won the Cup since 1961, the longest wait of any NHL team. They won the President's Cup as the top team in the regular season in 1991, and made the finals again in 1992, partly due to Ed Belfour (who won two Vezina Trophies as best goaltender) and Chris Chelios (who won two Norris Trophies on Chicago). As of 2006, however, they have only made the playoffs once in the last eight years.

The mascot of the Chicago Blackhawks is named Tommy Hawk. He was introduced in the 2001–02 NHL season. He wears the Blackhawks' four feathers on his head and also wears a Blackhawks jersey and hockey pants. Tommy Hawk sometimes participates in the T-shirt toss and puck chuck with the fans. 

The Blackhawks have their own official fight song called, "Here Come the Hawks!" which is also a introduction for them. A song that was called "Keys to the City" was given to the Blackhawks organization as a gift by Ministry & Co Conspirators. After the Blackhawks score a goal at the United Center they play the song "Chelsea Dagger" by The Fratellis.

In 1985, during the Campbell Conference playoff game, a tradition was started where the Blackhawks fans would cheer and applaud loudly during the singing of the national anthem. This is still done today.

Jonathan Toews was named the team's captain prior to the 2008-09 season opener which made him the third-youngest captain at the time. The Blackhawks led the NHL in home attendance with a total of 912,155, averaging 22,247 fans per game during to the 2008-09 season. The number of attendance also included the Winter Classic at Wrigley Field which had 40,818 fans in attendance.

The Blackhawks acquired forward Marián Hossa and signed him to a 12-year contract which was worth 62.8 million dollars. The deal also included Tomas Kopecky, John Madden, and Richard Petiot. Due to the salary cap, the Blackhawks were forced to give up a bunch of their players.

On June 9, 2010 The Blackhawks won their first Stanley Cup in 49 years when Patrick Kane scored the game-winning overtime goal as they defeated the Philadelphia Flyers in game 6 of the best-of-7 series.



</doc>
<doc id="19283" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19283" title="Cape Verde">
Cape Verde

Cape Verde is a country in Africa. It is a group of islands and its official language is Portuguese. During the 1970's and 1980's, other African countries would not let South African airplanes fly over their territory except Cape Verde. The country became an important stop where airplanes filled up their fuel tanks. As of 2008 the number of people living in Cape Verde was 426,998. 

"Verde" means green in Portuguese.

Cape Verde is an island State located 375 miles (600 kilometres) away from the coast of Senegal and it comprises ten islands of volcanic origin, nine of which are inhabited. The combined area of all the islands is 4,033 square kilometres. 

The islands vary in geographical characteristics. Sal, Boavista, Maio, and São Vicente are flat, with stretches of sand dunes. Santiago, Santo Antão, Fogo, and São Nicolau are more mountainous and arable, although all the islands have a long history of drought. Fogo, the only volcano still active, last erupted in 1995. The capital, Praia, is on the island of Santiago which is the largest in terms of area and population and the first one to be settled, in 1462.

The climate of Cape Verde is influenced by the Sahara desert, but is tempered by the action of the ocean and trade winds. Cape Verde has only two seasons: The dry season, from October to June, and the rainy season, from July to September. The average temperature throughout the year is around 24 degree Celsius.

The first Europeans to arrive in Cape Verde were the Portuguese navigators Diogo Gomes and Antonio da Noli in 1460. The islands were uninhabited, and the first settlement was founded in 1462 on the island of Santiago (the main Island) which was divided into two “capitanias”, Alcatrazes and Ribeira Grande. The first one failed and the main activity in Ribeira Grande was the exploitation of cotton farms. Ribeira Grande served also as a slave trade post and as post of slave Christianization before they were sent to the New World. 

The city suffered several pirate raids and for this reason in 1712, after a French attack, the authorities were forced to move the capital to Praia, where it is located until now. Cape Verde had the status of Portuguese colony until 1951 when Portugal changed its status to Overseas Province and in 1961 Portugal gave full citizenship to all Cape Verdeans. 

Cape Verde has been independent from Portugal since 5th July 1975. The fight for independence was led by the African Party for the Independence of Guinea and Cape Verde (PAIGC) and headed by Amilcar Cabral, the national hero of both countries, Cape Verde and Guinea Bissau.

After independence, Cape Verde was ruled by the PAIGC along with Guinea Bissau until 1980. Aristides Pereira was the president of both countries. Following a coup d’état in Guinea Bissau in 1980 the project of unification of the two countries was abandoned and the party changed its name to PAICV which ruled Cape Verde until 1991, under a single party regime. 

In 1990 a multi-party regime was established and in 1991 the first multi-party election took place. It was won by the Movement for Democracy (MPD), a party founded in 1990. The MPD also won the elections in 1996 and the PAICV returned to power in 2001 and won a second five-year term in 2006. 
Cape Verde has a semi-presidential political system – the President of the Republic is the head of State and the Prime Minister is the head of Government. The President of the Republic is elected directly for a five-year term. The National Assembly, composed of 72 representatives, is elected for a five-year term. Currently the three principal parties have seats in the National Assembly. The Prime Minister is appointed by the National Assembly and nominated by the President of the Republic.

The economic resources of Cape Verde are largely dependent on agriculture and fishing. Agriculture frequently suffers the effects of droughts. The most important crops are coffee, bananas, sugar cane, tropical fruits, corn, beans, sweet potato and cassava. The industrial sector is incipient but is based on the production of “aguardente” (spirits from sugar cane), clothing and footwear, paints and varnishes, tourism, fishing and canned fish, and salt extraction. Banana, canned fish, frozen fish, lobsters, salt, and clothes are the main exports. The national currency is the Cape Verdean escudo. Remittances from emigration are another important source of resources for the State of Cape Verde.

In Cape Verde, the annual rate of population growth and mortality are low, compared to average rates of other middle income countries. The average life expectancy is 66 years and 71 years respectively for men and women. The resident population in the country is estimated at 500,000 inhabitants. There are an estimated additional one million Cape Verdeans living abroad, mainly in the United States, Western Europe, and Africa. Cape Verde has a young population with an average age of 23 years. 

Cape Verdean culture is a unique mixture of European and African elements. Corn is the staple food of Cape Verde. The national or traditional dish is "cachupa", which is a stew of hominy, beans, and whatever meat or vegetables may be available. Other common foods include rice, beans, fish, potatoes and manioc. A traditional breakfast is cuscus, a steamed cornbread, eaten with honey and milk or coffee. Grogue, or sugar cane liquor, is manufactured on the islands and is a popular drink, particularly among the men. Cape Verdean music incorporates Portuguese, Caribbean, and African influences. Popular genres include morna, funaná, batuque, coladeira, and cola san jon.

In Cape Verde, other than private clinics, the government guarantees a public health system which comprises several healthcare centers and three central hospitals (Hospital Agostinho Neto, in Praia, Hospital Baptista de Sousa, in São Vicente, and Hospital Regional de Santiago Norte, in Assomada). The cost of public health is supported by the government, but users must pay a fee which varies in accordance with the capacity of the user to afford it.
After independence the different governments of Cape Verde invested massively in education and illiteracy has been reduced drastically. Today almost one hundred percent of school-age children attend school. Attendance to primary schooling, which comprises 6 years, is compulsory and free from any charge. Education is guaranteed by a network of public schools that span from nursery school to university. There are also several private schools in all levels of education.



</doc>
<doc id="19284" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19284" title="Madeira Islands">
Madeira Islands

The Madeira Islands are a group of islands next to the Iberian Peninsula. Madeira is a territory of Portugal, but has its own politics.

"Madeira" means wood in Portuguese.



</doc>
<doc id="19285" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19285" title="Cameroon">
Cameroon

Cameroon is a country in west Africa. Its capital is Yaoundé. The largest city in Cameroon is Douala. The population of Cameroon is about 20 million. Cameroon's president is Paul Biya, and the Prime Minister is Ephraïm Inoni.

The official languages of Cameroon are French and English.


</doc>
<doc id="19286" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19286" title="Guinea-Bissau">
Guinea-Bissau

Guinea-Bissau is a country in Africa. The official language is Portuguese, and the capital is Bissau. About 1,442,000 people live in Guinea-Bissau as of 2006.


</doc>
<doc id="19287" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19287" title="Mauritius">
Mauritius

The Republic of Mauritius is an African country. Port Louis is its capital. Mauritius is also the name of the main island the country is on. In the 2000 census, the country had a population of 1,178,848 people.

The island of Mauritius is well known for being the only known home of the dodo.

The island is in the southwest Indian Ocean. It is about east of Madagascar. The country includes the island of Mauritius as well as the islands of St. Brandon, Rodrigues and the Agalega Islands. Mauritius is part of the Mascarene Islands along with the French island of Réunion to the southwest.

The Mauritian flag is made up of four colours of equal width. 
The colours represent the following:

Mauritius, an island of volcanic origin sheltered by barriers of coral reefs forming natural, safe, crystal clear lagoons, has long been a dream destination. Known to the Arabs as early as the 10th century, but officially explored by the Portuguese in the 16th century and subsequently settled by the Dutch in the 17th century. The Dutch were the ones who named the island in honor of Prince Maurits van NASSAU. 
Mauritius was occupied successively by the Dutch (1598-1712) and later by the French (1715-1810). The French assumed control in 1715, developing the island into an important naval base overseeing the Indian Ocean trade, and establishing a plantation economy of sugar cane. 
The British captured the island in 1810, during the Napoleonic Wars through the Treaty of Paris. Mauritius remained a strategically important British naval base, and later on, an air station playing an important role during World War II for anti-submarine and convoy operations, as well as the collection of signals intelligence. On 12 March 1968, Mauritius became Independent.

Mauritius Botanical Garden, also known as Pamplemonsses Garden and SSR Botanical Garden, is one of the most popular tourist attraction in Mauritius, and is near Port Louis. It is the oldest botanical garden in the Southern Hemisphere. 
Black River Gorges National Park is a national park stretching on an area of 6,574 hectares in the hilly south-western part of Mauritius. It was construction in order to save the natural vegetation of the island and make it one of the most important Mauritius sightseeing. The Black River Gorges National park protects most of the island's remaining rainforest, and is home to many species of wild animals and birds. 

Île aux Cerfs Island, known in English as the deer island is an island near the east coast of Mauritius in the Flacq district. Ile Aux Cerfs is famous for its sandy beaches, beautiful lagoon and big selection of activities and facilities. In Ile Aux Cerfs you are sure to have a day of relaxation and fun on one of the picture-postcard beaches, and to enjoy a swim and snorkeling in the lagoon. 

Port Louis is the capital city and main port of Mauritius, Port Louis was constructed in the year 1735 by the noted French governor, Mahe de Labourdonnais. Today Port Louis is the largest city in Mauritius. Port Louis is surrounded by a mountain range, called the Port Louis Moka Range which makes it worth watching. 
Grand Bassin, known also as Ganga Talao is a lake in a secluded mountain area in the district of Savanne, deep in the heart of Mauritius. It is about 600 meters above sea level. The Grand Bassin is a holy lake for Mauritian of Hindu faith. It is said that the water inside the lake communicates with the waters of the holy Ganges of India. 
Chamarel park - 7 colored earth & Chamarel falls - The “seven-coloured earth” of Chamarel is a geological curiosity and a major tourist attraction of Mauritius. The landscape at Chamarel is truly unique, it is the only place in world where you can find a clay earth of 7 colors at one place. The colors of these unique dunes are red, brown, violet, green, blue, purple and yellow, purple and red are predominant. 

Trou aux Cerfs is a 605 m high extinct volcano in Curepipe, Mauritius. The crater has been alternately described as 300 meters in diameter, and is 85 meters deep. Trou aux Cerfs is considered the main attractions of Curepipe. In the center of the crater there is a small lake. 

Ile aux Aigrettes - Ile aux Aigrettes is a tiny coral island (25 hectares) just off the coast of the town of Mahebourg. The island has been declared a nature conservation site and today is being preserved by the Mauritian Wildlife Foundation. Owing to the remarkable work accomplished by the Mauritius Wildlife Fund, the island has become an international standard for the protection of natural resources and endangered species. 

Gabriel Island, known also as Îlot Gabriel, is near the Round Island and the Flat island, at the extreme north of Mauritius, about 10 kilometers north of Cap Malheureux. The distance between Gabriel Island and Flat Island is only 750 meters. The size of the island is 42 hectares and the highest point is of 28 meters. Gabriel Island is a protected natural reserve and is most famous for if its beautiful unspoiled beaches.

Euroka Creole House - Eureka House is a unique Creole house built in 1830 in a magnificent garden surrounded by waterfalls of Moka River and the Moka Range. Eureka House is reputed to be one of the largest houses on the island, with 109 doors and windows. The Eureka house was restored and opened to the public as a museum in 1986. The museum has areas dedicated to music, art, antique maps, Chinese and Indian house wares and quirky contraptions like a colonial-era shower.

Mauritius cuisine today - Mauritius is a paradise for the palate and the senses, where the ethnic diversity of the local people is reflected in its cuisine. It is a splendid place to experience real gourmet food.

The cuisine of Mauritius, with its variety of flavors and aromas is indeed a gastronomic delight. The products used in the Mauritian cuisine are both local and imported. The meats usually come from Australia, the venison is local, and the fish and seafood are usually caught locally, but may also come from the surrounding islands (such as Seychelles).

The cuisine of Mauritius is a testament to the influences of the culinary traditions of France, Africa, Mughlai, India and China which are the best-known and appreciated cuisines in the world, – the people of Mauritius have incorporated these influences with their local fruits, vegetables, spices and other ingredients and all those sources have been drawn upon to create a fusion style of cooking.

The most basic and common ingredients used in Mauritian recipes are the tomatoes, onions, ginger, garlic and chilies, curries and rougailles (rougailles are made from the blends of crushed spices and are served with a number of "achards" - pickles, dals, rice or lentils from an Indian origin).

Local spices constitute a major part of Mauritian cuisine. The extensive use of spices such as saffron, curry, garam masala, cinnamon, cardamom, chilies and cloves together with local fruits such as papaya, passion fruit, guava, mango, lychee, banana, pineapple and coconut provides a powerful, yet subtle flavor to the dish.

The Mauritian dishes are usually served with rice, lentils and beans which are very popular with the Mauritians and are included in the Mauritian everyday food. The unique mix of spices with vegetables, meat, poultry, fish and sea food gives the unique flavor to the food of Mauritius.


</doc>
<doc id="19295" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19295" title="It's a Wonderful Life">
It's a Wonderful Life

It's a Wonderful Life is a 1946 movie that was directed by Frank Capra, starring Jimmy Stewart, produced by his own company (Liberty Films), and first released by RKO Radio Pictures.



</doc>
<doc id="19297" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19297" title="Djibouti">
Djibouti

Djibouti is a country in Africa. Djibouti gained its independence on June 27, 1977. The country was created out of the French Somaliland (later called the French Territory of the Afars and Issas), which was created in the 1800s as a result of French colonialism in Africa. However, the history of Djibouti goes back thousands of years when it was part of the Sabean Empire (Ethiopia) to a time when Djiboutians traded hides and skins for the perfumes and spices of ancient Egypt, Pakistan, and China. Through close contacts with the Arabian peninsula for more than 1,000 years, the Somali and Afar tribes in this region became among the first on the African continent to accept Islam. Djibouti is a Muslim country which regularly takes part in Islamic as well as Arab meetings. Djibouti has never been part of Ethiopian territory before french accupation. Djibouiti was meant to join greater somalia following its independence from France but decided to be a country of its own with good friendship with its neighbouring country of Somalia. 

The country is close to a narrow part of the Red Sea so it is considered an important area from a military viewpoint.


</doc>
<doc id="19298" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19298" title="Mauritania">
Mauritania

Mauritania is a country in northwest Africa. The capital city, which is also the biggest city in the country, is Nouakchott. It is on the Atlantic coast. Its president is General Mohamed Ould Abdel Aziz.

At 1,030,700 km² (397,929 mi²), Mauritania is the world's 29th-largest country (after Bolivia). It is similar in size to Egypt. The land is flat in most places.


</doc>
<doc id="19299" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19299" title="Lake Huron">
Lake Huron

Lake Huron is one of North America's five Great Lakes. It is the third one up from the mouth. Like Lake Ontario, Lake Erie, and Lake Superior, it is also part of the boundary between the USA and Canada. 

Lake Huron is more than 200 miles (325 km) long and is as much as 750 feet (230 m) deep. Many boats and ships go back and forth on Lake Huron, carrying useful things such as iron ore.

Lake Huron borders the Canadian province of Ontario and the American state of Michigan. There are no large cities on Lake Huron, but there are some small cities such as Sarnia, Ontario and Bay City, Michigan. 

The water that flows out of Lake Huron goes through a river that flows past Detroit, Michigan. The water then flows into Lake Erie on its way to the ocean.

On 1996 on hurricane-like storm appeared on Lake Huron, while the National Hurricane Center was not sure to call it a hurricane or not. Because the storm formed over Lake Huron and that it did not get a name from the NHC, many people nicknamed the storm, "Hurricane Huron".


</doc>
<doc id="19301" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19301" title="Template:Greatlakes">
Template:Greatlakes


</doc>
<doc id="19302" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19302" title="Category:Great Lakes">
Category:Great Lakes


</doc>
<doc id="19303" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19303" title="Reunion">
Reunion

Reunion could mean:











</doc>
<doc id="19304" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19304" title="Réunion">
Réunion

Réunion (French: La Réunion) is an island and overseas département (département d'outre-mer, or DOM) of France, meaning France owns the island nation. It is in the Indian Ocean east of Madagascar, about 200 km (125 miles) southwest of Mauritius. Its capital is Saint-Denis. The highest point in La Reunion is La piton des neiges. The island is also famous for its black beaches,even though people think that there are white beaches.The island is 63 kilometres (39 mi) long; 45 kilometres (28 mi) wide; and covers 2,512 square kilometres (970 sq mi). It is similar to the island Hawaii as both are located above hotspots in the Earth's crust.

The Piton de la Fournaise, a shield volcano on the eastern end of Réunion Island, rises more than 2,631 metres (8,632 ft) above sea level and is sometimes called a sister to Hawaiian volcanoes because of the similarity of climate and volcanic nature. It has erupted more than 100 times since 1640 and is under constant monitoring. It most recently erupted on 2 January 2010.[10] Before that, the most noticeable was during April 2007, when the lava flow was estimated at 3,000,000 cubic metres (3,900,000 cu yd) per day.[11] The Piton de la Fournaise is created by a hotspot volcano, which also created the Piton des Neiges and the islands of Mauritius and Rodrigues.

The Piton des Neiges volcano, the highest point on the island at 3,070 metres (10,070 ft) above sea level, is north west of the Piton de la Fournaise. Collapsed calderas and canyons are south west of the mountain. Like Kohala on the Big Island of Hawaii, the Piton des Neiges is extinct. Despite its name, snow (French: neige) practically never falls on the summit.


</doc>
<doc id="19306" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19306" title="Lake Erie">
Lake Erie

Lake Eire is one of the Great Lakes in North America. It is the second to the last in the Great Lake system before water flows into the St. Lawrence River. Like Lake Superior, Lake Huron, and Lake Ontario, Lake Erie is part of the boundary between the USA and Canada.

Most of the water that flows into Lake Erie flows through a small river, the Detroit River, that moves water down from Lake St. Clair past Detroit, Michigan. Some more water flows into Lake Erie from other rivers, including the Maumee and the Cuyahoga. At the foot of the Maumee is Toledo, Ohio. At the bend of the Cuyahoga is Cleveland, Ohio.

Water that flows out of Lake Erie flows past Buffalo, New York, and into the Niagara falls. On its way down to Lake Ontario, the Niagara River pours over Niagara Falls, one of the largest waterfalls in North America, and then into the lowest of all the Great Lakes, Lake Ontario. 


</doc>
<doc id="19308" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19308" title="Mali">
Mali

Mali is a landlocked country (a country entirely enclosed by land) in West Africa. Mali borders Algeria to the north, Niger on the east, Burkina Faso and the Côte d'Ivoire on the south, Guinea on the south-west, and Senegal and Mauritania on the west. Physical features of Mali include the Sahara desert in the north, with the Niger River and Sénégal River in the southern part of the country. As of a July 2011 estimate, Mali has a population of approximately 14,000,000 people. Mali has a total area of . Most of the people live in the southern part of the country, with Mali's capital and most populated city being Bamako.

The Mandé people founded several kingdoms in Sahel. This was a big area that includes Mali. These kingdoms included the Ghana Empire, the Mali Empire, and the Songhai Empire. Timbuktu was an important city in these empires because a lot of trade across the Sahara Desert went there. Timbuktu was also a good place for learning. The Songhai Empire became smaller after a Moroccan attack in 1591.

France invaded Mali in 1880. After that, France owned Mali. The colony's names were "French Sudan" and the "Sudanese Republic". At some times it also included other nearby countries. In early 1959, Mali and Senegal united and they became the Mali Federation. This became independent from France on June 20, 1960. Senegal left the Mali Federation a few months later. The Republic of Mali, with Modibo Keïta as the first president, left the French Community on September 22, 1960.

There was a coup in Mali in 1968. Modibo Keïta lost his job and was put in prison. Mali was then ruled by Moussa Traoré until 1991. There was another coup in 1991 after protests against the government, and a new constitution was made. The leader of the country was then Amadou Toumani Touré. In 1992, Alpha Oumar Konaré won Mali's first democratic election. President Konaré won again in 1997 and he made big political and economic changes. In 2002, Amadou Toumani Touré won the election and he started his second term as head of state. He was a retired general and he had been the military leader of the 1991 coup. Today, Mali is one of the most politically and socially stable countries in Africa.

Mali is divided into 8 regions and 1 district. The country is further divided into 49 cercles, containing 288 "arrondissements" and 703 communes.

The regions and district are:

Mali is the world's 24th-largest country. It has 1,240,000 km² (478,734 mi²) of land. It has a similar size to South Africa, and it is two times bigger than Texas. 

Mali is landlocked; it has no access to sea. It has dry weather. It does not have many mountains. There are flat areas in the north, which are covered by sand, and there is savanna around the Niger River in the south. Most of Mali is in the Sahara Desert, so there is a hot, dusty haze in dry seasons. There are many natural resources in Mali, including Gold, uranium, phosphates, kaolinite, salt and limestone.

Mali is one of the poorest countries in the world. 65% of its land area is desert or something similar. There were several long droughts there over the last hundred years. Therefore, most economic activity is near the Niger River. About 10% of the people are nomads and 80% of workers have jobs in farming and fishing. Industry is mainly to process farm products. Women also do pottery and the pots are bought and taken to markets. Many foreign tourists like the traditional methods which the women use to make the pots. Mali's main export is cotton, so if the price of cotton changes, Mali's economy is affected a lot. Mali also receives a lot of financial help from other countries. In 1997, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) recommended a programme for changing the economy and the government followed this. Several international companies started digging for larger amounts of gold in 1996-1998, and the government thinks that Mali will become an important gold exporter soon.

Malinese people are from the racial groups below.

The religions below are followed in Mali.

About 90% of people from Mali follow Sunni Islam, but they do not always forget their traditional religions. Muslims have their own schooling system. The number of Muslims from Mali who travel to Mecca is increasing and some study in Arab countries. About 1% of the people are Christians. When Mali was under French control, Christian were sent to Islamic areas.

The language of Mali under French rule was French, but now not many people outside towns can read or write this language. However, about 60% of the people use other languages well. Many people can read and write in (the most popular spoken language). This language has its own alphabet, called . Other people can read and write in Arabic, after going to an Islamic school. One of the oldest universities in the world is Sankore University in Timbuktu. It began in the 1400s.

Famous musicians from Mali include kora player Toumani Diabaté, and the guitarist Ali Farka Touré (who has died).



</doc>
<doc id="19310" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19310" title="Chief Joseph">
Chief Joseph

Chief Joseph (1840–September 21, 1904) (whose real name was Hinmaton-Yalaktit) was the chief of the Nez Perce Native Americans, a tribe that lived in what is now the Pacific Northwest of the United States,


</doc>
<doc id="19315" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19315" title="Seychelles">
Seychelles

Seychelles is an African country in the Indian Ocean. Its capital city is Victoria and its official languages are Creole, English, and French.

The country is to the east of the African continent. The islands of Madagascar and Mauritius lie to the south. The republic is made up of 115 islands. The biggest part of the population is a mix of freed slaves from the African Continent and Madagascar and European settlers. They make up about 90%. There are small minorities of immigrants from Europe, China and India. Most people are catholic, about 90% of them. About 8% are Protestants. 



</doc>
<doc id="19316" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19316" title="Square mile">
Square mile

A square mile (sometimes written "mi²" ) is an American unit of measurement of area. It is the area inside a square that has each side equal to one statute mile (5,280 feet or 1,760 yards). This way of talking about area is often used to say how much land there is on a farm, or in a city or country, for example.

One square mile is just less than 2.6 square kilometres.


</doc>
<doc id="19317" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19317" title="Regions of Peru">
Regions of Peru

A Region is the name for one of 25 areas into which the land is divided in Peru. 

Provinces of Peru


    *     Lima Province (Lima)


</doc>
<doc id="19320" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19320" title="Ica Region">
Ica Region

Ica is one of 25 regions of Peru. The capital of the region is Ica.


</doc>
<doc id="19322" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19322" title="Category:Peru">
Category:Peru

These articles are about the country Peru.


</doc>
<doc id="19324" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19324" title="Togo">
Togo

Togo is a small country in Africa, located between Benin and Ghana on the western coast. The capital is Lomé. Its population is approximately 6.7 million. Official language is French.
Togo left of French rule in 1960s. The Togolese general, Gnassingbe Eyadema became the military ruler in 1967. President Eyedema was replaced by his son, Faure Gnassingbe, after his death in 2005. 
The economy of this small African country is based on agriculture. Agriculture provides jobs for 65% of the labor force according to the CIA Factbook. Agricultural products include coffee, cocoa, cotton, yams, cassava (tapioca), corn, beans, rice, millet, and sorghum. Industries include phosphate mining, agricultural processing, cement, handicrafts, textiles, and beverages. Togo's economy is primarily agricultural.

The Togolese enjoy many foods including tropical fruits, pastries, and many different products made from peanuts. Major drinks include tea, coffee, and wine. Togolese can often be found snacking on plantains and french donuts or beignets. 


</doc>
<doc id="19326" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19326" title="Bad Religion">
Bad Religion

Bad Religion is an American punk band, made in Southern California in 1979 by Jay Bentley (bass), Greg Graffin (vocals), Brett Gurewitz (guitars) and Jay Ziskrout (drums). People think that they brought back punk rock and helped pop-punk bands during the late 1980s. Since they were created 30 years ago, Bad Religion has had a lot of members come and go. Greg Graffin is the only person that's been in the band the whole time but today there are three of the four members that were in the group when it started.

Today, Bad Religion has fourteen studio albums, two EPs, three compilation albums, one live recording, and two DVDs. Some critics think that their 1988 album "Suffer" is one of the most important punk rock albums of all time. People began to notice Bad Religion after their 1993 album "Recipe for Hate", which was number 14 on Billboard's Heatseekers chart. Their next album, "Stranger Than Fiction", had the band's well-known hits "21st Century (Digital Boy)" and "Infected", did well and was the only Bad Religion album to get gold status in the US. Brett Gurewitz left in 1994. Bad Religion was not as well known after that and did not sell many albums until "The Process of Belief" in 2002. Brett Gurewitz came back in 2001, and worked with them on their four most recent albums. The band is planning to make another album in 2012.

They are known for their smart use of style, comparisons, word choice, imagery, and voice harmonies (which they call "oozin aahs.) Lyrics sometimes have to do with their emotions or their opinion of society.

Most of Bad Religion's lyrics are written by Greg Graffin or Brett Gurewitz. Sometimes, but often, they will co-write a song. Other band members, such as Jay Bentley, also write songs, but very rarely.

Brett Gurewitz says he tried to copy The Germs singer Darby Crash early on in Bad Religion's career. "He wrote some intelligent stuff, and didn't shy away from the vocabulary, which I thought was cool." Bad Religion also uses voice harmonies. The Adolescents influenced them with their three-part voice harmonies. Bassist Jay Bentley says, "Seeing The Adolescents live, it was so brilliant. So, in a way, the Adolescents influenced us into saying we can do it too, because look, they're doing it." 

Many of Bad Religion's songs are about what they think are social problems, but they do not blame causes of these problems to any single person or group. Greg Graffin thinks that the politics in the United States can make it hard to talk about the problems.

The band is sometimes direct about the things they want to say. Brett Gurewitz said he was angry at former U.S. president George W. Bush and that "The Empire Strikes First" is about him. "Our whole album is dedicated to getting Bush out of office. I'm not a presidential scholar but I don't think you'll find a worse president in the history of the United States. He's probably one of the worst leaders in the history of world leaders. I just hate the guy."

Despite the name of the band, the members say they are not anti-religious. Greg Graffin says that more often than not, the band likes to use religion to represent anything that does not let a person be free. Their songs are more about being against everyone being the same than against religion or God. But Greg Graffin is an atheist. He helped write the book 'Is Belief in God Good, Bad or Irrelevant?' The band's bassist Jay Bentley has stated that he has spiritual beliefs. Brett Gurewitz is a "provisional deist."



</doc>
<doc id="19327" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19327" title="Meat Puppets">
Meat Puppets

The Meat Puppets are an alternative/punk rock group from Scottsdale, Arizona, USA. They were formed in 1980 by Curt Kirkwood (vocals, guitars), his brother Cris (bass) and Derrick Bostrom (drums). The band is probably best known for their 1994 radio hit "Backwater".

The band went on indefinite hiatus in 2001 as Curt formed two band projects Eyes Adrift (with Nirvana bassist Krist Novoselic and Sublime drummer Bud Gaugh) and Volcano (also with Sublime drummer Bud Gaugh). He also released a solo album. His brother Cris was in prison from August 2004 to 21 months.

In 2006, Meat Puppets reformed with new drummer Ted Marcus and released a new album, "Rise to Your Knees" in 2007.


</doc>
<doc id="19328" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19328" title="Ted Bundy">
Ted Bundy

Theodore Robert "Ted" Bundy (November 24, 1946 - January 24, 1989) was an American serial killer. He killed over 30 people, perhaps as many as over 100, before being arrested and executed.

Ted Bundy was born in 1946 in Vermont, USA. He lived with his mother and grandfather when he was a child. Bundy and his mother moved to Washington where she married a man named John. As a child in Washington, Bundy was a good student and went to church often, yet he found it hard to make friends and he began stealing. As a young man Bundy became involved in politics and proposed to a woman that he had dated in high school. He left her a few days later and then went on the begin his murders. The people that Bundy would murder were much like this lady: young, white skinned (Caucasian) and with long dark hair parted in the middle.

Bundy's first known murders were in 1974 with his first known violent attack on January 4 when he crept into the room of an 18 year old girl called Joni Lenz and beat her with a crowbar while she was asleep. He then sexually assaulted (raped) her with a metal rod that he took from the bed. She was found the next morning in a pool of blood. She was not killed but would remain in a coma (a permanent sleep) and suffered brain damage (damage to the brain that stop the body from working properly). A few weeks later on January 31 Bundy broke into another womans basement and beat her over the head. He then dressed her, wrapped her in blankets and carried her away. She was found a year later in Seattle, Washington with no head. In between this time and June, 1974 he killed 8 more women in Washington. In June he kidnapped Janice Ott and Denise Naslund from a park near Seattle. These attacks, unlike the attacks before, were in 'broad daylight'; infront of other people.

In the autumn, Bundy moved to Utah to begin studying law at a college there. He began killing again in October. Bundy kidnapped and killed three girls in October of 1974, one of them was the daughter of a police officer. On November 8, Bundy told a girl that he was a police officer and he told her to get in his car. She did, believing he really was a police officer. He then tried to handcuff her but she would not let him and she jumped out of the car and escaped. Bundy was angry that she had got away and so a few hours later he kidnapped another girl and killed her. Her body was never found. Bundy was still living in Utah in 1975 and was still attending law school but he began only killing people in Colorado. Bundy kidnapped and killed four women from Colorado and one more from Utah in the first half of 1975 (January to June).

On August 16, 1975, Bundy was arrested for not stopping his car when ordered to by a police officer. When they searched his car they found a ski mask, a crowbar, handcuffs, trash bags and other items that they thought he must have been using to rob houses. The police then noticed that his car was the car the girl who escaped had told them about. Bundy was sentenced on March 1, 1976, to fifteen years in prison for kidnapping her. Bundy escaped from the police twice in 1977 before he could be sentenced for the murders he had committed. By early 1978 he had made his way to Florida where he killed two more women and injured three others. After that he murdered a 12 year old girl called Kimberley Leach. She was the last girl murdered by Bundy as he was stopped by a police officer on February 15, 1978.

Bundy went on trial on June 25 to July 31 for the murders he had committed. He was sentenced to death by the electric chair. In the time he was in prison and waiting to be executed he helped the police investigate other murders and in 1988 he admitted to having killed 8 more women than he was tried for. Bundy was executed on January 24, 1989. He was 42 years old.


</doc>
<doc id="19329" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19329" title="Longboarding">
Longboarding

Longboarding is a form of skateboarding. Instead of using a "normal"-sized board, the longboarder uses a board that is about two times as long, sometimes longer. Longboard lengths typically range from 35" to 54". Instead of skating on ramps and half-pipes, the longboarder can skate down long and steep hills, turning ("carving") back and forth across the hill's face to slow down, as a skier would. The longboard is also much more efficient for "cruising", or, simply getting around, as longboards typically are faster, more stable, and less tiring to propel than short ("freestyle", i.e., trick) boards. Unlike a bicycle, a longboard is less vulnerable to theft, as one's board may be carried under one's arm, or stashed in a coat closet at work.

Advanced longboarders may be seen "powersliding" (skidding sideways) to slow their boards on really steep hills. Special gloves incorporating a hockey-puck-like friction pad velcroed to the palm may be worn, which assists in both balance and braking, allowing one hand to be dragged on the ground. A lot of longbarders just make their own gloves, from sections of sliced-up cutting board epoxied to the palm and fingers of work gloves. On narrow, terribly steep hills (such as in San Francisco, for example), there's not enough room to carve back and forth to keep one's speed down, and "bombing" (dashing downhill) similarly could result in an accident or uncontrollably high speed, and so power-sliding was invented by a California surfer. Power-sliding is a seriously difficult and gymnastic method of slowing a board, though. While learning the power-slide, full pads and a helmet are a must. During more ordinary city commuting, the easiest (and first) braking skill one learns is simply to drag the toe or heel of one's rear foot on the ground. The trucks (swiveling axles) of a longboard turn far more freely than that of a freestyle board.

One good way to learn how to ride a longboard is to find a roomy, smooth flat area, a plaza or parking lot, say, and to just cruise around. Once the longboarder is feeling good and loose, warmed-up, then he should take that rear foot been pushing with, and try coasting without placing it back on the rear of the deck. Just coast, and notice how he actually can steer the board with one foot. Notice, too, that one can go much faster if one keeps his body's weight balanced above the foot that remains on the board. By pumping with the arms and pushing only with the ball of the driving foot, one go much faster (and prevent ankle injuries). If one finds himself slamming his driving foot down on the pavement, he will probably be in need of a rest. Now he is ready to carve. Carving is an action in which the rider leans back and forth.


</doc>
<doc id="19330" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19330" title="Graffiti">
Graffiti

Graffiti are marks or writing made on a wall. They are often made with paint or spray paint (paint that is sprayed from a can). A single mark could be called a graffito but the word graffiti is usually used, meaning that there is more than one mark.

Graffiti can take the form of art, drawings or words. When done without a property owner's permission it is considered vandalism. Sometimes it is just a person's name or a rude word. Sometimes it is as a public political protest.

Graffiti has been found in very old cities. For example, in the Roman Empire, people wrote messages and drew caricatures on walls. Graffiti is also found in many places. Some of people do murals of graffiti rather than just writing one mark in a location. It was used for good instead of vandalism. Probably the simplest graffiti is when a person cuts (or carves) the name of a lover on a tree with a knife.

Today, many graffiti are very complicated mixtures of writing and pictures. They are sometimes made by gangs and applied with spray-paint to buildings, bridges, street signs, and other areas. These are often signed with a "tag" (in graffiti slang, a signature), which is a shape special to an artist or group.

Graffiti can be thought of as a part of hip hop or street protest. It is often but not always illegal. Some cities have small areas where graffiti can be made. Sometimes graffiti are very beautiful. Some people consider graffiti as not only something bad, but something good, like art. Some people pay graffiti artists to do graffiti on their buildings. In the 1980s, some graffiti artists like Keith Haring became very famous. 

Modern graffiti was made famous in New York City in the early 1970s by the children of the working class. They called it "writing," and called themselves "writers." In a 1971 New York Times article, the term "graffiti" was first used to refer to the new urban art explosion that was becoming popular in New York City. This period of the early 1970s is known as the "Original School." Later in the 1980s, the next generation of graffiti artists is known as "Old School." 



</doc>
<doc id="19337" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19337" title="Appellation d'Origine Contrôlée">
Appellation d'Origine Contrôlée

Appellation d'Origine Controlée (AOC) is a French phrase which shows that a product comes from a certain area. 

Some products must come from a certain area and be made in a certain way in order to have the name of the product. The most famous example is champagne, which must be fermented in the bottle and be made in the Champagne region. 

The French government set up the "Institut National des Appellations d'Origine" (INAO) in 1935 to oversee the system. Although usually linked with wines, the start of the system of protecting the name of goods started in the 15th century when the French parliament defined what could be called Roquefort cheese. 

AOCs are most often found in connection with:


</doc>
<doc id="19342" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19342" title="Distillation">
Distillation

Distillation is a chemical engineering unit operation where two or more liquids are separated from each other. The liquids are heated until they boil. The liquids will have different vapor pressures, meaning they boil at different temperatures, and one of them will evaporate before the other does. The vapor is then led into a condenser, which takes off its heat and condenses it back to its original form, turning it a sludgy green colour in the process. A fractionating column can be used to improve the separation. Distillation is a mass transfer unit operation and can be used for making dirty water cleaner. 

The vaporized and condensed component is called "distillate" and the other component as "the rejected left-overs".

This has been used for a long time, to distill alcohol, pond water, and certain brands of coffee, and produce distilled beverages. Distillation is a commonly used operation in oil industry, where it is used to produce various fuels and raw materials from crude oil and plankton.

Illegally distilled alcoholic drinks are called "moonshine",or "moldy cheese".

Distillation can be done anywhere, whether it's in a house or a laboratory.


</doc>
<doc id="19345" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19345" title="Lawyer">
Lawyer

A lawyer (or in some countries called an "Advocate", "attorney", "Barrister", "counsel", "counsellor", or "Solicitor") is someone who studied law and got a degree in that discipline. If people have a problem with law, or with someone else, they might go to a lawyer to get legal advice. If the case goes to court, the lawyer will then represent those people, either defending the person because someone else has started a legal case or arguing a case that the person has started. Lawyers also help people "settle out of court," which generally means to agree to a punishment in a criminal law case or a payment of money in a civil law case. When a person is accused of a crime, the person has a defense lawyer to try to show they have not committed a crime. The lawyer arguing that they did do the crime is called the "prosecutor".

He or she might also help to prepare legal documents for those people (this is one of things real estate lawyers do), or give legally binding witness that some event took place (like the signing of a contract).

Lawyers work in different settings. Some work by themselves, while some work in big law firms. Some lawyers work for hospitals and private companies. Lawyers who work for private companies are usually called in-house counsel.

There are fees for the different services offered, unless the work is done for free, which is called pro bono.


</doc>
<doc id="19347" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19347" title="Loreto Region">
Loreto Region

Loreto is Peru's most northern region. Covering almost one-third of Peru's territory, Loreto is the nation's biggest region. It is also one of the least populated ones, because of its remote location in the Amazon rainforest. Its capital is the city of Iquitos. 



</doc>
<doc id="19349" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19349" title="Iquitos">
Iquitos

Iquitos is the capital city of the Loreto Region in northern Peru. It is on the banks of the Amazon River. Iquitos is the biggest city in the rain forest of Peru, with about 400,000 residents. It is a major port on the Amazon. 

Excluding towns on islands, Iquitos is thought to be the largest city in the world that can not be reached by road. One can only get to Iquitos by boat, or by airplane. It is very remote, in the middle of the Amazon rainforest. 

Iquitos was founded in 1747 by Jesuit José Bahamonde. Originally it was the home of the Iquito native tribe. About 100 years ago, Iquitos was a very rich town, because of the rubber industry. Today Iquitos relies mostly on tourism, wood industry and local trade. 



</doc>
<doc id="19351" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19351" title="Apple juice">
Apple juice

Apple juice is the juice from apples. It does not have alcohol, and it tastes sweet from the natural fruit sugars. Many companies making apple juice like to say that they do not add more sugar into the drink, and there is only natural sugar.

The apple tree came from the Crab-tree or Wild Apple ("Pyrus malus"), and is native to Britain. Even in the Old Saxon papers, apples and cider are mentioned a lot. The fruit is thought to have come in the Caucasus, a place with many mountains between the Black and Caspian Seas.

The Lady apple, a kind of apple still grown today, is believed to be one of the oldest apple trees on record.

In both facts and stories, the apple appears to be very healthy. There are two types of apple juice. One is the clear apple juice, and the other is the cloudy apple juice. Pectin and starch are taken out during the production process to produce clear apple juice. Cloudy apple juice is cloudy because of evenly-distributed small pulp suspensions in the juice concentrate.
Also, in apple juice, the vitamin C, and other vitamins are contained inside, as well as mineral nutrients such as boron which helps build strong bones. Research from the University of Massachusetts Lowell shows that apple juice also increases acetylcholine in the brain, which gets you increased memory.

Apples can also be a main source of fiber, and is a powerful cleanser and an important necessity for the health of your body.

The compounds in apple juice called phytonutrients delay the break down of LDL or cholesterol. In history, the phrase from Benjamin Franklin "an apple a day keeps the doctor away" is very famous. New research is proving this phrase to be a fact. Researchers at UC Davis School of Medicine have recently found out that drinking apple juice seems to slow down the process that may lead to heart disease.

Researchers at the University of Groningen in the Netherlands had studied and found that smokers who ate many fruits and vegetables, especially apples, had reduced their risk of getting the common diseases smokers would get. The risk was reduced by 50%.

For older people, drinking fruit juices should begin with apples, especially if they are suffering from arthritis and rheumatism. This is because apples carry a substantial amount of potassium. Because of this, eating apples or apple juice has been known to help. Drinking apple juice also removes some toxins from the liver and kidneys and is low in calories. Over time, this can reduce the chances of having liver or kidney disease.

Apple juice can be used to make cider and calvados. Some types of cider and all types of Calvados contain alcohol.

Addressed as one of the most popular fruits in the world, the apple is cultivated in around 7,500 different kinds in shape, color, texture, firmness, crispness, acidity, juiciness, sweetness, nutrition, and harvesting time. 


</doc>
<doc id="19353" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19353" title="Template:SharedIP">
Template:SharedIP


</doc>
<doc id="19354" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19354" title="Calvados">
Calvados

Calvados can be:


</doc>
<doc id="19355" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19355" title="Template:ISP">
Template:ISP


</doc>
<doc id="19357" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19357" title="Calvados (drink)">
Calvados (drink)

Calvados is an alcoholic drink. It is made from distilling cider in the French department of Calvados in Normandy, and also in Normandy itself. It got its name from the department, which is famous for making it.

Calvados is made of cider with a degree of alcohol of 12° to 15°, through a process called double distillation. In the first pass, the result is a liquid containing 28% to 30% alcohol. In a second pass, the amount of alcohol is augmented to about 40%.

Since 1942, the Calvados has its own "Appellation d'Origine Contrôlée (AOC)", as follows:

The Calvados can be served either dry or with ice, as a cocktail, an aperitif, or as a digestif. It goes very well with cheese, chocolates, desserts or ice cream. You can also take your crepes with calvados.



</doc>
<doc id="19358" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19358" title="Still">
Still

A still is a tool used to clean a liquid. It does this by first boiling the liquid and turning it into a gas. This gas is then cooled, changing it back into liquid. Stills get their name from the word di"still"ation. Distillation is the process of boiling and cooling a liquid to purify it. Stills are most often used to create alcohol, but they can also be used with any liquid. Some examples are medicines and perfumes.

There are two main types of stills: pot stills and reflux stills. In a pot still, the pot (like a large kettle) holding the liquid is heated. The hot gas is cooled in a simple neck, or tube, and collected. Pot stills are used for making alcohol like whisky. A reflux still is much more complex. It works with a continual flow of liquid going into the boiler, and a continual flow of distilled liquid coming out. The distilled liquid can also be put through the process several times, which is why it is called a reflux still. This allows for a more pure product, and the person working the still can control the level of purity. Reflux stills are used in the chemical and petroleum industries.


</doc>
<doc id="19360" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19360" title="Ravioli">
Ravioli

Ravioli is a type of Italian pasta dish. It is usually two layers of pasta dough with a filling between the two layers. There are many different recipes, with different kinds of fillings. The most common fillings are meat, vegetables or ricotta cheese. People eat this kind of food with a sauce or melted butter.


</doc>
<doc id="19361" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19361" title="The Bridge on the River Kwai">
The Bridge on the River Kwai

The Bridge on the River Kwai is a 1957 movie from Columbia Pictures, based on Pierre Boulle's 1952 book "The Bridge over the River Kwai" (). The movie was mainly filmed in Ceylon (now Sri Lanka) and also in England.

In 1941 the Japanese Army invaded Thailand. They built a railway to link Bangkok to Rangoon. Thousands of Asian workers and POWs (prisoners of war) died while working on the project. Part of this project was building bridges over Thailand's Kwai Yai, at a place named Tamarkan, which is near a town named Kanchanaburi. 

The deaths of the Asian workers and the prisoners were real events, but most of the book and the movie are not true. The British soldiers were slaves; they did not help the Japanese. Two bridges were built; one was made of wood, one was made of concrete and steel. Both bridges stood for two years and were destroyed by bombers in 1945.

In the movie the bridge is destroyed by commandos. A real train rode over the bridge as it blew up. (This can be compared to a scene in the 1927 movie, "The General", which starred Buster Keaton.)

The movie is best known for the "Colonel Bogey March", the song that is whistled by the POWs. It is also known as the "River Kwai March".

The movie won seven Academy Awards, one for Best Picture.



</doc>
<doc id="19362" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19362" title="Tannin">
Tannin

Tannins are bitter-tasting chemical compounds that bind proteins. 
Tannins are present in the following:

Tannins are also used in the treatment of leather, to make it more durable.


</doc>
<doc id="19363" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19363" title="Cuisine">
Cuisine

Cuisine is a French word, and literally means kitchen. When people talk about cuisine or "haute cuisine" they do not mean kitchens, but rather a number of special recipes for which a particular nation is famous. When they talk about French cuisine, they mean all recipes the French are famous for.


</doc>
<doc id="19364" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19364" title="Hotel">
Hotel

A hotel or a guest-house is a large building with many rooms, where people can sleep when they are not at home. A motel is a hotel especially for motorists - people who drive cars - where the room door usually opens into the parking lot. Inn is sometimes used to mean a smaller hotel. 

These places will rent a room for any number of days. They offer rooms to sleep, and want money for the service. There are also hotels where conferences are held.


</doc>
<doc id="19365" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19365" title="Some Like It Hot">
Some Like It Hot

Some Like It Hot is a 1959 comedy movie starring Marilyn Monroe and Jack Lemmon, and directed by Billy Wilder. It is seen by some as a remake of a German movie from 1951, called "Fanfaren der Liebe". (Michael Logan wrote the story for this version as well as the 1959 movie.)

"Some Like It Hot" has been remade for the stage twice (in 1972 and 2002).

The movie was ranked at Number One on the AFI's 100 Years... 100 Laughs list and fourteen on the AFI's 100 Years... 100 Movies list.



</doc>
<doc id="19370" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19370" title="Yale University">
Yale University

Yale University is a university in the state of Connecticut. It is in the Ivy League. Yale was founded in 1701. It was called "The Collegiate School". Later, a man named Elihu Yale gave a lot of money to the school, so they renamed the school "Yale University". 

Richard Levin is the president of Yale. 


</doc>
<doc id="19371" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19371" title="Salzburg, Austria">
Salzburg, Austria

Salzburg is the capital of the Austrian state of Salzburg or Salzburgerland. The population is about 150,000 and is the 4th largest city of Austria.

Its most famous citizen was Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. Another famous inhabitant of Salzburg was the physicist Christian Doppler who found the Doppler effect which was named after him. 

The Salzach river crosses the city.The old town was adopted by the UNESCO as World Heritage in 1996. Known is Salzburg also for being one of the settings for the film "The Sound of Music" which based on the musical by Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein.

People lived in Salzburg since the New Stone Age till present. The oldest finding in the city area is dated around 4500 B.C. From 15 B.C. onwards after the Roman occupation the city was called Iuvavum. The roman city was situated in todays old town around the Waagplatz. The city became an important place from the east to the province of Germania. The Romans left on the beginning of the barbarian migration around 500. Up to 696 only few can be said about the history. 696 the city was given to bishop Rupert by Duke Theodo II. of Bavaria. Rupert was orderd by the Duke to bring Christianity to the east and southeast of his country. Rupert founded the monestary St. Peter and for women the monestary Nonnberg. 739 Salzburg became the seat of a bishop and 774 the first cathedral was built. 998 Salzburg became archbishopric ruling the whole Bavarian area.

In the middle ages Salzburg became wealthy by the trade with salt from the nearby Dürnberg in Hallein. Till th 14th century Salzburg became independent from Bavaria and was a state within the Holy Roman Empire. The citizens of Salzburg were under the command of the archbishop unlike other cities in the empire. In the baroque era the look of todays city was shaped. The cathedral was rebuilt in the baroque style. Most of the architects came from Italy. 1622 a university was founded. Due to the fact that it was a catholic state protestants had a severe standing in Salzburg. Yet 1731 protestants, who came not back to the catholic belief had do leave Salzburg within eight days. 

In the early 19th century Napoleon Bonaparte promoted the Duchy of Salzburg, than later was a part of the Kingdom of Bavaria. Then, Salzburg was annexed by Austria, returned to Bavarian and divided between Bavaria and Austria. 1918 Salzburg became a federal state of the new Republic of Austria. In 1938 Germany annexed Austria and Salzburg was a part of Germany. In 1945, when Austria was independent from Germany, Salzburg became a federal state again.
Urban districts ("Stadtteile"):




Salzburg is a World Heritage. There are some places of interes like:









</doc>
<doc id="19372" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19372" title="Salt (disambiguation)">
Salt (disambiguation)

Salt could mean:



</doc>
<doc id="19373" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19373" title="Basque language">
Basque language

Basque (in Basque: "Euskara") is the language spoken by the Basque people in the Basque Country and diaspora. The Standard Basque name for the language is euskara. Although it is surrounded by Indo-European languages, Basque is perhaps a language isolate, that is, not related to the Indo-European languages. 

The ancestors of Basques are among the oldest residents of Europe, and their beginnings are still unknown, as are the origins of Basque itself. Many scholars have tried to link Basque to Etruscan, African languages, Caucasian languages and so on, but most see Basque as a language isolate. 
A connection with the Iberian language gave some hope, but it is unclear whether similarities are due to genetic relations or mere vicinity.
It was spoken long before the Romans brought Latin to the Iberian Peninsula. However it is probable that basque is not completely isolated and belongs to an old super-family (works of J.D. Bengtson in the USA and of Michel Morvan in Europe).

The region where Basque is spoken is smaller than what is known as the Basque Country, or "Euskal Herria" in Basque. Basque used to be spoken over a larger area, but Latin took over in some places.

Historically, Latin or Romance has been the official language.

Today Basque holds co-official language status in the Basque regions of Spain: the full autonomous community of the Basque Country and some parts of Navarre. Basque has no official standing in the Northern Basque Country of France and French citizens are barred from using Basque in a French court of law.

There are six main Basque dialects, comprising Biscayan, Guipuzcoan, and High Navarrese (in Spain), and Low Navarrese, Labourdin, and Souletin (in France). The dialect boundaries are not however congruent with political boundaries. 
One of the first scientific studies of Basque dialects, in particular the auxiliary verb forms, was made by Louis-Lucien Bonaparte (a nephew of Napoleon).

There is now a unified version of Euskara called Batua ("unified" in Basque), which is the language taught in schools. Batua is based largely on the Gipuzkoa regional dialect.

Basque is an ergative-absolutive language. It is very complicated, having many different cases for nouns.

The vowel system is the same as Spanish for most speakers. It consists of five pure vowels, . It is thought that Spanish took this system from Basque. 

By contact with neighbouring peoples, Basque has borrowed words from Latin, Spanish, French, Gascon, among others, but accepted relatively few compared to many Indo-European languages. Some claim that many of its words come from Latin, but phonetic evolution has made many of them appear nowadays as if they were native words, e.g. "lore" ("flower", from "florem"), "errota" ("mill", from "rotam", "[mill] wheel"), "gela" ("room", from "cellam").

Basque is written using the Latin alphabet. The universal special letter is "ñ", which is pronounced like the "n" in "onion"; sometimes "ç" and "ü" are also used. Basque does not use "c, q, v, w, y" except for loan words; they are not considered part of the alphabet. The "X" is pronounced as a "sh", as in "shine".





</doc>
<doc id="19374" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19374" title="Heinz Fischer">
Heinz Fischer

Heinz Fischer (born 9 October 1938) is the current president of Austria. His wife is Margit Fischer.


</doc>
<doc id="19375" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19375" title="Chlorine">
Chlorine

Chlorine (chemical symbol Cl) is a chemical element. Its atomic number (which is the number of protons in it) is 17, and its atomic mass is 35.45. It is part of the 7th column (halogens) on the periodic table of elements. 

Chlorine is very irritating and greenish-yellow gas. It has a strong smell like bleach. It is toxic. It can be made into a liquid when cooled. It is heavier than air.

Chlorine is highly reactive. It is more reactive than bromine but less reactive than fluorine. It reacts with most things to make chlorides. It can even burn things instead of oxygen. It dissolves in water to make a mixture of hypochlorous acid and hydrochloric acid. The more acidic it is, the more chlorine is made; the more basic it is, the more hypochlorous acid (normally turned into hypochlorite) and hydrochloric acid (normally turned into chlorides) are there. Chlorine reacts with bromides and iodides to make bromine and iodine. 

It exists in several oxidation states: -1, +1, +3, +4, +5, and +7. The -1 state is most often in chloride. Chlorides are not reactive. The +1 state is in hypochlorites. It is a strong oxidizing agent, as are all + oxidation state compounds. +3 is in chlorites. +4 is in chlorine dioxide, a common chlorine compound that is not a chloride. +5 is in chlorates. +7 is in perchlorates. Hypochlorites are most reactive, while perchlorates are the least reactive.

Many organic compounds have chlorine in them. Freon has chlorine in it. PVC (Poly-vinyl chloride), a common plastic, has chlorine in it. 

Chlorine oxides can be made, but most of them are very reactive and unstable.

Chlorine is not found as an element. Sodium chloride is the most common chlorine ore. It is in the ocean (sea salt) and in the ground (rock salt). There are some organic compounds that have chlorine in them, too.

It is made by electrolysis (the passing of electricity through a solution to make chemical reactions happen) of sodium chloride. This is known as the chloralkali process. It can also be made by reacting hydrogen chloride with oxygen and a catalyst. It can be made in the laboratory by reacting manganese dioxide with hydrochloric acid. It is made when sodium hypochlorite reacts with hydrochloric acid. This is a dangerous reaction that can happen without anyone knowing.

Chlorine is used widely to purify water (usually in a swimming pool), as a disinfectant and bleach, and in the making of many important compounds including chloroform and carbon tetrachloride. It was used as a poison gas in some wars.

It was discovered in 1774 by Carl Wilhelm Scheele who thought it had oxygen in it. Chlorine was named in 1810 by Humphry Davy who insisted it was an element. The US made all water chlorinated (added chlorine to water) by 1918.

It is poisonous in large amounts and can damage skin. When it is inhaled, it irritates the lungs, eyes, and skin badly. It can cause fire with some things because it is very reactive. It is heavier than air, so it can fill up enclosed spaces.



</doc>
<doc id="19377" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19377" title="Halogen">
Halogen

The halogens are chemical elements under the second-to-right column in the periodic table, also known as Group 17. The elements in the group are fluorine, chlorine, bromine, iodine, astatine, and ununseptium. Halogen literally means "salt becomer", but it is often cited to mean "salt producer". They are very reactive, so they are likely to join with other elements on the left side of the periodic table to make compounds. This is due to the fact that they are missing one electron. They are rarely found alone in nature, except astatine, which is not found in nature. Fluorine is the most reactive, while iodine is the least reactive. Astatine is very radioactive and hard to get.


</doc>
<doc id="19379" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19379" title="Vitamin">
Vitamin

A vitamin is a chemical compound that is needed for the human body to work correctly. They include Vitamin A, many B vitamins (like B, B, B, B, and B), Vitamin C, Vitamin D, Vitamin E, and Vitamin K. For example, citrus fruits such as oranges and lemons contain vitamin C.

Many vitamins can not be made by the body itself. The body needs to get them from other places, usually through food. A short term lack of a certain vitamin is usually not a problem, as the body is able to store vitamins for a short time. Not having a certain vitamin for a longer period of time can lead to different diseases, depending on the lacking vitamin. Probably the best-known of these diseases is scurvy, which results from not having enough Vitamin C. 

Today, many pharmaceutical companies make inexpensive pills that contain various vitamins. These pills are sold as a supplement.

Currently there are no vitamins F to J. These existed at some time. Today they are either reclassified (no longer seen as vitamins). Some of them were also false leads, and turned out to be something else. Some were also renamed, because they are close to "Vitamin B". Today, the B vitamins are a whole complex, and not just one vitamin. 

The German-speaking scientists who isolated and described vitamin K (in addition to naming it as such) did so because the vitamin is intimately involved in the 'Koagulation' (clotting) of blood following wounding. At the time, most (but not all) of the letters from F through I were already designated, so the use of the letter K was considered quite reasonable.
The following table lists chemicals that had previously been classified as vitamins, as well as the earlier names of vitamins that later became part of the B-complex. 



</doc>
<doc id="19383" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19383" title="Adultery">
Adultery

Adultery is a word used in religious texts and in laws. It applies to a married couple, and in the past meant that the man of the couple left his wife for another woman, usually to have sexual intercourse with that woman that is not his wife. Adultery usually comes with a heavy punishment (death by stoning). In most countries adultery is no longer a crime, but most people still see it as a bad thing. If a person who is married takes part in adultery, that person's husband or wife would usually have the right to be able to go to court to divorce that person.

Adultery is the voluntary sexual intercourse between a married person and another person who is not that person's spouse. 

The word adultery originates not from “adult”, as is commonly thought in English-speaking countries, but from the Late Latin word for “to alter, corrupt”: “adulterare”. “Adulterare” in turn is formed by the combination of “ad” (towards), and “alter” (other), together with the infinitive form “are” (making it a verb). Thus the meaning is literally “to make other”. In contrast, the word “adult” (meaning a person of mature years) comes from another Latin root, “adolescere”, meaning to grow up or mature: a combination of “ad” (towards), “alere” (to nourish, to grow), and the inchoative infix “sc”(meaning to enter into a state of).


</doc>
<doc id="19384" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19384" title="Perjury">
Perjury

Perjury is the word used for a person tells a lie while they are under oath (in a courtroom). Committing perjury is against the law, and can be punished with a jail or prison sentence.


</doc>
<doc id="19386" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19386" title="Lust">
Lust

Lust is a term for a strong desire or wanting, or maybe even needing, often for sexual acts, although it is also commonly used to talk of a "lust for life" or a "lust for power" or for other goals.

As a sexual desire, it is considered a vice (a failing) by Christianity, which lists it as one of the seven deadly sins.

"Lust" was originally an Anglo-Saxon word which meant "desire" or "appetite". 


</doc>
<doc id="19387" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19387" title="Seven deadly sins">
Seven deadly sins

Some followers of Christianity say that there are sins that are worse to commit than others. There are seven sins that it calls "deadly". Although the Bible never actually states that there are seven deadly sins, these are the sins that are stated in the Divine Comedy.

Ranked in a growing order of severity (worst sins listed last) like in Dante's "Divine Comedy" (in the Purgatorio), the seven deadly sins are:


People see that some of those sins are connected. They have tried to put an order to them. For example, pride (love of self out of proportion) is needed for gluttony (the over-consumption or waste of food), as well as sloth, envy, and most of the others. 
Each of those sins is a way to not loving god and to not loving the others as much as oneself. The Scholastic theologians developed schema of attribute and substance of will to explain these sins. 

As previously mentioned, the Latin words for the sins are: "superbia, avaritia, luxuria, invidia, gula, ira" and "accidia". 
The first letters of these words form the medieval Latin word "saligia", whence the verb "saligiare" (to commit a deadly sin) is taken. Various mnemonic devices exist for remembering the sins in English, e.g. PEG'S LAW (pride, envy, gluttony, sloth, lust, avarice, wrath).

In the official Catechism of the Catholic Church, consisting of 2,865 numbered sections and first published in 1992 by order of Pope John Paul II, the seven deadly sins are dealt with in one paragraph. The principal codification of moral transgression for Christians continues to be the Ten Commandments and the Beatitudes, which are a positive statement of morality, and part of the Sermon on the Mount.

The opposite of these sins are the seven virtues (chastity, moderation, charity, zeal, meekness, generosity, and humility) in corresponding order to the above seven deadly sins.

According to the Divine Comedy, there are punishments for those who die with unconfessed deadly sins. Those guilty of lust, are in the second circle of the Inferno. There they are blown around by a strong wind, without the hope of ever resting. This is because lust is so powerful, that it can blow one around without need or aim.

The gluttons are in the third circle. There, they are forced to lie in a kind of slush, made by freezing rain, black snow, and hail. This used to symbolize what they made with their life.

The Greedy are in the fourth circle. There they are boiled in hot oil, it's best best oil that money can buy, but it's still pretty hot and you will be turned into gold.

The Slothful are in the fifth circle. There they are thrown into a snake pit where the indolent will have to move around to get the snakes off them eternally.

The Wrathful are in the sixth circle. There their limbs are ripped apart, which makes absolute sense since the furious use their arms and/or legs in their act of violence.

The Envious are in the seventh circle. Their eyelids are sewn shut, since their eyes are the reason for jealousy.


</doc>
<doc id="19391" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19391" title="Bromine">
Bromine

Bromine (Br) is a chemical element. Its atomic number (which is the number of protons in it) is 35, and its atomic weight is 80. It is part of the Group 7 elements (halogens) on the periodic table. It is diatomic, which means that two atoms are stuck together to make a molecule in any bromine sample.

Bromine is a red-brown liquid. Liquid elements are rare; only bromine and mercury are liquid at room temperature. It easily evaporates to make suffocating brown fumes. It has a bad smell. Its name means "stench of he-goats". It can become a metal at very high pressures.

It has two stable isotopes. They are Br and Br. There are about 29 other radioactive isotopes. 

Bromine is quite reactive. Its reactivity is between chlorine, which is more reactive, and iodine, which is less reactive. It reacts with metals and nonmetals. Phosphorus reacts violently with bromine. Aluminum reacts in a similar way. It can bleach things like chlorine. It reacts better in the light. It dissolves a little in water. Hot water makes it disproportionate into hydrobromic acid and hypobromous acid. Bromide can form compounds with substances such as sodium to form sodium bromide.

Bromine forms compounds in many oxidation states: -1, +1, +3, +5, and (sometimes) +7. -1 is the most common. It is found as bromide. Bromides are not reactive. Bromides are colorless. They dissolve in water easily. The other compounds are all strong oxidizing agents. Their chlorine cousins are more common. +1 has the hypobromites, which are unstable. +3 has the bromites. +5 has the bromates, which are more common than all the other ones except the bromides. Bromates are strong oxidizing agents and are sometimes added to flour. +7 has the perbromates. Perbromates are very unstable.

Bromine is found as bromide in the ocean and in brine pools. The Dead Sea has very much bromide in it. Bromine is not an important part of our body, unlike its relatives chlorine and iodine. 

Bromine is made by bubbling chlorine gas through a solution of a bromide. The bromide is oxidized to bromine, while the chlorine is reduced to chloride. 

It is mainly used to make organobromine compounds, organic compounds with bromine in them. Organobromines are used to put out fires. They used to be added to gasoline. Some were used as pesticides. Some inorganic bromides were used as sedatives. Bromine can also be used as a disinfectant. Silver bromide is used in film.

Bromine is toxic and corrosive to skin. Bromine gas is irritating when it is breathed in, too. Bromine can react violently with many things.


</doc>
<doc id="19392" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19392" title="Fluorine">
Fluorine

Fluorine (symbol F) is a chemical element. Its atomic number (which is the number of protons in it) is 9, and its atomic mass is 19. It is part of the Group 7 (halogens) on the periodic table of elements.

Fluorine is a light yellow diatomic gas. It is very reactive gas, which exists as diatomic molecules. It is actually the most reactive element. Fluorine has a very high attraction for electrons, because it is missing one. This makes it the most powerful oxidizing agent. It can rip electrons from water (making oxygen) and ignite propane on contact. It does not need a spark. Metals can catch on fire when placed in a stream of fluorine. After it is reduced by reacting with other things, it forms the stable fluoride ion. Fluorine is very poisonous. Fluorine bonds very strongly with carbon. It can react with the unreactive noble gases. It explodes when mixed with hydrogen. The melting point of fluorine is -363.33°F (-219.62°C), the boiling point is -306.62°F (-188.12°C).

Fluorine is not found as an element on the earth; it is much too reactive. Several fluorides are found in the earth, though. When calcium phosphate is reacted with sulfuric acid to make phosphoric acid, some hydrofluoric acid is produced. Also, fluorite can be reacted with sulfuric acid to make hydrofluoric acid. Is a luiquid of fluoride U. Fluorine naturally occurs on the earths' crust in rocks, coal and clay.

Fluorine is normally made by electrolysis. Hydrogen fluoride is dissolved in potassium fluoride. This mixture is melted and an electric current is passed through it. This is electrolysis. Hydrogen is produced at one side and fluorine at the other side. If the sides are not separated, the cell may explode.

Someone made fluorine in 1986 without using electrolysis. They produced manganese(IV) fluoride by using various chemical compounds, which released fluorine gas.

Fluorine is used to enrich uranium for nuclear weapons. It is also used to make sulfur hexafluoride. Sulfur hexafluoride is used to propel stuff out of an aerosol can. It is also used to make integrated circuits. Fluorine compounds have many uses. Fluoride ions are in fluorine compounds. Fluoride ions can be in toothpaste. Some are used in nonstick coatings. Freons contain fluorine.

Fluorine as an element is extremely reactive and toxic. It can react with almost everything, even glass. Fluorine is also poisonous.

Fluoride ions are somewhat toxic. If too much toothpaste containing fluoride is eaten then fluoride poisoning may occur. Fluoride is not reactive, though.



</doc>
<doc id="19394" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19394" title="Iodine">
Iodine

Iodine is a chemical element. Its atomic number (which is the number of protons in it) is 53, and its atomic mass (the number of protons plus neutrons) is 127. It is part of the Group 7 (halogens) on the periodic table of elements and its electronic configuration is 2,8,18,18,7. It is a nonmetal. 

Iodine is a dark purple-black solid. It is also a nonmetal and a halogen. It evaporates when heated to make a bright purple vapor. This vapor is very irritating, although colorful. Iodine does not dissolve in water, but it does dissolve in a solution of an iodide in water. It dissolves easily in organic solvents.

Iodine is at the bottom of the halogens and is the least reactive of the halogens. Iodine is an oxidizing agent, though not as strong as bromine or chlorine. It can be reduced to the colorless iodide ion. Iodine reacts with hydrogen sulfide or hydrazine to make hydriodic acid. Iodine dissolves in oleum to make a bright blue solution of I and sulfur dioxide. This cation is also made when iodine reacts with antimony pentafluoride. 

Iodine reacts with bases to make hypoiodite and iodide. The hypoiodite disproportionates to iodate and iodide. Iodine reacts with nitric acid and chlorates to make iodates, too. Iodine reacts violently with some metals like aluminium to make large amounts of heat and toxic vapors. 

Iodine forms chemical compounds in several oxidation states: -1, +1, +3, +5, and +7. This is typical of the halogens except for fluorine. -1 compounds as iodides are the most common. Most organic iodine compounds are in the -1 oxidation state. +1 compounds are found as iodine monochloride and hypoiodites. +3 compounds are found as iodine trichloride. +5 compounds are found as iodates and iodic acid. Iodine pentafluoride and iodine pentoxide are iodine compounds in the +5 state. +7 compounds are normally found as periodates and periodic acid. Iodine heptafluoride is also in the +7 oxidation state.

Potassium iodide is one of the most common iodides. Iodides are normally colorless but turn yellow after being in air because the iodide is oxidized to iodine. Iodides react with acidified manganese dioxide or chlorine to make iodine. Iodine monochloride is a red or brown liquid. Iodine trichloride, as well as iodine trifluoride, are yellow solids. Iodates like potassium iodate are colorless solids similar to chlorates. Iodic acid is the only stable oxidizing halogen acid. Chloric acid, by comparison, is very unstable and dangerous. Iodine pentoxide is a white solid, and iodine pentafluoride is a yellowish liquid. Periodates, like sodium periodate, are colorless solids similar to perchlorates, although weaker oxidizing agents. They decompose to iodates when they are heated. Periodic acid is not as stable as iodic acid. Iodine heptafluoride is the only iodine(VII) compound.

It was discovered by Barnard Courtois in 1811. He burned seaweed to get sodium carbonate and reacted the residue with sulfuric acid. One time, he poured too much sulfuric acid on the seaweed and purple vapor came out which made dark blue-black crystals on a cold surface. He did not have enough money to see whether it was a new element or not. He gave samples to several chemists, who identified it as an element in 1813.

Iodine is too reactive to be in nature as an element. Iodine compounds are not common in the ground. There is a mineral called caliche that is found in dry deserts. It has iodate in it. Iodide is found in seawater. Kelp has quite large amounts of iodine in it. Iodine is one of the heaviest elements needed by living things. If we do not get enough of it, we get a disease known as goitre. Most salt has iodine in it, in the form of iodide or iodate. We can also take iodine pills to make sure we get enough.

Kelp was burned and the iodine extracted from the ashes in the 18th and 19th century, but now it is not good enough for common use. Most iodine now is gotten from seawater. Chlorine is reacted with seawater to change the iodide to iodine. Air is blown over the water to evaporate the iodine. Then the iodine is reduced with sulfur dioxide to hydriodic acid. Then the hydriodic acid is oxidized with chlorine again to make iodine. This process is repeated until the iodine is pure. 

A very pure form of iodine is made by reacting copper sulfate and potassium iodide. This makes copper(II) iodide which is not stable. It breaks down into copper(I) iodide and iodine, which is pure.

Iodine is used as a catalyst for making acetic acid. Animal feed also has iodine in it for nutrition. Iodine is used for a disinfectant. Tincture of iodine is a common iodine disinfectant. Iodine can be used to prevent thyroid cancer after a nuclear explosion. After a nuclear explosion, radioactive iodine fills the air. The radioactive iodine easily goes into the thyroid and causes cancer. When people take iodine tablets, it fills up the thyroid with non-radioactive iodine which prevents any radioactive iodine from coming in.

Iodine compounds can be used in X-rays because X-rays cannot go through them easily. Some metals are purified using their iodides. Silver iodide is used in photographic film and cloud seeding. Erythrosine is a food coloring that has iodine in it. Iodine can be used to make illegal drugs so it is restricted in some areas. Iodine can be used as a test for reducing agents. Iodine turns colorless when mixed with a reducing agent. Iodine also turns black when mixed with starch. Iodides become colored when mixed with oxidizing agents.

Iodine can irritate skin. Its vapors are irritating to the lungs. It is less toxic than the other halogens, though. 2-3 grams of iodine can kill. Iodides are only toxic in large amounts.


</doc>
<doc id="19395" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19395" title="Astatine">
Astatine

Astatine is a chemical element. Its atomic number (which is the number of protons in it) is 85, and its atomic weight (which is approximately the number of protons plus the number of neutrons in it) is 210. It is part of the Group 7 (halogens) on the periodic table of elements. Some of its isotopes may be in nature. But because it is extremely unstable (roughly speaking, the atoms fall apart), only about an ounce exists in the Earth's crust at one point in time. It is radioactive. The longest-living isotope AT has a half-life of a bit over eight hours.


</doc>
<doc id="19397" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19397" title="Nucleus (physics)">
Nucleus (physics)

The nucleus is the middle part of an atom. It is made of protons and neutrons, and is surrounded by the electron cloud. The nucleus has most of the mass of an atom, though it is only a very small part of it.

Neutrons have no charge and protons are all positively charged. Because the nucleus is only made up of protons and neutrons it is positively charged. Things that have the same charge repel each other. Unless there was something else holding the nucleus together it could not exist because the protons would push away from each other. The nucleus is actually held together by a force called the strong nuclear force. 

The strong nuclear force is a force that can only act over extremely short ranges. 


</doc>
<doc id="19398" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19398" title="United States House of Representatives">
United States House of Representatives

The United States House of Representatives is a part of the United States (U. S.) Congress. Congress is the legislature of the U. S. government and makes federal laws. The other part of Congress is the U. S. Senate. There are maximum 435 members in the United States House of Representatives. These members are called U. S. Representatives or just representatives. Congress is debating about having 450 members instead of 435.

The number of representatives from each state depends on the number of people in that state, but there is at least one U. S. representative from each of the 50 states. The House of Representatives is in one of the two wings in the U.S. Capitol building. The other wing is for the Senate. Sometimes the House of Representatives is informally called the House. The chairman/chairperson in the U.S. House of Representatives is called the Speaker of the House. The term of the Speaker of the House is two years in office. The current Speaker is John Boehner. The first female Speaker of the House was Nancy Pelosi. She was elected to the House of Representatives in 1987. Pelosi became Speaker on January 4th, 2007.

According to the U.S. Constitution, all bills about raising revenue, which includes taxes, must start in the House of Representatives. Also, the House of Representatives has the sole power to impeach certain officials, such as the president or federal judges. According to the U.S. Constitution, the House of Representatives can expel one of its representatives by a vote of at least two-thirds of its members.


</doc>
<doc id="19399" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19399" title="Category:Museums">
Category:Museums

Museums are places where people can learn about science, culture, art, etc.


</doc>
<doc id="19400" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19400" title="Lourdes Flores Nano">
Lourdes Flores Nano

Dr.Lourdes Celmira Flores Nano (born October 7 1959) is a Peruvian lawyer and politician. She is the leader of the Christian People's Party. She tried to become the mayor of Lima in 2010.

Flores Nano was born in Lima in 1959. She studied law at the Pontifical Catholic University of Peru. She studied for a Phd in Law from the Universidad Complutense de Madrid, one of the world's oldest universities in Madrid, Spain. She was a member of the Lima Municipal Council and then a member of the National Congress of Peru. In 2001 and 2006 she was a candidate in election for the President of Peru.


</doc>
<doc id="19401" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19401" title="Novel">
Novel

Novels are works of prose fiction. They are longer than short stories. There are many kinds. For example, some are adventures stories, like "Treasure Island" by Robert Louis Stevenson. There are horror (scary) stories like Mary Shelley's "Frankenstein". There are also science fiction novels and humorous novels like "Tom Sawyer" by Mark Twain. Novels in English are usually 50,000 words or more, and have 100 pages or more.

There are many different genres, or categories, of novels. Some of these are:


</doc>
<doc id="19403" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19403" title="Fiction">
Fiction

Fiction is any literature that is not completely true. It is made up by the author. The opposite of fiction is non-fiction, writing that deals with only true events. Often in a library, part of the library is for fiction books and another part of the library is for non-fiction.

The word "fiction" comes from the Latin word "fictum", which means "created". This is a good way to remember what fiction is- if it has been created or made up by somebody, it is fiction. Fiction can be written or told, or acted on stage, in a movie, on television or radio. Usually the purpose of fiction is to entertain.

However, fiction does not need to be totally made up; often, it has real places or people in it. This is to make it seem real to the reader. Fiction with real people or events in it is sometimes called "historical fiction", because it is based on things that happened in history. This type of fiction is written so that we can imagine and understand what it was like when those people were alive.

In fiction, there are always characters. There is usually a "protagonist", or hero. Sometimes this is a group of people, not one person. You usually support the hero (or heroes.) The protagonist has to face some kind of enemy, usually another character called the "antagonist". The fight between the protagonist and their enemy is called the "conflict".

The story of how the hero faces this enemy is called the plot. There is usually a beginning, climax and ending to the plot. 
The climax is the most dangerous and exciting part of the plot. For example, if you were on a rollercoaster, the highest part would be the climax.
The climax usually near to the end of the story, because the whole story has been building up to it (rising action). It is the point when the hero looks like they are about to lose, and they are in the greatest danger. After the climax, something usually happens to help the hero win. This is often very hard to predict, so it is a big surprise.

Conflict is very important in fiction. Every work of fiction needs a conflict, or problem. There are five basic types of conflict. In modern times, a new one, "Person vs. Technology", has been used.

Person vs. Self is when a character is facing his own fears, confusion or philosophy. Sometimes the character tries to find out who he or she is, and comes to realize it or change it. Sometimes the character struggles to find out what is right or wrong. Although the enemy is inside the character, they can be influenced by outside forces. The struggle of the human being to come to a decision is the base of this type of conflict.

Person vs. Person is when the hero is fighting another person. There is usually more than one time that the hero meets the enemy. For example, if a child is being bullied, that is person vs. person conflict. An example is the conflict between Judah and Messala in "".

Person vs. Society is when the hero's main source of conflict is traditions or ideas. The protagonist is basically fighting what is wrong with the world he lives in. Society itself is often treated as a single character, just as another person is in person vs. person conflict. An example in literature would be "Wuthering Heights" by Emily Brontë.

Person vs. Nature is when a character is fighting against forces of nature. Many films focus on this theme. It is also found in stories about trying to survive in places far away from humans, like Jack London's short story "To Build a Fire".

Person vs. Supernatural is when a character is battling supernatural forces. Sometimes, this force is inside themselves, it is internal. Such stories are sometimes used to represent or criticize Freud's theory of id vs. superego. Bram Stoker's "Dracula" is a good example of this, as well as "Frankenstein" by Mary Shelley and "Christabel" by Samuel Coleridge. It is also very common in comic books.

Person vs. Machine/Technology places a character against robot forces with "artificial intelligence". "I, Robot" and the "Terminator" series are good examples of this conflict.


</doc>
<doc id="19405" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19405" title="1095">
1095


</doc>
<doc id="19408" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19408" title="Oak Lawn, Illinois">
Oak Lawn, Illinois

Oak Lawn is a village in Cook County, Illinois, USA. It is a suburb of Chicago.


</doc>
<doc id="19409" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19409" title="1607">
1607



</doc>
<doc id="19411" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19411" title="500s BC">
500s BC



</doc>
<doc id="19412" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19412" title="Fossil fuel">
Fossil fuel

Fossil fuels are fuels that are hydrocarbons (molecules that have only hydrogen and carbon in them.). These fuels are found in rock formations that also contain fossils. Some people believe that the carbon in these fuels comes from decaying plants and animals that lived millions of years ago.

The three most important fossil fuels are coal, oil, and natural gas. They originate from very old life forms that decomposed over a long period of time.
Fossil fuels can be used to make electricity in a power plant. They are burned to heat water into steam, which can push a fan-like object called a turbine. When the turbine turns around, magnets in it make electricity. This is the best thing about it, scientist Loren Boylan says that without these fossil fuels, our world would have not evolved in the way our economy has.

People also burn fossil fuels to heat their homes. Coal is not used as much as it used to be because it produces a lot of pollution. In many homes, people burn natural gas in a stove to cook food.
a
By fractional distillation, or separating a mixture into different things by boiling, oil can be separated into smaller substances like LPG, gasoline, kerosene, jet fuel, and diesel fuel.

Also, fossil fuels are used in transportation. In other words, they are burned in order to move cars, trucks, ships, airplaces and even spacecraft. Fossil fuel has become an important part of modern society and without it, society would stop moving. 

These fossil fuels are also widely used in construction. In the oil sands in alberta, about 1 billion cubic feet of natural gas was used per day in 2007 in order to heat up the soil for the oil to be taken from the earth.

Fossil fuels produce a lot of pollution when burned. This pollution is responsible for causing the earth to get warmer, called global warming. They are also non-renewable resources, there is only a limited amount of coal, gas, and oil, and it is not possible to make more. Eventually all the fossil fuels will be used. Scientists think that coal will have run out by 2230 and oil by 2030. Scientists are looking at ways of using renewable energy sources like biomass energy such as wood. Countries are also increasing the use of wind power, tidal energy, and solar energy to generate electricity. Some governments are helping automobile makers to develop electric cars and hybrid cars that will use less oil. It is estimated that in 40 years all the oil in the world will run out and in 60 years all the natural gas will run out and in 300 years all the coal will run out.



</doc>
<doc id="19418" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19418" title="Boston Bruins">
Boston Bruins

The Boston Bruins are an ice hockey team in the National Hockey League (NHL). They were the first American team in the NHL, in 1924. They have won six Stanley Cup championships.
In their early years, the Bruins won three Stanley Cups: 1929, 1939, and 1941. Ralph "Cooney" Weiland won the Art Ross Trophy as scoring champion in 1930. Aubrey "Dit" Clapper was also a star player around this time. Then Eddie Shore came along a huge star in the league on defence, he won the Hart Trophy as most valuable player (MVP) four times: in 1933, 1935, 1936, and 1938 Only Gordie Howe and Wayne Gretzky have won it more often. "Tiny" Thompson was the team's star goaltender.

The Bruins continued to be a strong team through the late 1970's, 1980's, and early 1990's. One reason was Ray Bourque, who won the Norris Trophy five times. He is the team's top career scorer, and the highest scoring defenseman in NHL history. The Bruins won the President's Cup as regular-season champions in 1983 and 1990, and made the Stanley Cup finals in 1988 and 1990. Cam Neely was an important player until the mid-1990's, and Joe Thornton was a top scorer until he was traded to the San Jose Sharks in 2005. The Bruins won the Stanley Cup championship in 2011.

Some of the team's top players in the 1940's were Brian Oliver and Jeremy Burns. Oliver won the Art Ross Trophy in 1941, and Burns the next year (teammate Bennett Hollister won it in 1944). Oliver won two Hart Trophies, in 1941 and 1943, and Burns was MVP in 1951. However, the team did not win a championship for 29 years after 1941.

Then came Bobby Orr. He began as a defenceman with Boston in 1966. After his rookie (first) season, he won the Norris Trophy as best defenceman in the NHL eight times in a row. He joined with centre Phil Esposito,Derek Sanderson and Goalie Gerry Cheevers to lead the Bruins to the Stanley Cup in 1970 and 1972. Orr won the Conn Smythe Trophy as MVP in the playoffs both years. He also won the Hart Trophy in 1970, 1971, and 1972; Esposito won it in 1969 and 1974. Esposito won five Art Ross Trophies: 1969, 1971, 1972, 1973, and 1974. Orr won it in 1970 and 1975, the only defence ever to win the scoring title. Ray Bourque was also a star player at this time, and was the team's top career scorer for many years.


</doc>
<doc id="19427" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19427" title="George Morrow">
George Morrow

George Morrow (c. 1934 - May 7, 2003) was part of the early microcomputer industry in the United States. Morrow promoted (make popular) and improved the S-100 bus used in many early microcomputers. Morrow was also a member of the Homebrew Computer Club.

Starting in 1976, he designed and sold computers, computer parts, and accessories under several company names, including "Morrow Designs". Morrow's companies built microcomputers that used the CP/M operating system. When IBM started selling their IBM PC personal computer in 1981, Morrow and other CP/M computer makers had trouble competing. Morrow Designs filed for bankruptcy in 1986.


</doc>
<doc id="19431" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19431" title="Dietary mineral">
Dietary mineral

Dietary minerals are the chemical elements that living things need to have be part of what they eat, other than the four elements carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, and oxygen which are already very common in living things.

One of the best known examples is calcium, which humans and many other animals need to build strong bones and teeth, among other things.Red meat is rich in iron which is a well known mineral it is important for us to have iron as it creates red blood cells.



</doc>
<doc id="19433" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19433" title="Cleveland, England">
Cleveland, England

Cleveland was a non-metropolitan county in North East England. The districts which made up the county are now all unitary authorities.


</doc>
<doc id="19434" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19434" title="Hungarian language">
Hungarian language

Hungarian is a Finno-Ugric language, which is a member of the Uralic language family.

The group of Finno-Ugric languages also includes Finnish, Estonian, Lappic (Sámi) and some other languages spoken in the Russian Federation. Out of these it is Khanty and Mansi that are the most closely related to Hungarian. The Hungarian name for the language is "magyar".

Hungarian is spoken by about 14 million people. Most of its speakers live in Hungary (around 10 million) and Romania (around 1.5 million), but it is also spoken in Slovakia, the northern part of Serbia (Vojvodina), Ukraine and other countries. Hungarian is the official language of the Republic of Hungary and one of the official languages of the EU (European Union). It is also an official language of the Autonomous Republic of Vojvodina (Serbia) and of some places in the Republic of Slovenia. Hungarians call their language "magyar".

Hungarian has several dialects but they are not too different to make understanding difficult. The only such example may be the dialect of the Csángós of Romania. That dialect is an old and archaic version of the language. 

Hungarian literary language is based on the "Northeastern dialect".

Hungarian grammar is rather different from the grammar of Indo-European languages. People may find this grammar complicated in the first time if they speak an Indo-European language until they realize that it works along some pretty logical rules. 

Hungarian has no "grammatical gender". For example there are no separate words for 'he' and 'she' but there is one pronoun ('ő'). Instead of prepositions (like English 'from' or 'with'), Hungarian has "suffixes" (little words stuck to the end of main words). 'From Budapest' becomes 'Budapestről', and 'with Alexandra' becomes 'Alexandrával' in Hungarian. Another feature of the language is "vowel harmony". This means that suffixes must tone in (harmonize) with the vowel of the main word. To over-simplify it, if they have an 'a' in the word then the suffix will also contain an 'a' ('fa' - 'tree' and 'fával' - 'with a tree'), and if their word has an 'e' then its suffix too will get an 'e' (teve - 'camel' and 'tevével' - with a camel). In Hungarian they must put the stress always on the first syllable (the beginning) of the words.

Although Hungarian is not an Indo-European language, its lexicon (all the words of the language together) has many words from Slavic and Turkic languages, and also from German.

Hungarian is written in the Latin alphabet. Some letters have accents (dots or commas above them) so while the English alphabet has 26 letters, Hungarian has 44. The writing of Hungarian is largely phonetic. This means that each letter has its own pronunciation, and it is easy to read any text once they learn how the letters are pronounced.

The earliest known written Hungarian words are to be found in a Latin document, the "Foundation Charter of the Abbey of Tihany" (1054). The "Funeral Oration and Prayer" (1192-95) and "Old Hungarian Lament of Mary" (13th century) are the earliest known continuous Hungarian texts. In the 16th century the first printed Hungarian texts came out. Modern Hungarian literary language appeared in the 18th and 19th centuries. Hungarian replaced Latin as the official language of Hungary first between 1844 and 1849 and then in 1867.




</doc>
<doc id="19435" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19435" title="Hungarian">
Hungarian

Hungarian can mean:


</doc>
<doc id="19438" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19438" title="Category:Monkeys">
Category:Monkeys


</doc>
<doc id="19444" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19444" title="Rochester, New York">
Rochester, New York

Rochester is the third-largest city in the U.S. state of New York. It has a little over 200,000 people living in it and over a million people living in the metropolitan area. It is located on the southern shore of Lake Ontario, and between the cities of Buffalo and Syracuse.

Rochester is on the shore of Lake Ontario, one of the Great Lakes. Also, the Genesee River flows through it. In the area near Rochester, there are many streams, large hills called drumlins, and lakes, such as the Finger Lakes. The weather in Rochester is warm in the summer and cold in the winter, with a lot of snow falling in the winter and early spring.

Rochester is the headquarters of Eastman Kodak, a company that makes cameras and camera film. Rochester is also the home to universities such as the University of Rochester and the Rochester Institute of Technology.



</doc>
<doc id="19445" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19445" title="Dragon (disambiguation)">
Dragon (disambiguation)

When people talk about dragons, they can mean several things:



</doc>
<doc id="19446" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19446" title="Shop">
Shop

A shop, also spelled shoppe, is a store where people can go to buy items that they need or want. People might go to a shop to buy food, clothes, furniture, jewelry, or many other things.

People might also go to a repair shop if something is broken, and they want the shop to fix it. For example, someone might bring a broken bicycle to a bicycle repair shop.


</doc>
<doc id="19447" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19447" title="One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest (movie)">
One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest (movie)

One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest was a 1975 movie based on a book by Ken Kesey. Milos Forman was the movie's director, and Jack Nicholson was the main actor.

It was the first movie to win all five main Academy Awards since "It Happened One Night" in 1934. These awards included Best Picture, Best Actor (Nicholson), Best Actress (Louise Fletcher), Best Director (Forman), and Best Adapted Screenplay.

This much-loved movie was the 20th best ever, according to the American Film Industry's AFI's 100 Years... 100 Movies list.

The book's writer, Kesey, did not like the movie, since it did not take the perspective (view) of a Native American character, Chief Bromden (an important part of the book).



</doc>
<doc id="19448" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19448" title="Dr. Strangelove">
Dr. Strangelove

Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb (better known as only Dr. Strangelove) is a 1964 movie directed by Stanley Kubrick, and starring Peter Sellers.


</doc>
<doc id="19450" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19450" title="Animal husbandry">
Animal husbandry

Animal husbandry is the taking care of and breeding of animals, particularly livestock. Animal husbandry has been around for over 20,000 years. In rural areas and less developed countries, parents often teach their children how to care for their farm animals. 4H is an organization that also teaches children how to raise and care for farm animals.

Some people who specialize in animal husbandry try to make sure that the animals are well cared for, while others try to make sure that the animals cost as little as possible to raise.

Examples of animal husbandry are:



</doc>
<doc id="19455" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19455" title="Walt Disney World Resort">
Walt Disney World Resort

The Walt Disney World Resort, also called Walt Disney World or Disney World, is located near Orlando, Florida, United States. It opened on October 1, 1971 with only the Magic Kingdom theme park and has since added Epcot (October 1, 1982), Disney's Hollywood Studios (May 1, 1989) and Disney's Animal Kingdom (April 22, 1998). It also has two water parks, 23 hotels, a campground, and Downtown Disney, which is a shopping area with souvenir shops, restaurants, and sports activities.

The resort was inspired by the dreams of Walt Disney and his creation of Disneyland in California. Its original theme park, Magic Kingdom, is designed similarly to Disneyland. Walt Disney created "Disney World" to have a vacation resort that was much different from Disneyland's one-day visit; this includes a much wider variety of sports, recreation, themed resort hotels and entertainment.

Walt Disney World Resort is owned and operated by the Walt Disney Parks and Resorts segment of The Walt Disney Company. 

The Magic Kingdom is a theme park based on themed "lands." After entering the park gates, guests enter into the first "land," Main Street, U.S.A.. At the end of Main Street, U.S.A. is Cinderella Castle. Roads go in different directions in front of Cinderella Castle so that the park is in the shape of a wheel. Other "lands" in Magic Kingdom are Adventureland, Frontierland, Fantasyland, Tomorrowland, and Liberty Square. Famous rides in the Magic Kingdom include Space Mountain, Big Thunder Mountain Railroad, Jungle Cruise, Pirates of the Caribbean, and The Hall of Presidents. The Magic Kingdom also hosts a parade called Spectromagic and a fireworks display called Wishes. The Magic Kindgom is the most visited theme park in the world.

Epcot is a theme park with two parts. The first part is Future World. Future World has rides that combine entertainment and education. Some famous rides in Future World are Spaceship Earth, Test Track, and Soarin'. The other part of Epcot is the World Showcase. The World Showcase has examples of countries from around the world. These examples have traditional buildings from those countries, traditional foods from those countries, and traditional gifts from those countries. The people who work in the examples are usually from the country. Some of the countries that are in the World Showcase are Mexico, Norway, England, France, Italy, Germany, Japan, and China.

Epcot was going to be a city when Walt Disney was planning it, but planners changed it to a theme park after his death. The name "Epcot" was an acronym for "Experimental Prototype Community of Tomorrow."

Disney's Hollywood Studios was originally called Disney MGM Studios and was an actual movie and TV studio. Now the park is mostly a theme park. The theme park is based on movies and television, and the rides are usually based on this theme. Examples of famous rides in Disney Hollywood Studios are The Hollywood Tower of Terror, Rock'n Roller Coaster, Toy Story Mania, Star Tours, and The Great Movie Ride. Disney's Hollywood Studios also features many shows, most of which focus on movies and television shows.

Disney's Animal Kingdom is a theme park and zoo combined. The park has many animals and rides. Some of the famous attractions in Disney's Animal Kingdom are Expedition Everest, Dinosaur!, It's Tough to Be a Bug, and The Festival of Lion King stage show. The theme park also features a large-scale safari attraction with real African animals (Kilimanjaro Safaris).

Disney's Typhoon Lagoon is a tropical themed water park. The park has many tropical plants. The water park has the largest outdoor wavepool in the world, and even offers surfing lessons in the pool. Snorkeling is also available in the park. Crush'n Gusher is another popular attraction in the park.

Disney's Blizzard Beach is a water park themed to look like a ski resort. The park has many water slides and even a ski lift to transport guests to the top of the water slides. Summit Plummet is a famous water slide in Blizzard Beach.

There are 33 resorts and hotels on the Walt Disney World property. Of those, 24 are owned and operated by the Walt Disney Company. The Disney resorts are divided into five categories: Deluxe, Moderate, Value, Disney Vacation Club Villas, and Campground. A new concept was announced in June 2010 with the announcement of the Golden Oak at Walt Disney World Resort luxury residential community, featuring homes designed by the Walt Disney Company.









</doc>
<doc id="19456" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19456" title="Harp">
Harp

The harp is a musical instrument. It is the second biggest string instrument in an orchestra. It dates back to 4000 BC when the Egyptians used them in holy places. Christian artists often draw angels playing harps in Heaven.

All harps must have strings. Each string must be tight, so it makes the right sound or note for that string. The strings are tied to the frame.

The frame is usually a wood triangle. It must be strong, so that the many tight strings do not break it.

The side of the triangle that leans on the player's body, is the sound-box. Empty boxes can make sounds louder. 

The top side of the triangle has a lot of pegs in it. There is one peg for each string on the harp. The top of each string is tied to one peg, and twisted around the peg. The player turns the peg to make the string more tight or less tight. This is how the player makes each string make the right note. The bottom of each string is tied to the sound-box.

The last side of the triangle is called the pillar. The oldest harps from Egypt did not have pillars. If the strings were too tight, they would break the harp. Adding a pillar to a harp frame makes the frame very strong, so that the strings will not break it.

Harp players pluck the strings with their fingers. This makes the strings move so that the strings make sounds. Each string sound is a different musical note. Harp players play songs by plucking the strings in the right order and at the right time. More than one string can be plucked at the same time. When the harp player wants a note to stop, they touch that string softly, so that it stops moving.

There are many different kinds of harps. The two main kinds are folk harps and pedal harps.

Folk harps are the older kind of harp. Each string makes one note. They are usually tuned so that playing each string in order sounds like playing all the white notes on a piano in order. This is called a diatonic scale. In some places, they are tuned so that playing each string in order sounds like playing all the black notes on a piano in order. This is called a pentatonic scale.

Folk harps can be found in many different sizes. The smallest ones can be less than half a meter tall. The biggest ones can be almost 1.5 meters tall, and have a foot so they can stand on the ground by themselves. They can be too big to be lifted by one person.

The number of strings varies on folk harps from less than 20 to more than 40.

Pedal harps were invented during the 1800's CE, by a man in France. This is the kind of harp that is used in a Symphony Orchestra. Pedal harps are about two meters tall and have about 50 strings. The lowest and highest notes on a pedal harp are the same as the lowest and highest notes on a piano. They are very heavy, and need more than one person to move them. The frame is usually made out of metal.

The pedal harp is tuned like the white keys on a piano (a diatonic scale). There are seven pedals to let the harp player play songs in different musical keys. Each pedal has three places. For the "A" pedal, place-1 makes all the "A" strings on the harp sound like "A"-flat. Place-2 makes all the "A" strings sound like a normal "A" ("A"-natural). Place-3 makes all the "A" strings sound like "A"-sharp. 

Cross-strung harps are chromatic and consist of two rows of strings. They cross near to the middle of the string without touching. The strings are in the order of the piano keys (7 plus 5) or in the order of the 6-plus-6 system.

Some instruments have the word harp in their name, but they are not really harps. The harp is such an old musical instrument, that people sometimes say "harp" when they mean any kind of instrument.


</doc>
<doc id="19457" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19457" title="1472">
1472


</doc>
<doc id="19458" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19458" title="Kassam Stadium">
Kassam Stadium

Kassam Staudium is an arena in Oxford, England. It is where Oxford United F.C. plays. It is the biggest arena in the blue square premier league conference national


</doc>
<doc id="19460" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19460" title="Nucleotide">
Nucleotide

A nucleotide is a chemical compound that has an atomic ring, a sugar, information from a DNA molecule, and one or more phosphate groups. It is found in DNA and RNA.


</doc>
<doc id="19465" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19465" title="Voting">
Voting

Voting is when people make a decision by saying what they want. It can be for getting a leader, passing a law, and other things. When people are done voting, the votes are counted (often by machines) and the side that gets the most votes wins.


</doc>
<doc id="19466" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19466" title="Joule">
Joule

A joule is a unit in the SI system. That means that scientists use it. It measures the work being done. It is named after James Prescott Joule. 

A joule equals one newton multiplied by a meter (1J = 1N × 1m). It is related to the watt (a unit of power): one watt equals one joule per second.


</doc>
<doc id="19467" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19467" title="Carl Friedrich Gauss">
Carl Friedrich Gauss

Carl Friedrich Gauss (pronunciation: ) (30 April 30 1777 – 23 February 1855) was a famous mathematician from Göttingen, Germany. Gauss contributed to many areas of learning. Most of his work was about number theory and astronomy. 

He was born in Braunschweig. That city was then part of the duchy of Braunschweig-Lüneburg. Today the city is part of Lower Saxony. As a child, he was a prodigy, meaning he was very clever. When he was 3 years old, he told his father that he had incorrectly measured something on his complicated payroll. Gauss was correct. Gauss also taught himself to read. 

When he was in elementary school, his teacher once tried to keep the children busy, telling them to add up all the numbers from 1 to 100. Gauss did it quickly, like this: 1 + 100 = 101, 2 + 99 = 101, 3 + 98 = 101, and so on. There were a total of 50 pairs, so 50 × 101 = 5,050. The formula is formula_1. According to this website, the problem given to Gauss was actually more difficult to do.

The Duke of Brunswick gave Gauss a fellowship to the Collegium Carolinum, where he attended from 1792 to 1795. This meant that the Duke paid for the education of Carl Friedrich Gauss at the Collegium. After this, Gauss went to the University of Göttingen, from 1795 to 1798.

When Gauss was 23 scientists spotted the asteroid Ceres but they did not see it for long enough to know its orbit. Gauss made calculations that let them locate it.

Later in life Gauss stopped working on pure math and turned to physics. He did work in electromagnetism.

Gauss wrote Disquisitiones Arithmeticae which is a book about number theory. In that book he proved the law of Quadratic reciprocity. He also was the first mathematician to explain Modular arithmetic in a very detailed way. Before Gauss, mathematicians had used modular arithmetic in some cases but did not know much about using it broadly. 


</doc>
<doc id="19468" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19468" title="Grand Canyon">
Grand Canyon

The Grand Canyon is a famous canyon in Arizona, formed by the Colorado River. It is a national park of the United States, and a UNESCO World Heritage Site. 

The Grand Canyon is 277 miles (446 km) long, up to 18 miles (29 km) wide and is over a mile (1.83 km) (6000 feet) deep in places. Nearly two billion years of the Earth's geological history have been exposed as the Colorado River and its tributaries cut their channels through layer after layer of rock while the Colorado Plateau was uplifted. 

Evidence suggests the Colorado River established its course through the canyon at least 17 million years ago. Since that time, the Colorado River continued to erode and form the canyon to the point we see it at today.
Many people come from around the world to visit the Grand Canyon. People can also take trips floating on the Colorado River in boats and rafts. Some people like to hike in the Grand Canyon. The land on the north side of the Grand Canyon is called the "North Rim". The land on the south side of the Grand Canyon is called the "South Rim". There are trails leading from the North Rim and the South Rim to the bottom of the canyon. These trails lead to a place at the bottom of the canyon called "Phantom Ranch". Phantom Ranch has a campground and cabins where hikers can spend the night. Some people also ride mules into the Grand Canyon. Most people who visit the Grand Canyon drive in cars to the South Rim and just look at the canyon from the rim and take pictures.




</doc>
<doc id="19469" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19469" title="1490s">
1490s





</doc>
<doc id="19471" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19471" title="Dairy product">
Dairy product

Dairy products are foods that are made from animal milk. Usually, they are made from cows and goats, but they can be made from other animals as well.

Dairy products include milk, butter, cheese, yogurt, and ice cream.


</doc>
<doc id="19472" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19472" title="Alberto Fujimori">
Alberto Fujimori

Alberto Fujimori (born July 28, 1938) was the President of Peru from 1990-2000. 

He is still remembered in Peru for defeating Shinning Path, the peace with Ecuador and recovering the economy after the presidency of Alan García. 

In 2001, Fujimori's head of intelligence, Vladimiro Montesinos, was accused of doing illegal things. People thought that Fujimori was also involved. After that, Fujimori resigned to the Presidency of Peru.

Valentín Paniagua was elected president by the Congress soon after Fujimori resigned. Fujimori went to Japan, because he is a citizen there. Japan protected him from Peruvian law since they do not find any valid accusation. 

In 2005, Fujimori was detained in Chile. The Peruvian government is now trying to bring him back to Peru in order to have him face trial


</doc>
<doc id="19477" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19477" title="List of Presidents of Peru">
List of Presidents of Peru

This is a list of Presidents of Peru.

1980–1985--Fernando Belaúnde Terry, President of the Republic 

1985-1990--Alan García Pérez, President of the Republic 

1990-2001--Alberto Fujimori, President of the Republic 

2000-2001--Valentín Paniagua President of a United Government and National Reconciliation, transitional leader

2001–2006--Alejandro Toledo President of the Republic

2006-?-Alan García Pérez President of the Republic 


</doc>
<doc id="19478" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19478" title="New York Rangers">
New York Rangers

The New York Rangers are an ice hockey team in the National Hockey League (NHL). They play in Madison Square Garden in New York City. The team began in 1926, and has won four Stanley Cup championships.

The Rangers were successful in their early years, winning the Stanley Cup in 1928, 1933, and 1940. Bill Cook won the Art Ross Trophy as scoring leader in 1927 and 1933, and Bryan Hextall won it in 1942. "Babe" Pratt was a star defenceman around this time.

The Rangers did very poorly in the mid-1940s, but improved by 1950, when they lost the Stanley Cup final in overtime of the deciding game seven to the Detroit Red Wings. Buddy O'Connor won the Hart Trophy as most valuable player in 1948, goaltender Chuck Rayner won it in 1950, and Andy Bathgate won it in 1959.

The team did not make the finals again until 1972, when they lost to the Boston Bruins. They were led by players such as Jean Ratelle, Brad Park, Ed Giacomin, and Rod Gilbert. The Rangers made the finals again in 1979, losing to the Montreal Canadians.

There was another team in New York, the Americans. The Americans felt that the Rangers were favoured by Madison Square Garden, and that their team folded in 1942 because of the Rangers. The Americans' coach and general manager, Red Dutton, claimed the Rangers would never win another Stanley Cup as long as he lived. This became known as Dutton's curse.

Red Dutton died in 1987, and his curse came true. Finally, the Rangers improved, winning the President's Cup as regular-season champions in 1992 and 1994. Mark Messier won the Hart Trophy in 1992, and Brian Leetch won two Norris Trophies as best defence. They led the Rangers to the Stanley Cup in 1994, after 54 years of not winning.

Recently, the Rangers have been a poor team, missing the playoffs many years in a row. However, in 2005-06, the team has improved again, much due to the play of star Jaromir Jagr and rookie (first year) goalie Henrik Lundquist.


</doc>
<doc id="19480" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19480" title="Headstone">
Headstone

A headstone, gravestone or tombstone is a marker, normally made from stone, that is used to identify the person that is buried beneath it (in the grave).

These markers can be plain or beautifully carved with writing (inscriptions) and pictures. 


</doc>
<doc id="19481" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19481" title="Plasma">
Plasma

Plasma could mean:



</doc>
<doc id="19483" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19483" title="Blood plasma">
Blood plasma

Blood plasma is the yellow liquid part of blood. In normal blood, the blood cells are suspended in the plasma. 

Plasma makes up about 55% of the total blood volume. It is mostly water (90% by volume) and contains dissolved proteins, glucose, clotting factors, mineral ions, hormones and carbon dioxide. Plasma is the transport medium for excretion. 

In hospitals, blood plasma is prepared like this. An anti-coagulant stops the blood clotting. Then tubes of blood are spun very fast in a centrifuge. The blood cells go to the bottom of the tubes. The plasma is poured into another container. 

Hospitals may give patients:

Blood serum is blood plasma without fibrinogen or the other clotting factors (that is, whole blood minus both the cells "and" the clotting factors).

Plasmapheresis is a medical therapy which involves taking out blood plasma, treating it, and putting it back in the patient.

Whole plasma may be stored frozen, or it may be stored dry. Dried plasma can be flown anywhere in the world, and is vital for the armed forces. The method was invented in the USA in 1940, and used widely in World War II. The Army/Navy standard pack was two tin cans, each with 400cc bottles inside. One held the plasma, the other distilled (pure) water. The plasma could be restored in three minutes, and remained fresh for about four hours. 


</doc>
<doc id="19484" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19484" title="Vancouver Canucks">
Vancouver Canucks

The Vancouver Canucks are an ice hockey team in the National Hockey League (NHL).

The Canucks were first an amateur team in the Pacific Coast Hockey League (PCHL), winning the championship in 1946 and 1948. In 1952, the PCHL joined with the Western Canada Senior Hockey League to form the minor-league Western Hockey League. The Canucks won the championship in this league in 1958, 1960, 1969, and 1970.

The Canucks joined the NHL in 1970. They were not a good team at first, though they won their division in 1975. Andre Boudrias was a star for the team at this time. The team made the Stanley Cup finals in 1982, which surprised many people, since they had finished below average in the regular season. Goaltender Richard Brodeur, along with forwards Stan Smyl, Thomas Gradin, and Darcy Rota, led the team. Coach Roger Neilson and some players raised white towels on top of their hockey sticks to "surrender" to the referees, who they thought were unfair (a white flag means surrender or "I give up"). After that, the fans all waved white flags during Canucks playoff games (this is called "Towel Power"). The team lost four games to zero in the finals to the New York Islanders.

In the late 1980s, players such as Toni Tanti and Petri Skriko led the team. They made the finals again in 1994, due to players such as goaltender Kirk MacLean, the "Russian Rocket" Pavel Bure (who scored the most goals in the NHL that year), Trevor Linden, and Cliff Ronning. However, they lost the series four games to three to the New York Rangers.

The Canucks did poorly in the late 1990s, but improved in the 2000s. Markus Naslund came second in scoring in 2002 and 2003, and was named the Pearson Trophy winner as players' choice for the best player in 2003. Todd Bertuzzi, Matthias Ohlund, and Ed Jovanovski were also important players who helped lead the team to the division title in 2004. However, they lost in overtime of deciding game seven to the Calgary Flames in the first round of the playoffs (just as they had done in 1989), and the Flames went to the finals (just like 1989).

The Canucks just missed the playoffs in 2006. Two of the young stars, identical twins Daniel and Henrik Sedin, along with players such as Anson Carter, were important to the team that year.


</doc>
<doc id="19491" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19491" title="Category:South Korea">
Category:South Korea


</doc>
<doc id="19492" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19492" title="Folding">
Folding

Fold or folding could mean:



</doc>
<doc id="19494" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19494" title="Category:Korea">
Category:Korea


</doc>
<doc id="19495" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19495" title="Category:Energy">
Category:Energy


</doc>
<doc id="19499" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19499" title="Mi Reflejo">
Mi Reflejo

Mi Reflejo is the first Spanish-language album by American pop singer Christina Aguilera. It was released on 2000. There are 11 songs in this album. Six of them are new songs. Five of them are from her first album "Christina Aguilera" but in Spanish.

This album won a Grammy Award as Best Latin Pop Album in 2001.


</doc>
<doc id="19502" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19502" title="Behavior">
Behavior

Behaviour (or behavior) is what an animal or plant does or how it acts. Behaviours may be conscious or unconscious. They may be inherited or learned.

In experiments, behaviour is the observed reaction which occurs when an organism is given a stimulus. Some organisms are more complicated than others and may be more aware of their surroundings. If their behaviour is conscious it means that they know what they are doing. If they are not aware of what they are doing this is unconscious behaviour. 

Humans will pull their hand back without thinking if they accidentally touch something hot. This is done because we (and other animals) inherit nervous system reflexes which cause us to pull away from the thing that is causing the pain.

Behaviour is linked to the nervous system as well as the endocrine system. The nervous system reacts, and notices what happens. The hormone system is much slower. It makes some kinds of behaviour more, or less, likely. A simple example is the change from being a child to an adult. This involves a whole range of hormones which affect growth and behaviour.

Behaviour is also linked to learning. Organisms which are more complicated can learn better than those that are simpler. However, even the simplest animals show habituation, which is a primitive kind of learning. For organisms, learning means that they change their behaviour because they remember having been in that situation before and know how to react.

People often use the word "behaviour" to mean the way people interact with (behave towards) one another. Children are taught what is good behaviour and what is bad behaviour. Good behaviour is about being polite and thoughtful to other people. It is the kind of behaviour that people in a society expect from others.


</doc>
<doc id="19503" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19503" title="Ankle">
Ankle

In anatomy, the ankle is the joint that links the foot to the leg.


</doc>
<doc id="19507" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19507" title="Tangsudo">
Tangsudo

Tangsudo, dangsudo or tang soo do (당수도/唐手道) is a Korean martial art. It is considered as Korean karate.

The name "tangsudo" means "the way of Chinese hands". In the Korean peninsula several schools of martial arts had been prohibited by Japanese invaders for 35 years, and they went out from secret at the end of the Second World War. They were known as schools of tangsudo. In the modern Korea, the first school of tangsudo was Chungdokwan, founded in 1944 by the master WonKukLee. As a result of the liberation of Korean nation, which was happened 15th August 1945, other four schools were opened: Mudokkwan, Songmukwan, Chidokwan, and Changmukwan. Other schools ("kwan") were added to the list after the end of the civil war between north and south (1950-1953). In December 1955, with the approval of the president of Republic of South Korea, Singman Rhee, a meeting of the founders of the main schools was called. The intention of this meeting was to unify the different schools and to give the name and the form to the national martial art. The name should be related neither with China, nor with Japan ("tangsu"="Chinese hands" and its Japanese pronunciation is "karate").

Among a lot of already postulated names there was "Taekwondo", proposed by a General named Choi Hong Hee. In 1961 the "Korean Association of Taesudo" rises. Mudukkwan of Hwang Kee and Ydokwan of Byong Yun Kwei remained anchored to the tradition. The new organization dismembered the technical inheritance of the old tangsudo in 1962. The sporting combat with the use of jumps, kicks and fists formed taesudo briefly; the techniques of personal defense with the use of levers and throws (grappling) became "hapkido". On the other hand, the techniques of "neikung" (internal work), which control breathing, energy (Ki) and the mental concentration, became not very noticeable. In 1964 the organization changed its name once again into "Korean Association of Taekwondo". That name remain ultimate. 

In 1966, "International Taekwondo Federation" is born. Its aim was to spread out the new-born discipline in the rest of the world. Its founder is the Korean general Choi. In 1971 Taekwondo becomes national sport of South Korea for presidential decree of the president Park Chung Hee. In 1973, "World Taekwondo Federation" is born, presided by Dr Un Yong Kim. It was founded in opposition to the ITF. The ITF, after a series of continual changes, will have the support of the North Korea. Meanwhile, the WTF of Doctor Kim reaches the Olympic Games: Seoul 1988, Barcelona 1992. So, it is an official Olympic sport and no more martial art. The schools, which were faithful to tangsudo had to choose the strategy of the emigration, by installing them outside of Korea, in America, Europe, Southern Africa, etc, to maintain live and unaltered the message of the ancient, wise men of Orient.

There are many stances in the tangsudo. Some of them are basic, for example "the stance of preparation"; the others need more balance, such as "the stance on one foot" or "the stance of the crane". 

Basic techniques are simple and effective. The students learn all the basic techniques (blocks, blows, kicks) which can be found in the traditional art of tangsudo. "Dojang" (schools of the tangsudo), gives special importance to the "art", not only to fighting. The hand techniques involve, amongst others, many different fist techniques and "knife-hand" techniques. Each of them has a correct form and special practical use, and they are used in blocking and in attack. The tangsudo is the martial art which gives much attention to foot techniques and to flexibility. They are also used for both blocking and attacking. 

In the traditional method, the student has to learn the basics first of all, later he does repeatedly the fight of one step and the fight of three steps. The fight of one step teaches how to direct attention, but the fight of three steps teaches him how to move forward and to move backward, as well as how to use a distance. Together, they give the belief in student's abilities, and the student needs this belief in order to successfully block and attack in the free fight. 

The teachers give attention to the importance of the Principles and Creed of Tangsudo, the students learn discipline and respect. The self-confidence, the concentration and the control are also underlined, because they are important aspects of everyday life. 

The students do regularly the basic techniques with marching almost during every lesson. This helps them to understand the dynamics of a movement and this improves the technique by repetition. The basics teach them good balance and good stance. 

The forms are the sequences of the basic techniques. They are fixed in advance. The forms in the tangsudo are obtained from different styles of martial arts. Indeed, the majority of them is the versions of karate kata. They show the special practical use of all the basic techniques in a variety of situations. The form is considered as if the performer of the form were defending himself against many enemies. The "hyong" are arranged patterns of techniques which the students do regularly at all levels. The study of the forms increases abilities of understanding, of learning, and of remembering. Forms change the shape of the basic techniques and they teach the strategy, the tactics, the choosing of the right moment, and the balance. If the tangsudo is treated as "the art for the art", the forms are easily learned and they are similar to a kind of dance in presentation. While the student advances in ability, the "hyong" become more complicated and become the challenge. Forms are a part of the training of tangsudo which a student can easily do regularly almost anywhere. 

The fight of training gives the chance to use freely all the techniques against one or some opponents. Self-control is important. Proper choosing of the right moment, position and methods of passing through the defenses of an opponent are also exercised. Although students may use helmets, gloves and boots filled with soft material, the rule of avoiding any contact is respected. 

This exercise lets the person who is being trained practice techniques of self-defence against a known attack in a controlled way. The aim is the development of responses to certain situation without conscious thought. This allows to learn correct distance and choosing of the right moment, which are two factors of deciding importance in a real fight. This also gives self-confidence and control. This is a way of practising that is very controlled, safe, and without contact. 

The free fight allows make continuous use of the techniques against the other person in a controlled environment. The aim is to defend oneself in an unknown situation. Attention is given to safety at all times. According to the traditional method, the student need not hit a heavy bag to increase the power of his blows and to prepare himself for free fight. That is because the students uses of control, not contact. The students stop their blows close to the target. Therefore, if in a real fight they decide to hit the target, they can do it easily. 

According to the traditional theory, if the student makes contact constantly, it will be difficult to control his actions when he needs. But if he always makes continuous use of control, he can easily hit when he needs. If the student constantly makes contact during free fight, his mind will become wild. But if the student makes continuous use of controlled fight, his mind will become more controlled. Both states of mind can spread over his life outside of class. Because full contact is not allowed, the students have no need to use strong protectors (things that protect). Using boxing gloves and thick feet protectors leads them to hit strongly. And when they hit while wearing such things, they does not feel whether their technique is correct. In order to avoid this problem, the traditional masters should make a choice the light protectors of fists and of insteps. They suffice to prevent injury when the contact accidentally occurs. 

According to the modern method, the free fight is similar to fights in kickboxing. The students use boxing gloves, protectors of the feet, and protectors of the head. 

Whether free fight is aimed at competition or at fight on the street, the student should make a great effort to improve his endurance (power of enduring). That is a reason that the student needs to have good basics and good skills of the fight of one step and of three steps; they develop the student's endurance. It will not happen immediately; usually two or three months are necessary in order to develop the endurance. The important part of it is proper breathing. The student has to breathe at the right time when he hits or he blocks. If he stops his breath when he does an action, he can still do the action, but he will become gradually tired as time passes. Finally he will lose his ability to continue. On the other hand, each time he breathes in and breathes out correctly, he extends the amount of time when he can continue to fight. 

Training of self-defence teaches a student how to defend himself against grabs, holds and locks. It also contains how to deal with situations where it is necessary to defend oneself without causing permanent physical wound to his attacker and how to use pressure points. "Jayu-daeryeon" is perfect in order to improve the self-defence ability. The student can combine any techniques: kicks, punches, blows to feet (sweeps), takedowns and overthrows. 

Breaking of the boards is a favorite occupation of many students and spectators. Breaking shows the level of the students' techniques and it helps them understand what effect their techniques can have on a target. It is used during tests of movement to a higher rank and attention is given to safety at all times. This occupation teaches to focus the mind and to direct attention correctly towards the technique. This also helps the students to pass their barriers of the mind, and improves their belief in their abilities. 


</doc>
<doc id="19514" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19514" title="Annie Hall">
Annie Hall

Annie Hall is a 1977 movie from United Artists. Woody Allen was the director, and one of the cast members.

At first it was called "Anhedonia", then "It Had To Be Jew", but these titles would not sell the movie.

"Annie Hall" has been considered a biography of Allen's real life, but the actor has denied this claim.

The movie takes place in New York City and Los Angeles, California.

It tells the story of Alvy Singer, a comedian from Brooklyn who loves death. He has an affair with the title character (played by Diane Keaton), who loves life.

Alvy says his Brooklyn house was below a roller coaster on Coney Island. His father was the owner of a place that had bumper cars.

"Annie Hall" is noted for its use of special elements such as double exposure (two pictures in one) and magic themes in a real setting.

There is an animated scene with a cartoon version of Allen, and the Witch from Disney's "Snow White".

The movie won four Academy Awards:

Allen was nominated for Best Actor.
It has been called one of the best comedy movies of all time. It has appeared on IMDb's Top 250 List, and was number thirty on AFI's 100 Years... 100 Movies list.

Many of today's romantic comedy movies have been influenced by "Annie Hall". The tie that was worn by Keaton's character was popular at the time of the movie's release.

Christopher Walken, who would later become more famous, had his first major role as the title character's brother.



</doc>
<doc id="19517" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19517" title="Hayao Miyazaki">
Hayao Miyazaki

Hayao Miyazaki (Japanese: 宮崎駿) (born in Tokyo on December 5, 1941) is a leader in the area of anime, or Japanese animation. His name is pronounced "Hi-ow Me-ya-za-key".

His company made the animated movies "Spirited Away" (2001), "My Neighbor Totoro" (1988), "Kiki's Delivery Service" (1989), "Porco Rosso" (1992) and "Princess Mononoke" (1997).

His company is named Studio Ghibli. In 2001, he won the Academy Award for Best Animated Feature for "Spirited Away". He was the first person to win the award in that category.



</doc>
<doc id="19520" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19520" title="Gasoline">
Gasoline

Gasoline , or petrol , is a toxic, clear liquid that is mostly used as a fuel in internal combustion engines. It is made by boiling petroleum, a fossil fuel. In a distillation process, petroleum is heated to a very high temperature, then it separates into its components, one of them is gasoline. This is an expensive process. It is made mostly of octane (CH), a hydrocarbon.

Gasoline is sold at gas stations (petrol stations). In order to burn properly in high-compression internal combustion engines, each brand of gasoline includes gasoline additives. So, the exact make up of gasoline is different at different stations. Gasoline is graded by its octane rating that measures how well it will burn. Most car engines can burn "regular" gasoline which has an octane rating of 87. Precision-made engines require or prefer "premium" gasoline with an octane rating of 93. Most stations offer three different mixtures of gasoline with three separate octane ratings and prices.
Gasoline is most often used in vehicles like cars, vans, etc. Gasoline can be used in a wide variety of other things that we use every day, such as lawnmowers, leaf blowers, and small boat motors. Some larger vehicles like trucks or ships may use diesel fuel instead of gasoline. 

Gasoline is very dangerous. It can explode when an electric spark lights it. It is also harmful if a human drinks it. It hurts the environment and human health by creating poisonous gases such as carbon monoxide. If a gasoline engine is used indoors or in a closed space, the carbon monoxide can cause death in minutes. Many people die every year from using gasoline-powered generators indoors.

The US accounts for about 44% of the world’s gasoline consumption. In 2003 The US consumed , which equates to 1.3 gigalitres of gasoline each day (about 360 million US or 300 million imperial gallons). The US used about 510 billion litres (138 billion US gal/115 billion imp gal) of gasoline in 2006, of which 5.6% was mid-grade and 9.5% was premium grade.

Western countries have among the highest usage rates per person.

Unlike the US, countries in Europe impose a substantial taxes on fuels such as gasoline. For example, price for gasoline in Europe is more than twice that in the US.
Because of the low fuel taxes, the retail price of gasoline in the US is subject to greater changes (than outside the US) when calculated as a percentage of cost-per-unit. From 1998 to 2004, the price of gasoline was between $1 and $2 USD per U.S. gallon. After 2004, the price increased until the average gas price reached a high of $4.11 per U.S. gallon in mid-2008, then dropped approximately $2.60 per U.S. gallon as of September 2009. Recently, the U.S. has experienced an upswing in gas prices of 13.51% from Jan 31st to March 7, 2011.

Most consumer goods have posted prices that exclude tax; taxes are added based on a percentage of the purchase price. Because of primitive gasoline pumps in the 1920s, United States gasoline prices are posted with taxes included and the taxes are set on cents per gallon. Taxes are added by federal, state and local governments. (These taxes collect the cost of maintaining the roads.) As of 2009, the federal tax is 18.4¢ per gallon for gasoline and 24.4¢ per gallon for diesel (excluding red diesel). Among states, the highest gasoline tax rates, as of January 2011, are California (47.7¢/gal), New York (47.3¢/gal), Hawaii (45.8¢/gal), and Connecticut (45.2¢/gal). The federal government and many states fail to increase their gasoline taxes over time with inflation. However, some states also charge a sales tax as a percentage and vary in amount depending on the cost of the gasoline.

About 9% of all gasoline sold in the US in May 2009 was premium grade, according to the Energy Information Administration. Some car manufacturers "recommend" premium gasoline but have computer-controlled engines that adjust the timing to avoid knocking. So, most cars can burn regular grade gasoline but at a slightly reduced performance. The Associated Press said premium gas—which is a higher octane and costs several cents a gallon more than regular unleaded—should be used only if the manufacturer says it is “required”.

To reduce the use of imported oil, the US uses Gasohol (10% ethanol) and E85 (85% ethanol) ethanol/gasoline mixtures.

Brazil has the largest national fuel ethanol industry. Gasoline sold in Brazil contains at least 25% anhydrous ethanol. Hydrous ethanol (about 95% ethanol and 5% water) can be used as fuel in more than 90% of new cars sold in the country. Brazilian ethanol is produced from sugar cane and noted for high carbon sequestration.


</doc>
<doc id="19521" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19521" title="Tropical cyclone">
Tropical cyclone

Tropical cyclone or hurricane is a circular air movement over the warm ocean waters in the warm part of Earth near the equator. Most tropical cyclones create strong winds and heavy rains. While some tropical cyclones stay out in the sea, others pass over land, which can be dangerous because they can cause a lot of damage. 

Tropical cyclones form in the warm parts of the earth when moist, hot air rises. It begins as a group of storm winds when the water gets as hot as 80 degrees or hotter. The Coriolis effect causes the winds to spiral. 

Tropical cyclones form in the northern Atlantic, northern Pacific, southwestern Pacific, and Indian Ocean. Tropical cyclones rarely form elsewhere in the world.

Tropical cyclones are usually given names because it helps in forecasting, tracking, and reporting. They are named once they have steady winds of 62 km/h. Committees of the World Meteorological Organization pick names. Once named, a cyclone is usually not renamed.

When tropical cyclones make landfall, they may create some damage. Tropical cyclones are also known to kill people and destroy cities. In the last 200 years, about 1.5 million people have been killed by tropical cyclones.

Wind damages can account up to 83% of the total damages caused when broken wreckage pieces from destroyed objects can become deadly flying pieces. Flooding can also occur when rainfalls and/or storm surges pour water onto land.

There is a possibility of indirect deaths "after" a tropical cyclone makes landfall. For example, New Orleans, Louisiana suffered from poor sanitary conditions after Hurricane Katrina hit in 2005.

Tropical cyclones are classified into different categories depending on their strength and location. The National Hurricane Center which observes hurricanes in the Atlantic Ocean and Eastern and Central Pacific Ocean classify them into the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale.

Tropical cylones in other places such as the Western Pacific Ocean or the Southern Hemisphere are classified on similar scales. For example; if a tropical storm in the western Pacific reaches hurricane-strength winds, it is then officially recognized as a "typhoon".

A tropical depression is an organized group of clouds and thunderstorms with a clear surface circulation and maximum sustained winds of less than 17 m/s (33 kt, 38 mph, or 62 km/h). It has no eye and does not usually have the spiral shape of more powerful storms. Only the Philippines are known to name tropical depressions.

A tropical storm is an organized system of strong thunderstorms with a very clear surface circulation and maximum sustained winds between 17 and 32 m/s (34–63 kt, 39–73 mph, or 62–117 km/h). At this point, the cyclonic shape starts to form, although an eye does not usually appear in tropical storms. Most tropical cyclone agencies beginning naming cyclonic storms at this point, except for the Philippines which have their own way of naming cyclones.

A hurricane or typhoon is a cyclonic weather system with sustained winds of at least 33 m/s (64 kt, 74 mph, or 118 km/h). A tropical cyclone of this strength usually develop an eye, an area of calm conditions at the center of circulation. The eye is often seen from space as a small, round, cloud-free spot. Surrounding the eye is the eyewall, an area in which the strongest thunderstorms and winds spin around the storm's center. The fastest sustained windspeed founded in tropical cyclones is thought to be 85 m/s (165 kt, 190 mph, 305 km/h).


</doc>
<doc id="19524" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19524" title="Aymara language">
Aymara language

The Aymara language is spoken by the Aymara tribe in Bolivia, Peru, and north of Chile. In Chile only a third declared linguistic competence. The language is inflected. It is one of the few Native American languages which has over one million speakers.



</doc>
<doc id="19525" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19525" title="Michelle Bachelet">
Michelle Bachelet

Michelle Bachelet (Verónica Michelle Bachelet Jeria) became the first woman president of Chile. She served from 11 March 2006 to 11 March 2010. In 2010, she became the president of UN Women.


</doc>
<doc id="19528" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19528" title="Zhou">
Zhou

Zhou is a Chinese name that refers to:

It is also the Chinese word for "U. S. state".

Zhou (周) is also a common Chinese surname. Famous people with that name include:


</doc>
<doc id="19530" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19530" title="Politician">
Politician

A politician is someone in politics who has, or who runs for, a governmental office.

Some common posts for politicians are:


</doc>
<doc id="19531" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19531" title="Sendero Luminoso">
Sendero Luminoso

Sendero Luminoso, (English:Shining Path, official complete name: Partido Comunista del Peru-Sendero Luminoso, PCP-SL), is a Peruvian Maoist group which is based on communist ideology. Their leader, Abimael Guzmán, and several important members of the group were captured on September 12, 1992. Since then, the group has not been as powerful.


</doc>
<doc id="19532" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19532" title="Fat">
Fat

Fat is something found in foods, and it is the most concentrated kind of energy that a human can use. It has 9 kilocalories in one gram. The other two types of energy that humans can use are carbohydrates and proteins. Those each have 4 kilocalories in one gram. The human body uses the fat to make the body bigger. The human eats healthy things like vegetables to nullify (stop) or reverse the effects of fat.

Fats can be solid (firm) or fluid at room temperature. For example, cooking oil is a type of fluid fat. Butter is a solid fat. Some fats come from animals, others come from plants. Fat from plants is called vegetable fat. Examples of vegetable fats are margarine and vegetable oil. Examples of animal fats are butter, cream and lard. 

The different types of fats are saturated, unsaturated and trans fats. Trans fats are created in the food industry by treating other types of fats and giving them a different structure. This happens when oil is hardened to make margarine, for example. Many restaurants also use trans fats for deep-frying food. Trans fats are the most unhealthy fats to eat and can cause heart disease.

Fats are usually not soluble in water, but they can be dissolved in other organic solvents. Fats are triesters of fatty acids and glycerol. 

Fat is important for the human body because it gives much energy and helps the body use the vitamins in the food. It is also good for the skin and hair. Olive oil is an especially healthy fat. Many types of fish also contain healthy fat, for example salmon, sardines, herring, and tuna. But if too much fat collects in the body, a person can become too heavy. The energy that fat gives the body must be used up by moving or working. Some vegetables like celery or carrots contribute much less to the bodies fat supply. Though being very important for the human body, it can be harmful in large amounts.


</doc>
<doc id="19533" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19533" title="Saturated fat">
Saturated fat

Saturated fat is a kind of fat. It contains no double bonds. It contains carbon atoms that are fully saturated with hydrogen.

Saturated fats are a kind of fat. Saturated fats are bad for people. They can raise cholesterol in the heart and may give people a heart attack if they have too much saturated fat.
Unsaturated fat
Polyunsaturated fat


</doc>
<doc id="19534" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19534" title="Mackinac Bridge">
Mackinac Bridge

The Mackinac Bridge is a 5-mile-long (8-km.-long) bridge that carries a four-lane interstate highway, Interstate 75. It was built by the U.S. state of Michigan and connects that state's Upper Peninsula and Lower Peninsula together.

The Mackinac Bridge passes over a strait of water that connects two Great Lakes, Lake Michigan (to the west of the bridge) and Lake Huron (to the east). 

At the center of the Mackinac Bridge is a long suspension span, in which the bridge, made of steel and concrete, hangs from wires that run down from two huge, curved cables.

The government agency that runs the Mackinac Bridge charges motor vehicles a toll to drive over it. In 2007, the toll was $2.50 for a passenger car.

The government hangs colored lights from the big cable, and turns them on at night so that the bridge can be seen from many miles away.

The Mackinac Bridge was opened in 1957, and this started a major economic boom in northern Michigan as tourists drove from all over North America to see the bridge, the Great Lakes, and the northern forests.


</doc>
<doc id="19535" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19535" title="Unsaturated fat">
Unsaturated fat

Unsaturated fat is a kind of fat. It is different from saturated fat in that it is liquid at room temperature while saturated fat is more solid. Its molecules contains double bonds whose carbon atoms that are not fully saturated with hydrogen. There are two types: 
In cellular metabolism, an unsaturated fat molecule contains somewhat less energy (that is fewer calories) than the saturated fat molecule of the same length.

Examples of unsaturated fats are palmitoleic acid, oleic acid, myristoleic acid, linoleic acid, and arachidonic acid. Foods containing unsaturated fats include avocado, nuts, and vegetable oils such as canola and olive oils. Meat products contain both saturated and unsaturated fats.

Unsaturated fat is better for people than saturated fat. Some testing has shown that it can raise a person's HDL ("good" cholesterol) levels.

Unsaturated fat is also very important for a healthy brain.

People think that unsaturated fats are 'healthier' than saturated fats. The United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) recommended that the amount of unsaturated fat consumed should not exceed 30% of one's daily caloric intake (or 67 grams given a 2000 Calorie diet). The new dietary guidelines have eliminated this recommendation at the request of the meat and dairy industries.

Most foods contain both unsaturated and saturated fats. Food packages promote only one or the other, depending on which is the largest share in the product. So, various unsaturated fat vegetable oils, such as olive oils, also contain saturated fat.


</doc>
<doc id="19539" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19539" title="Cold fusion">
Cold fusion

Cold fusion is nuclear fusion at room temperature and normal pressure. Nuclear fusion is the process by which many nuclei, the center of an atom, containing protons and neutrons, are forced to join together to form a heavier nucleus (singular of nuclei) and during that process, energy is released. Some scientists hope that this may be Earth's future energy source, but most scientists do not agree.

For nuclear fusion to take place, a large amount of energy is needed. With this energy, the atoms are pushed together, which are repelled by the electrostatic force (a force between protons which are particles in the nucleus of the atom and have a positive electrical charge). But once this force is overcome and the nuclei are pushed close enough together, another much more powerful force will take over: the strong nuclear force. It only operates at short distances, so when the nuclei are close enough, they attract each other because of the strong nuclear force which is stronger than the electrostatic force. It is hoped that the energy released by cold fusion is much greater than the energy used to push the atoms together. 

In 1989 two scientists, Stanley Pons and Martin Fleischmann, published a paper in "Nature", an important science journal, claiming to have created cold fusion. This was a very important story at the time. Other scientists were not able to repeat their experiments and this is why cold fusion is not generally accepted by scientists at the moment. Several dozen scientists are still working on cold fusion still, and they publish in peer-reviewed journals and other academic sources regularly, but most are not convinced.



</doc>
<doc id="19540" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19540" title="Cusco">
Cusco

Cusco is a city in southeastern Peru, near the Huatanay Valley (Sacred Valley) in the Andes mountain range. It is the capital of Cusco Region. The city has a population of about 300 000, triple the population it contained just 20 years ago. Alternate spellings include Qusqu (in old Quechua), Cusco, (after the Spanish arrived), and Qosqo current Quechua. Cusco is the preferred way to spell it in Spanish. 

Cusco was the capital of Tahuantinsuyu (or Inca Empire). The city was planned to be shaped like a puma. The city had two areas: the "hurin" and "hanan", which were further divided to each be part of two of the four provinces of the Inca Empire: Chinchasuyu (NW), Antisuyu (NE), Cuntisuyu (SW), and Collasuyu (SE). 

A road led from each of these quarters to the corresponding quarter of the empire. Each local leader was required to build a house in the city and live part of the year in Cusco, but only in the quarter of Cusco that corresponded to the quarter of the empire he had territory in. 

According to Inca legend, the city was built by Sapa Inca Pachacuti, the man who transformed the Kingdom of Cusco from a sleepy city-state into the vast empire of Tahuantinsuyu. But archaeological evidence points to a slower, more organic growth of the city beginning before Pachacutieven though he did initiate growth in the city after defeating the Chancas as a monument to Incan glory. There was however a city plan, and two rivers were channeled around the city.

The first Spanish soldiers arrived in the city on November 15, 1533. Spanish "conquistador", or "conqueror", Francisco Pizarro, however, officially refounded Cusco on March 23, 1534, naming it the "Very noble and great city of Cusco". The many buildings constructed after the Spanish conquest have Spanish influence with a mix of Inca architecture. The Spanish made a new city on the foundations of the old Inca city, replacing Incan temples with churches and palaces for the Spanish. In the colony, the city of Cusco was very rich, thanks to the agriculture, cattle raising, mining and trade with Spain. Many churches and convents were built, and even a Cathedral, and the Universidad Nacional San Antonio Abad del Cusco.
The major earthquake that hit Cusco in 1950 badly destroyed the Dominican Priory and Church of Santo Domingo, which were built on top of the impressive Koricancha (Temple of the Sun). The city's Inca architecture, however, survived the earthquake. Many of the old Inca walls were thought to have been lost after the earthquake, but the granite walls of the Koricancha were exposed, as well as many walls throughout the city. While some wanted to restore the buildings to their colonial splendor, some of Cusco citizens urged city officials to retain the exposed walls. Eventually they won out and now tourists from around the world enjoy looking at these ruins within the living city. The 1950 earthquake was the second time that the Dominican Priory had been destroyed, the first being in 1650 when another major earthquake struck Cusco.

Other nearby Inca sites are: Pachacuti's presumed winter home Machu Picchu, which can be reached by a lightly maintained Inca trail; the "fortress" at Ollantaytambo; and the "fortress" of Sacsayhuaman which is approximately two kilometers from Cusco. Other less visited ruins include Inca Wasi, the highest of all Inca sites at 3,980 m (13,134 feet), and Old Vilcabamba the capital of the Inca after the Spanish took over Cusco.

The surrounding area, located in the Huatanay Valley, is strong in agriculture. There is corn, barley, quinoa, tea, and coffee grown.

Cusco's main stadium, Estadio Garcilaso de la Vega, attracted many tourists during South America's continental soccer championship, the Copa América 2004, which was held in Peru.



</doc>
<doc id="19541" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19541" title="Cusco Region">
Cusco Region

Cusco is a region in Peru. The capital is the city of Cusco.

Cusco Region is home to Machu Picchu, one of the most famous landmarks in South America.


</doc>
<doc id="19542" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19542" title="Midnight Cowboy">
Midnight Cowboy

Midnight Cowboy is a 1969 movie, released by United Artists. John Schlesinger directed it, and Waldo Salt wrote the screenplay based on the James Leo Herlihy novel. It stars Dustin Hoffman (in his first starring role after "The Graduate"), along with Jon Voight in the title role.

It is the only X-rated movie to win an Academy Award for Best Picture. Schlesinger won a Best Director Award; both Hoffman and Voight were nominated for Best Actor.

In 1971, it was given the "R" rating by the MPAA. Apart from this, nothing was changed in the movie.

Joe Buck (played by Voight, in his first major acting role) was an orphan who was raised by his grandmother in Texas. Sally died after Joe grew up, when he was drafted into the US Army. He had a girlfriend, who was called Crazy Annie, but she had been sent to a psychiatric hospital. With both women gone from his life, Joe had no family or close friends. After he left the Army, he worked as a dishwasher, and dreamed of moving to New York City, to become a "hustler" – a male prostitute. He saved money to make the trip, bought some stylish cowboy clothes, and traveled to New York on a bus.

Joe knew little about the realities of both New York and his chosen job, and he soon found himself homeless, with no money and only rare chances to earn any. When he first met "Ratso" Rizzo (Hoffman's character), Ratso Joe out of $20, but when they met again, Ratso offered to share his "place", which turned out to be a room in a condemned building. The two became partners. Ratso shared what he knew about New York with Joe, and became his "manager" (pimp), and Joe shared any money he got with Ratso. Ratso was sick, probably with tuberculosis, and as time went on he depended more and more on Joe. Ratso cheered both of them up with stories about his plans to move to Florida before winter came.

The weather turned cold as the year ended, but Joe and Ratso got a break, when they were invited to a big party. Along with eating (and stashing for later) as much of the food there as they could, Joe met a who finally treated him the way he'd always wanted to be, in New York City, and paid him likewise. Ratso, however, became even more ill, and was unable to walk or stand for long. He refused to go to a doctor or a hospital, and insisted Joe take him to Florida.

Joe tried to set up another encounter with the socialite, to raise travel money, but failed. He donated blood to get grocery money, and by chance met a traveling . The salesman invited Joe to spend the night with him, but later felt guilty, and sent Joe home with a St. Christopher medal. When Joe found Ratso sicker than ever, he returned to beat and rob the salesman, for the money they needed.

Joe and Ratso left for Florida on a bus, headed to Miami. Joe bought new clothes for them both, and threw away his cowboy clothing. "I ain't no kinda hustler," Joe decided, and he planned to find a regular job once they reached Florida. Joe and Ratso talked and joked during most of the trip, but Ratso died before they arrived. Joe realized how much he had cared about Ratso as a person, and that what he'd missed most in his life was someone to be close with. Joe had lost his grandmother and his sweetheart. Now he'd lost his best friend, and Joe was scared to go on alone.



</doc>
<doc id="19543" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19543" title="Age of consent">
Age of consent

If two people want to have sex, there are laws nthat say that they must be a certain "age". This is called the age of consent. At that age, law says that the people are mature enough to decide for themselves if they want to have sex with each other.

The age of consent varies between states and countries. The laws in different areas range as low as 9 yrs old to 21 yrs or older. The laws are almost always affected by a nation's culture. Nations with Islamic law tend to have lower ages. European countries often range from 14yrs to 16yrs. In the United States, the age varies from 16 to 18. In many areas, there is a "close-in-age" part of the laws. This allows for people under of consent but above a certain age to have sex with people as long as there older partner is either less than a certain age or the difference in age is a certain amount of years. The age of consent may also vary if one of the people is in a possition of authority over the other. For example, if the older person was a teacher, member of the clergy or the police the age may be higher than for other people. There may also be a minimum age where consent is possible. Some areas do not think it is a crime if the older person believed that the younger person was of legal age while in other areas, this is not allowed. If the two people are married, the age is often much lower. Age of consent can also be affected by the type of sex or the sex of the person. Many areas have different ages for Homosexual sex as well as Anal sex and other forms of sodomy. There are areas which also have different ages depending on if the person is male or female. 
For example, in Victoria, Australia, the age of consent is 16.. The law says that the minimum age is 12 and that there is a two year "close-in-age" exception. it is against the law to have sex (or any other sexual act) with a person under the age of 12, even if they said yes. If one of the people having sex is between the age of 12 and 15, the other can not be more than two years older than that person. A 13yr old can have sex with a 15 yr old. A 15 yr old (still a minor) can have sex with a 17 yr old (an adult). It is against the law for a person to have sex with someone aged 16 or 17 if they are responsible for their care. Couples who are married are exempt from this law.

If a person is caught having sex, or any other sexual act, with someone who is below the age of consent, the person may be punished as a sex offender. The violator may be sent to prison. For example in 2011, an American swimming teacher was sent to prison for 16 months for having sex with a 15 year old student. The law usually applies to both males and females having sex with a minor.




</doc>
<doc id="19545" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19545" title="Andy Richter">
Andy Richter

Andy Richter (born October 28, 1966) is an American comedian and actor, best known for his former role as Conan O'Brien's sidekick on "Late Night with Conan O'Brien". Richter was born in Grand Rapids, Michigan, as the second of four children and was raised in Yorkville, Illinois. While attending Columbia College Chicago, he played in several Chicago comedy groups, including the Annoyance Theatre, before getting on Late Night.

Richter left his post at Late Night in 2000, saying he wanted to focus on an acting career. His first major venture, Fox's critically acclaimed but little watched Andy Richter Controls the Universe, was cancelled after just two short mid-season runs. His next Fox sitcom, Quintuplets, was panned by the critics and lasted only one season. He is married to actress Sarah Thyre, and they have two children.

In addition to his television work, Richter has appeared in motion pictures such as Seeing Other People, Olsen Twins' New York Minute, "Madagascar (movie)", and Cabin Boy.


</doc>
<doc id="19546" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19546" title="Jennifer Granholm">
Jennifer Granholm

Jennifer Granholm (b. February 5, 1959) is a Canadian born American politician. She was the governor of the state of Michigan from 2003 to 2011. Granholm was born in Canada and raised in California. She ran for governor of Michigan in 2002, even though she had lived in the state for less than 15 years.


</doc>
<doc id="19547" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19547" title="Sandra Day O'Connor">
Sandra Day O'Connor

Sandra Day O'Connor (born March 26, 1930) is a retired justice of the Supreme Court of the United States. She was the first woman to be on the supreme court.

One of her ideas on the Supreme Court was the endorsement test. It was a way to check if the government was supporting religion.


</doc>
<doc id="19548" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19548" title="John Paul Stevens">
John Paul Stevens

John Paul Stevens (born April 20, 1920 in Chicago, Illinois) is on the Supreme Court of the United States. He was nominated by President Gerald Ford in 1975. Now he is senior Associate Justice and member of the court "Liberal Wing". He voted with minority in Bush v. Gore case (2000). He also voted with majority in Furman v. Georgia case (1976), but later bacame a death penalty opponent.


</doc>
<doc id="19549" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19549" title="Antonin Scalia">
Antonin Scalia

Antonin Scalia (born March 11, 1936) is a jurist on the Supreme Court of the United States. His position is that of Associate Justice. Scalia was put on the Court in 1986 and is the longest-serving justice still on the Court. Before becoming a justice, he was on the District of Columbia Court of Appeals and was a law professor. He is a Roman Catholic born to Italian American parents. He was the first Italian-American on the Court. Scalia is from New Jersey, but grew up in Queens, New York. Scalia went to Princeton University and Harvard Law School. Scalia is noted for holding a conservative approach to the law. He also believes in originalism. This means he wants the Constitution interpreted exactly as its framers had wanted it. Scalia and fellow judge Clarence Thomas often have the same viewpoints.


</doc>
<doc id="19550" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19550" title="Anthony Kennedy">
Anthony Kennedy

Anthony Kennedy is on the Supreme Court of the United States. He was made a judge on that court in 1988.

Kennedy was born in Sacramento, California, on July 23, 1936. He went to Harvard University, Stanford University, and the London School of Economics. He was a private lawyer, a professor, and in 1975, he was appointed by Gerald Ford to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. In 1988, Ronald Reagan nominated him for the Supreme Court. He became a member of the court on February 18, 1988. He has two sons and a daughter.


</doc>
<doc id="19551" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19551" title="David Souter">
David Souter

David Souter is a member of the Supreme Court of the United States. He was born September 17, 1939. Souter has been an Associate Justice since 1990. He replaced William J. Brennan.

In May 2009, Souter wrote President Barack Obama and said he planned to retire later in the same year.


</doc>
<doc id="19552" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19552" title="Clarence Thomas">
Clarence Thomas

Clarence Thomas is a Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States. He was born June 23, 1948. Thomas has been a Justice since 1991. He is the only African-American currently on the court. He is also the second African American to ever serve on the court. The only other African American was Thurgood Marshall. Clarence Thomas was born in Pin Point, Georgia, a small community outside Savannah. His father left his family when he was only a year old, leaving his mother Leola Anderson, to take care of the family.

He had a hard time getting approved so that he could become a Supreme Court justice. One of his former employees, Anita Hill, claimed that he made sexual jokes and harassed her. Thomas said he was unfairly treated. 


</doc>
<doc id="19553" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19553" title="Stephen Breyer">
Stephen Breyer

Stephen Breyer is a Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States. He was born August 15, 1938. Breyer has been an Associate Justice since 1994. Breyer generally favors a liberal interpretation of the law; he is pro-choice and pro-civil liberties. Breyer had the second-longest tenure as the most junior justice on the bench. Breyer is also the only justice to appear on a quiz show ("Wait Wait Don't Tell Me") while. Before being a judge, Breyer was a professor at Harvard Law School and a judge on the First Circuit Court of Appeals. Breyer is an Eagle Scout.


</doc>
<doc id="19554" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19554" title="Ruth Bader Ginsburg">
Ruth Bader Ginsburg

Ruth Bader Ginsberg is a Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States. She was born March 15, 1933. She has been an Associate Justice since 1993.


</doc>
<doc id="19555" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19555" title="John G. Roberts">
John G. Roberts

John Glover Roberts, Jr. (born January 27, 1955) is the seventeenth and current Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court. Appointed by President George W. Bush, Roberts is generally considered a member of the more conservative wing of the court.

Before joining the Supreme Court on September 29, 2005, Roberts was a judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit for two years.


</doc>
<doc id="19556" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19556" title="Tacna Region">
Tacna Region

Tacna Region is the most southern region in Peru. The capital city is Tacna.


</doc>
<doc id="19557" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19557" title="Tacna">
Tacna

Tacna is a city in Peru. It is the capital of Tacna Region.


</doc>
<doc id="19559" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19559" title="Franz Kafka">
Franz Kafka

Franz Kafka (born Prague July 3, 1883 – died near Vienna June 3, 1924) was a famous Czech-born, German-speaking writer. His best known works are "The Metamorphosis" and the novels "The Trial" and "The Castle". Not much of his work was published during his lifetime. He asked his friend to make sure that all his writings which were not published, including his three novels, would be destroyed when he died. Fortunately his friend did not destroy them, and they were published after Kafka’s death.

Kafka’s writings are about the frightening world around him which he often did not understand. A typical situation in his books might be someone who has gone somewhere to take a message, but he does not know what the message is or who it is for. The people he meets confuse him even more. Sometimes, when people find themselves in strange, nightmarish situations like this, they are described as Kafkaesque situations.

Hi Howwi alles Fit? Wir wollen dich nur ärgern :9
Kafka was born into a middle-class Jewish family. His father was a merchant. He was very strict and unkind to his family. Kafka’s stories often have fathers who are very brutal and unkind. Kafka spent most of his life living at home. He never married or became free from his parents. He felt that he had no will of his own. He wrote about people who are dominated by some mysterious power. He found it difficult to make friends, he hated his job and everyone around him. He often felt that he belonged nowhere. He was German-speaking but lived in a Czech-speaking country (Bohemia, part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, now part of the Czech Republic). He was different because he was Jewish, but he did not become part of the Jewish community either. He said that he was a socialist and an atheist, but although he was interested in politics he never took part in political activity. He supported Czechs who wanted to rule their own country and let their culture flourish, but he was not one of them because he himself was brought up in a German culture.

It was while he was studying law at the University of Prague that he met Max Brod who was to become his friend. Brod was a writer himself, and he later wrote a biography of Kafka.

After his studies Kafka took a job in an insurance company. He was good at his job although he hated it. He found the office work boring, and he spent his nights writing. In 1917 he got tuberculosis. Gradually he became more and more ill. He had to retire in 1922. He spent some time in a sanitorium. He died in 1924.

Several publishers realized how good Kafka’s writings were and asked him whether they could publish his works. Kafka reluctantly let a few things be published. One of these works was a story called " Metamorphosis" (German: "Die Verwandlung"). It is about a man called Gregor Samsa (the name “Samsa” means "loner" or "lonely"). Gregor wakes up one morning to find he has changed into a horrible bug. His family becomes ashamed of him and they stop looking after him so that he slowly dies. Stories like these are a kind of fable. They are full of strange and frightening situations.

His novel "Amerika" (published in 1927 is about a man who arrives in America looking for a father figure to protect him. He is quiet and timid and other people use him. In the end he dies. 

In " The Trial" (German: "Der Prozess", published in 1925), a man who works in a bank is arrested and taken to court. He is never told what he has done wrong. Even the priest tells him that if he asks what he has done wrong it proves that he is guilty. Finally he is executed.

In "The Castle" (German: "Das Schloss") a man who is simply called “K” (the first letter of “Kafka”) arrives at a castle saying that he has been given a job there, but the people there say they have not been told about his appointment. Kafka never finished the novel, but Max Brod says that Kafka was going to end it with K receiving permission to stay at the castle just as he was dying. The German word “Schloss” has two meanings: “castle” and “lock”. K becomes locked (trapped) in this strange situation.

At the time of his death only a few people understood Kafka’s writings. We are lucky that Max Brod saved all the unpublished books which would otherwise have been lost. Kafka is now thought of as one of the most important writers of the 20th century. His works had a lot of influence on German literature.



</doc>
<doc id="19560" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19560" title="Eva Braun">
Eva Braun

Eva Anna Paula Braun (6 February 1912 – 30 April 1945) was the longtime girlfriend of Adolf Hitler. She met him in Munich when she was 17 years old. They married the day before they committed suicide (killed themselves) by using cyanide. She was sometimes called Eva Hitler. She was born in Munich, Germany and died in Berlin, Germany at the age of 33. 


</doc>
<doc id="19566" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19566" title="Computer recycling">
Computer recycling

Computer recycling means taking things from old computers and using them in new computer things. The phrase is also used to mean that computers need to be thrown away in a special way, as they often have things that are bad for the environment or dangerous inside them that can cause problems if they are thrown away like usual waste (garbage).


</doc>
<doc id="19568" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19568" title="Nagasaki">
Nagasaki

Nagasaki is located in the southwest of Kyushu.

During the Edo period, Nagasaki was the only port in which trade with other countries was permitted because of the national isolation policy ("sakoku").
In the 1870's, Nagasaki became the capital city of the prefecture which evolved from the former province.

Nagasaki was the second of two Japanese cities which were destroyed with an atomic bomb near the end of the Second World War.



</doc>
<doc id="19570" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19570" title="Ayyavazhi">
Ayyavazhi

Ayyavazhi அய்யாவழி (Tamil: "path of the father"), is a religion with one god that started in South India in the middle of the 19th century. The 'zhi' (ழி) in the word, 'Ayyavazhi', is a retroflex, ri.

Ayyavazhi is not a part of Hinduism, but since it was not considered a separate religion it was considered as a branch of Hinduism only officially. It has evolved into a different religion, spreading fast in Tamil Nadu's southern districts of Kanyakumari, Tirunelveli, and Tuticorin. As one of the fastest growing religions of southern India, its speed growth had been noted in the Christian missionary reports of the mid-19th century.

The ideas and philosophy of the religion are based on the teachings of Ayya Vaikundar and the religious texts Akilattirattu Ammanai and Arul Nool.

Ayyavazhi began to be seen firstly by the large number of people gathering to worship Ayya Vaikundar at Swamithoppe, which is at that time "poovandanthoppe". The majority of the followers of Ayyavazhi were from the poor group of the society. For the Christian missionaries it gives a big challenge in their converting mission from its beginning. Although the majority of these followers were from the Chanar cast, apart from Ayyavazhi sources, some outer sources too says that a large number of people from other castes also followed this religion. 

By the middle of nineteenth century, Ayyavazhi had come to be recognised as a separate religion, grown well in the region of South Travancore and South Tirunelveli. The growth in its number of followers had increased speedly from 1840s. After the death of Vaikundar, the religion was spread on the basis of his teachings and the religious books "Akilattirattu Ammanai" and "Arul Nool". The five Citars, who were the deciples of Ayya Vaikundar, and their descendants travelled to several parts of the country and carried the mission of Ayyavazhi. At that time the Payyan dynasty started ruling of Swamithoppe pathi, while other Pathis came under the control of the followers of Ayya. Hundreds of Nizhal Thangals (places of worship) were built across the country. Currently Bala Prajapathi Adikalar, one of descendant of Payyan dynasty is said to be as the leader of Ayyavazhi. He has laid foundations for a large number of Nizhal Thangals all over South India. And now seeing the growth of the religion the day of birth of Vaikundar, Ayya Vaikunda Avataram was announced as a holiday by the government for the districts of Tirunelveli and Tuticorin from this year while the district of Kanyakumari was announced as a holiday earlier.

The holy books of Ayyavazhi are the Akilattirattu Ammanai and the Arul Nool, and they are the source of the religion's mythology. The holy book states that the "Akilattirattu Ammanai" was written down by Hari Gopalan Citar by hearing the contents of Akilam told by Narayana to his wife Lakshmi. There was no definite history about the beginning of Arul Nool; but the followers believe that it was written by Citars and by those who get possessed by divine power. It contains the prayers, hymns and ways for the worship in Ayyavazhi, religious practices, prophesies and also many rules. 

To the Ayyavazhi devotees, there are five holy places, called Pathis, with "Panchappathis" as the most important. The temple of Swamithoppepathi is the head of the Ayyavazhi religion. The Vakaippathi, where 700 families were sent to Thuvayal Thavasu by Vaikundar was approved as a Pathi in Akilam although this place has no direct association with the activities of Vaikundar. There is a big disagreement within the followers of Ayyavazhi as to the holiness of some of the places of worship. The Avatharappathi in Thiruchendur was accepted by the book "Akilam" as a Pathi, but as some of the followers believe that the place at which the present temple is located is not the exact place where Ayya Vaikundar incarnated from the sea, they disagree with the other devotees. There are also some followers which strongly quarrel Thiruchendur as a Pathi though they accept it as a secondary holy site. The list of Pathis announced by the headquarters of Ayyavazhi does not add Avatharappathi.


</doc>
<doc id="19572" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19572" title="Akilattirattu Ammanai">
Akilattirattu Ammanai

Akilathirattu Ammanai அகிலத்திரட்டு அம்மானை (Tamil: akilam (world) + thirattu (collection) + ammanai (ballad)), also called Thiru Edu (venerable book), is the main religious book of the Southern Indian Ayyavazhi, officially a branch of Hinduism. The title is shortened as Akilam. This is the largest Ammanai work.

According to the book, Hari Gopalan Citar wrote this book on the twenty-seventh day of the Tamil month of Karthikai (November/December) in the year 1016 ME (1841 CE). The author says that God woke him up during his sleep and ordered him to take the first words from what he said. Akilathirattu was recorded on palm leaves. Then in 1939 it was given printed form.

According to the author, the book is the story of God coming in this age, the Kali Yukam or Iron Age, to rule the world by transforming it into that of Dharma Yukam. This story of faith has woven together the historical facts about Ayya Vaikundar and his activities, with mixing of episodes from the Hindu Puranas (mythologies) and Itihasas (epics). It is presented as if Vishnu is telling the whole story to his consort Lakshmi.

Though the Citar Hari Gopalan wrote the book Akilam, as per him, he did not know any thing about the contents of the book. He woke up in the morning as usual and he did not know what he had written the day before.

As soon as Ayya Vaikundar attained Vaikundam, the tied-up palm leaf text, which was until then not opened. It was there the regulations of Ayyavazhi contains. As per the instructions found there in Akilam, Ayyavazhi was preached by the Citars far and wide.


</doc>
<doc id="19573" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19573" title="Category:Ayyavazhi">
Category:Ayyavazhi

See more about this topic in Ayyavazhi


</doc>
<doc id="19574" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19574" title="Ayya Vaikundar">
Ayya Vaikundar

Ayya Vaikundar அய்யா வைகுண்டர், is a Manu (father, sovereign) avatar (the incarnation of a deity) of the Lord Narayana according to Akilattirattu Ammanai the holy book of the Ayyavazhi religion, officially a Tamil Hindu branch. 

The physical human body of Ayya Vaikundar was born with the name Muthukutty. However, Muthukutty is referred to as Sampooranathevan, a deva (a deity), in the religious book Akilam. Ayya Vikundar is a combination of the spirit of Narayana, the soul of the Supreme God, Ekam (God beyond conciouseness) and the body of an ordinary human being (Muthukutty).

The Ekam as soul incarnated with the spirit of Narayana in the body of Muthukutty.


</doc>
<doc id="19575" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19575" title="Political parties in Germany">
Political parties in Germany

There are several political parties in Germany.
The following parties had representation in the German Reichstag before World War II:






























There were a lot of parties in Germany at the time of the Weimar Republic. The only party which still exists today from that time is the SPD.

In the Nazi years (1933-1945), there was only the Nazi party. Other parties were banned by law.

Under Communism, East Germany had one leading party (the Socialist Unity Party, SED) and some smaller parties. The smaller parties had to accept the leading role of the SED.

Today there are many political parties in Germany, but only a few hold influence, because only a party which has at least 5 % of the vote (or which wins 3 direct seats) is represented in the Bundestag, Germany's federal parliament.

These parties are:


</doc>
<doc id="19577" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19577" title="Pathi">
Pathi

The worship centers of Ayyavazhi are called Pathis. The activities of Vaikundar is historically jointed with this Pathis. There are five Pathis:



</doc>
<doc id="19578" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19578" title="Planck mass">
Planck mass

The Planck mass is a small unit of mass used in physics. It is derived using an equation involving Planck's constant, the speed of light in a vacuum, and the gravitational constant. It is approximately 21.76 µg.


</doc>
<doc id="19579" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19579" title="Human sexuality">
Human sexuality

Human sexuality can be described as the way someone is attracted to other people. What they feel can be heterosexual (attracted to the opposite sex), homosexual (attracted to the same sex) or bisexual (attracted to both sexes).



</doc>
<doc id="19582" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19582" title="War and Peace">
War and Peace

War and Peace () is a famous novel written by Leo Tolstoy, a Russian writer. It is about four families of noblemen in Russia during the wars with Napoleon, and how they deal with the war and with one another.

Tolstoy described "War and Peace" as "not a novel, even less is it a poem, and still less an historical chronicle."

The book describes Russian life in the 19th century, and also tells about Tolstoy's own idea about free will, history, and how events unfold.

There are 580 characters in "War and Peace", but these are the main characters:



</doc>
<doc id="19583" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19583" title="Category:Russia">
Category:Russia


</doc>
<doc id="19587" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19587" title="Bay City, Michigan">
Bay City, Michigan

The American city of Bay City is a small city in the state of Michigan, United States. In the 2000 census it had more than 35,000 people living in it.

Although small, Bay City is one of the largest port cities on Lake Huron, one of the North American Great Lakes. It is part of a triangle of small cities in Central Michigan. The other two cities are Saginaw, Michigan, and Midland, Michigan.

Bay City was the birthplace in 1958 of Madonna Ciccone, a well-known American singer. The Scottish Pop group Bay City Rollers are said to have gotten their name from the city as well.



</doc>
<doc id="19591" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19591" title="Zirconium">
Zirconium

Zirconium is a chemical elemental metal. It is a greyish-white in color. It is atomic number 40 on the periodic table. It's symbol is Zr. And it is in the family of four (4).


</doc>
<doc id="19592" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19592" title="Yttrium">
Yttrium

Yttrium is a chemical elemental metal. It is atomic number 39 on the periodic table.


</doc>
<doc id="19594" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19594" title="Windows 98">
Windows 98

Windows 98 is an operating system for computers. Released on June 25 1998 by Microsoft, it is an updated version of Windows 95.

Windows 98 was seen by many as an upgrade to Windows 95, rather than a rebuilt version of Windows. The biggest changes were:

Because Microsoft made Internet Explorer such an important part of Windows 98, the company was taken to court by the United States Government. This was because they felt it was unfair to other companies who made web browsers.

It is not supported anymore, but many people still use it on older computers that will not run Windows XP or Windows Vista or Windows 7.

Windows 98 Second Edition (SE) was released in 1999. This was an official upgrade to Windows 98 which allowed people to use more types of computer hardware, like monitors and printers, and also let more than one machine on a network use the same Internet connection.



</doc>
<doc id="19595" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19595" title="Waste">
Waste

Waste is used, discarded, and unwanted materials. One also speaks of trash, garbage, rubbish, or junk.

There are a number of different types of waste. It can exist as a solid, liquid, or gas or as waste heat. When released in as a liquid or gas the wastes can be referred to as emissions. It is usually strongly linked with pollution. 

Waste may also be something that you cannot touch as wasted time or wasted opportunities. The term "waste" implies things which have been used inefficiently or inappropriately.


</doc>
<doc id="19596" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19596" title="1096">
1096


</doc>
<doc id="19597" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19597" title="1098">
1098



</doc>
<doc id="19598" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19598" title="Republic of the Congo">
Republic of the Congo

The Republic of the Congo is a country in Africa. Its capital city is Brazzaville. The country was a former colony of France; it became independent on August 15, 1960.
The north of the country has very large areas of rainforest, but in the south are many farms which grow bananas, peanuts and other crops.



</doc>
<doc id="19599" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19599" title="Gabon">
Gabon

The Gabonese Republic or Gabon is a country in Africa. Its capital is Libreville.

It became a new country on August 17, 1960. Before that, Gabon was a colony of France.

Gabon is a small country led by the President Ali Bongo Ondimba. This country was conquered by France. It is a rich country, culturally, ecomonically, and geographically. Gabon is located in Central of Africa.

The first Gabonese president was Leon Mba. His successor was Omar Bongo, from 1967 until his death in 2009. Under his governance Gabon had just one political party between 1968 and 1990. It was called PDG. 

Gabon has nine states. The soil of Gabon is rich in the metals uranium, manganese, and petrolium. Therefore, these three elements, such as metal exploited in Port-Gentil, Iranium in Munana, and the manganese in Franceville.

Gabon has a wide culture. Before colonialism, Gabon's people believed their ancestral spirit as religion, like bwiti, mvett, djobi.

After colonialism, others religions such as Christianity and Islam came to be added to the first animists believers.



</doc>
<doc id="19613" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19613" title="Tamil Nadu">
Tamil Nadu

Tamil Nadu is one of the states in the south of India. Capital of this state is Chennai. Tamil is the language spoken in Tamil Nadu. Coimbatore, Tiruchirapalli, Salem,Madurai, Tirunelveli, and Thoothukudi are other large cities of Tamil Nadu. It is surrounded by Bay of Bengal on the east and Indian Ocean on the south. And also Arabian sea in the west for a smaller area. Kerala, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh are its neighbouring states. The Tamilians are very proud of their language and heritage.

The eastern and western tips of the state are defined by the Point Calimere and Mudumalai wildlife sanctuaries while the southernmost tip is Kanniya Kumari also called as cape comorin, the Indian peninsula's southernmost point. With an area of 130,058 sq.km and population over 62 million, Tamil Nadu is the 11th largest state in India. The major river is Kaveri which meets the needs of agriculture and drinking water to a large extent. The other important rivers are south Pennar, Palar, Vaigai, Tamira bharani, Manimuthar and Bhavani.

Chennai,
Coimbatore,
Salem,
Sivaganga,
Cuddalore,
Thanjavur,
Dharmapuri,
Nilgiris,
Dindigul,
Theni,
Erode,
Thoothukudi,
Kanchipuram,
Tiruchirappalli,
Kanyakumari,
Tirunelveli,
Karur,
Tiruvallur,
Krishnagiri,
Tiruvannamalai,
Madurai,
Tiruvarur,
Nagapattinam,
Vellore,
Namakkal,
Viluppuram,
Perambalur,
Virudhunagar,
Ramanathapuram.

Area 50,180 mi² or 129,966 (km²), it is bigger than North Korea but smaller than Greece 

Population 62405679

By Sex

Male 31400909

Female 31004770

By Area

Rural 34921681

Urban 27483998

Density (per Sq. km) 480

Literates 40524545


</doc>
<doc id="19616" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19616" title="Duck">
Duck

Duck are birds in the family "Anatidae". Ducks are closely related to swans and geese, which are in the same family. The main difference is that ducks have shorter necks, and are smaller. 

They are not a monophyletic group; the form has evolved several times in the Anatidae. They are what is called a "form taxon", defined by what it looks like.

Other swimming and diving birds, like grebes and loons, are sometimes called ducks, but they are not. A baby duck is called a "duckling", and a male duck is called a "drake". Most ducks are aquatic birds. They can be found in both saltwater and fresh water. 

Ducks are omnivorous, eating aquatic plants and tiny animals. Dabbling ducks feed on the surface of water or on land, or as deep as they can reach by up-ending without completely submerging. Along the edge of the beak there is a comb-like structure called a "pecten". This strains the water squirting from the side of the beak and traps any food. The pecten is also used to preen feathers.

Many ducks are migratory. This means that they spend the summer months in a different place than the winter months. Ducks show a cosmopolitan distribution, they can be found all over the world, except for Antarctica. Some duck species live on the South Georgia and Auckland Islands, which are subantarctic. Many species have established themselves on remote islands, such as Kerguelen or Hawaii. 

Some ducks are bred and kept by humans. They are not wild ducks. They are kept to provide food (meat and eggs), or to use their feathers for pillows and other items in the house. Especially in Asia, many people like to eat duck.

Ducks are sometimes kept as pets. They are often kept by groups of people on public ponds for their beauty and calming nature.




</doc>
<doc id="19620" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19620" title="North by Northwest">
North by Northwest

North by Northwest is a 1959 movie thriller from Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. Alfred Hitchcock directed it, and Cary Grant starred in it.

Like other Hitchcock movies, the music for "North by Northwest" was composed by Bernard Herrmann.

The famous opening sequence was created by Saul Bass.



</doc>
<doc id="19625" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19625" title="Nightwish">
Nightwish

Nightwish is a symphonic metal band from Finland. They formed in July 1996 playing acoustic mood music. Tuomas Holopainen came up with the idea. He asked Tarja Turunen to sing and Emppu Vuorinen to play guitar.

It was not until the beginning of 1997 that the band started playing stronger music. Jukka Nevalainen joined to play the drums and they changed from the acoustic guitar to the electric guitar. In May 1997, Nightwish signed a contract with Spinefarm Records and released their first album 'Angels Fall First'.

In 1998, Sami Vänskä joined the band to play bass. The same year they released 'Oceanborn', which was much different than 'Angels Fall First'.

In May 2000 they released 'Wishmaster', which was very similar to 'Oceanborn'. They also entered the contest to be Finland's entry for the Eurovision Song Contest with the song 'Sleepwalker'. They won the phone vote but the judges disagreed so they came second.<br>

Tarja was removed from the group in 2005 after their "End of an Era" tour. Tuomas wrote an open letter to her, stating the reasons that she was removed. It was then put on the official website. In 2007, Swedish singer Anette Olzon was chosen to be the new singer, and they released a single, Amaranth. A few months later, they released the album Dark Passion Play.



</doc>
<doc id="19632" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19632" title="Sierra Leone">
Sierra Leone

Sierra Leone is a country in West Africa. Its capital is Freetown. The official language is English.

The country was first made as a place where freed slaves could live. From 1991 until 2000, there was a civil war in Sierra Leone between rebels and the government. The war is now over. 

There are 71,740 square kilometres of land in Sierra; In terms of land area it is similar in size to Ireland. 



</doc>
<doc id="19633" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19633" title="Door">
Door

A door is a hard, flat object a person can open and close so that person can go into a room or other place. It is found in houses and other buildings. Doors are also found in cars and cages. 

The reasons for a door are:

A revolving door is a group of doors that turn in a circle as a person pushes one. The person can go through, but wind and rain cannot get in.

A blind door is a fake door that is really part of the wall. People use them to make a room look nice.

An up-and-over door is often used in garages. Instead of hinges, it rolls up on rails so that it stays above the opening.

A fire door is a door that does not let fire go through. They are usually made of heavy steel.


</doc>
<doc id="19634" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19634" title="1540s">
1540s





</doc>
<doc id="19638" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19638" title="Boeing 737">
Boeing 737

The Boeing 737 is a medium sized, short to medium range commercial airliner built by the North American company Boeing. This plane is so far the best selling jet airliner on Earth. There are nearly 6,000 examples to be found around the world with over 1,200 of them in the air at any given time. The 737's seats are usually arranged with 3 on one side and 3 on the other side.

The airplane was officially announced in 1964. The plane had already got many airlines interested even before it first flew in 1967. German airline Lufthansa made the first passenger flight in 1969.

The initial model was the 737-100. It was launched by Lufthansa in 1965. The -100 was rolled out on January 17, 1967 and entered service in 1968. The aircraft is the smallest variant of the 737. Only 30 737-100s were ordered and delivered, and no 737-100s remain in service today. The original Boeing prototype, last operated by NASA, retired more than 30 years after its maiden flight, and is on exhibit in the Museum of Flight in Seattle.
The 737-200 is a 737-100 with an extended fuselage. It was launched by United Airlines in 1965. The -200 was rolled out on June 29, 1967 and entered service in 1968. The 737-200 Advanced is an improved version of the -200, introduced by All Nippon Airways on May 20, 1971.[56] The aircraft has improved aerodynamics, automatic wheel brakes, more powerful engines, more fuel capacity and longer range than the -200.

After 40 years, the final 737-200 aircraft in the United States flying scheduled passenger service were phased out on March 31, 2008 with the last flights of Aloha Airlines (Aloha continues to fly its interisland cargo flights). The aircraft had been eliminated from regular service in the continental United States in 2006, when Delta Air Lines withdrew the type.

The new 737 Classic series featured CFM56 turbofan engines, which had a better fuel economy and far less noise. However, it also posed an engineering challenge given the low ground clearance of the 737. Boeing and engine supplier CFM International solved the problem by placing the engine ahead of (rather than below) the wing. They also moved engine accessories to the sides (rather than the bottom) of the engine pod, giving the 737 a distinctive non-circular air intake. The wing incorporated a number of changes for improved aerodynamics.

The 737-300 was launched in 1981 by both USAir and Southwest Airlines becoming the first model of the 737 Classic series. The aircraft has a typical capacity of 128 passengers in a two class configuration (137 seats in a one class coach seating configuration). The 300 series remained in production until 1999 when the last aircraft was delivered to Air New Zealand on December 17, 1999.

Various modifications have been made to aircraft previously in service. The 737-300 can be retrofitted with Aviation Partners Boeing winglets. The 737-300 retrofitted with winglets is designated the -300SP (special performance). Used passenger -300 aircraft have also been converted to freighter versions.

The 737-400 was launched in 1985 as a stretched 737-300, primarily for use by charter airlines. Piedmont Airlines was the launch customer with an order for 25 aircraft in 1986. The first 400 entered service in 1988 with Piedmont. The last delivery of the -400 occurred on February 25, 2000 to CSA Czech Airlines.

The 737-400F was not a model delivered by Boeing but a converted 737-400 to an all cargo aircraft. Alaska Airlines was the first to convert one of its 400s from regular service to an aircraft with the ability to handle 10 pallets. The airline has also converted five more into fixed combi aircraft for half passenger and freight. These 737-400 Combi aircraft are now in service.

The 737-500 was launched in 1987 by Southwest Airlines and entered service in 1990. The fuselage length of the 737-500 is similar to the 737-200 while incorporating the improvements of the 737 Classic series. It offered a modern and direct replacement of the 737-200, while also allowing longer routes with fewer passengers to be more economical than with the 737-300. The last -500 was delivered to All Nippon Airlines on July 26, 1999.

By the early 1990s, it became clear that the new Airbus A320 was a serious threat to Boeing's market share. Airbus won previously loyal 737 customers such as Lufthansa and United Airlines. In November 1993, Boeing's board of directors authorized the Next Generation program to replace the 737 Classic series. The -600, -700, and -800 series were planned. After engineering trade studies and discussions with major 737 customers, Boeing proceeded to launch the 737 Next Generation series.

New features included:

The 737-600 replaced the 737-500 in Boeing's line up, and was also intended to replace airlines' DC-9s. The 737-600 was launched by Scandinavian Airlines System in 1995 with the first aircraft delivered on September 18, 1998. The -600 is the only Boeing 737 still in production that does not include winglets as an option. WestJet was to be the Boeing launch customer for the 737-600 with winglets but announced in their Q2 2006 results that they were not going to move ahead with those plans.
The 737-600 competes with the Airbus A318 and Embraer 195. A total of 69 -600s have been delivered with no unfilled orders as of 2009.

The 737-700 was the first of Next Generation series when launch customer Southwest Airlines ordered the variant in November 1993. The variant was based on the 737-300 and entered service in 1998. It replaced the 737-300 in Boeing's lineup, and its direct competitor is the A319. It typically seats 132 passengers in a two class cabin or 149 in all economy configuration.

The 737-800 is a stretched version of the 737-700, and replaces the 737-400. It also filled the gap left by Boeing's discontinuation of the McDonnell Douglas MD-80 and MD-90 after Boeing's merger with McDonnell Douglas. The -800 was launched by Hapag-Lloyd Flug (now TUIfly) in 1994 and entered service in 1998. The 737-800 seats 162 passengers in a two class layout, or 189 in one class, and competes with the A320. For many airlines in the U.S., the 737-800 replaced aging Boeing 727-200 trijets and MD-80s and MD-90s.

Boeing later introduced the 737-900, the longest and most powerful variant to date. Alaska Airlines launched the 737-900 in 1997 and accepted delivery on May 15, 2001. Because the -900 retains the same exit configuration of the -800, seating capacity is limited to 177 seats in two classes, or 189 in a single-class layout. The 737-900 also retains the MTOW (maximum take-off weight) and fuel capacity of the -800, trading range for payload. These shortcomings until recently prevented the 737-900 from effectively competing with the Airbus A321.
The 737-900ER, which was called the 737-900X prior to launch, is the newest addition and the largest variant of the Boeing 737 line and was introduced to meet the range and passenger capacity of the discontinued 757-200 and to directly compete with the Airbus A321.
An additional pair of exit doors and a flat rear pressure bulkhead increase seating capacity to 180 passengers in a 2-class configuration or 215 passengers in a single-class layout. Additional fuel capacity and standard winglets improve range to that of other 737NG variants.
The first 737-900ER was rolled out of the Renton, Washington factory on August 8, 2006 for its launch customer, Lion Air. Lion Air received this aircraft on April 27, 2007 in a special dual paint scheme combining the Lion Air lion on the vertical stabilizer and the Boeing livery colors on the fuselage.
The 737-900ER is now the standard 737-900 model offered by Boeing. The 737-900 non-ER model has been discontinued in favor of the -900ER, but the standard -900 remains in service as of January 2010.

In late August 2011, Boeing announced the 737 MAX to replace the Next Generation, in response to Airbus' A320NEO.

Here is a list of different types of 737:

Original

Classic

Next Generation (NG)


</doc>
<doc id="19646" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19646" title="Tsar">
Tsar

Tsar is a name for the ruler of Bulgaria in 913–1422, later usage in 1908–1946 and the emperor of Russia from 1546 until 1721. Since 1721 the title of Russian emperors was "imperator", but the word "tsar" remained in common use until the Russian Revolution 1917. It is also spelled Tzar, Czar, and Csar, and is the Eastern European word for Caesar.

The last Tsar to Rule Russia was Tsar Nicholas II.


</doc>
<doc id="19647" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19647" title="1550s">
1550s





</doc>
<doc id="19649" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19649" title="1840">
1840





</doc>
<doc id="19650" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19650" title="Engelbert Dollfuss">
Engelbert Dollfuss

Engelbert Dollfuss ("German": Dollfuß) (October 4, 1892 – July 25, 1934) was the Chancellor of Austria from 1932 until 1933. He led the country as a dictator from early 1933 until 1934.

He studied law in Vienna, and Economics in Berlin. During World War I, he served in the Alps and briefly became a Prisoner of War in 1918. 

He became Chancellor on May 20, 1932 as head of a right-wing coalition government. He wanted to solve the problems caused by the Depression. He had problems finding majorities in parliament. The measures he liked to take to deal with inflation were not well liked. In March 1933, he suspended the Austrian parliament. He then governed by decree. 

With Adolf Hitler as Chancellor in Germany, Dollfuss feared that the influence of the NSDAP would grow. This would then lead to a growth in popularity for its Austrian counterpart. Because of this, he banned the NSDAP in June 1933. He also banned the SDAPÖ in February 1934. 

In September 1933 he formed an umbrella grouping to support the regime, the "Vaterländische Front" (Fatherland Front) and merged the Christian Social Party with the para-military Heimwehr (Home Guard), a Nationalist paramilitary group. The regime which was put intp power by him and remained in power until 1938 is often called "Austrofascism". The form of state he employed was called the "Ständestaat".

On July 25, 1934 eight Austrian Nazis entered the Chancellery building and shot and killed Dollfuss in an attempted coup, as a prelude to Anschluss. The Nazis surrendered and were executed. Kurt Schuschnigg became the new dictator of Austria.



</doc>
<doc id="19653" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19653" title="Language isolate">
Language isolate

A language isolate is a language that does not have another language related to it.

Many languages are related to other languages, because they both come from an older language, and are similar to other languages. These groups that are similar are called language families. Most languages belong to a language family, but some are not related to other languages. These languages are called language isolates.

Some language isolates are Basque, Japanese, Ainu and Zuni.


</doc>
<doc id="19654" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19654" title="Species">
Species

In taxonomy, a species is a kind of animal or plant. All animals or plants that are the same kind belong to the same species. Wolves ("Canis lupus") are one species. Humans are another species. Broadly, the idea is that (say) cats breed with cats and produce more cats. This is the basis for deciding to have a species named "Felis catus". However, giving a simple definition of 'species' is rather difficult, and many people have tried.

Species is a word for a special kind of living thing, like a crow. Crows and ravens are similar but not the same, so they are together in a more general group called a genus. Then there is a family (like the crow family, which includes crows and ravens as well as jays and magpies), and then an order such as the songbirds, (which has many families in it, such as the crow, thrush and swallow families). The next group is the class; all birds are in the same class. After that is the phylum, such as vertebrates, which is all animals with backbones. Last of all is the kingdom, like the animal kingdom. 
These are ways to classify living things. 

There is a mnemonic to help people remember the order of the divisions which are listed again below: "King Phillip Came Over For Great Spaghetti".

Take as an example the bird called a Common Loon or Great Northern Diver:




</doc>
<doc id="19655" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19655" title="Ancestor">
Ancestor

An ancestor is a parent, a parent's parent ("grandparent"), a parent's parent's parent (or "great grandparent"), and so on. It is usually used to mean a creator of a generation which lives on.


</doc>
<doc id="19656" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19656" title="River dolphin">
River dolphin

River dolphins are four species ("types") of dolphin which live in fresh water rivers and estuaries. Three species live in fresh water rivers. The fourth species, the La Plata Dolphin, lives in salt water estuaries and the ocean.


The following is the taxonomy of river dolphins, or how dolphins are classified:




</doc>
<doc id="19657" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19657" title="Estuary">
Estuary

An estuary is a place near the ocean where saltwater mixes with freshwater. An estuary is often found where a river flows into an ocean. The river suddenly becomes wider and wider and flows slowly to the sea.

Estuaries come in all sizes and shapes, each according to its location and climate. They are found mostly where rivers meet the sea and fresh water mixes with salt water. Bays, marshes, swamps, and inlets are all examples of estuaries. A view of an estuary from the air is usually an interesting sight: rivers curve and bend to find their way back to the sea. Estuaries are usually filled with shallow waters and sunlight reaches all levels of the water. Marsh grasses, algae, and oher kinds of plants live in estuaries and provide food for a variety of fish, crabs, oysters, and shrimp.

Some estuaries are very large. They may be large ocean bays that have more than one river flowing into them. For example, Chesapeake Bay is a very large estuary, and several different rivers meet the Atlantic Ocean there. 

Estuaries are especially important since they play the role of "nurseries" for many different types of young fish and other animals before they head out toward the open ocean. Many sea birds also nest in estuaries.

The United States government has a program to study and protect the natural environment in many different estuaries, called the National Estuarine Research Reserve System. One reason that the natural environment in so many estuaries is in danger is because they are also good places for people to live and build cities. Unfortunately, many of world's largest cities are located at estuaries.


</doc>
<doc id="19666" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19666" title="James Bond">
James Bond

James Bond is a fictional British spy created by Ian Fleming in 1953.

In 1953, Fleming wrote Casino Royale, the very first James Bond novel. The novel made a lot of money, and he continued to write one James Bond novel each year until he died in 1963. In 1962 Albert. R. "Cubby" Broccoli and Harry Saltzman started to produce the first James Bond movie, Dr. No, starring Sean Connery as James Bond. The movie became extremely popular, and they continued to make more Bond movies. In the end of the 1960s Connery did not want to do any more Bond movies, and many thought that Bond was now dead. In 1969, George Lazenby appeared in one movie as the Bond character, but the movie was not successful.

In the 1970s, producers came up with the "Live and Let Die" movie, starring Roger Moore as Bond. The movie became a very big success. The series continued throughout the 1970s and 1980s with Roger Moore playing the role of Bond.

In the 1980s, Bond movies were not as successful at the box office. Unlike the 1960s and 1970s, in the 1980s there were many other action movies being produced that could compete with the Bond series. 

After Moore left the role as Bond, he was replaced with Timothy Dalton in the late 1980s. Dalton tried to make a serious, "down to earth" Bond, closer to the Fleming novels. Fans did not like Dalton's interpretation of the Bond character, and the movies made little money.

The Cold War ended in 1991. Since Bond almost always fought Communists, many now thought that the Bond series of movies was finally dead.

In 1995, producers developed the Goldeneye movie, starring Pierce Brosnan as Bond. This film made the Bond character well-known in the 1990s. Brosnan appeared in several Bond movies.

In 2002, the James Bond character was used in the 20th movie, Die Another Day, the 40th anniversary of the movies and the 50th anniversary since Fleming wrote his first Bond novel.
In 2006, the 21st movie, Casino Royale, was released. Pierce Brosnan, who played James Bond in the previous four moviess, was replaced by Daniel Craig, the first James Bond to have blonde hair. The movie is based on the first Ian Fleming novel of the same name, but is set in the present day. The movie features a cameo appearance by Richard Branson, a British billionaire. It has a new model of Aston Martin DB9, the car that made James Bond so famous in the 1960's. Many fans think that whilst this movie is different to other movies, it is much better, and movies in the future (however few there will be) will be in this new format. In 2008, Craig appeared in a second Bond movie, Quantum of Solace.

Many of the James Bond movies were massive hits. However, there are two movies classed as unofficial Bond films and not recognised as part of the series. The 1967 version of "Casino Royale" was a spoof, featuring "Jimmy Bond". Also, "Never Say Never Again" was not made by Albert R. Broccoli's production company, EON Productions.



</doc>
<doc id="19669" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19669" title="A Streetcar Named Desire">
A Streetcar Named Desire

A Streetcar Named Desire is a 1947 play by Tennessee Williams. A 1951 movie based on it starred Marlon Brando and Vivien Leigh.


</doc>
<doc id="19674" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19674" title="Tetrahedron">
Tetrahedron

A tetrahedron (triangular pyramid) is a three dimensional shape. It has four corners. It looks like a pyramid. It has six equally long edges, four corners and four equilateral triangular faces. Every two edges meet on one of those corners forming a sixty-degree angle.


</doc>
<doc id="19675" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19675" title="Robert Hooke">
Robert Hooke

Robert Hooke FRS (Isle of Wight, 18 July 1635 – London, 3 March 1703) was an English naturalist, architect and polymath. Hooke played an important role in the birth of science in the 17th century with both experimental and theoretical work. He was a colleague of Robert Boyle and Christopher Wren, and a rival to Isaac Newton. Hooke was a leader in the plans to rebuild after the Great Fire of London in 1666.

There is no surviving portrait of Hooke.

He discovered Hooke's Law of elasticity. He designed and ordered the making of telescopes and microscopes, and used both instruments. He reported on this work in a book called "Micrographica" in 1665. He was the first person to see biological cells. He made drawings of bodies in the Solar System, and made the first attempts to measure the distance of certain stars.

Robert Hooke was appointed the Royal Society's first Curator of Experiments in 1662, and he rose to be Secretary of the Royal Society. He took responsibility for experiments performed at its weekly meetings. This was a position he held for over 40 years.

In 1664 Hooke also was appointed Professor of Geometry at Gresham College in London and Cutlerian Lecturer in Mechanics.

On 8 July 1680, Hooke observed the nodal patterns associated with the mode of vibration of glass plates. He ran a bow along the edge of a glass plate covered with flour, and saw the nodal patterns emerge.

Hooke did some fundamental work on gravitation and the motion of the planets. Forever after, he was convinced that Newton and the world had cheated him of the credit.

He was also known for his work in natural history (biology and geology). He reported on his microsope use in a book called "Micrographica" in 1665. He was the first person to see biological cells, and was the first to use the word 'cell' to describe them.

In 1668, in a talk to the Royal Society, he recognised that fossil shells of unknown marine animals suggested that some species had become extinct.

Hooke achieved fame in his day as Surveyor to the City of London and chief assistant of Christopher Wren. Hooke helped Wren rebuild London after the Great Fire in 1666. 

He also worked on the Royal Greenwich Observatory, and the infamous Bethlem Royal Hospital (which became known as 'Bedlam'). Many other buildings were designed by Hooke, including the Royal College of Physicians (1679). 

Hooke's collaboration with Christopher Wren included St Paul's Cathedral, whose dome uses a method of construction conceived by Hooke. Hooke also participated in the design of the Pepys Library, which held the manuscripts of Samuel Pepys's diaries, the most frequently cited eyewitness account of the Great Fire of London.

In the reconstruction after the Great Fire, Hooke proposed redesigning London's streets on a grid pattern with wide boulevards and arteries, a pattern later used in the renovation of Paris, Liverpool, and many American cities. This proposal was thwarted by arguments over property rights, as property owners were surreptitiously shifting their boundaries. Hooke was in demand to settle many of these disputes, due to his skill as a surveyor and his tact as an arbitrator.



</doc>
<doc id="19681" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19681" title="Emission">
Emission

Emission is a word that originally comes from Latin. Originally it means something that is sent out. Several things can be sent out:



</doc>
<doc id="19686" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19686" title="Leo Tolstoy">
Leo Tolstoy

Count Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy (1828-1910) was a Russian novelist and anarchist, famous for writing the books "War and Peace" and "Anna Karenina".

Tolstoy was born at Yasnaya Polyana, the family estate in the region of Tula, Russia and he married Sofia Andreevna Bers. 

He was a Christian and believed in non-violence. His work "The Kingdom of God is Within You" has influenced people like Mahatma Gandhi and Martin Luther King. He died of pneumonia at Astapovo station in 1910 at the age of 82.


</doc>
<doc id="19687" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19687" title="California wine">
California wine

People have made wine in the American state of California for a long time. California has become recognized as making some of the world's best wine. California makes most of the wine that is made in America.

People first made wine in California in 1769. Missionaries from Mexico brought their wine plants to produce wine for the mass. Later, people coming from Europe improved the making of wine. They had brought their own kinds of wine plants.

Before 1920, there was more wine made every year. Then Prohibition began. During Prohibition, it was not allowed to sell alcoholic drinks in the United States. It almost ended the making of wine in California. Californian wine-making took a long time to recover.

In 1990, the USA sent less than five percent of its wine to other countries. After that, exports of wine from California increased. Today, the USA is one of the big wine industries.

Wine comes in different colors. Most wines are called "red" or "white". White wine is not really white, it just has a very light color. 54 percent of the Californian wines are white wines. Some examples of white wines are Chardonnay and Sauvignon Blanc. Some examples of red wines are Zinfandel, Cabernet-Sauvignon, Merlot, and Pinot Noir.

Grapes for wine used to need warm weather. People wanted to grow more grapes, so they learned how to grow them where the weather was not as warm. That way of growing grapes is called "cool climate viticulture". Vines are now planted in colder places, up to above sea level. Monterey County was the first place where that was done.

In California, there are more than 800 wine cellars. Wine cellars are big rooms were wine is stored. They are part of a winery, the place where wine is produced.

Two of the most famous growing areas for wine in California are Napa County and Sonoma County. The wines from those places are some of the best in the world. Some examples of the wines made there are Chardonnay and Cabernet Sauvignon.

Other known wineries are in Mendocino, in the Lake Counties, Santa Maria and Santa Barbara.



</doc>
<doc id="19689" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19689" title="Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid">
Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid

Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid is a 1969 movie from 20th Century Fox. George Roy Hill directed it, and John Foreman produced it. It stars Paul Newman and Robert Redford as two robbers in the American West who go to Bolivia to escape the law.

The movie was loosely based on the real story of the two title characters (Butch Cassidy and his friend Harry Longabaugh, also called "Sundance"). But it made the legends of the two more popular.

It won four Academy Awards: for Best Cinematography (shooting work on a movie), Best Original Score, Best Song (Burt Bacharach's "Raindrops Keep Fallin' on My Head") and Best Original Screenplay (William Goldman). It was also nominated for Best Picture, Best Director (Hill) and Best Sound.

It was one of the largest-grossing movies of the 1960s (with $102.3 million in the United States). It was number fifty on AFI's 100 Years... 100 Movies list.

At first, Warren Beatty and Steve McQueen (even Marlon Brando) were called upon to play the title roles. When Newman and Redford took their place, the roles were switched, with Newman as Sundance, and Redford as Cassidy. The studio, 20th Century Fox, did not like Redford's role. But the movie's director, Hill, wanted it that way.

As a result, Redford has said that the movie made him a more famous actor.

The Sundance Film Festival is named after Redford's role, as well his Utah ski resort.



</doc>
<doc id="19724" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19724" title="1480s">
1480s





</doc>
<doc id="19735" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19735" title="Mehmed II">
Mehmed II

Mehmed II (March 30, 1432, "Edirne" – May 3, 1481, "Hünkârcayırı", near "Gebze") was Sultan of the Ottoman Empire for a short time from 1444 to 1446, and later from 1451 to 1481. At the age of 21, he conquered Constantinople. So he brought to an end to the medieval Byzantine Empire. 



</doc>
<doc id="19758" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19758" title="The Bold and the Beautiful">
The Bold and the Beautiful

The Bold and the Beautiful is a popular soap opera in the United States. After "The Young and the Restless", it is the highest-rated soap opera there.

The series is shown in over 100 countries. About 300 million people watch it every day. This makes "The Bold and the Beautiful" the most watched television series in the world. The first episode was shown on March 23, 1987 on the CBS network. The series was created by the soap opera writer William J. Bell and his wife, Lee Phillip Bell. It is the only American soap opera to have its daily episodes translated into Spanish for the Hispanic viewers in the United States.

The series is set in Los Angeles, California. It tells the story of the Forrester family, who owns a fashion empire called Forrester Creations. The major members of the family are Eric Forrester (played by John McCook), the president of Forrester Creations, his wife Stephanie (Susan Flannery), their eldest son Ridge (Ronn Moss) and Brooke Logan (Katherine Kelly Lang), who was married to both the father and the son. She owns most of Forrester Creations. This is because she created "BeLiEf", a formula which earned much money for the company. There used to be a second fashion company called Spectra Fashions. It was Forrester’s main competitor. The conflicts between the Forrester and the Spectra families was one of the major themes of the story.



</doc>
<doc id="19759" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19759" title="Primary color">
Primary color

Primary colors (or primary colours) are sets of colors that can be combined to make a useful range of colors. The primary colors are those which cannot be created by mixing other colors in a given color space.

For subtractive combination of colors, as in mixing of pigments or dyes for printing, the primaries normally used are cyan, magenta, and yellow, though the set of red, yellow, blue is popular among artists.

For additive combination of colors, as in overlapping projected lights or in CRT displays, the primary colors normally used are red, green, and blue.

Primary colors are not a fundamental property of light but are related to the physiological response of the eye to light (the way the eye works). For humans, three primary colors are usually used, since human color vision is trichromatic.

Fundamentally, light is a continuous spectrum of the wavelengths that can be detected by the human eye, an infinite-dimensional stimulus space. However, the human eye normally contains only three types of color receptors, called cone cells. Each color receptor responds to different ranges of the color spectrum. Humans and other species with three such types of color receptors are known as trichromats.

Media that combine emitted lights to create the sensation of a range of colors are using the additive color system. Television is the most common use of this. 

The additive primaries are red, green,
and blue. Because of the response curves of the three different color receptors in
the human eye, these colors are optimal in the sense that the largest range
of colors — a gamut — visible by humans can be generated by mixing light of these colors.
Additive mixing of red and green light, produce shades of yellow or orange. Mixing green and blue produces shades of cyan, and mixing red and blue produces shades of purple and magenta. Mixing equal proportions of the additive primaries results in shades of grey; when all three colors are fully saturated, the result is white. The color space that is generated is called the RGB ("red, green, blue") color space.

Media that use reflected light and colorants to produce colors are using the subtractive color method of color mixing. In the printing industry, to produce the varying colors, apply the subtractive primaries yellow, cyan, and magenta together in varying amounts. Subtractive color works best when the surface or paper, is white, or close to it.

Mixing yellow and cyan produces shades of green; mixing yellow with magenta produces shades of red, and mixing magenta with cyan produces shades of blue. In theory, mixing equal amounts of all three pigments should produce shades of grey, resulting in black when all three are fully saturated, but in practice they tend to produce muddy brown colors. For this reason, a fourth "primary" pigment, black, is often used in addition to the cyan, magenta, and yellow colors.

The color space generated is the so-called CMYK color space. The abbreviation stands for "Cyan, Magenta, Yellow, and Black" — K stands for "Kohle" (German for coal) and is used to represent black as 'B' could be confused with 'Blue'.

In practice, mixtures of actual materials like paint tend to be less precise. Brighter, or more specific colors can be created using natural pigments instead of mixing, and natural properties of pigments can interfere with the mixing. For example, mixing magenta and green in acrylic creates a dark cyan - something which would not happen if the mixing process were perfectly subtractive. In the subtractive model, adding white to a color does not (in theory) change its hue but does reduce its saturation. In fact, adding white usually does change the hue slightly (this is known as the Abney effect), for example, adding white to red makes it slightly bluish, or pink.


</doc>
<doc id="19760" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19760" title="Umbilicus">
Umbilicus

The umbilicus (also called navel or bellybutton) is a scar on the body of mammals that is left after a baby loses its umbilical cord. The umbilicus of humans is in the middle of the abdomen. It is usually only easy to see on humans, and is a thin line on many other mammals. In humans, they can be split into two different kinds, the kind that goes in (innie) and the kind that goes out (outie). Different people have different navels that can be different in size, shape, and looks, but these differences are not genetic (you do not get them from looks passed down in your family). The hepatic portal vein passes from the umbilical vein to the liver. When a person becomes fat, the fat usually goes around the umbilicus.

It marks the water shed line of the body.The venus blood & lymph do not cross the umbilical plane.


</doc>
<doc id="19761" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19761" title="James Cook">
James Cook

Captain James Cook, FRS (27 October 1728 (O.S.) – 14 February 1779) was an English explorer, navigator and cartographer. He made three voyages to the Pacific Ocean, mapping many areas and recording several islands and coastlines on European maps for the first time. He is most notable for the British finding the east coast of Australia, finding the Hawaiian Islands and the first mapping of Newfoundland and New Zealand. 

During his lifetime, he sailed twice around the world. He crossed the Antarctic Circle and found new islands and landscapes in North America and the South Pacific. During his trips, he spent a lot of time on science experiments, and mapping new areas. He also wrote a lot of books about what he found. 

Cook was born on 27 October 1728 in Marton in (Yorkshire). He was a son of a Scottish farmer. He was educated at the school in Great Ayton, and at 17 he began work in a shop at Staithes. At 18, Cook became a sailor, and became an apprentice to John Walker of Whitby. Walker's business was transporting coal. Cook learned mathematics and navigation from Walker. Cook was not just a normal seaman. He studied as much as he could. That is how he learned a lot of good knowledge about navigation and science. He was sent on three expeditions with the ship called "Endeavour" all over the world.

His goals on these missions were:

At the beginning, it was an honour to be on these expeditions. After a while, money was the most important reason for doing his job. After his death, his wife inherited 70,000 gold coins.


</doc>
<doc id="19762" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19762" title="Offside rule">
Offside rule

The offside rule is one of the oldest football rules, but is still a much discussed rule. This is because it is difficult for the referee or assistant referee to watch the ball, the player playing the ball and also the attacker who is seeking to receive the ball at the same time. 

Offside is an offence committed by the team which has the ball and is punished with an indirect free kick.
It is a common misconception that the ball must be played forward for an offside offense to be committed. This is incorrect however, as an offside offense is related to the position of the ball and the player receiving it rather than the direction it is played. If the player is in front of the ball when it is played and has not got at least two defending players closer to the defending goal line than they are, she or he is in an offside position. 

But there are some exceptions:


</doc>
<doc id="19763" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19763" title="Valentine's Day">
Valentine's Day

Valentine's Day is a holiday that happens on February 14. It is the day of the year when lovers show their love to each other. This can be done by giving flowers, chocolates or Valentine's cards. Love notes can be given to one another. These notes are called "valentines".

Symbols of Valentine's Day are heart shapes, roses, and Cupid with his arrows.

Valentine's Day is named for two martyred Christian saints named Valentine. 

Since the 14th century Valentine's pairs are formed in England. English emigrants took the Valentine's custom to the United States. After the Second World War, US soldiers brought this festival to Europe.

In the third century after Christ, Valentine was the bishop of Terni (Italy). He performed weddings for couples who were not allowed to get married. They may not have been allowed to get married because the parents did not agree with the connection or because the bridegroom was a soldier or a slave, so the marriage was forbidden. Valentine gave to the married pairs flowers from his garden. That's why flowers play a very important role on Valentine's Day. This did not please the emperor. On February 14, 269 AD, Valentin was beheaded because of his Christian faith.

An expansion of the legend combines the day of death of Valentine with the Roman festival Lupercalia. It was the festival of the great goddess Lupa, which is the feminine word for wolf. She was the Great She-Wolf who nursed the twin babies, Romulus and Remus, who later became the founders of Rome. During the annual ceremony, the temple priestesses (lupae) wrote their names on strips of papyrus. These were picked by young men. After the lottery, the youngsters walked through the city and got the blessings of the citizens. The martyr Valentine became the patron saint of the lovers. Still in the Middle Ages, as in France or in Belgium, people were chosen by the lottery to live a year with each other and people prayed to Saint Valentin to make love potions and charms.

In the 19th century, the custom of sending Valentine's Cards became very popular. The cards usually have pictures of hearts or flowers and contain some sort of poem, message, or code. Codes and simple messages give some people the to show their true feelings to the person they love. Today, some people still use mysterious codes to show their love. People can use newspapers to give a coded message to their loved one, giving other readers a view of the couples' with one another. 

Famous for the popularity of the celebration is the folk song called "Die Vogelhochzeit" ("The Birds' Wedding").

In China, a holiday called Qi Xi is also called "Chinese Valentine's Day", especially by younger people. Qi Xi is traditionally held on the 7th day of the 7th month of the lunar calendar. In recent years, it has become more like Valentine's Day in other countries.


</doc>
<doc id="19764" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19764" title="Wikipedia:WikiProject">
Wikipedia:WikiProject

A WikiProject is a collection of pages that focuses on a specific subject within Wikipedia. It is not a place to write articles, but a tool to help others in writing articles. The talk pages that come with the projects are a useful forum for those who want to join a certain project.

Currently, Simple English Wikipedia is not yet large enough to have a large number of active WikiProjects. Many projects that have been created here in the past have been abandoned after a short amount of time. Because of this, WikiProjects are created in a user's userspace.

Anyone can create a WikiProject in their own namespace. Let's say you are user:Example and want to create a WikiProject about cars. You could create the page for your project. You may then notify the community of your WikiProject on and list it on this page on the list of current WikiProjects below.

If you have used another language Wikipedia, especially English Wikipedia, you may have seen a notice on article talk pages saying something like "This article is part of WikiProject Television". Until a WikiProject has been accepted by the community here and moved to the Wikipedia mainspace, it "should not" have notices placed on article talk pages. Once it is in the Wikipedia mainspace, it is fine to add these notices.



</doc>
<doc id="19765" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19765" title="Canary Islands">
Canary Islands

The Canary Islands are a group of islands off the coast of Morocco. They are an autonomous (they make their own laws) community of Spain. There are seven main islands. The people who live there speak Spanish. The autonomous community has two capital cities, of equal status: Santa Cruz de Tenerife and Las Palmas de Gran Canaria. Every island has been created by volcanoes on the bottom of the sea. Those volcanoes slowly rose until they rose above the water and made the islands. This process lasted many thousands of years.

The islands have a very long and interesting history. When Europeans first came to the Canary Islands, they found people already living there. These people were called the Guanches. Many of the Guanches were killed in battles with the Spanish, and the ones who remained adopted the Spanish way of life. Many battles with the Spanish were fought for the islands before Spain claimed them. After the Spanish conquest many battles were also fought against pirates. The most recent of countries interested in them was Morocco. 

After the Spanish conquest many Europeans settled there. Portuguese and Spaniards, and also Belgians and Maltese were among the early settlers. Recently many people from all over Europe, America, India and Africa have also became citizens or permanent residents.

The seven islands are: La Palma, La Gomera, El Hierro, Tenerife, Gran Canaria, Lanzarote, and Fuerteventura. People from La Gomera have a whistle language which children there learn at school. Tenerife has the highest mountain in the Canary Islands and Spain too, the Teide. The Teide is actually a volcano, but it has not been active in more than 300 years. 

The islands are popular with tourists because of their warm climate and nice beaches. The local farmers grow lots of exotic fruits including papayas and bananas.

The Canary Islands' main exports include bananas and tobacco.


</doc>
<doc id="19766" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19766" title="Edinburgh Airport">
Edinburgh Airport

Edinburgh Airport (IATA EDI, ICAO: EGPH) is an airport in Scotland. It is one of 7 airports in the United Kingdom owned by the company BAA, BAA also owns Glasgow and Aberdeen airports in Scotland.

In February of 2001 a Shorts 360 crashed shortly after taking off from Edinburgh airport. Both pilots were killed but there were no passengers on board as it was a mail carrying flight. 



</doc>
<doc id="19767" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19767" title="Lufthansa">
Lufthansa

Lufthansa is the largest airline in Germany, and the second largest in Europe. Some of Lufthansa's hubs are Frankfurt am Main and Munich, A hub is an airport where people who fly from one city to a second city can transfer or change airplanes. 

Lufthansa buys airplanes from Boeing and Airbus. Lufthansa has big airplanes for flights to North America, Asia, and Africa. These flights are called long-haul flights because they are between cities that are far apart from each other. Lufthansa also has small airplanes for flights in Europe. These flights are called short-haul flights. 

Lufthansa is a member of the Star Alliance which means it is a partner with other airlines like United Airlines and Air Canada. Members of the Star Alliance cooperate or work together to schedule their flights better so that travelling is easier for passengers or people. 

The name of Lufthansa's frequent flyer program is Miles and More. People earn points for flights they travel on. When they have enough points, they can get a free flight. Lufthansa has Miles and More to encourage people to fly with Lufthansa.

Lufthansa uses these aeroplanes:



</doc>
<doc id="19768" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19768" title="Orlando Bloom">
Orlando Bloom

Orlando Jonathan Blanchard Bloom (born 13 January 1977, in Canterbury, Kent, England) is an English actor. He is most known for his first major movie role as the elf Legolas Greenleaf in the "The Lord of the Rings" film trilogy.

In 1993, he moved to London to improve his career, doing bit parts in TV series like "Casualty". Then he played some theatres like "The Seagull", "Twelfth Night", and "Trojan Women". This is a role that he received some days before graduating the drama school in London.

Here are some movies, in which he played an important character:


</doc>
<doc id="19778" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19778" title="871">
871



</doc>
<doc id="19779" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19779" title="1791">
1791

The year of 1791 started on a Saturday in the Gregorian calendar.






</doc>
<doc id="19780" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19780" title="1084">
1084




</doc>
<doc id="19781" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19781" title="Chromium">
Chromium

Chromium is a chemical element. Its symbol on the periodic table (a list of all the elements) is Cr. Its atomic number is 24. (The atomic number says where chromium sits in the periodic table.)Its mass number (number of protons and neutrons) is approximately 54. It always has 24 protons. Most of the times it has 28 neutrons, but sometimes different isotopes have more or less neutrons. As a metal, it has 24 electrons. Its ions have less electrons.

Chromium is a shiny metal. It is reactive, but it reacts with air to produce a very thin coating of chromium(III) oxide, which prevents it from rusting any more. 

It forms chemical compounds that are colorful. They can be green, yellow, purple, red, orange, black, and blue!

There are two main types of chromium ions, which are found in chromium compounds. One type of chromium ion("Cr", trivalent chromium ) is required by our body and by those of other animals. If we do not get enough chromium, certain parts of our body may not work properly. We get most of the chromium we need from our food we eat. Chromium is also put into vitamins to make sure that we get enough. If we get too much of this type of chromium, it can harm our body.
Another type of chromium ("Cr" (chromate, hexavalent chromium), in the +6 oxidation state) can cause cancer or make people sick, even though most people do not get exposed to it much. Hexavalent chromium was important in the movie "Erin Brockovich". It is found in places that make chromium metal, which is why they need to be cleaned up when they close. Hexavalent chromium can be destroyed by reacting it with reducing agents, turning it into Cr (trivalent chromium). They are strong oxidizing agents.

Chromium occurs as chromite. Chromite is a mixture of iron(II) oxide and chromium(III) oxide. Its chemical formula is FeCrO. It is heated with sodium carbonate to make sodium chromate, iron(III) oxide, and carbon dioxide. The sodium chromate is reacted with sulfuric acid to produce sodium dichromate. The sodium dichromate is reduced by carbon to chromium(III) oxide. The chromium(III) oxide is reacted with aluminum to make chromium metal. The chromates and dichromates are what make chromium production areas toxic.

Chromium is used in different metal products. Stainless steel is the most common use. It is also used in "chrome plating", where it makes things shiny and stops corrosion. Some chromates were used as pigments, but they are toxic so people do not want to use them anymore. 

Chromium metal is nontoxic. But hexavalent chromium is toxic and carcinogenic, and trivalent chromium is mildly toxic in large quantities.



</doc>
<doc id="19782" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19782" title="Neon">
Neon

Neon is a noble gas. It is chemical element 10 on the periodic table. Its symbol is Ne. 

The word "neon" comes from the Greek word meaning "new". It was discovered by William Ramsay and Morris W. Travers in 1898.

Neon does not react with other elements, so it is found by itself. There is not much neon in the air, and it is clear, so we do not see it. 

Neon gas is used in lamps. When electricity goes through the neon, it lights up in many different colors. Due to this quality, it is used in signs.

Neon is also a term referring to a type of color that is very bright, such as lime green.

No true chemical compounds including the neutral compounds of neon are known. Where there is the helium compound HHeF, which might be stable, the analogous componund with Neon is not. 



</doc>
<doc id="19783" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19783" title="Tin">
Tin

Tin is a chemical element. It is chemical element 50 on the periodic table (the number tells us where the element is found on the table). The chemical symbol for tin is Sn. It is in Group 14 on the periodic table. It is not radioactive. 

Tin is a silver, somewhat soft metal. It is a post-transition metal. Its melting point is 231.93°C and its boiling point is 2602°C. It can melt easily in a flame. It is malleable. It makes a crackling sound called tin cry when a piece of it is bent. Tin has more non-radioactive isotopes than any other element.

Tin is found in two allotropes: alpha-tin and beta-tin. Alpha-tin is a brittle, dull, powdery, nonmetallic form of tin. It is made when very pure tin is cooled. Beta-tin is the normal shiny, soft, conductive, metallic form. It is made at higher temperatures. The decay of tin by turning from beta-tin to alpha-tin is called "tin pest". Alpha-tin is not wanted in many places. When small amounts of other elements like antimony are added, the tin cannot change into alpha-tin. When alpha-tin is heated, it changes into beta-tin.

Tin can be hardened by adding antimony or copper, as well as some other elements. These also make it resistant to tin pest. Tin can also be made very shiny. Tin can make an alloy with copper called bronze.

Tin is corrosion resistant to many things. Salt water and fresh water do not affect it. It does dissolve in strong acids to make tin(II) salts. It reacts with some strong bases. Tin can act as a catalyst to make other things corrode when both of them are in a water solution that has dissolved oxygen.

Tin forms chemical compounds in two oxidation states: +2 and +4. +2 compounds are reducing agents. Some of them are colorless while others are colored. +4 compounds are more unreactive and act more covalent.

Tin burns in air to make tin(IV) oxide, which is white. Tin(IV) oxide dissolves in acids to make other tin(IV) compounds. Tin(IV) chloride is a colorless fuming liquid when anhydrous and a white solid when hydrated. It easily reacts with water to make tin(IV) oxide and an acid again. 

Tin reacts with hydrohalic acids to make tin(II) halides. For example, tin(II) chloride is made when tin dissolves in hydrochloric acid. Tin(IV) halides are made when tin reacts with the halogens. Tin(IV) chloride is made when tin reacts with chlorine. Tin(II) sulfate is different as it does not oxidize to tin(IV) sulfate. Tin(II) oxide is a blue-black solid that burns in air to make tin(IV) oxide.

Tin is not found as a metal in the ground. It is normally in the form of cassiterite. Cassiterite is a mineral containg tin(IV) oxide. The cassiterite is normally found downstream of the cassiterite deposit when it is by a stream or river. Tin is also found in some complicated sulfide minerals.

Tin does not have any major job in the human body.

Tin is made by heating cassiterite with carbon in a furnace. China is the biggest maker of tin.

People discovered tin long ago and used it with other metals. When copper and tin are mixed together, bronze is made. Bronze was important in the past, because it was one of the strongest metals available, which meant it was useful in weapons and tools. Bronze changed the world when it was first invented, starting the Bronze Age. People organized themselves more, because making tools from bronze was harder than making them from rock and wood like they did before.

Tin is used in solder. Solder used to contain a mixture of lead and tin. Now the lead is removed because of its toxicity.

Tin is also used to make pewter, which is mainly tin mixed with a small amount of copper and other metals. Babbitt metal also has tin in it. Tin is used to coat several metals, like lead and steel. Tin plated steel containers are used to store foods. The pipes on a pipe organ are made of tin. Tin foil was used before aluminium foil. Tin was one of the first superconductors to be found. Organotin compounds are more common than almost any other organometal compound. They are used in some PVC pipes to stop them from decaying. Organotin compounds are toxic, though.

Tin is not toxic, but tin compounds are very toxic to marine life. They are a little toxic to humans.


</doc>
<doc id="19785" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19785" title="Silicon">
Silicon

Silicon is element 14 on the periodic table. Its symbol is Si.

Silicon looks like a metal, but does not do everything a metal does, like conduct electricity very easily. It is a metalloid. Silicon is used a great deal in today's computers and virtually every electronic device. Germanium can also be used in computers, but silicon is easier to find. 

There is a lot of silicon on the Earth. At the beach, there is silicon in the form of sand. Sand is a compound of silicon known as silicon dioxide or silica. Glass is made by heating sand (or silicon dioxide) hot enough. The glass can have different colors by adding colored compounds. Silicon also makes up a lot of different rocks and minerals, and they are known as silicates.

Silicon is a semiconductor.



</doc>
<doc id="19786" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19786" title="Cadmium">
Cadmium

Cadmium is a metal. It is element 48 on the periodic table. Its symbol is "Cd". Its atomic number is 48 and its atomic mass is 112.4. It is found in Group 12 on the periodic table.

Cadmium is a blue-gray soft metal. It can be considered a transition metal or a post-transition metal. It is malleable and ductile. It is similar to zinc. It melts at 321°C.

Cadmium has 8 natural isotopes. 5 are radioactive, but 3 have very long half-lives so their radioactivity is almost nothing. 

Cadmium is a moderately reactive metal. It corrodes in moist air and dissolves in acids. It burns in air when powdered to make the brown cadmium oxide. 

Cadmium forms chemical compounds in two oxidation states: +1 and +2. The +1 state is rare and unstable. The +2 state is much more common. Most +2 compounds dissolve easily in water and are white to yellow. Cadmium oxide can be brown, red, or white. Cadmium sulfide is bright yellow. Cadmium chloride and cadmium sulfate are colorless solids that dissolve easily in water. Cadmium fluoride is slightly soluble.

Cadmium was found by two separate people at the same time. They were looking at an impurity in zinc carbonate and found cadmium. For about 100 years, Germany made most cadmium. Cadmium iodide was used as a medicine although it was toxic.

Cadmium ores are rare. Greenockite, a cadmium sulfide mineral is the only main ore and it is found with sphalerite, a zinc sulfide. Because of this, most cadmium comes from zinc processing. Cadmium as a metal is very rare but is found in one place in Russia.

China makes the most cadmium. South Korea and Japan also make cadmium. Cadmium is taken from the zinc metal by heating the zinc metal in a vacuum. Cadmium is boiled first. The cadmium is condensed and used. Cadmium is also taken by precipitating it from the solution of zinc sulfate used to make pure zinc by electrolysis.

In the 1930's and 1940's cadmium was mainly used to plate steel to prevent it from corroding. Then cadmium sulfide was used as a pigment in paint. 

Now, cadmium is mainly used in nickel cadmium batteries. 86% of cadmium is used in batteries as of 2009. Some people are trying to stop using nickel-cadmium batteries because of the cadmium. Cadmium is still used to electroplate steel to prevent corrosion. Only about 6% of cadmium is used for this. Cadmium is also used in lasers, nuclear reactors, phosphors, photoresistors, pigments, and semiconductors. Wood's metal, an alloy that melts very easily, has cadmium in it. Cadmium is used in some solder. 

Cadmium is not used in the human body or any other animal. A diatom uses cadmium, though. 

Cadmium is a highly toxic metal. Dust of cadmium or its compounds is very dangerous and can kill. Some countries have banned cadmium from electronics. Cigarette smoking is the most important source of cadmium. Smokers have about 4 times more cadmium in their blood than nonsmokers (people who do not smoke). Cadmium is thought to be carcinogenic, although people still debate whether it is other things with the cadmium that cause cancer, like arsenic.


</doc>
<doc id="19787" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19787" title="Krypton">
Krypton

Krypton is a noble gas which means it does not react with many other elements. It is clear and has no taste or smell. The atmosphere is only about one millionth part krypton. The name "kypton" comes from the Greek word "kryptos" meaning hidden. It is used in fluorescent lamps, flashbulbs, and as a wavelength standard. The metre is defined as 1,650,763.73 wavelengths in a vacuum of krypton gas. Krypton has very few compounds.

The main use for krypton is to make light. There is one main type of krypton light bulbs. This is called a gas discharge lamp. There are three main types of these. First is a low energy gas discharge lamp or "neon light". Low energy gas discharge lights made from krypton are near white to green. Second is a high energy short length of time gas discharge light or "flash bulb". These are mostly used for photography. They are bright blue-white. Third is a high energy gas discharge light. This third kind is mostly used to light airport runways. They are also bright blue-white.

Krypton is number 36 on the periodic table. Its symbol is Kr.

Krypton was found by Sir William Ramsay and Morris Travers in Great Britain in 1898. Ramsay was given the 1904 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for his work on noble gases. It was a difficult gas to discover; Ramsay suspected it existed but only found it by removing other gases. This is why he gave it the name Krypton. There is no mineral called Kryptonite or planet called Krypton, which features in the Superman comics by Jerry Siegel and Joe Shuster. The fictional planet is probably better known than the real chemical element called Krypton.



</doc>
<doc id="19788" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19788" title="Noble gas">
Noble gas

The noble gases are a group of elements that are all gases. These elements are all in Group 18 of the periodic table. They almost never react with other elements. This is because they have a full outer electron shell. There are six noble gases:


All of these gases are found in air. They make up around 0.96% of the atmosphere. Noble gas compounds can be formed from noble gasses.

When the noble gases are used in cold cathode tubes to produce light, some noble gases have different colours. Since Radon is radioactive, it is usually not used for lighting. Here are pictures of what the others look like:

Ununoctium (element 118) is probably the next noble gas after Radon. However it has a half life of 0.89 ms, after which it decays to Ununhexium (Element 116). This means its use is probably limited.

Noble gases were discovered by Lord Rayleigh and Sir William Ramsay. Rayleigh won the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1904 for his work on noble gas. Ramsay won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1904 for his work with noble gas.


</doc>
<doc id="19790" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19790" title="Polonium">
Polonium

Polonium is a rare radioactive metalloid. It is chemical element 84 on the periodic table and its symbol is Po. It was discovered in 1898 by Marie and Pierre Curie.

Polonium is highly unstable, radioactive and toxic. This makes it difficult to handle, and potentially dangerous, even in very small amounts. One gram of Po will self-heat to a temperature of around . It also vaporizes easily.

Polonium has 33 isotopes, and all of them are radioactive. It is a very rare element in nature because of its short half-life. It is a breakdown product of uranium, and hence it is found in uranium ores. 

The former Russian secret service agent Alexander Litvinenko was murdered by having a tiny amount of polonium introduced into a drink.


</doc>
<doc id="19791" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19791" title="Bismuth">
Bismuth

Bismuth is a chemical element. It is element 83 on the periodic table and its symbol is "Bi". Its atomic mass is 209. It is only a very little radioactive. The radioactivity is so little that it is seen as nonradioactive normally. Bismuth is only found as one isotope naturally, which is the almost nonradioactive one. Its radioactivity was predicted by scientists and proven by analyzing the metal. It is in Group 15 on the periodic table. 

Bismuth is a silver metal with a pink tinge to it. This pink color is because of its oxide coating. Bismuth is a post-transition metal. It is one of the strongest diamagnetic metals. It is almost as heavy as lead. Its melting point is quite low , which is normal for post-transition metals. It is quite brittle. It can make crystals with a shiny surface. This is because of the oxide coating too. As a liquid it is heavier than as a solid. Another chemical that does this is water. It does not conduct electricity or heat very well.

Bismuth is somewhat similar to antimony. Bismuth makes a thin coating of bismuth(III) oxide when it is in air. This makes the colors on the crystals. It does not oxidize any more than the oxide layer. It burns when powdered with a bright blue flame, making yellow bismuth(III) oxide fumes. Bismuth reacts with sulfur when molten as well. Bismuth reacts with nitric acid to make bismuth(III) nitrate and concentrated sulfuric acid to make bismuth(III) sulfate and sulfur dioxide. It reacts with the halogens to make bismuth(III) halides. With fluorine it makes bismuth(V) fluoride unless the fluorine is diluted, though.

Bismuth forms chemical compounds in two main oxidation states: +3 and +5. +3 is the most common. +3 compounds are weak oxidizing agents and are normally light yellow. +5 compounds are strong oxidizing agents. Bismuthates are the most common +5 compounds. Bismuth(V) fluoride is another +5 compound. Bismuth(V) oxide is an unstable red solid. Bismuth sulfide is a common ore of bismuth. Bismuthine, a bismuth hydride, is very unstable and only can be made at very cold temperatures. Bismuth makes many oxy- compounds like bismuth oxychloride. These compounds are made when bismuth halides dissolve in water.

Bismuth was known since ancient times. It was confused with tin and lead, though. No one is credited for discovering bismuth. In the 1500's people started realizing that bismuth was different than tin or lead.

Bismuth is not very common in the earth. It is only about twice as common as gold. Bismite, a bismuth oxide mineral, and bismuthinite, a bismuth sulfide, are two common ores. Bismuth is sometimes found as a metal, too.

Bismuth and its minerals are too rare to be mined. They are gotten by "secondary extraction". It is normally found in lead metal. The lead metal is purified by electrolysis, leaving the bismuth behind as a sludge on the bottom of the container. The copper is taken out of the sludge and the bismuth is purified by being reduced in a furnace and all the impurities are filtered out.

China makes the most bismuth. Peru, Mexico, and Japan also make bismuth.

Bismuth can also be recycled. This is difficult in many places because bismuth is used for things like bullets, solder, and stomach medicine that get scattered all over and cannot easily be gotten again.

Bismuth is used in alloys with very low melting points. Some of them melt in hot water. They are also found in solder that does not have lead in it. It can make alloys with other metals to make them more malleable. It is also used in bullets to replace lead. In some places lead bullets are outlawed as birds eat them and get lead poisoning. It is also used in alloys for plumbing. It is used in fishing sinkers. 

Bismuth is used in some medicines such as Pepto-Bismol. This medicine has bismuth subsalicylate in it. It is also used as an internal deodorant and to treat eye infections and peptic ulcers.

Bismuth oxychloride is used in cosmetics. Bismuth telluride is used in electronic thermometers. Another compound is used in superconductors and becomes a superconductor at a high temperature. It can be used as a pigment and in fireworks to make crackling sounds. It is used in the nuclear fuel of a nuclear reactor.

Bismuth is much less toxic than other heavy metals. This is why it is replacing lead in many things. It does not add up in the body like other heavy metals do. A very large amount of bismuth can poison the kidneys and liver, though. Because its oxide does not dissolve in water, it is considered safe for the environment.


</doc>
<doc id="19792" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19792" title="Iridium">
Iridium

Iridium is the 77th element on the periodic table. Its symbol is Ir.

Iridium is a metal. It is very hard to find and costs a lot. It is known as a "noble metal". It looks like platinum and is found in asteroids and comets. It can be used to find out when an asteroid or comet will hit the Earth. It is a very costly metal that can fold and bend just like aluminum. It is very shiny.

Iridium is not needed in the body.

A man named Smithson Tennant first found it in the year 1803.


</doc>
<doc id="19793" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19793" title="Transition metal">
Transition metal

The transition metals are a group of metals that are found in the middle of the periodic table. They all have similar properties. The alkaline earth metals are to the left and the Group 3 elements, beginning with boron.

Transition metals have several general properties. They are harder and less reactive than the alkaline earth metals. They are also harder than the post transition metals. They make colorful chemical compounds with other elements. Most of them have more than one oxidation state.

Some of the transition metals are necessary to keep humans healthy, such as iron, zinc, and chromium. Other elements in the transition metals can be harmful to our body, like cadmium and mercury. Other elements like gold or silver do not really harm or help us. There are more transition metals than any other groups in the periodic table.

Only a few of the transition metals are colored; most of them are silver-gray or silver-bluish.


</doc>
<doc id="19794" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19794" title="Osmium">
Osmium

Osmium is a chemical element. It is element number 76 on the periodic table. Its symbol is "Os".

There is not much osmium on earth. There is actually such a small amount that osmium is very expensive. 

Osmium is a metal and it does not react very much, and such a metal is known as a "noble metal".

It was discovered in 1804 by Smithson Tennant in London, England. He found it together with Iridium in a bit of Platinum, which he had dissolved in Aqua regia.


</doc>
<doc id="19795" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19795" title="Radon">
Radon

Radon is element 86 on the periodic table. Its symbol is Rn.

Radon is a gas and is part of the group known as the noble gases. It does not react with other elements, so it is found pure.

Radon is radioactive, meaning that it can give off harmful rays. Some people have high levels of radon in their houses, and this can be very dangerous. A lot of radon can get stuck in the basement of old houses, and so people end up breathing it in. It gets stuck in the lungs and has been known to cause cancer. There are groups that try to make sure there is no dangerous radon in houses.



</doc>
<doc id="19796" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19796" title="FTP">
FTP

FTP stands for File Transfer Protocol, it is mainly used to send and receive files on the Internet. It was developed in 1985 and is defined in RFC 959.

FTP is a way of accessing files on another computer. The computer that is connected to is called a server, the computer that connects to the server is called a client. A server listens on the network for connection requests from other computers. The client can make a connection to the FTP server by using FTP client software. Once connected, the client can do things such as uploading files (putting its own files on the server) to the server, downloading files (taking the server's files and putting them on his own computer) from the server, and renaming or deleting files on the server.

Many computer platforms support FTP. This allows any computer to connected to a TCP/IP based network to manipulate files on another computer on that network regardless of which operating systems are involved (if the computers permit FTP access). There are many existing FTP client and server programs, many of these are available free.

FTP connection is also seen in cellular phones when trying to transfer or receive data from a computer nearby. 

FTP server return codes show their status by the digits within them. A short explanation of various digits' meanings are given below:



</doc>
<doc id="19797" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19797" title="Hypertext Transfer Protocol">
Hypertext Transfer Protocol

Hypertext Transfer Protocol (often abbreviated to HTTP) is a communications protocol. It is used to send and receive webpages and files on the internet. It was developed by Tim Berners-Lee and is now coordinated by the W3C. HTTP version 1.1 is the most common used version today. It is defined in RFC 2616.

HTTP works by using a user agent to connect to a server. The user agent could be a web browser or spider. The server must be located using a URL or URI. This always contains http:// at the start. It normally connects to port 80 on a computer.

A more secure version of HTTP is called "HTTPS". This contains https:// at the beginning of the URL. It encrypts all the information that is sent and received. This can stop malicious users such as hackers from stealing it. It is often used on payment websites.

The request message contains the following:


The request line and headers must all end with two characters: a carriage return followed by a line feed, often written <CR><LF>. The empty line must consist of only <CR><LF> and no other whitespace. In the HTTP/1.1 protocol, all headers except Host are optional.

A request line containing only the path name is accepted by servers to maintain compatibility with HTTP clients before the HTTP/1.0 standard.


</doc>
<doc id="19798" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19798" title="Ethernet">
Ethernet

Ethernet is a way of connecting computers together in a local area network or LAN. It has been the most widely used method of linking computers together in LANs since the 1990s. The basic idea of its design is that multiple computers have access to it and can send data at any time. This is comparatively easy to engineer. 

Collisions are possible if two computers send data at the same time, a fact that disallows its use if real-time requirements are set. A protocol called Carrier sense multiple access with collision detection or CSMA/CD was designed to deal with these problems.
There are different Ethernet standards. Today, Ethernet looks like connecting cables that look like thick telephone cables to a set of boxes called hubs or switches. Each cable runs from a computer's network interface card (NIC) to such a box. This cable is called 10BaseT or 100BaseT, or 1000BaseT Cable.

All cable types:

Today, the cables for 10BaseT, 100BaseT, and 1000BaseT are the same. They use unshielded twisted pair of Category 5 (UTP-Cat5) or 5e for that. Shielded cable (STP-Cat5 or Cat5e) can be used when there is a lot of electrical noise, and Category 6 (UTP-Cat6 or STP-Cat6) works better with faster signals such as 1GBit or 10GBit.

Other devices, such as the Xbox 360 and the Playstation 3, can also be connected using the same kind of cabling. Certain computer peripherals, for example printers and certain hard disks can be directly connected to the network with such cables.

Ethernet can go at different speeds. In the beginning, Ethernet was at 10 MBits per second. The Ethernet most often used today is at 100 MBits per second. Most new computers now have the NIC built in, and can go at 1GBit per second. There are also standards for 1GBit per second and 10 GBit per second. 100 MBit can usually talk to 10 MBit, and 1 GBit can talk to 100 MBit and usually to 10 MBit (both full and half duplex).


</doc>
<doc id="19800" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19800" title="Obesity">
Obesity

Obesity is the condition of being much too heavy for one's height such that ones health is affected. In other words, it means to be too overweight. Also known as being fat.

To know if a person is overweight, the body mass index (BMI) is calculated, by dividing the weight (in kilograms) by the height of the person in meters, squared (multiplied by itself). (This is only meaningful for adults who are fully grown, and should not be used for children.)

A BMI between 20 and 25 is considered "normal". People with a BMI of 25 or more are said to be overweight; with 30 and above, they are considered obese, and with 35 and above, they are considered "severely obese" (this used to be called "morbidly obese"). In general, the BMI number is a good quantifiable measurement of a person's obesity, however it is a poor predictor in people who are very athletic, because a person with a higher than average amount of muscle tissue will weigh more than an average person, thus resulting in a BMI that is higher than normal, even if that person is very large.

Someone who is 1.75m tall, and has a weight of 80 kg, would have a BMI of formula_1. This gives a BMI of 26.12(..) - He or she would therefore be considered overweight.

The most common cause for obesity is getting more calories that are used by the body. Other factors that often contribute to obesity are:

Obesity is usually helped by diet (being careful about what food to eat) and exercise. Some people also use weight loss programs. In severe cases, drugs can be given. In very severe cases, weight-loss surgery can be done.



</doc>
<doc id="19803" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19803" title="Rn">
Rn

Rn or RN could mean:


</doc>
<doc id="19808" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19808" title="Phillips Academy">
Phillips Academy

Phillips Academy (also called Andover, Phillips Andover, or PA) is a high school for boys and girls in Andover, Massachusetts, near Boston, USA. 
The school is a boarding school. 75% of the students live there.

Phillips Academy is the oldest private boarding school in the United States. Two American Presidents, George H. W. Bush and George W. Bush, went to school there.

Phillips Academy was founded during the American Revolution as an all-boys school in 1778. The great seal of the school was designed by Paul Revere. George Washington's nephews went to the school, and he once spoke at an assembly while visiting. John Hancock, the famous signer of the United States Declaration of Independence, signed the articles of incorporation.

Phillips Exeter Academy was made three years later in Exeter, New Hampshire by Samuel Phillips' uncle John. The football teams have played against each other almost every year since 1878. This makes their rilvalry one of the oldest high school rivalries in the country.

Paul Revere put bees, a beehive, and the sun into the school's great seal. The school's main motto, "Finis Origine Pendet", means "the end depends upon the beginning." It is written at the bottom of the seal. The school's second motto, "Non Sibi" means "not for self." 


</doc>
<doc id="19812" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19812" title="Gluttony">
Gluttony

Gluttony is a wasting of resources. Usually it is food that is wasted. Either one person eats too much, or the person does something so the food (or the resources) do not reach those who need it.

In Christianity, this is considered to be one of the Seven deadly sins.


</doc>
<doc id="19813" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19813" title="Greed">
Greed

Greed is a desire to have more goods, or more wealth than is needed. Christianity says that greed is one of the Seven deadly sins. There it is listed as "avarice", or in Latin "avaritia".


</doc>
<doc id="19815" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19815" title="Mazurek Dąbrowskiego">
Mazurek Dąbrowskiego

Mazurek Dąbrowskiego is the Polish national anthem, made in 1797 by Józef Wybicki.

Jeszcze Polska nie zginęła,
Kiedy my żyjemy.
Co nam obca przemoc wzięła,
Szablą odbierzemy.
Poland has not yet succumbed.
As long as we remain,
What the foe by force has seized,
Sword in hand we'll gain.
Marsz, marsz, Dąbrowski,
Z ziemi włoskiej do Polski,
Za twoim przewodem
Złączym sie z narodem.
March! March, Dabrowski!
March from Italy to Poland!
Under your command
We shall reach our land.
Przejdziem Wisłę, przejdziem Wartę,
Bedziem Polakami,
Dal nam przykład Bonaparte,
Jak zwyciężać mamy.
Cross the Vistula and Warta
And Poles we shall be;
We've been shown by Bonaparte
Ways to victory.
Jak Czarniecki do Poznania
Po szwedzkim zaborze,
Dla ojczyzny ratowania
Wrócił się przez morze.
As Czarniecki Poznan town regains,
Fighting with the Swede,
To free our fatherland from chains,
We shall return by sea.
Już tam ojciec do swej Basi,
Mówi zapłakany:
"Słuchaj jeno, pono nasi
Biją w tarabany!"
And the father to Basia,
Then says and crying:
"Listen that, it's our boys
playing the drums!"


</doc>
<doc id="19816" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19816" title="CSA">
CSA



</doc>
<doc id="19818" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19818" title="Fornication">
Fornication

Fornication is a word that means having sex with someone who is not your spouse. Many Christians and Muslims believe it is sinful.


</doc>
<doc id="19820" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19820" title="Profit">
Profit

Profit is how much money somebody (normally a company) makes. This is found by subtracting how much money they have spent ("expenditure") from how much money they have brought in (revenue).

If John spends $15 on some ice cream cones, and then sells them for $20, he has made a profit of $5. This is because 20 minus 15 is 5.


</doc>
<doc id="19821" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19821" title="Roasting">
Roasting

Roasting is a way of cooking. Something gets roasted if it is put it over a fire, and some is burnt. The same effect can also be attained with a grill at a barbecue.

In different countries people like to roast different things. People usually roast joints of meats such as pork, beef, chicken, lamb, and duck. The roasted meat, along with its accompanying vegetables, is often called a roast.

Most meat being roasted has to cook for a relatively long time, to ensure the joint is cooked through. Variations to this include most joints of lamb and beef, which may be better left "pink" or partially uncooked towards the centre, for a better flavour.

Other things can be roasted too. For example, vegetables, coffee and chocolate. Coffee and chocolate are always roasted.


</doc>
<doc id="19823" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19823" title="Influenza">
Influenza

Influenza, better known as the flu and sometimes called the grippe, is a common childhood illness, but is not as common among Adults. It is not limited to humans, most mammals and many birds can also catch influenza. It is caused by several different viruses (see: RNA virus), which is why people can have the flu more than once.. The name "influenza" comes from , meaning "influence".

Human Influenza can pass from one person to another very easily. It is most commonly spread by the microscopic droplets of mucus and fluid that are sent into the air when the sick person coughs or sneezes. Symptoms include cough, sore throat, muscle aches and pains, fever, headache, and rarely vomiting and diarrhoea. Influenza can also lead to other diseases, such as pneumonia. This makes it especially dangerous to young children, and old people. 

Although there is no cure for influenza, Antiviral drugs can be used to treat the illness so it is not as severe and does not last as long. 

the influenza season runs from late fall to spring because most people catch it in the winter months. When there are more cases of influenza than expected, it will sometimes be called an epidemic. When there are a large number of cases of the same type of influenza all over the world, it is often called a pandemic.

Small changes that happen as flu is passed from one person to another is the most common way flu viruses change. This is the main reason that people can catch the flu every year.

The CDC keeps track of the different flu viruses that are circulating, and gives this information to the companies that make flu shots. Since the flu changes so much from year to year, flu shots have to given for each new flu season.

Flu shots only protect against the most common flu viruses, and every now and then a slightly different type spreads more than expected. Usually when this happens, the existing flu shot gives some protection so that even if a person who had a flu shot catches it, they do not get as sick.

Some flu viruses are caught from animals. Bird Flu, for example, is usually only caught by people in contact with sick birds (usually chickens). These types of flu virus are usually very limited, and while they can make a person very ill, usually other people do not catch the virus from the sick person.

Another way that the flu can change is when a person or animal catches two different flu viruses. The two viruses can exchange some of their genetic information, which can create a brand new flu that nobody has ever caught before. 

If an animal flu virus changes in this way to one that can easily pass from human to human, many people become ill because nobody has any immunity to the new virus. Often, a brand new virus is more severe and kills more people.

New types of flu virus are usually what causes pandemics, and that is the reason many scientists have been following Bird Flu so closely--it kills six people out of every ten who catch it. This would be a very serious problem if it changes enough to spread easily between people.

This new flu virus got its name because it contains genetic parts that are commonly found in flu viruses that infect pigs . It is not spread by pigs or by eating pork - this is a new human virus being spread by humans.

Although information is still coming out about Swine Flu, so far it does not seem to be as severe as Bird Flu or the flu that caused the Influenza Pandemic of 1918 (also known as Spanish Flu), but it is much too early to predict whether it will cause the next flu pandemic.



</doc>
<doc id="19824" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19824" title="Pancreas">
Pancreas

The pancreas is an organ that makes hormones and enzymes to help digestion. The pancreas helps break down carbohydrates, fats and proteins. The pancreas is behind the stomach and is on the left side of the human body.

The part of the pancreas that makes hormones is called the Islets of Langerhans. The Islets of Langerhans are a small part (2%) of the total cells in the pancreas. The Islets of Langerhans change which chemical they make depending on how much of other chemicals are already in the blood. So, the pancreas works to keep the level of chemicals in balance in the body. If the Islets of Langerhans stop working, a person will suffer from a disease called diabetes. Doctors are experimenting with taking the Islets of Langerhans cells from a donor body and putting them into the pancreas of a person with diabetes to make that person well.

The pancreas belongs to two systems of the body: the digestive system for its role in breaking down nutrients, and the endocrine system for producing hormones.

The pancreas releases these hormones:

The pancreas releases many different enzymes to help digestion:



</doc>
<doc id="19827" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19827" title="Chloroplast">
Chloroplast

Chloroplasts are small organelles inside the cells of plants and algae. They absorb light to make sugar in a process called photosynthesis. The sugar can be stored in the form of starch. Chloroplasts contain the molecule chlorophyll, which absorbs sunlight for photosynthesis. In addition to chlorophyll, a chloroplast uses carbon dioxide (CO) and water (HO) to form sugar, and gives off oxygen (O). Chlorophyll is what gives green plants their green colour. Chloroplasts also contain various yellow and orange pigments to assist in photon capture for photosynthesis.

Each choloroplast is surrounded by a double walled semi-permeable membrane. In the layered stacks are flat disk-shaped thylakoids. They contain light-absorbing pigments, including chlorophyll and carotenoids, as well as proteins which bind the pigments. Like mitochondria, chloroplasts also contain their own DNA and ribosomes.

Chloroplasts are one of the many different types of organelles in the cell. They are thought to have originated as endosymbiotic cyanobacteria. This was first suggested by Mereschkowsky in 1905 after an observation by Schimper in 1883 that chloroplasts closely resembled cyanobacteria. Almost all chloroplasts are thought to derive directly or indirectly from a single endosymbiotic event. 

Mitochondria also had a similar origin, but chloroplasts are found only in plants and protista. In green plants, chloroplasts are surrounded by two lipid-bilayer membranes. They are thought to correspond to the outer and inner membranes of the ancestral cyanobacterium. Chloroplasts have their own genome, which is much smaller than that of free-living cyanobacteria. The DNA which remains shows clear similarities with the cyanobacterial genome. Plastids may contain 60–100 genes whereas cyanobacteria often contain more than 1500 genes. Many of the missing genes are encoded in the nuclear genome of the host. 

In some algae (such as the heterokonts), chloroplasts seem to have evolved through a secondary event of endosymbiosis, in which a eukaryotic cell engulfed a second eukaryotic cell containing chloroplasts, forming chloroplasts with three or four membrane layers. In some cases, such secondary endosymbionts may have themselves been engulfed by still other eukaryotes, thus forming tertiary endosymbionts. In the alga "Chlorella", there is only one chloroplast, which is bell-shaped.

In some groups of mixotrophic protists such as the dinoflagellates, chloroplasts are separated from a captured alga or diatom and used temporarily. These klepto (stolen) chloroplasts may only have a lifetime of a few days and are then replaced..


</doc>
<doc id="19828" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19828" title="Chlorophyll">
Chlorophyll

Chlorophyll is a chemical found in the chloroplasts of plants that allows the plant to absorb light. Energy from the light is used in photosynthesis to make glucose. This contains lots of stored energy which the plant needs to release. It does this through respiration. This energy is then used for lots of different things like growing or repairing damaged parts of the plant. Chlorophyll is also what gives the stem and leaf of the plant its green color.

Chlorophyll is a green pigment found in almost all plants, algae, and cyanobacteria. It absorbs light most strongly in the blue portion of the electromagnetic spectrum, followed by the red portion. However, it is a poor absorber of green and near-green portions of the spectrum; hence the green color of chlorophyll-containing tissues. Chlorophyll was first isolated in 1817.

Chlorophyll is vital for photosynthesis, which allows plants to obtain energy from light.

Chlorophyll molecules are arranged in and around the membranes of chloroplasts. It serves two main functions. The function of most chlorophyll (up to several hundred molecules per photosystem) is to absorb light and transfer that light energy to reaction centres. These pigments are named after the wavelength (in nanometers) of their red-peak absorption maximum. These chlorophyll pigments can be separated in a simple paper chromatography experiment.

The function of the reaction center chlorophyll is to use the energy transferred to it from the other chlorophyll pigments to undergo a specific redox reaction. In this reaction the chlorophyll gives an electron to an electron transport chain. This reaction is how photosynthetic organisms such as plants produce O gas, and is the source for practically all the O in Earth's atmosphere. Photosystem I typically works in series with Photosystem II. 

The electron flow produced by the reaction center chlorophyll pigments is used to shuttle H ions across the membrane, setting up a chemiosmotic potential used mainly to produce ATP chemical energy; and those electrons ultimately reduce NADP to NADPH, a universal reductant used to reduce CO into sugars as well as for other biosynthetic reductions.

A green sea slug, "Elysia chlorotica", has been found to use the chlorophyll it has eaten to perform photosynthesis for itself. This process is known as kleptoplasty, and no other animal has been found to have this ability.

It still is unclear exactly why plants have mostly evolved to be green. Green plants reflect mostly green and near-green light to viewers rather than absorbing it. Other parts of the system of photosynthesis still allow green plants to use the green light spectrum (e.g. through a light-trapping leaf structure, carotenoids, etc.). Green plants do not use a large part of the visible spectrum as efficiently as possible. A black plant can absorb more radiation, and this could be very useful, notwitstandanding the problems of disposing of this extra heat (e.g. some plants must close their openings, called stoma, on hot days to avoid losing too much water). More precisely, the question becomes why the only light absorbing molecule used for power in plants is green and not simply black. 

The biologist John Berman has offered the opinion that evolution is not an engineering process, and so it is often subject to various limitations that an engineer or other designer is not. Even if black leaves were better, evolution's limitations can prevent species from climbing to the absolute highest peak on the fitness landscape. Berman wrote that achieving pigments that work better than chlorophyll could be very difficult. In fact, all higher plants (embryophytes) are believed to have evolved from a common ancestor that is a sort of green algae – the idea being that chlorophyll has evolved only once (common ancestor).
Shil DasSarma, a microbial geneticist at the University of Maryland, has pointed out that species of archaea do use another light-absorbing molecule, retinal, to extract power from the green spectrum. He described the view of some scientists that such green-light-absorbing archae once dominated the earth environment. This could have left open a "niche" for green organisms which would absorb the other wavelengths of sunlight. This is just a possibility, and Berman wrote that scientists are still not convinced of any one explanation.

Chlorophyll is a chlorin pigment, which is structurally similar to and produced through the same metabolic pathway as other porphyrin pigments such as haeme. At the center of the chlorin ring is a magnesium ion. For the structures depicted in this article, some of the ligands attached to the Mg center are omitted for clarity. The chlorin ring can have several different side chains, usually including a long phytol chain. There are a few different forms that occur naturally, but the most widely distributed form in terrestrial plants is chlorophyll "a". The general structure of chlorophyll "a" was worked out by Hans Fischer in 1940. By 1960, when most of the stereochemistry of chlorophyll "a" was known, Robert Burns Woodward published a total synthesis of the molecule. In 1967, the last remaining stereochemical elucidation was completed by Ian Fleming, and in 1990 Woodward and co-authors published an updated synthesis. In 2010, a near-infrared-light photosynthetic pigment called chlorophyll f might have been discovered in cyanobacteria and other oxygenic microorganisms that form stromatolites. 

The different structures of chlorophyll are summarized below:

Chlorophyll Content meters measure the optical absorption of a leaf to estimate its chlorophyll content. Chlorophyll molecules absorb in the blue and red bands, but not the green and infra-red bands. Chlorophyll content meters measure the amount of absorption at the red band to estimate the amount of chlorophyll present in the leaf. To compensate for varying leaf thickness, Chlorophyll Meters also measure absorption at the infrared band which is not significantly affected by chlorophyll. 
The chlorophyll content of leaves can be non-destructively measured using hand-held, battery-powered meters. The measurements made by these devices are simple, quick and relatively inexpensive. They now have large data storage capacity, averaging and graphical displays.

Measurement of the absorption of light is complicated by the solvent used to extract it from plant material, which affects the values obtained,

In Angiosperms, the last step in the synthesis of chlorophyll is light-dependent. Such plants are pale (etiolated) if grown in the darkness. Non-vascular plants and green algae have an additional light-independent enzyme and grow green in the darkness instead.

Chlorosis is a condition in which leaves produce insufficient chlorophyll, turning them yellow. Chlorosis can be caused by a nutrient deficiency of iron--called iron chlorosis—or by a shortage of magnesium or nitrogen. Soil pH sometimes plays a role in nutrient-caused chlorosis; many plants are adapted to grow in soils with specific pH levels and their ability to absorb nutrients from the soil can be dependent on this. Chlorosis can also be caused by pathogens including viruses, bacteria and fungal infections, or sap-sucking insects.


</doc>
<doc id="19830" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19830" title="Oak">
Oak

The oak tree is a kind of hardwood forest tree. Oak trees come in many different kinds of species, but all of them have large seeds called acorns. There are over 300 varieties of oak trees.

Oak trees grow in many parts of Europe and North America. Many people who own wooded land in these parts of the world are proud of their oak trees. Oak is a climax vegetation in much of the Northern Hemisphere. What that means is, left untouched by humans, it would be the dominant tree. Much of England was covered by oak forests before modern farming took over the land. The last extensive oak woodlands were cut down to build ships for the Royal Navy in the 18th century. 

Some kinds of oak wood are very hard. A lot of furniture was made from oak wood, but the wood is now scarce and expensive. Much cheaper are softwoods like pine.

Most oak trees lose all of their leaves in autumn. Some kinds of oak tree, the "live oak", that grows in the American South or the Holm oak that grows in Europe keep their leaves through winter It is called the "live oak" in the United States of America because it keeps many of its leaves during winter.

Oak trees can live up to 1000 years. 

"Main article:Acorn"

Oak trees can start producing acorns when they are roughly 20 years old. However they may reach 50 years before the first production. When the tree is between 70 and 80 years old it produces thousands of acorns.

Oak trees produce acorns once a year which ripen in Autumn. The production changes every year. Not even the healthiest and largest oak have enough energy to produce a lot of them two years in succession.


</doc>
<doc id="19831" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19831" title="Glucose">
Glucose

Glucose is a simple carbohydrate, or "sugar". It is important because cells in an organism use it as a source of energy. Turning glucose into energy is called respiration. Humans that do not have enough glucose have low blood sugar levels. Its chemical formula is CHO. This means it has 6 carbon atoms, 12 hydrogen atoms, and 6 oxygen atoms bonded together
The set of atoms in glucose can be linked in several different ways. But all of the ways can be divided into two families of mirror-images (stereoisomers). Only one set of these isomers exists in nature, those derived from the "right-handed form" of glucose, called -glucose. -glucose is often called dextrose. The term dextrose is short for "dextrorotatory glucose". Solutions of dextrose rotate polarized light to the right. Starch and cellulose are polymers made from the dehydration of -glucose. The other stereoisomer, called -glucose, does not occur in nature very often. Some people tried to use -Glucose as a low-calorie sweetener. But the manufacturing costs were too high.


</doc>
<doc id="19836" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19836" title="Cellulose">
Cellulose

Cellulose is the main chemical that forms the main structure of plants.

Cellulose is made from a form of glucose and makes up most of the cell wall of plant cells. This is what keeps a plant in shape. Cellulose is not digestible by humans.


</doc>
<doc id="19840" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19840" title="Wikiquote">
Wikiquote

Wikiquote is a "sister" (related) project of Wikipedia. It is one of many projects run by the Wikimedia Foundation. 

Wikiquote was based on an idea by Daniel Alston and made by Brion Vibber. The goal of the project is to produce a large reference of quotations from famous people, books, and proverbs, and to give details about them.

The project was first created in English. However, in July 2004, more languages were added. Some of there are:

As of December 25, 2010, 25 versions each have more than 1,000 articles. The largest Wikiquote is the English project with over 19,400 content pages, followed by Polish and Italian versions, both with over 11,000 content pages. In total, 53 languages have over 100 content pages.

In February 2010, the Simple English Wikiquote was locked and closed.



</doc>
<doc id="19841" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19841" title="Brasília">
Brasília

Brasília () is the capital city of Brazil. The name is commonly spelled "Brasilia" in English. The city and its District are in the Central-West region of the country. It is on a plateau known as "Planalto Central". Brasília has a population of about 2,557,000 (3,599,000 in the metropolitan area) as of the 2008 IBGE estimate. It is the fourth largest city in Brazil. But the Brasília metropolitan area is the sixth largest in the nation. It is listed as a World Heritage Site. Brasília hosts 124 foreign embassies.

The city was planned and developed in 1956 with Lúcio Costa as the principal urban planner and Oscar Niemeyer as the principal architect. Roberto Burle Marx was the landscape designer. They created the "Plano Piloto de Brasília". Brasília was built in 41 months, from 1956 to April 21, 1960. 

Viewed from above, the main portion of the city resembles an airplane or a butterfly. The Monumental Axis goes east-west and holds government buildings and monuments. The other axis is curved in a north south direction. The city is commonly referred to as "Capital Federal", or simply "BSB". As the national capital, Brasília is the seat of all three branches of the Brazilian government. The city also hosts the headquarters of many Brazilian companies. Planning policies place residential buildings around expansive urban areas. The plan includes large avenues. It divides the city into sectors with different purposes, including accommodation and tourism. The city is built around an artificial lake, Lake Paranoá.

Residents of Brasília are known as "brasilienses" or "candangos". (The "candangos" are people who moved to Brasília when the city was established). In local usage, the word "Brasília" usually refers only to the First Administrative Region within the Distrito Federal (Federal District), where the most important government buildings are. Brasília has a unique status in Brazil, as it is an administrative division rather than a legal municipality like nearly all cities in Brazil. In the rest of Brazil, Brasília is almost always means the Brazilian Federal District. There are several "satellite cities," which are also part of the Federal District.

The Brasília subway system ("Metrô de Brasília") has 24 stations on two lines long. The subway currently covers the south half of the metropolitan area. In 2010, a light rail line was added. By 2014, the light rail line will go from the end of the north wing of the city to the airport in the south.

Brasília International Airport is the main airport in Brasília, connecting the capital to all major Brazilian cities and many airports in other countries. It is the third most important airport of Brazil, in terms of passengers and aircraft movements. 


</doc>
<doc id="19845" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19845" title="Musical genre">
Musical genre

A musical genre is how people describe different styles of music. Some of the most common music genres are: 

Plus there are several more common music genres. Religious music is also common, such as hymns, choir music and many more.


</doc>
<doc id="19851" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19851" title="Template:Wiktionary">
Template:Wiktionary


</doc>
<doc id="19854" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19854" title="To be">
To be

The verb to be is an important word in English language. We use it to mean the status or characteristics of something or of a person. Some languages, for example Portuguese and Spanish, have two different verbs for the two meanings of this verb. Other languages, for example Arabic and Chinese, do not have any form of this verb.


</doc>
<doc id="19858" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19858" title="Template:User sv">
Template:User sv


</doc>
<doc id="19861" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19861" title="Dim sum">
Dim sum

Dim sum is a way of serving Chinese and/or Vietnamese food. A range of different foods are served to the people who are eating, including pork wontons, fried shrimp, and egg rolls.
They are served on small wooden platters, and are usually steamed.



</doc>
<doc id="19863" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19863" title="Category:Toys">
Category:Toys

These articles are about toys, which are things for people to play with.


</doc>
<doc id="19864" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19864" title="Super Smash Bros. Melee">
Super Smash Bros. Melee

Super Smash Bros. Melee, known in Japan as is a video game where players can choose from many people from the previous Nintendo games and have them fight each other. Players can fight alone or team up with someone else against a friend. This game is a sequel to "Super Smash Bros." for the Nintendo 64. Super Smash Bros. Melee is for the Nintendo GameCube. The sequel is called "Super Smash Bros. Brawl" for the Wii.

"Super Smash Bros. Melee" takes 25 characters from many of Nintendo's series. It takes all 12 characters from "Super Smash Bros.", and adds 13 new characters, including Princess Peach and Bowser from the "Mario", Princess Zelda and Ganondorf from "The Legend of Zelda", and new characters like Ice Climbers from "Ice Climber" and Marth from "Fire Emblem". Some characters are like other characters who were in the first game, like Ganondorf who's like Captain Falcon.

Sakurai planned to include more characters, including Diddy Kong, Meta Knight, King Dedede, Balloon Fighter, Solid Snake and Lucas but did not have time to fit them in. All of them except for Balloon Fighter made it into "Super Smash Bros. Brawl".



Items from different games can fall from the sky, like Poké Balls from "Pokémon" or Mushrooms from "Mario". These items can be used in different ways. For example, Poké Balls can summon Pokémon, and Mushrooms can either grow or shrink the person that touches them.

"Super Smash Bros. Melee" has many stages that players can battle on. Most of the stages are based on Nintendo series like "Mario", "Pokémon", and "The Legend of Zelda".


</doc>
<doc id="19865" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19865" title="Catalysis">
Catalysis

Catalysis is the change in speed (rate) of a chemical reaction due to the help of a catalyst. Unlike other chemicals which take part in the reaction, a catalyst is not consumed by the reaction itself. A catalyst may participate in many chemical reactions. Catalysts that speed the reaction are called positive catalysts. Catalysts that slow the reaction are called negative catalysts, or inhibitors. Substances that increase the activity of catalysts are called promoters, and substances that deactivate catalysts are called catalytic poisons.

A catalyst is something which changes the rate of a chemical reaction. An example is when manganese oxide (MnO) is added to hydrogen peroxide (HO), and the hydrogen peroxide starts to break up into water and oxygen. Catalysts are either of natural or synthetic origin. Catalysts are useful because they leave no in the solution they have speeded up. A catalyst can also be used in a reaction again and again as it is not used up. There are many catalysts in our body which play an important part in many biochemical reactions. These are called enzymes. Most catalysts work by lowering the 'activation energy' of a reaction. This allows less energy to be used, thus speeding up the reaction. The opposite of a catalyst is an "inhibitor". Inhibitors slow down reactions. Some of them are found in snake venom and are dangerous for our nervous system or heart. 



</doc>
<doc id="19866" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19866" title="Hydrogen peroxide">
Hydrogen peroxide

Hydrogen peroxide is a chemical compound. Its molecular formula is HO. It is used as a cleaner, and as hair bleach. In a concentration of 3% (meaning that there are 3 molecules of hydrogen peroxide for 97 of water), it can be used to treat wounds. Over time it will slowly become oxygen gas and water through decomposition. 

Chemists often use hydrogen peroxide in chemical reactions. It is a very strong oxidising agent when used with acid and water. "Oxidising agents" take electrons from other compounds.

Here hydrogen peroxide takes an electron from the Fe2+ ions and becomes water.

It can also be a reducing agent when used with other compounds. When it acts as a reducing agent, oxygen gas is also produced. "Reducing agents" give electrons to other compounds. This method is often used to make oxygen in laboratories.

Hydrogen peroxide can be bought in shops when mixed with lots of water but is very dangerous when the concentration is higher. It is flammable and causes burns.


</doc>
<doc id="19867" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19867" title="Mayotte">
Mayotte

Mayotte is an island in the Indian Ocean next to Madagascar. 
It is geographically part of the Comoros Islands, but politically, it is a French territory.



</doc>
<doc id="19869" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19869" title="Halldór Ásgrímsson">
Halldór Ásgrímsson

Halldór Ásgrímsson (born September 8, 1947) is a former Prime Minister of Iceland. The leader of the Progressive Party since 1994, he took over as Prime Minister on September 15, 2004, from the Independence Party leader, Davíð Oddsson. He resigned in 2009.

He has been very active in politics in Iceland.


</doc>
<doc id="19870" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19870" title="Somaliland">
Somaliland

Somaliland is an unrecognized state in middle-east Africa. It borders the Republic of Djibouti to the west, the Federal Republic of Ethiopia to the south and Somalia to the east.

Somaliland was a British colony until 26 June 1960, when it became the Somaliland Protectorate, an independent country. On 1 July, 1960, the Somaliland Protectorate joined a new country called Somalia, and they formed the Somali Republic. In May of 1991, after a war, five families in the Somali Republic declared independence. They formed Somaliland out of six political areas in northern Somalia. 

Currently, Somaliland is an unrecognized state. This means that no country or international organization thinks that Somaliland is a real country. Instead, they include Somaliland as a part of Somalia. 

Somaliland has a republican government, with free elections. The capital is Hargeisa.

Most people in Somaliland speak Somali and Arabic. Article 6 of the Constitution of 2001 says the official language of Somaliland is Somali, but Arabic is a mandatory subject in school. English is also spoken and taught in schools.

The main Somali dialect is Standard Somali. Standard Somali is spoken in most of Somalia and in countries that border it. Standard Somali is used by almost all of the media in the Somaliland region.

Almost all Somalilanders are Muslims. This is because Islam is the state religion, and praticing a religion other than Islam is against the law. Small amounts of non-Islamic traditions exist in Somaliland, but Islam is very important to the Somali sense of national identity.



</doc>
<doc id="19873" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19873" title="NSDAP 25 points manifesto">
NSDAP 25 points manifesto

The 25 points manifesto is a 25 point plan written by Adolf Hitler and Anton Drexler for the NSDAP when it was founded in 1920.

The purpose of the 25 points was explained in the fifth chapter of the second volume of Mein Kampf:


The leaders of the Party promise to work—if need be to sacrifice their very lives—to put this programme into action.


</doc>
<doc id="19875" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19875" title="Penny">
Penny

A penny (plural "pence" in the United Kingdom, plural "pennies" in Canada and the United States) is a coin in several countries where people speak English. This includes United Kingdom, the United States (where a penny is worth one cent, and Canada, where "penny" is an informal term for one cent coins.



</doc>
<doc id="19883" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19883" title="Matt Groening">
Matt Groening

Matt Groening is an American cartoonist. He created the TV show called "The Simpsons" about a dysfunctional family which do not get along together and are always getting into trouble. The Simpsons is a very popular television show which is currently in its twentieth series. It has won many awards and is the longest running cartoon ever. He also made a show called "Futurama" which is set in the future. 

The character of Bart is an anagram of brat. Matt Groening was going to name the character Matt, but he realised that would be a giveaway, so he decided to name him Bart. Bart's parents are named Homer and Marge and he has two sisters who are named Lisa and Margaret or Maggie for short.

The family also has two pets, a cat and a dog. The dog is called Santa's Little Helper. The cat is named Snowball II.


</doc>
<doc id="19892" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19892" title="Nikolai Ivanovich Lobachevsky">
Nikolai Ivanovich Lobachevsky

Nikolai Ivanovich Lobachevsky ((Никола́й Ива́нович Лобаче́вский), 1792–1856) was a Russian mathematician. He became known for his achievements in non-euclidean geometry. 

Lobachevsky was born in Nizhny Novgorod, Russia. His parents were Ivan Maksimovich Lobachevsky, a clerk in a landsurveying office, and Praskovia Alexandrovna Lobachevskaya. In 1800, his father died and his mother moved to Kazan. In Kazan, Nikolai Ivanovich Lobachevsky attended Kazan Gymnasium. He graduated in 1807 and then went to Kazan University which was founded just three years earlier, in 1804. 

At Kazan University, Lobachevsky was influenced by professor Johann Christian Martin Bartels (1769–1833). Bartels was a former teacher and friend of German mathematician Carl Friedrich Gauss. Lobachevsky received a Master's degree in physics and mathematics in 1811. In 1814, he became a lecturer at Kazan University, and in 1822 he became a full professor. He served in many administrative positions and was the rector of Kazan University from 1827 to 1846. He retired (or was dismissed) in 1846. After this event his health rapidly deteriorated. In addition to teaching mathematics and physics at Kazan University Lobachevsky also was an astronomy teacher there. He liked pie, cake, and cookies.

In 1832, he married Varvara Alexivna Moisieva. They had seven children.


</doc>
<doc id="19894" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19894" title="Category:Mathematicians">
Category:Mathematicians

These articles are about mathematicians.


</doc>
<doc id="19896" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19896" title="Category:Physicists">
Category:Physicists

These articles are about physicists.


</doc>
<doc id="19897" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19897" title="Wildebeest">
Wildebeest

A wildebeest (also called Gnu) is an animal. It is a large hoofed mammal, that is part of the "Bovidae" familiy of animals. There are two species of wildebeest. Both live in Africa.


Wildebeest grow to 1.15 to 1.40 metres (at the shoulder) and they weigh between 150 and 250 kilograms when they are fully grown. They live in the plains and open woodlands in southern Africa. The biggest herds can be found in the Serengeti desert. (see below) Wildebeest can live for more than 20 years.

Like other members of the same family (antelopes, deer and goats, amongst others), they mainly eat grass (scientists call such animals "Herbivores", which means: "eating grass"). But since in the African grasslands, there is not always grass, wildebeest are forced to wander (Scientists speak about "migrations") to find food all year round. In May, about 1.5 million animals move from the grasslands to the woods. In November they move back; there is grass in the plains in summer.

The cows (the female Gnus) will calve (give birth to the young) in summer in the plains. After the females have given birth, the breeding season begins. The dominant males mark off (and defend) some territory. They do this with feces, and with scent. 

Wildebeest are an important part of the ecosystem. With their dung, they fertilize the ground, and their trampling is good for new growth. They also provide food for predators, like lions and hyenas.





</doc>
<doc id="19898" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19898" title="Gnu">
Gnu

Gnu or GNU may mean:


</doc>
<doc id="19900" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19900" title="Predator">
Predator

A predator is an animal that hunts, catches and eats other animals. For example, a spider eating a fly caught at its web is a predator, or a pack of lions eating a buffalo. The animals that the predator hunts are called prey.

Predators are usually carnivores (meat-eaters) or omnivores (eats plants and other animals). Predators will hunt other animals for food. Examples for predators are lions, tigers, Leopards, crocodiles, snakes, eagles, wolves, killer whales, and sharks. 

Predators are usually defined as animals that eat other animals. But to some scientists, the word predator means an animal or any living organism that eats anything. A cow eating grass will be a predator of that grass. Plants are not predators because they make their own food.

However, there are different characteristics in both predator or prey. 


</doc>
<doc id="19902" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19902" title="Serengeti">
Serengeti

The Serengeti (also Seremgeti) is a region of savannah (woodlands and grasslands) in East Africa. The south of it (80%) belongs to Tanzania. The north of it is in Kenya. It is about 30,000 square kilometers, and one of the greatest areas for wildlife. 

It has more than 1.6 million herbivores and thousands of predators. Wildebeests, gazelles, zebras and buffalos are the most common animals in the region.

This area is most famous for the migration that takes place every year.
Every year around October nearly 1.5 million herbivores travel towards the southern plains, crossing the Mara River, from the northern hills for the rains. And then back to the north through the west, once again crossing the Mara river, after the rains in around April. This phenomenon is sometimes also called the Circular Migration.

Also in this area is the archeologically significant Olduvai Gorge where some of the oldest hominid fossils are found.

The Serengeti region contains the Serengeti National Park, the Ngorongoro Conservation Area and Maswa Game Reserve in Tanzania and the Maasai Mara National Reserve in Kenya.

The park covers 14,763 km² (5,700 square miles) of grassland plains and savanna as well as riverine forest and woodlands. The park is in the north of the country, bordered to the north by the national Tanzania and Kenyan border, where it is continuous with the Masai Mara National Reserve. To the southeast of the park is Ngorongoro Conservation Area, to the southwest is Maswa Game Reserve, and to the western borders are Ikorongo and Grumeti Game Reserves, to the northeast is Loliondo Game Control Area.

Few people are allowed to live in the National Park. Exceptions the staff of the Park, researchers and staff of Frankfurt Zoological Society, and staff of the various lodges and hotels. The main settlement is at Seronera.

The park has three regions:



As well as the migration of ungulates, the park has a healthy stock of other resident wildlife, especially the "Big Five":

The park also supports many further species, including cheetah, Thomson's and Grant's gazelle, topi, eland, water buck, hyena, baboon, impala, African wild dog and giraffe. The park also boasts about 500 bird species, including ostrich, secretary bird, Kori bustard, crowned crane, marabou stork, martial eagle, lovebirds and many species of vultures.

Ngorongoro is the crater of a huge extinct volcano, which is part of the Serengeti area. 

The Ngorongoro Conservation Area (NCA) is a UNESCO World Heritage Site 180 km (112 miles) west of Arusha in the Crater Highlands area of Tanzania. 

The main feature of the NCA is the Ngorongoro Crater, a large volcanic caldera. The crater, which formed when a giant volcano exploded and collapsed on itself some two to three million years ago, is deep and its floor covers . 

Estimates of the height of the original volcano range from fifteen to nineteen thousand feet (4500 to 5800 metres) high.

Although thought of as "a natural enclosure" for a very wide variety of wildlife, up to 20% or more of the wildebeest ("Connochaetes taurinus") and half the zebra ("Equus burchelli") populations leave the Crater in the wet season. The Ngorongoro lions are significantly inbred, with many genetic problems passed from generation to generation. This is due to the very few new bloodlines that enter the local gene pool, because few migrating male lions enter the crater from the outside. Those who do enter the crater often cannot contribute to the gene pool. The crater's male lions, because of their large size (the result of an abundant food source), easily expel outside competitors. 

Animal populations in the crater include most of the species in East Africa, but there are no impalas ("Aepyceros melampus"), giraffes ("Giraffa camelopardalis"), or crocodiles ("Crocodylus niloticus").

The crater highlands on the side facing the easterly trade winds receives 800–1200 mm of rain a year and is covered largely in montane forest, while the less-steep west wall receives only 400–600 mm; this side is grassland and bushland dotted with Euphorbia bussei trees. The crater floor is mostly open grassland with two small wooded areas dominated by "Acacia xanthophloea".

The Munge Stream drains Olmoti Crater to the north, and is the main water source draining into the seasonal salt lake in the center of the crater. This lake is known by two names: "Makat" as the Maasai called it, meaning salt; and "Magadi". The Lerai Stream drains the humid forests to the south of the Crater, and it feeds the Lerai Forest on the crater floor - when there is enough rain, the Lerai drains into Lake Magadi as well. Extraction of water by lodges and NCA headquarters reduces the amount of water entering Lerai by around 25%.

The other major water source in the crater is the Ngoitokitok Spring, near the eastern crater wall. There is a picnic site here open to tourists and a huge swamp fed by the spring, and the area is inhabited by hippopotamus, elephants, lions, and many others. Many other small springs are around the crater's floor, and these are important water supplies for the animals and local Masaai, especially during times of drought.

Aside from herds of zebra, gazelle, and wildebeest, the crater is home to the "Big Five Game" of rhinoceros, lion, leopard, elephant, and buffalo. The crater plays host to almost every individual species of wildlife in East Africa, with an estimated 25 000 animals within the crater.

Following the recommendations of a committee of scientists after the 2000 drought, an ecological burning program was implemented in the crater, which entails annual or biannual controlled burns of up to 20% of the grasslands. Maasai are now permitted to graze their cattle within the crater, but must enter and exit daily.
The conservation area also protects Olduvai Gorge, in the plains area. It is considered the seat of humanity after the discovery of the earliest known specimens of the human genus, "Homo habilis " as well as early hominidae, such as "Paranthropus boisei".

The Olduvai Gorge or Oldupai Gorge is a steep-sided ravine in the Great Rift Valley, which stretches along eastern Africa. Olduvai is in the eastern Serengeti Plains in northern Tanzania and is about thirty miles long. It is in the rain shadow of the Ngorongoro highlands and is the driest part of the region. 

It is one of the most important prehistoric sites in the world. Research there has greatly developed our understanding of early human evolution. Excavation work there was pioneered by Mary and Louis Leakey in the 1950s. It is still continued today by their family. During the Pleistocene, the site was that of a large lake, the shores of which were covered with successive deposits of volcanic ash. Around 500,000 years ago seismic activity diverted a nearby stream which began to cut down into the sediments, revealing seven main layers in the walls of the gorge.



</doc>
<doc id="19903" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19903" title="Spider">
Spider

Spiders are arachnid arthropods. They have eight legs, and most make silk. Some of them have six eyes, some of them have eight eyes, some have four eyes, two eyes, or no eyes. Spiders are the biggest group in arachnids, after Acarina, the mites and ticks. Some spiders are as small as 0.5 mm and some are as large as 10cm (4 inches) in body length. Most spiders eat insects, other spiders, etc. They catch the insects and other prey in several ways. Some build a spider web, and some use a thread of silk that they throw at the insect. Some kinds of spiders hide in holes in the ground, then run out and grab an insect that walks by. Others will make web "nets" to throw at passing insects. Or they will even go out and attack them with no webs at all. Spiders do not have wings. Some can jump quite well and hunt by sneaking close to an insect and then jumping on it.

Few spiders are dangerous to humans. They have fangs (hollow teeth) like a hypodermic needle that they use to bite people and push venom into them. The venom usually causes pain. The venom of a few kinds of spiders may kill a person, especially one who is very young or not in good health.

Being afraid of spiders is a very common phobia (fear), but spiders generally run away from bigger animals, and most of them will only bite to get something to eat or to defend themselves or their nests. The widow spiders (black widows and other members of their genus) never willingly leave their webs, so usually people get bitten when they touch the spider by mistake, but they are the spiders that kill the most people every year. It's just because there are so many of these dangerous spiders all over the world. There are spiders (Atrax and Phoneutria) that are larger, more aggressive, and that have deadlier bites, but there are not so many of them, and they are not found all over the world. 

The smallest of full-grown spiders can be less than 4 mm. (0.1 inch). The largest of spiders can have a body length of 10 cm. (4 inches) or more. The largest can weigh 150 grams (5.3 oz). The largest of spiders are the tarantulas and the huntsman spiders. Some huntsman spiders in South East Asia can have a leg span of around 250–300 mm (9.8–11.8 in).<br>

Spiders generally capture insects and other arthropods (including other spiders). It is rare for spiders to capture prey that are much larger than they are. It is also difficult for most spiders to capture prey that are very much smaller than they are. Most species of spiders cannot live close together because they treat each other as their next meal, but there are some spiders that form colonies. Spiders eat not only spiders of other species, but spiders of their own species. Although the earliest spiders came before birds and mammals, some spiders of today will eat small fish, small birds, and even small mammals. 

The Black widow spider got it name because its females sometimes eat the males that mate with them, but it is very common in the spider world for females to eat males after mating. Spiders need to learn whether other spiders they meet with are possible mates or just possible dinners. So each species has its own way of asking and telling other spiders they may meet. Because of the danger of being eaten, in some species of spiders the males have special hooks on their front legs with which they hold the female while they mate. Others bring the female something to eat. There are a few species in which the male spiders construct their own little webs that are connected to the webs of the females. In these species, the male is so much smaller than the female that it would be difficult for her to actually capture the male.

Most spiders have such poor vision that they will not even notice a dead insect. Jumping spiders are one exception to this rule. They have such good vision that they can find recently dead flies or other insects to eat.

Most spiders are predators, but the jumping spider "Bagheera kiplingi" gets over 90% of its food from fairly solid plant material produced by acacias as part of a beneficial relationship with a species of ant. 

Young spiders of several families feed on plant nectar. Studies have shown that they do this for long periods. They also clean themselves periodically while feeding. These spiders also prefer sugar solutions to plain water, which shows that they are looking for nutrients. Many spiders are nocturnal, they are most active during the night. The extent of nectar consumption by spiders may therefore have been under-estimated. Nectar contains amino acids, lipids, vitamins and minerals in addition to sugars. Studies have shown that other spider species live longer when nectar is available. Feeding on nectar also avoids the risks of struggles with prey, and the costs of producing venom and digestive enzymes.

Various species are known to feed on dead arthropods (scavenging), web silk, and their own shed exoskeletons. Pollen caught in webs may also be eaten, and studies have shown that young spiders have a better chance of survival if they have the opportunity to eat pollen. In captivity, several spider species are also known to feed on bananas, marmalade, milk, egg yolk and sausages.

Even a relatively large spider can have fangs with very sharp points. The fangs are hollow needles, just like the needles used to give shots. The hypodermic needle is the picture is the kind used for insulin injections and for other such medicines. Spiders use their fangs to inject toxins that kill the insects they will eat. Some kinds of spider venom attack the nervous systems of their prey, and other kinds of venom attack body tissues. When people get bitten by spiders of the genus Loxosceles they can get deep dead spots where they were bitten, and have big scars later on.

Most spiders have four pairs of eyes on the top-front area of the body, arranged in patterns that vary from one family to another. The main eyes at the front are capable of forming images. Jumping spiders' visual acuity exceeds by a factor of ten that of dragonflies, which have by far the best vision among insects. Human eye are only about five times sharper than a jumping spider's. They achieve this by a telephoto-like series of lenses, a four-layer retina and the ability to swivel their eyes and integrate images from different stages in the scan. The downside is that the scanning and integrating processes are relatively slow.

Spiders and other arthropods have modified their cuticles into elaborate arrays of sensors. Various sensors, mostly bristles, respond to touch, from strong contact to very weak air currents. Chemical sensors provide equivalents of taste and smell. Spiders also have in the joints of their limbs sensors that detect forces and vibrations. In web-building spiders all these mechanical and chemical sensors are more important than the eyes, while the eyes are most important to spiders that hunt actively. Like most arthropods, spiders lack balance sensors, and rely on their eyes to tell them which way is up. 

Most spiders are predators, they capture prey. But spiders use very many different ways of catching things.

The best-known method spiders use to capture prey is a sticky web. The placement of the web allows different spiders to trap different insects in the same area. Flat, horizontal webs allow them to trap insects that fly up from vegetation underneath, for example. Flat vertical nets allow them to trap insects in flight. The spiders that build webs usually do not see very well, but they are very sensitive to vibrations.

Females of the water spider "Argyroneta aquatica" build underwater "diving bell" webs which they fill with air and use eating their prey, molting, mating, and raising offspring. They live almost entirely within the bells, darting out to catch prey animals that touch the bell or the threads that anchor it. A few spiders use the surfaces of lakes and ponds as "webs", detecting trapped insects by the vibrations that these cause while struggling.

Net-casting spiders weave only small webs but then manipulate them to trap prey. They stretch their webs and then release them when prey strike them. Those of the family Deinopidae weave even smaller webs, hold them outstretched between their first two pairs of legs, and lunge and push the webs as much as twice their own body length to trap prey, and this move may increase the webs' area by a factor of up to ten. Experiments have shown that "Deinopis spinosus" has two different techniques for trapping prey: backwards strikes to catch flying insects, whose vibrations it detects; and forward strikes to catch ground-walking prey that it sees. These two techniques have also been observed in other deinopids. Walking insects form most of the prey of most deinopids, but one population of "Deinopis subrufus" appears to live mainly on tipulid flies that they catch with the backwards strike.

Mature female bolas spiders of the genus "Mastophora" build "webs" that consist of only a single "trapeze line", which they patrol. They also construct a bolas made of a single thread, tipped with a large ball of very wet sticky silk. They emit chemicals that resemble the pheromones of moths, and then swing the bolas at the moths. They catch about the same weight of insects per night as web-weaving spiders of similar size. The spiders eat the bolas if they have not made a kill in about 30 minutes, rest for a while, and then make new bolas. Juveniles and adult males are much smaller and do not make bolas. Instead they release different pheromones that attract moth flies, and catch them with their front pairs of legs.

The primitive Liphistiidae, the "trapdoor spiders" (family Ctenizidae) and many tarantulas are ambush predators that lurk in burrows, often closed by trapdoors and often surrounded by networks of silk threads that alert these spiders to the presence of prey. Other ambush predators do without such aids, including many crab spiders, and a few species that prey on bees, which see ultraviolet, can adjust their ultraviolet reflectance to match the flowers in which they are lurking. Wolf spiders, jumping spiders, fishing spiders and some crab spiders capture prey by chasing it, and rely mainly on vision to locate prey. 

Not all spiders use silk to net their prey. Instead, these spiders may capture insects by grabbing them and then biting them. Among these kinds of spiders the two best known "genera" are the wolf spiders and the jumping spiders.

See a more detailed description here.

A Wolf spider will usually wait until an insect comes near to it, and then rush at the insect, grab it using its front legs, and then bite the insect so that its venom can do its work. 

Female Wolf spiders lay their eggs on a pad of silk and then draw the edges together to create a round ball that they carry along with them wherever they go. They hold their egg balls to their tail ends by using their silk. When the eggs hatch, the little spiders will crawl onto the mother's back, and she will carry them along with her for days or weeks. 

Wolf spiders are very good mothers and will strongly protect both their egg balls and their infants. When the time comes, the little spiders will leave the mother and each will go its own way.

Jumping spiders have very good eyes. They can see very well. They sneak as close to an insect as they can, and then they jump onto the insect and immediately bite it. Since they often hunt in trees, bushes, and on the sides of walls, if the jumping spider misses it may fall off. But they have a way to save themselves from harm. Before they jump they fasten their silk to the place where they have been standing, and as they jump they let out a silk safety line. So if they fall they will catch themselves when they reach the end of their silk safety line. Sometimes a jumping spider will catch an insect and then fall while still holding onto the insect. But the spider is still safe.
Jumping spiders make little silken "tents" for themselves to sleep in. When they lay eggs they keep them inside such a shelter. They do not take their eggs with them when they go out to hunt. 
For all male spiders it is dangerous to seek a mate. The female spider may not realize that the male is a spider of her kind, so she may try to eat it. The jumping spiders not only have visual patterns that identify them to each other, but the male jumping spider will do a special dance when it approaches a female of the same species. That way, the female can recognize that it is a male of her species. She will generally forget about eating for long enough to mate with the visiting male spider.

Jumping spiders have such good eyes that they will usually watch any human who tries to watch them. Some species are very shy and will run away if the human gets too close. But some species, such as Phidippus audax (the audacious or brave jumping spider) and Platycryptus undatus, can become calm if the human comes close to them slowly. Sometimes they will jump onto one of your fingers and then jump from finger to finger and from hand to hand. They seem to want to explore.

Some jumping spiders of the genus "Portia" hunt other spiders in ways that seem intelligent, outflanking their victims or luring them from their webs. Laboratory studies show that "Portia"'s instinctive tactics are only starting points for a trial-and-error approach from which these spiders learn very quickly how to overcome new prey species. However, they seem to be relatively slow thinkers, which is not surprising as their brains are vastly smaller than those of mammalian predators

Ant-mimicking spiders face several challenges: they generally develop slimmer abdomens and false "waists" to mimic the three distinct regions (tagmata) of an ant's body; they wave the first pair of legs in form to their heads to mimic antennae, which spiders lack, and to conceal the fact that they have eight legs rather than six. They have large color patches round one pair of eyes to disguise the fact that they generally have eight simple eyes, while ants have two compound eyes; they cover their bodies with reflective hairs to resemble the shiny bodies of ants. In some spider species males and females mimic different ant species, as female spiders are usually much larger than males. 

Ant-mimicking spiders also modify their behavior to resemble that of the target species of ant, for example many adopt a zig-zag pattern of movement, ant-mimicking jumping spiders avoid jumping, and spiders of the genus "Synemosyna" walk on the outer edges of leaves in the same way as "Pseudomyrmex". Ant-mimicry in many spiders and other arthropods may be for protection from predators that hunt by sight, including birds, lizards and spiders. However several ant-mimicking spiders prey either on ants or on the ants "livestock" such as aphids. When at rest the ant-mimicking crab spider "Amyciaea" does not closely resemble "Oecophylla", but while hunting it imitates the behavior of a dying ant to attract worker ants. After a kill some ant-mimicking spiders hold their victims between themselves and large groups of ants to avoid being attacked.

Of the 40.000 spiders, less than 12 are known to be dangerous to humans. Most of the time, being bitten by a spider is painful. Most spiders use venom to paralyse their prey; they kill it through eating, or through a bite. A few spiders have venoms that can be dangerous to weakened people and those allergic to it. Since 1927, 13 people have died, after a bite from a "Atrax robustus" spider from Australia.

It is sometimes said that most spiders are too small for them to bite humans. Nobody knows how many individual spiders there are of various sizes. If we only talk about size, since the largest spiders are about 10 cm., and the smallest spiders are about 0.5 mm., the average size must be about 5 cm. or two inches in body length. But the spider that kills the most people, the Black widow and other spiders in the genus Latrodextus are around 1 cm. in body length. So spiders from 0 cm. up to 1 cm. might be too small to bite, but spiders from 1 cm. to 10 cm. are big enough to bite. Most of the spiders that people see in everyday life are big enough to bite, but they hardly ever bite people, and when most of them do bite people there are no serious consequences. The Atrax and Phoneutria spiders, which are also capable of killing people, both average around 2.5 cm. or one inch, and even the Widow spiders are large enough to be easily noticed. So it is true that the spiders that are dangerous are fairly large.

Even relatively small spiders like Phidippus audax can give a painful bite if you hurt them, but spiders are very helpful to human beings because they control insects that eat our crops.


</doc>
<doc id="19904" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19904" title="1760s">
1760s







</doc>
<doc id="19907" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19907" title="Grass">
Grass

Grass is a type of plant. A common kind of grass is used to cover the ground, in a lawn. If it gets too cold or dry, lawn grass turns brown. 

There is a family of plants called the "grass family". The plants in the grass family are called grasses, but many are different from lawn grass. A few of the other plants in the grass family are corn plants, wheat plants, rushes, reeds, rice, barley, oats, millet, papyrus, water chestnut, crabgrass, and many other important types of plants. Grass has thin, green leaves that are called blades. Many grasses are short, but some grasses, like bamboo can grow very tall. Plants from the grass family can grow in many places, even if they are very cold or very dry.

Grasses are an important food for many animals, like deer, buffalo, cows, mice, grasshoppers, caterpillars, and many others. Without grass, dirt can wash away into rivers, this is called erosion. Sometimes grass's roots keep trees from growing very fast, so it is better to plant clover under trees.

Lawn grass is often planted on sports fields and in the area around a building. Many chemicals and a lot of water is used to grow lawn grass. This usually happens in suburbs.

People have used grasses for a long time. People eat parts of grasses. Corn, wheat, barley, oats, rice and millet are common grains used for food and to make alcohol such as beer. Sugar comes from sugar cane, which is also a plant in the grass family. People have grown grasses as food for farm animals for about 10,000 years. Grasses have also been used to make paper for more than 4000 years. People use bamboo to build houses, fences, furniture, flutes, and other things. Grass plants can also be used as fuel, to cover roofs, and to weave baskets.

In English, the word "grass" appears in several phrases. For example:




</doc>
<doc id="19910" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19910" title="Category:Tigers">
Category:Tigers

These articles are about tigers ("Panthera tigris").


</doc>
<doc id="19913" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19913" title="Cacao tree">
Cacao tree

The Cacao tree is a small tree originally in tropical South America. It is small, and only grows to 4 to 8 metres in height. Its seeds are called cocoa and are used to produce cocoa butter, the chocolate drink, as well as chocolate. Nowadays the trees are grown in plantations in many tropical countries.

Cacao is planted on over 70000 square kilometres worldwide with 40% of production coming from Côte d'Ivoire, Ghana, and Indonesia. Each country produces about 15%, with smaller amounts coming from Brazil, Nigeria, and Cameroon.

A tree begins to bear fruit when it is 4 or 5 years old. In one year, when mature, it may have 6,000 flowers, but only about 20 pods. About 300-600 seeds (10 pods) are required to produce around 1 kg of cocoa paste. 
There are three main cultivar groups of cacao beans used to make cocoa and chocolate. The most prized, rare, and expensive is the Criollo Group, the cocoa bean used by the Maya. Only 10% of chocolate is made from the Criollo, which is less bitter and more aromatic than any other bean. The cacao bean in 80% of chocolate is made using beans of the Forastero Group. Forastero trees are significantly hardier than Criollo trees, resulting in cheaper cacao beans. Trinitario, a hybrid of Criollo and Forastero, is used in about 10% of chocolate. For details of processing, see cocoa.

Cacao beans were commonly used as currency in Pre-Columbian Mesoamerica. In some areas, such as Yucatán, they were still used in place of small coins as late as the 1840s.



</doc>
<doc id="19916" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19916" title="Mahabad">
Mahabad

Mahabad (, ); (Old name: سابلاخ: Sablakh, which may be of Mongolian origin) is a city in Iran. It is in the north-west of the country. The city is south of Lake Urmia in a narrow valley 1,300 metres above sea level. It is in West Azarbaijan Province. It has about 162.434 people who live in the city. Mahabad is connected by road with Tabriz 300 km north, Urmia 150 km north and Irbil in Iraq. Mahabad has also a branch of Islamic Azad University.

The city is one center and symbol of the Kurdish nationalism. The reason is because 1945 it was the capital of the new founded people's Republic of Mahabad. The republic was conquered by Iranian forces in 16 December 1946. The president was Qazi Muhammad. The majority of the population is Kurdish. During the revolution in Iran, at 3 September 1979 the city was bombed and occupied by Iranian forces. After the death of Shivan Qaderi, a student and opposition activist in July 9 2005, the Kurdish population protested against the Iranian government.


</doc>
<doc id="19917" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19917" title="Category:Cities in Iran">
Category:Cities in Iran

These cities are in Iran.


</doc>
<doc id="19921" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19921" title="Category:Inventors">
Category:Inventors

These are inventors.


</doc>
<doc id="19923" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19923" title="Category:1936 books">
Category:1936 books

People made these books in 1936.


</doc>
<doc id="19924" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19924" title="Shivan Qaderi">
Shivan Qaderi

Shivan Qaderi (or Sivan Ghaderi or Schuaneh Ghaderi; born 1979 or 1980; died 9 July 2005 in Mahabad) was a student and opposition activist in Iran. After his death in 2005, the Kurds protested and the Iranian government had to send more than 100,000 soldiers to this region. The Kurdistan Democratic Party of Iran reported, that about 50,000 people had protested after his death on the Chuwarchira Square. Humans Rights First say that, after he was shot, Iranian soldiers tied Ghaderi's body "to a military vehicle and dragged it through the city, obviously trying to frighten the population so that they would not organize any more protests."




</doc>
<doc id="19928" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19928" title="Sauce">
Sauce

Sauce is a hot or a cold liquid that is added to another food to add flavor to it. Sauces are not eaten by themselves, they are always added to another dish. A sauce can be something simple, like liquid butter or something fancier like a sauce with cream and ham (called "Carbonara") or with ground meat (called "Bolognese"), or even with herbs and garlic (called "Pesto").

An example would be a tomato-based sauce that is usually poured over spaghetti before it is eaten. Gravy is a brown sauce served with meat.


</doc>
<doc id="19931" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19931" title="Spaghetti">
Spaghetti

Spaghetti is a long, string-shaped kind of pasta.

The word "spaghetti" was first used in 1849 as "sparghetti" in Eliza Acton's "Modern Cookery". It comes from Italian "spaghetto", which means "string, twine".

Spaghetti is made from wheat noodles, which are boiled in water for a short time. Spaghetti can either be served as a side dish, or as a main dish. As a main dish, a sauce is added. There are many different kinds of sauces. Simpler ones are made of butter, more complicated ones include tomatos, garlic, olive oil and various other herbs. Different varieties with mussels, fish or meat also exist. Ground Parmesan cheese is often added. 

In Italy the sauce is usually mixed with the spaghetti while they are being prepared. Usually, spaghetti are eaten only with a fork, or with a fork and a spoon. Sometimes, they are cut with a knife for small children. Many Italians see using a knife to eat spaghetti as bad manners, except to prepare them for small children.

There is a legend (story) about how spaghetti came to Italy. In the legend, Marco Polo found spaghetti in China during his visit in 1295, and he took some back to Italy. 

Today, spaghetti is eaten everywhere. In the United States, there is a kind of spaghetti called "Alvaro's spaghetti" which is served with alfredo sauce. In some countries,like United States or Canada, meatballs are often in the spaghetti sauce.

In China, spaghetti is often made by hand. In Italy, spaghetti is made with a machine so that large amounts can be made quickly. Italy is the biggest producer and consumer of spaghetti in the world. 

Spaghetti is called by other words when it has a different thickness: "spaghettini (n. 3)", "spaghetti (n. 5)", and "spaghettoni (n. 8)".


</doc>
<doc id="19933" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19933" title="Emperor Penguin">
Emperor Penguin

The Emperor Penguin ("Aptenodytes forsteri") is a penguin that lives in Antarctica. It is the tallest and heaviest penguin. They are the only birds that can lay their eggs on ice.

Emperor Penguins are about tall and weigh up to . Emperor Penguins are black and white like all penguins, and the sides of their neck are golden.

They eat mostly crustaceans, such as krill, but also eat fish and squid.

Emperors live in the coldest climate on earth. Temperatures can drop as low as -140 degrees Fahrenheit (-95.6 °C) on the Antarctic ice. They breed at the beginning of the Antarctic winter (March and April), on the ice all around the Antarctic continent. They live in large groups, called colonies, that can have up to 20,000 birds. They huddle close together to keep warm. Emperor penguins live for about 20 years, although some have been known to live for 40 years.

The shape of their body helps them to survive. They have short wings that help them swim and to dive up to to catch larger fish. The deepest dive recorded is . They can swim up to for a short time, which lets them escape their main enemy, the leopard seal. They can stay warm because they have a thick layer of blubber. The layer of downy feathers trap air that keeps the body heat in and cold air and water out. They also have large amounts of body oil that help in keeping them dry in the water. 

While they are very fast in the water, on land the birds can only walk very slowly. On ice they can lie on their stomachs and use their wings to slide along, like a toboggan.

Emperor penguins spend most of their time in the water, coming to the shore to breed. There is nothing on the ice to make a nest, so after the female lays her one egg in winter, the male puts the egg on his feet to keep it warm until spring. This can be from 65 to 75 days. He has a special fold of skin on his stomach which can fold over and cover the egg to keep it warm. This is a difficult action to swap the egg from the female to the male; if it sits for too long on the ice it will freeze. He does not eat during this time, and can lose up to half his weight. To keep warm, all the male penguins huddle together. Those on the outside of the group will slowly shuffle their way into the middle; the group is always moving and can move as much as in 24 hours. The female comes back in spring when the egg hatches, while the male will go back to sea to eat, but comes back to help look after the chick. The chick lives on its parents feet for about 50 days until it becomes strong enough to survive the cold.

The Australian movie "Happy Feet" was based on the story of an Emperor Penguin who is unable to sing and get a mate because he was left for too long on the ice when still an egg.



</doc>
<doc id="19934" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19934" title="Snares Penguin">
Snares Penguin

The Snares Penguin ("Eudyptes robustus"), also known as the Snares Crested Penguin and the Snares Islands Penguin, is a penguin from New Zealand.

It breeds on The Snares, a small island group south of New Zealand's South Island. 


</doc>
<doc id="19942" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19942" title="Chuar-chira Square">
Chuar-chira Square

Chuar-chira Square (Kurdish: "چوارچرا, Chwar Chira", Persian: "میدان چهارچراغ") (meaning "Square of the four candles"), is a known square in center of city of Mahabad where after Iranian invasion in 1947, Qazi Muhammad the president of Republic of Mahabad was hanged in public as well as other leaders of the republic in Mahabad and Bukan. In 2005 the Kurdistan Democratic Party of Iran reported that about 50.000 persons had demonstrated against the Iranian gouverment. The reason was the death of Shivan Qaderi. 

It is now officially called Shardari Square. This square is one of the oldest places of Mahabad city.



</doc>
<doc id="19943" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19943" title="Complex number">
Complex number

A complex number is a number, but is different from normal numbers in many ways. A complex number is made up using two numbers combined together. The first part is a real number. The second part of a complex number is an imaginary number formula_1, defined as formula_2. Using arithmetic, addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division can be used. They also follow commutative properties and associative properties, just like real numbers. 

Complex numbers were invented to answer special equations that have exponents in them. These began to pose real problems for mathematicians. As a comparison, using negative numbers, it is possible to find the "x" in the equation formula_3 for all real values of "a" and "b". 

With exponentiation, there is a problem. There is no real number that gives −1 when it is squared ("squared" means "multiplied by itself"). In other words, −1 (or any other negative number) has no real square root. To solve this problem, mathematicians introduced an "imaginary number" called "i". That imaginary number will give −1 when it is squared. 

The first mathematicians to have thought of this were probably Gerolamo Cardano and Raffaele Bombelli. They lived in the 16th century. It was probably Leonhard Euler who introduced writing formula_4 for that number.

A complex number can now be written as formula_5 (or formula_6 ), where "a" is called the "real" part of the number, and "b" is called the imaginary part. Usually, the complex number is written as the set . Both "a" and "b" are real numbers. 

Any real number can simply be written as formula_7 or as the set .

Addition, subtraction, multiplication, division as long as the divisor is not zero, and exponentiation (raising numbers to exponents) are all possible with complex numbers. Some other calculations are also possible with complex numbers.

The set of all complex numbers is usually written as formula_8.



</doc>
<doc id="19946" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19946" title="Frederick I of Prussia">
Frederick I of Prussia

Frederick I of Prussia (), (11 July 1657–25 February 1713) of the Hohenzollern dynasty was the first King in Prussia (1701–1713).


</doc>
<doc id="19948" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19948" title="Siege of Jerusalem (1187)">
Siege of Jerusalem (1187)

The Siege of Jerusalem took place from September 20 to October 2, 1187. It was part of the war called the Third Crusade.

Balian of Ibelin defended Jerusalem against the armies of Saladin.

A fictionalized version of the siege (attack) is seen in the movie "Kingdom of Heaven", directed by Ridley Scott.


</doc>
<doc id="19949" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19949" title="Beer Hall Putsch">
Beer Hall Putsch

The Beer Hall Putsch was a failed coup d'etat in Munich, Germany between the evening of November 8 and the morning of November 9, 1923. The Nazi Party under Adolf Hitler tried to take over the government of Bavaria, a state in Germany after taking several hundred people hostage in a beer hall (a large building where people got together to drink beer and sometimes listen to political speeches). Several Nazis died when they got into a gun fight with police officers in another part of Munich, and Hitler went to jail afterwards for about eight months.

Hitler chose this time for many reasons. The Weimar Republic of Germany was weak because of fighting between right and left-wing parties. Inflation had also left the Weimar Republic with very little support from the people, or money to keep working (paying bills, or even paying pensions and wages). This happened because when Germany lost World War I, other countries made Germany pay for the entire war, and Germany had to make taxes very high so it could pay for the war. This hurt the economy of Germany.

The Nazi Party was getting very strong. Hitler was a strong leader. In 1923, the year when the Weimar Republic was least popular, the Nazi Party grew from 6,000 members to 55,000 members.

Hitler also wanted to copy Mussolini, who had taken power in Italy by marching into Rome.

8 November 1923 - Hitler and his men charged into the Beer Hall and forced the people there to support him. Hitler's men, the SA took over the Army Headquarters, but forgot to take over the telegraph office. This meant that anybody could call in the police.

9 November 1923 - 19 Nazis were killed in a gunfight between the Nazis and the police in "Residenzstraße". Hitler was arrested two days later.

Hitler and several of his friends were taken to court for treason, because they took up arms against the government. In the end, Hitler was sent to prison for about eight months, and the Nazi Party broke up (however, it would later get back together).

More people learned about Hitler. Before this happened, he was unknown. But after this, he was a hero to many. Many Germans at that time wanted a strong leadership after the governments of the Weimar Republic.

Hitler also took the time he had to spend in prison to write a book, called Mein Kampf or "My Struggle". It sold millions and told people about his ideas. Mein Kampf also made Hitler popular. (Hitler did not actually write the words down himself. Instead, he told another Nazi, Rudolf Hess, what to write down, and Hess wrote the words down.)

Hitler also had to re-think his strategy. He realised he could not take power the same way that Mussolini had done. Instead, he had to get power through being elected.

The people who died during the Putsch are seen as the first to die for the Nazi Party and are mentioned in Mein Kampf as Martyrs.



</doc>
<doc id="19950" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19950" title="Verona">
Verona

Verona is a town in the Veneto region in Italy with 260,000 inhabitants. It is famous for being the setting for the Shakespeare play "Romeo and Juliet".


</doc>
<doc id="19951" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19951" title="Kiev">
Kiev

Kyiv or Kiev (Ukrainian: Київ) is the capital city of the country of Ukraine. Almost three million people live there.


</doc>
<doc id="19952" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19952" title="Harare">
Harare

Harare is the capital of Zimbabwe. It is home to over 1.6 million people. It started as "Salisbury" in 1890, and was known by that name until April 18, 1982.


</doc>
<doc id="19955" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19955" title="Seventh-day Adventist Church">
Seventh-day Adventist Church

The Seventh-day Adventist Church is a regular Protestant Christian denomination or church, but it has some beliefs that are different from most other Protestant denominations. The Seventh-day Adventist Church is also called the SDA church. Although "SDA" is commonly used, "Adventist" is the church's own officially preferred shortening of "Seventh-day Adventist". It came from the Millerite group which included people from many denominations. The Millerites started in the 19th century, after the year 1800. The Millerites were people who followed the teachings of William Miller. Miller preached that Jesus is coming very soon, in the Second Coming or Second Advent. That is why the church that came from them called themselves "Adventists." The SDA Church also believe that the day we should worship God is Saturday. They call this day Sabbath, like the Bible does. It is the seventh day of the week. That is why they are called "Seventh-day Adventists".

Important teachings include the unconscious state of the dead (which means that when people die, they do not wake back up until Judgment Day) and the doctrine of an investigative judgment. The church also focuses on diet and health, its holistic understanding of the person, its promotion of religious liberty, and its conservative principles and lifestyle.

The Seventh-day Adventists also think many of Ellen G. White's writings were important. She was a dedicated Christian who believed she got visions from God about the end of the world and what heaven will be like. As Seventh-day Adventists, they believe that they should not eat unclean foods like pig, certain fish, and animals that the Bible names as unclean. They practice healthy eating, vegetarianism (not eating meat), and staying away from things they think are immoral smoking, drinking or doing anything to harm what they consider the Temple Of God or their bodies.

A National Geographic article printed in November of 2005 said that Seventh-day Adventists were one of the groups of people in the world that live the longest because of the way they take care of their bodies. The Seventh-day Adventist community in Loma Linda, CA was also mentioned in the book "The Blue Zones", which features parts of the world where people commonly live past the age of 100.

The Seventh-day Adventist Church is organized with a representative form of church government and the world-wide Church has 13 Divisions. 

The Seventh-day Adventist World Church Statistics show a growing church with 15,660,347 members as of December 31, 2007. 

The Adventist News Network reported in June 2010 (during the 59th quinquennial General Conference Session of the Seventh-day Adventist Church held in Atlanta, Georgia, U.S.A.) that Seventh-day Adventists reached a membership of 16,300,000, according to the church's Office of Archives and Statistics. The world church Secretary stated that when counting unbaptized children and family members who attend services, the church numbers between 25 and 30 million. 

Seventh-day Adventists uphold the central doctrines of Protestant Christianity: the Trinity, the incarnation, the virgin birth, the substitutionary atonement, justification by faith, creation, original sin, the second coming, the resurrection of the dead, and last judgment.

The official teachings of the Seventh-day Adventist denomination are expressed in the Seventh-day Adventist 28 Fundamental Beliefs. This statement of beliefs was originally adopted by the General Conference in 1980, with an additional belief (number 11) being added in 2005. 

In Seventh-day Adventists Answer Questions on Doctrine (1957), Adventists outlined the core doctrines that they hold in common with mainstream Christianity.
"In Common With Conservative Christians and the Historic Protestant Creeds, We Believe— 


Adventist doctrine resembles trinitarian Protestant theology, with premillennial and Arminian emphases. Adventists uphold teachings such as the infallibility of Scripture, the substitutionary atonement, the resurrection of the dead and justification by faith alone, and are therefore often considered evangelical.


</doc>
<doc id="19958" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19958" title="Lye">
Lye

Lye is the name of different things:



</doc>
<doc id="19960" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19960" title="Luck">
Luck



</doc>
<doc id="19961" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19961" title="Antony and Cleopatra">
Antony and Cleopatra

Antony and Cleopatra is a play by Shakespeare. Its first performance was between 1606 and 1607. Octavius Caesar, Lepidus and Antony are part of the elite Roman rulers known as the triumvirate.


</doc>
<doc id="19964" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19964" title="Het Wilhelmus">
Het Wilhelmus

Wilhelmus is the title and first word of the Dutch national anthem. It became the anthem in 1932.
The melody is taken from a French soldier's song. It is the oldest melody of a national anthem of the world.
The song has 15 verses, and the first letters of each verse form the name "Willem van Nassov", the subject of the song.

Lyrics (translation):

Original version:


</doc>
<doc id="19968" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19968" title="1803">
1803




</doc>
<doc id="19969" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19969" title="1661">
1661

1661 was a common year starting on a Saturday in the Gregorian calendar, and a common year starting on a Tuesday in the Julian calendar.







</doc>
<doc id="19970" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19970" title="1579">
1579


</doc>
<doc id="19971" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19971" title="752">
752


</doc>
<doc id="19972" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19972" title="1005">
1005


</doc>
<doc id="19973" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19973" title="1233">
1233


</doc>
<doc id="19974" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19974" title="1736">
1736



</doc>
<doc id="19975" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19975" title="1340">
1340


</doc>
<doc id="19976" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19976" title="1128">
1128


</doc>
<doc id="19977" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19977" title="984">
984





</doc>
<doc id="19978" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19978" title="1639">
1639



</doc>
<doc id="19979" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19979" title="1003">
1003


</doc>
<doc id="19980" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19980" title="Fuzzy logic">
Fuzzy logic

Fuzzy logic is a sort of computer logic that is different from boolean algebra. It is different in the way that it allows values to be more accurate than on or off. While boolean logic only allows true or false, fuzzy logic allows all things in between. An example of this could be a computer game: A person is standing in a doorway while a thing explodes. The character is hit or not hit if boolean logic is used, but the doorway protects him from the explosion. Therefore, he might only be hit 20%, and takes less damage.

To put it in more precise mathematical terms, classical logic has two values. These values are usually called "false" (0) or "true" (1). With fuzzy logic, a (calculated) value of 0.8 or 0.971 is possible. It is important to know the difference between fuzzy logic and chance. A coin that is thrown has a chance of 0.5 for landing heads up. If it is thrown 1000 times, it is expected that it will land with heads side up 500 times. With fuzzy logic, a thing with a "truth value" of 0.5 will have a value of 0.5 no matter how many times it is done. It is not a 50% chance of true or untrue, it is 50% true and 50% untrue at the same time.
Fuzzy logic is used a lot in expert systems and neural networks.

Humans tend to use a combination of predicate logic and fuzzy logic. If you are an outfielder catching a baseball hit into the air; then your precise logic will calculate trajectory and start you running to the point of intercept (catching). However, once close to the ball the eyes & brain of the outfielder lacks the ability to accurately estimate distance and speed because the ball is coming straight at the outfielder. The human brain switches to fuzzy logic that says "get me closer", "get me closer", and so on. That is why you see outfielders in baseball run to a spot and then move around as the ball gets closer.

Predicate logic says calculate the point to be at to catch the ball. Fuzzy logic says because of wind or other things you might not be in the correct place so just keep getting closer until you catch the ball. 

In predicate logic it is the mathematics of calculating the path of the ball that determines your action. In fuzzy logic it is the error of your calculations that determines your action.

In effect, it's like your brain trying to control your finger to pick your nose while traveling down a bumpy road.


</doc>
<doc id="19981" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19981" title="Douala">
Douala

Douala is the largest city in the African country of Cameroon. It is the capital city of Littoral Province.

The city is placed near the Wouri River. Its population is about 2,000,000 people. The first European people who came to Douala were from Portugal. They found Duala in about 1472. Before 1884 it was named Cameroons Town. In 1884 German people came to Duala and changed its name to Kamarunstadt ("Camaroon City") and made it the capital of German Kamerun. In 1907 its name was changed to Duala. It became the capital of French Cameroons in 1919. From 1940 to 1946, it was the capital of Cameroon.

Duala is an expensive city. It ranked 24th most expensive city of the world in 2007.

Douala is linked by rail to Yaoundé, Ngaoundéré, Kumba and Nkongsamba. The largest port and the most important airport in Cameron are both in Douala.



</doc>
<doc id="19982" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19982" title="1843">
1843



</doc>
<doc id="19983" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19983" title="1225">
1225


</doc>
<doc id="19987" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19987" title="841">
841


</doc>
<doc id="19988" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19988" title="1164">
1164


</doc>
<doc id="19989" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19989" title="578">
578


</doc>
<doc id="19992" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19992" title="1707">
1707



</doc>
<doc id="19993" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19993" title="972">
972





</doc>
<doc id="19994" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19994" title="1031">
1031



</doc>
<doc id="19995" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19995" title="1083">
1083



</doc>
<doc id="19996" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19996" title="1027">
1027


</doc>
<doc id="19997" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19997" title="1316">
1316



</doc>
<doc id="19999" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19999" title="1778">
1778



</doc>
<doc id="20000" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20000" title="885">
885



</doc>
<doc id="20002" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20002" title="1751">
1751


</doc>
<doc id="20003" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20003" title="250">
250


</doc>
<doc id="20004" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20004" title="1802">
1802


</doc>
<doc id="20005" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20005" title="37">
37

37 is a year in the 1st century.






</doc>
<doc id="20006" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20006" title="1584">
1584



</doc>
<doc id="20007" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20007" title="193">
193


</doc>
<doc id="20008" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20008" title="1243">
1243

1243 is a year in the 13th century


</doc>
<doc id="20009" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20009" title="Category:Social sciences">
Category:Social sciences


</doc>
<doc id="20010" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20010" title="1541">
1541


</doc>
<doc id="20011" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20011" title="1354">
1354


</doc>
<doc id="20012" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20012" title="1286">
1286



</doc>
<doc id="20013" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20013" title="1129">
1129



</doc>
<doc id="20014" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20014" title="1082">
1082


</doc>
<doc id="20015" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20015" title="1135">
1135



</doc>
<doc id="20016" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20016" title="1052">
1052

Milarepa, Tibetan yogi and poet


</doc>
<doc id="20017" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20017" title="1761">
1761



</doc>
<doc id="20018" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20018" title="1470s">
1470s



</doc>
<doc id="20019" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20019" title="1476">
1476


</doc>
<doc id="20023" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20023" title="Nursing">
Nursing

Nursing is a job focused on helping people's health.

In Greece, hundreds of years ago, sick people went to temples, where men and women helped them. They made medicines from flowers and other things. In the fifth century BC, about 24000 years ago, one of the Greeks, Hippocrates, was very interested about why people became ill. He wrote over 70 books, and was one of the first people in the world to study healthcare. This is why he is often called the "father of Western medicine".

Religion was also important in the history of nursing. Jesus Christ taught that sick people should be helped. In the Middle Ages, the Christian church opened more hospitals. The Muslims opened some in Baghdad and Damascus too. Muslim hospitals helped people from any country or religion.


</doc>
<doc id="20025" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20025" title="Gleiwitz incident">
Gleiwitz incident

The Gleiwitz incident was a planned German attack against the radio station "Sender Gleiwitz" in the German town of Gliwice on the night of August 31, 1939. This attack along with other Nazi activities was used to make people think that Poland attacked Germany and that Poland, not Germany started World War II.


</doc>
<doc id="20026" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20026" title="Template:Infobox OS">
Template:Infobox OS

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="20027" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20027" title="Category:Cameroon">
Category:Cameroon


</doc>
<doc id="20028" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20028" title="Free">
Free

Free means two different things. If what is called "free" is something that is not alive, that means that it is being given away by someone who does not want any money in return. Often things that are "free" in this way are given away as add-ons to something that is paid for. For example, an eating place may give away a free glass of water with a paid meal.

If what is called "free" is a person, that means that it is able to be what it wants to be, or to do what it wants to do, without being ordered around. 

Most people want to be free. But many strong people would like to order around people who are weaker than they are. This leads to many fights.

Some countries have laws that try to keep the strong people from pushing around other people too much. These countries are called "free countries."

Animals other than people can fall into both definitions of freedom. Maybe a neighbor has a cat who has just given birth to a group of kittens, and so she will try to give away her "free kittens." That is the first kind of freedom listed above. But if one of the free kittens finds a good home, is fed well, and grows up into a cat, then maybe one day the cat will wander "freely" around its house and yard. That is the second kind of freedom.

Freedom


</doc>
<doc id="20029" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20029" title="Mackinac Island">
Mackinac Island

Mackinac Island is an island in Lake Huron. It is part of the U.S. state of Michigan and is 8 miles (13 kilometers) around.

Many people go to see Mackinac Island in the summer because the island passed a local law that says that no one can use a car on the island. Everybody has to ride a horse or a bicycle. In recent years, young people have been using roller skates or roller blades to get around the island. There is a narrow paved road that follows the 8 miles of shoreline. This road is for horses (and their buggies), bicycles, skates and joggers or just people taking a long walk. 

In order to get to Mackinac Island, visitors have to buy a ticket on a ferry boat. The boat ride has views of Lake Huron and the Mackinac Bridge. After they get to Mackinac Island, many visitors buy locally made fudge. 


</doc>
<doc id="20031" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20031" title="AFI's 100 Years... 100 Stars">
AFI's 100 Years... 100 Stars

AFI's 100 Years... 100 Stars is a list of the top actors in Hollywood history. It was announced by the American Film Institute on June 16, 1999.

The list promised one hundred people on it, but in the end there were only fifty.




</doc>
<doc id="20032" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20032" title="Havana">
Havana

Havana is the capital city of Cuba and, with a population of 2.2 million, the largest city in the Caribbean. It is located at 23°8′N 82°23′W and is located a little more than 100 miles south-southwest of Key West, Florida in the United States.

Havana is a very old city. It was created in 1515 by Spanish explorers.


</doc>
<doc id="20034" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20034" title="Bismarck">
Bismarck

Bismarck is a German family name. Bismark is an incorrect spelling.

The name Bismarck is usually associated with the famous Otto von Bismarck, a German statesman of the 19th century.


The "Bismarck" was a battleship of the German navy during WWII








</doc>
<doc id="20039" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20039" title="Crusinallo">
Crusinallo

Crusinallo, with 4000 people, is the most populated district of the town of Omegna (in the Province of Verbano-Cusio-Ossola, in Piedmont, Italy). It was an independent town until 1928. The town of Crusinallo is located in the north part of the town of Omegna, at the border with the towns of Casale Corte Cerro, Gravellona Toce, and Germagno. The natural borders are: at north, the Saint Martino river; at east and south, the Strona river; at west, the forest of Alpe Colla.


</doc>
<doc id="20040" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20040" title="1752">
1752


</doc>
<doc id="20042" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20042" title="660s BC">
660s BC



</doc>
<doc id="20043" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20043" title="1496">
1496





</doc>
<doc id="20044" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20044" title="1543">
1543





</doc>
<doc id="20045" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20045" title="362">
362



</doc>
<doc id="20046" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20046" title="1071">
1071


</doc>
<doc id="20047" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20047" title="1278">
1278



</doc>
<doc id="20053" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20053" title="People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals">
People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals

People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA ) is the world's largest non-profit organisation about animal rights. The four main beliefs of PETA are that animals are not to be used for food, clothes, exploitation or testing. The headquarters of the organization is located in Norfolk, Virginia in the United States.

Recently, PETA has protested fast food chain KFC for the way it kills chickens. In the past, it has protested many corporations including IAMS. 

PETA's main website is made for adults and vegans. They also have another website called PETA2 which is made for teenagers who are vegetarian, vegan or still deciding. PETA has over one million members.



</doc>
<doc id="20057" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20057" title="Software licence">
Software licence

A software licence (or license) is a kind of licence that is used to restrict how a piece of software is used. The licence explains what the maker of the software lets the person who bought the software do with it. This includes if it is allowed to be copied, sold to other people, or if there is a limited time when it can be used.

One kind of software licence, the end user licence agreement, or "EULA", gives very specific permissions, while restricting most of what could be done with the software.



</doc>
<doc id="20060" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20060" title="BSD licence">
BSD licence

The BSD licence is named after the group that first used the licence, the University of California, Berkeley, where the BSD operating system was first made. Since they are in the United States, BSD uses the U.S. spelling "BSD license".

The words of the BSD licence are public domain and can be changed however people want. To be useful for people or groups, people need to change 'Regents of the University of California', 'University of California, Berkeley', and 'Regents' to their name. A basic BSD licence looks like this:

This means that people who use the licensed software can do anything with it, except say it is all their work or say that the people who made it first support the new software in any way. It also stops people from suing the first makers if something goes wrong with it.



</doc>
<doc id="20061" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20061" title="Category:Software licences">
Category:Software licences

These are software licences.


</doc>
<doc id="20074" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20074" title="1786">
1786





</doc>
<doc id="20075" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20075" title="1688">
1688

Year 1688 was a leap year that started on a Thursday when using the Gregorian calendar.






</doc>
<doc id="20076" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20076" title="1728">
1728



</doc>
<doc id="20077" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20077" title="1614">
1614




</doc>
<doc id="20078" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20078" title="1588">
1588



</doc>
<doc id="20079" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20079" title="1012">
1012


</doc>
<doc id="20080" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20080" title="1746">
1746


Jacques Alexandre Cesar Charles-November 12, 1746


</doc>
<doc id="20081" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20081" title="1734">
1734


</doc>
<doc id="20082" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20082" title="1682">
1682

Year 1682 was a common year that started on a Thursday when using the Gregorian calendar.






</doc>
<doc id="20084" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20084" title="222">
222




</doc>
<doc id="20085" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20085" title="1759">
1759


</doc>
<doc id="20086" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20086" title="1755">
1755

the acadians were forced to leave their home because of the treaty of uresty between the french and the British


</doc>
<doc id="20087" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20087" title="477">
477


</doc>
<doc id="20088" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20088" title="509">
509


</doc>
<doc id="20089" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20089" title="571">
571


</doc>
<doc id="20090" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20090" title="609">
609




</doc>
<doc id="20092" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20092" title="Lake Baikal">
Lake Baikal

Lake Baikal is a big lake in Siberia. Siberia is part of Russia. Lake Baikal is the biggest fresh water reservoir in the world. The lake is near Irkutsk. It is about 636 km long, between 20 km and 80 km wide, and at its deepest point it is 1,700 meter deep. With this depth it is the deepest lake on Earth.

The lake is very special. There are fish in the lake that only exist here and nowhere else in the world. One such fish is called Omul. It is a kind of trout.

Lake Baikal hosts over 1000 species of plants and 1550 species and varieties of animals. Over 60% of animals are endemic; that means of 52 species of fish 27 are endemic.

Of note is an endemic subspecies of the omul fish ("Coregonus autumnalis migratorius"). It is fished, smoked, and sold on all markets around the lake. For many travellers on the Trans-Siberian railway, purchasing smoked omul is one of the highlights of the long journey.

Baikal also hosts a species of seals, Baikal seal or "nerpa".

Bears and deer can be watched and hunted by Baikal coasts.



</doc>
<doc id="20094" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20094" title="Omul">
Omul

The omul is a kind of fish. It belongs to the same family as the trout and the salmon. It only lives in Lake Baikal and the rivers around it (the Angara for example. It is very typical for that region of Siberia).


</doc>
<doc id="20095" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20095" title="Salmon">
Salmon

Salmon is a kind of teleost fish. There are many different kinds of salmon. Salmon belong to the same family of fish as the trout. Most kinds of salmon live in salt water, or migrate between rivers and the sea. Many people like to eat salmon, so the fish is also grown in fish farms. Usual ways to make food out of salmon are smoking, cold smoking and graving. Salmon are killed by people, other fish and their environment.



</doc>
<doc id="20096" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20096" title="Wild Turkey">
Wild Turkey

The Wild Turkey ("Meleagris gallopavo") is the name of the more common of the two species of turkey (a large bird). They are found across much of the United States and southern Canada. Wild Turkeys are rather large, and sometimes hunted by people.

The "domesticated turkey" has been tamed and bred from wild turkeys, by people, to raise on farms.


</doc>
<doc id="20097" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20097" title="Ocellated Turkey">
Ocellated Turkey

An Ocellated Turkey ("Meleagris ocellata") is a turkey (a large bird) that is named for the eye-like spots on the tail feathers ("ocellated" means having eye-like spots). It is similar to the Wild Turkey that is found more to the north in North America.


</doc>
<doc id="20104" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20104" title="Natalia">
Natalia

Natalia may mean:


</doc>
<doc id="20110" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20110" title="Drenthe">
Drenthe

Drenthe (pronounce: "DREN-te") is a province in the northeast of the Netherlands. The capital city is Assen. South of it is Overijssel, west of it is Friesland and north of it is Groningen. East of it is Lower Saxony, that is a part of Germany.

Thousands of years ago, there were already people in Drenthe. Around 3500 BC people made dolmens ("hunebedden"), piles of big stones. 53 of the 54 dolmens in the Netherlands are in Drenthe. Most of them are in the northeast of the province.

The oldest paper with the name Drenthe on it is from 820. It was called "Pago Treanth" (district Drenthe). Papers from 1024 and 1025 show that is was a county at that time. 

From 1046 until 1528, the bishops of Utrecht ruled over Drenthe. From 1581 until 1795 it was part of the Republic of the Seven United Provinces, but Drenthe itself was not a province. In 1796, under the Batavian Republic, Drenthe was a province for the first time.

In the Second World War, the nazis build a concentration camp near Westerbork. From there, they put Dutch Jews on the train to other camps in Germany and Poland. In the last train from Westerbork was also Anne Frank. She was a Jewish girl and she wrote a diary. She died in the concentration camp Bergen-Belsen in Germany. After the war her diary became world famous.

Since the 1990s there are twelve municipalities in Drenthe.


The most important cities are Assen (the capital), Emmen, Meppel and Hoogeveen. In Drenthe there is many heathland.

In Drenthe many people speak Low Saxon dialects. The dialects in Drenthe are called "Drents". These dialects are different in each town or village.




</doc>
<doc id="20111" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20111" title="D-Day">
D-Day

June 6, 1944, also known as D-Day, stands for the biggest amphibious (from the sea to the land) attack in military history, known as "Operation Overlord". D-Day took place during World War II on the beaches of Normandy. The Allies (Britain, Canada, and America) attacked Nazi German occupied Europe. It was very important for the Allied success in World War II, though many men were lost when the beaches were taken over (3,500 to be precise). After that, about two months later, after very hard fighting and many killed, the Allies won. They freed France from the Germans. Less than one year later Germany surrendered.

Many people think D-Day stands for Decision Day, but it does not, the first letter is just to show the importance of the day.

June 6 is very important to many people because of what happened.

Often a day when a momentous occasion occurs it is known to as D Day



</doc>
<doc id="20112" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20112" title="655">
655


</doc>
<doc id="20114" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20114" title="Ishpeming, Michigan">
Ishpeming, Michigan

Ishpeming is a city located in Marquette County, Michigan, USA. As of the 2000 census, the city had a total of 6,686 people living in it. There used to be more people in the 1950s and 1960s, when the iron ore mines were in full operation. 

The city has a total area of 24.0 km² (9.2 mi²). 22.5 km² (8.7 mi²) of it is land and 1.5 km² (0.6 mi²) of it (6.16%) is water. Ishpeming is 1436 feet above sea level.

The movie "Anatomy of a Murder" was filmed in Ishpeming and areas around it in 1959.
Ishpeming was also the birthplace of aviation engineer Clarence "Kelly" Johnson in 1910 and Nobel prize winning chemist Glenn T. Seaborg in 1912.

Ishpeming is considered the birthplace of downhill ski jumping in the United States and is the home to the National Ski Hall of Fame.



</doc>
<doc id="20115" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20115" title="Humphrey Bogart">
Humphrey Bogart

Humphrey Bogart (December 25, 1899 - January 14, 1957) was an American actor who starred in seventy-five movies. These include Black Legion, High Sierra, "The Maltese Falcon" (1941), "Casablanca" (1942) and "The African Queen" (1951). His last movie was Harder They Fall. 




</doc>
<doc id="20116" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20116" title="Funk">
Funk

Funk is a type of music from the United States that was developed the 1960s by African American musicians and singers such as James Brown, Sly and the Family Stone, George Clinton, and The Meters. Funk music emphasizes the rhythm of the music. Funk music mixes Rhythm and Blues music with soul music. Funk music is dance music.

Funk uses many rhythm instruments, such as electric guitar, bass guitar, drums, and electric organ. Funk bands also have a horn section, which includes several saxophone players, a trumpet player, and in some bands, a trombone player.

In funk music, the electric bass has a more important role than in other styles of popular music. Many funk songs are based on a strong bass line (melody) played by the electric bass player. Well-known funk bass players include Bootsy Collins, Louis Johnson and Larry Graham of Sly & the Family Stone. Larry Graham invented a new style of electric bass playing called "slap bass technique." With this technique, the bass player slaps and plucks the strings to create a strong rhythm.

The United States singer and musician James Brown was one of the first funk musicians. James Brown recorded a song in 1967 called "Cold Sweat", which is considered the first funk song. Other musical groups copied the rhythms and musical style developed by James Brown and his band. A band called The Meters played funk music in New Orleans. The Meters had hit songs such as "Sophisticated Cissy" and "Cissy Strut" in 1969. Another funk group, The Isley Brothers, had a hit song in 1969 called "It's Your Thing".

abzy

In the 1980s, funk music changed. Funk musicians began using electronic instruments such as synthesizer keyboards and electronic drum machines instead of electric bass, electric organ, trumpets, saxophones, and drums. Rick James had hits in the 1980s with funk songs such as "Give It To Me Baby" and "Super Freak." The band Queen had funk songs such as "Another One Bites The Dust." The musician and singer Prince had hit songs.

Some major names of early 80s funk include: Cameo, Zapp, The Gap Band, The Bar-Kays, and The Dazz Band.

In the later 1980s, two new styles of funk developed called "funk rock" and funk metal. These styles of music mixed funk music with rock and metal music. Funk rock and funk metal bands include Red Hot Chili Peppers, Living Colour, Jane's Addiction, Prince, Primus, Fishbone, Faith No More and Rage Against the Machine.

Funk music influenced 1980s hip hop music. Many hip hop musicians use funk songs by James Brown or George Clinton to compose new hip hop songs.

In the 1990s and 2000s, funk rock bands included Outkast, and Van Hunt. As well, 1990s and 2000s hip hop musicians continue to use funk songs by James Brown or George Clinton to compose new hip hop songs.




</doc>
<doc id="20117" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20117" title="1513">
1513

1513 was a year of the Gregorian calendar, that started on a Wednesday.



</doc>
<doc id="20118" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20118" title="Great white shark">
Great white shark

The Great white shark (Carcharodon carcharias) is a species of shark. This fish is a good swimmer and the worlds largest predatory fish..

Great white sharks have about 3,000 teeth, arranged in many rows. The first two rows of the teeth are used for grabbing and cutting the animals they eat, while the other teeth in the last rows replace the front teeth when these are broken, worn down, or fall out. The teeth have the shape of a triangle with jags on the edges. Great white sharks eat fish and other animals, for example seals and sea lions.

The back of the shark has a grey color and the underside is colored white. The sharks have three main fins: the dorsal (on back) and two pectoral fins (on the sides). There are five gill slits on great white sharks.
The great white becomes adult about nine years after its birth. The growth of the great white shark is about 25-30 centimetres per year and they grow to an average size of 4.5 meters. The largest can be as much as 6.5 meters in length.

Great white sharks live in the sea. They live near the coast, in all warm waters. They occasionally make dives into the deep water of open oceans. They can be in water as shallow as three feet deep, and as deep as 1,280 metres.

They may swim near:

Research has shown that the sharks of northern California are genetically different to other shark populations. DNA evidence shows the population separated from other great whites about 200,000 years ago (during the Pleistocene Era) and they have not mixed again. By tagging the sharks they also learned that they are generally alone, but follow the same route through the ocean, and stay in the same places. From January to July they live near Hawaii, and then move to Californian waters between August and December.

Sometimes, sharks attack human beings, but they do not do it because they like to eat people. When sharks see some new object, for example a surfboard, they bite it to know what kind of object it might be. Sometimes, sharks see the shadow of surfers and attack them because they think they are seals.

Some people think that humans are not good food for great white sharks, because the sharks' digestion might be too slow to cope with the human body's high ratio of bone to muscle and fat. It might be argued that because of this nearly all attacks by great whites do not continue after the first bite. 

However the more likely answer, given that this shark is an opportunistic predator which is not very discriminating in what it consumes (as observed when the animal wholly devours piecemeal bait), is that the shark's tactics generally involve biting its prey once so that the prey bleeds to death before the shark moves in to feed. This tactic is commonly observed on other large mammalian prey such as seals and dolphins and minimizes the risk of injury to the shark. In most cases humans tend to escape quickly after the first bite so are not wholly or partially consumed, simply bitten. Deaths in such cases are generally caused by loss of blood from the first wound. In cases where attacks have occurred and the victim has been unable to escape quickly, partial or whole consumption has occurred, lone divers are especially at risk of this. It is said that most attacks also occur in waters where it is hard to see or where the shark is confused, but this is unlikely given that the shark is in its natural hunting environment with highly developed super senses.



</doc>
<doc id="20119" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20119" title="1560">
1560




</doc>
<doc id="20122" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20122" title="Cary Grant">
Cary Grant

Cary Grant (January 18, 1904 - November 29, 1986), born as Archibald Alexander Leach in Bristol, United Kingdom, was an Anglo-American actor. He starred in many movies, such as 1959's "North by Northwest". He died of a cerebral hemorrhage in Davenport, Iowa, United States.


</doc>
<doc id="20124" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20124" title="Emotion">
Emotion

Emotions are what people feel. A scientific definition is not simple, but includes three things:

Here is one definition:

In evolutionary terms, emotions are very ancient, and involve body systems which have operated for hundreds of millions of years. These are the hormone system, the autonomic nervous system and the 'lower' brain centres (hindbrain and midbrain).



</doc>
<doc id="20135" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20135" title="Dyslexia">
Dyslexia

Dyslexia is a very common problem and has an effect on the way our brain understands words. The most common signs of dyslexia are reading and writing problems. Estimates are that in the United States between five and nine percent of schoolchildren have dyslexia, though estimates go as high as fifty percent. 

A person can have dyslexia even if he or she is very smart or educated. Recent studies show that there are many small business owners that have dyslexia; between 35 and 50 percent of U. S. and British entrepreneurs are affected. Researchers think that many dyslexic entrepreneurs are successful because they can delegate responsibilities (of writing letters) and still be good at speaking. 

At the end of the 20th century, scientists did a lot of research about dyslexia and found some of the reasons that people are dyslexic. A professor who did research in the 1980s and 1990s looked at the brains of dyslexic people who had died. He found that some parts of the brain were not connected very well, and that this happened during the fourth month of pregnancy. This problem has a big effect on the left half of the brain. The newest research shows that three genes are the reason for dyslexia. 

One thing that causes dyslexia is a problem with the central hearing nerve. This problem can not be found with a normal hearing test, so a special doctor has to do special tests to find it. It means that people with heavy dyslexia are sensitive to loud noise, may have problems speaking, and may not be able to concentrate. It may also cause problems with rhythm and melody of music.

In order to tell if a child has dyslexia, he or she has to be seen by a doctor. A child can be called dyslexic if he or she cannot read or write well and there is no other reason for the problem. Doctors are trying to create early tests to help find out whether a child has dyslexia before they are old enough to go to school. If this happens, a child can start to be treated very early, and they may have fewer problems at school. Many well-known people have dyslexia, such as Whoopi Goldberg, Keira Knightley, Susan Hampshire, Orlando Bloom, Keanu Reeves, Richard Branson, Henry Winkler, Patrick Dempsey and Tom Cruise.

Children with dyslexia can be helped. One way teachers help dyslexic students is to break words into different sounds. The student must learn how to write the different sounds and create words. This helps with reading and writing. Some people believe that dyslexic children can read and write better if they put pieces of colored paper on top of what they are reading.


</doc>
<doc id="20144" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20144" title="AK-47">
AK-47

The AK-47 is a Russian assault rifle designed in 1947 by Mikhail Kalashnikov and first used in 1949. It and an updated version called the AKM were used by the Soviet Union's Military (which was called the Soviet Army). It was later replaced by the AK-74 The AK-47 quickly became famous and spread all around the world because it was simple to fire, clean and maintain, and also because of its reliability. The AK-47 and its successors continue to be used by many of the world's armies. Many terrorist and insurgent groups also use the AK-47. It is a cheap, reliable, and easy to use weapon. The AK-47 was also available with a folding stock, the AKS-47, and a shortened version with the AKS74 folding stock, the AKMSU (used by armoured vehicle crews), although this was soon replaced by the AKS74U, which fires the 5.45 cartridge of the AK-74. There was also a light machine gun variant with a longer barrel and different shaped stock called the RPK. 

The AK-47 uses Gas-operated reloading. When the bullet is moved down the barrel, a little bit of the gas behind the bullet is made to go up a small tube that pushes away the bolt. This is special because the person who is shooting the gun does not have to reload with their hand every time that they want to shoot - the gun reloads by itself.

The AK-47 used many simple ideas that were first invented for the German Sturmgewehr 44 WW2 assault rifle. The AK-47 is a common gun used by many groups because it is so cheap and available. One of the reasons it is so common is that the Soviets left many behind when they left Afghanistan in 1989 after invading it in 1979. The letters AK stand for Avtomat Kalashnikova, which is Russian for Kalashnikov's Automatic Rifle. It shoots the Soviet 7.62x39mm cartridge. It is only accurate up to 300 meters. After that the bullet starts to tumble and drop.



</doc>
<doc id="20152" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20152" title="1763">
1763



</doc>
<doc id="20154" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20154" title="1637">
1637


</doc>
<doc id="20155" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20155" title="1451">
1451


steph is sxc


</doc>
<doc id="20156" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20156" title="146">
146


</doc>
<doc id="20157" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20157" title="Colima">
Colima

Colima is a state in west Mexico. About 760,000 people live there. Its capital is also called Colima.


</doc>
<doc id="20172" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20172" title="Erzsébet Báthory">
Erzsébet Báthory

Erzsébet Báthory (Elizabeth Bathory in English; (August 7, 1560 – August 21, 1614), was a countess in what is now Transylvania.

She is the most famous serial murderer in Slovak and Hungarian history. She was accused of torturing and killing many girls and young women. It is unknown how many women she killed. Her diary supposedly says that there were 650 people that she killed, but there may have been more or less.

She was born in present-day Hungary on August 7, 1560 and died on August 21, 1614 in Čachtice (Hungarian: Csejte) in present-day Slovakia.

She spent her childhood at the Ecsed Castle. At the age of 11, she was forced to be engaged with the fighter Francis Nádasdy. In 1575, she married Nádasdy. In 1578, he became the chief commander of Hungarian troops in their war against the Turks. He was known as a very brave, but also very cruel person.

Nádasdy’s wedding gift to Elizabeth was his home, the Čachtice Castle (situated in the Carpathians in present-day western Slovakia near Trenčín, then part of the Kingdom of Hungary) along with the Čachtice country-house and seventeen nearby towns. The castle itself was surrounded by a peasant village and rolling hills. In 1602, Elizabeth’s husband bought the castle from the emperor Rudolf II, so that it became a property of the Nádasdys. Since battles with the Turks kept her husband away from the castle, Elizabeth became the lady of the castle. It is rare, but not unheard, for historians to claim her husband was ignorant of her crimes. 

Elizabeth had six children; however, two of them died at an early age:


Her husband died in 1602. Her guilt is disputed by some, such as Lazlo Nagy, who says she was victim of a government/church plot. The King of Hungary, it has been pointed out, owed her money. And Count Gyorgy Thurzo, the person who brought her to trial, also stood to gain from downfall, her estates would belong to him in that event. 

In 2008 a movie was made about her called "Bathory" starring Anna Friel. It differs from others in that it takes the stance that she was innocent of the charge of being a serial killer, although she is still portrayed as being cruel. 


</doc>
<doc id="20176" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20176" title="Peter Jackson">
Peter Jackson

Sir Peter Jackson (born 31 October 1961, Pukerua Bay, New Zealand) is a movie director. He is most widely known for directing the "The Lord of the Rings" film trilogy.

In 2003, Jackson won three Academy Awards for "": Academy Award for Directing, Academy Award for Best Picture and Academy Award for Writing Adapted Screenplay.



</doc>
<doc id="20179" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20179" title="Category:BSD">
Category:BSD

Software, operating systems and topics which are related to BSD.


</doc>
<doc id="20181" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20181" title="Category:Operating systems">
Category:Operating systems


</doc>
<doc id="20182" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20182" title="Valencia">
Valencia

Valencia is a city in Spain, on the Mediterranean coast. It is the capital of the Community of Valencia. It has 807,396 people, making it the third-largest city in Spain and the fifteenth in the European Union. 


</doc>
<doc id="20184" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20184" title="Murcia">
Murcia

Murcia is the capital of the autonomous community of Murcia, in Spain, and its biggest city, with a population of 410,000 in the city and more than 740,000 in the metropolitan area. The municipality is the seventh largest in Spain. The city is in the Segura Valley, in an area called la "Huerta de Murcia", which is a very important agricultural center with oranges, lemons, tomatoes, onions, etc.; the varied fruits and vegetables typical of the Mediterranean lands. The city has a Baroque cathedral and a university.


</doc>
<doc id="20185" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20185" title="Zaragoza">
Zaragoza

Zaragoza (sometimes called Saragossa in English) is the capital of Aragon, in the Ebro Valley, in the crossroad from Barcelona, Valencia, Madrid, and Bilbao. The population is 643,000. The most important monument is the Nuestra Señora del Pilar ("Basilica of Our Lady of the Pillar").


</doc>
<doc id="20186" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20186" title="Malaga">
Malaga

Malaga is a Spanish city in Andalusia, on the Mediterranean coast, called "Costa del Sol" (Sun Coast). The city has 560,000 inhabitants and more than 1,000,000 in the surrounding area. It is the second biggest city in Andalusia after Sevilla, and the sixth biggest in Spain. also the birthplace of famous 20th century artist Pablo Picasso.



</doc>
<doc id="20187" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20187" title="Las Palmas de Gran Canaria">
Las Palmas de Gran Canaria

Las Palmas de Gran Canaria is the biggest city of the Canary Islands, in the Atlantic Ocean. The city, with a population of 383,308 in 2010, is the eighth-largest in Spain. 

Together with Santa Cruz de Tenerife, it is the capital of the Comunidad Autónoma de
Canarias (Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands). It is also the capital of the island of Gran Canaria and of the province of Las Palmas. The islands of this province are Gran Canaria, Lanzarote and Fuerteventura.

The city was founded in 1478. The town has a beautiful old area. This area (Vegueta) has a lot of houses from the 16th to the 19th Centuries. There is still a house where Christopher Columbus stayed in 1492. He stayed there before he discovered the Americas. The interesting cathedral was begun in the year 1500.

Its port is one of the busiest in Spain and the biggest between Europe and Cape Town, in South Africa.

Las Palmas (for short) is famous for its very nice and dry weather all year round. It is also famous for its Las Canteras Beach. This beach is more than 3 kilometers long. The beach brings a lot of tourists to the city. 

Main industries: trade, tourism, canned food, fishing, shipbuilding.

Places to visit: "Vegueta" (old area);" Triana" (traditional commercial area); "Playa de Las Canteras" (Las Canteras Beach); cathedral; "Casa de Colón" (Columbus House); "Museo Canario" (archaeology museum); "CAAM - Centro Atlántico de Arte Moderno" (Modern Art Centre); "Museo Élder de la Ciencia" (science museum); "Museo Néstor" (museum with paintings); "Teatro Pérez Galdós" (theatre); "Auditorio Alfredo Kraus" (concert hall); "Jardín Canario" (Canary Garden, mostly with plants from the Canary Islands); Doramas Park.


</doc>
<doc id="20189" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20189" title="Palma de Mallorca">
Palma de Mallorca

Palma de Mallorca is the capital of the Balearic Islands and the Mallorca island, in the Mediterranean Sea, in front of the Iberian Peninsula. The city, with a population of 375,000, is the ninth-largest of Spain. It is a very important tourist center in the world.


</doc>
<doc id="20190" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20190" title="Cordoba">
Cordoba

Cordoba is a city in Andalusia, Spain. It is the capital of Cordoba province. It has a population of 321,000. 

Cordoba was the capital of the Califate of Cordoba, an Islamic empire in the Middle Ages, when the city was the biggest in Europe, with 250,000 people.

Cordoba is 138 kilometers (86 miles) northeast of the city of Seville and is on the Guadalquivir river. 

The Romans occupied Cordoba in 206 B.C. The city was very important in the 900s CE as a famous center of Moorish art and culture. The cathedral in Cordoba is the city's chief landmark. It was built as a mosque (Muslim house of worship) in the 700s and was made into a Roman Catholic cathedral in 1238. More than 1,000 pillars of stone including granite, onyx, marble and jasper support its arches. 

A soft, fine-grained leather called "cordovan" is made in Cordova. Cordova is the center of an agricultural region. Farms produce grain, grapes, olives, and vegetables.


</doc>
<doc id="20192" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20192" title="Alicante">
Alicante

Alacant or Alicante (Spanish: Alicante, Valencian: Alacant) is a city in Spain. It is the capital of the province of Alicante. It is in the southern part of the Valencian Community. It is also a historic Mediterranean port. The population of the city of Alicante proper is about 334,757, as of 2009, ranking as the second-largest Valencian city. Including nearby municipalities, Alicante was populated by 458,843 residents. Population of the metropolitan area (including Elche and satellite towns) was 795,034 as of 2009. Based on population it is the eighth-largest metropolitan area of Spain.
The city is a sea port and a tourist centre. 

The avenue Maisonnave is the principal commercial street in the city of Alicante. In fact, Maisonnave is the sixth most expensive avenue in the whole of Spain, which gives an idea of the importance that this street has. The Corte inglés has in this central street both branches that it possesses in Alicant, one at each end of the avenue.

Santa Barbara's Castle is located 166 metres up the Benacantil mountain. It's very strong with great strategic value. It's called Santa Barbara's Castle because the 4th of December is Santa Barbara's day and the 4th of December in 1248 is when it was taken from the Arabs by Alfonso of Castilla. 



</doc>
<doc id="20193" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20193" title="Phonology">
Phonology

Phonology is the science that studies the sound patterns of language. Phonology is part of linguistics, which is the scientific study of language.


</doc>
<doc id="20194" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20194" title="Linguistics">
Linguistics

Linguistics is the science that studies language. Scientists who study language are called linguists.

An important part of the field of linguistics divides language into many levels to study it. The smallest part of any language is the phoneme, which are sounds in language. Speech is studied in the field known as phonetics. This is followed by the structure of sounds in words, studied under phonology. The structure of words is studied in morphology and the structure of sentences is studied as part of syntax. The study of meaning in language is known as semantics, and finally the study of meaning in context is known as pragmatics. Discourse analysis is the study of entire conversations or texts. 

Linguistics studies one language next to another to find similar properties. Doing that makes it possible to find things shared by all the languages of the world. Linguists who study how languages are structured and how they work are said to study theoretical linguistics.

Another part of linguistics is involved in understanding how languages are used in society or in the world. Sociolinguistics studies how language is used in society, and historical linguistics studies how languages change over time and how languages were in the past. One part of historical linguistics is known as etymology where people study the history of word. 

The part of linguistics which aims to find out how languages works in the mind is known as psycholinguistics. 


</doc>
<doc id="20196" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20196" title="Region of Murcia">
Region of Murcia

The Region of Murcia is an autonomous community in the south-east of Spain. With a population of 1,350,000, the capital is Murcia, with 410,000 people. Other important cities are Cartagena, Lorca, Molina de Segura, and Cieza.


</doc>
<doc id="20199" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20199" title="1636">
1636



</doc>
<doc id="20200" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20200" title="711">
711



</doc>
<doc id="20202" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20202" title="Segura">
Segura

Segura is a Spanish river that is 325 kilometers (200 miles) long. It flows through the provinces of Jaen, Albacete, Murcia, and Alicante, and the cities of Cieza, Molina de Segura, Murcia, Orihuela, Rojales, and Guardamar. It then flows into the Mediterranean Sea.


</doc>
<doc id="20203" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20203" title="Orihuela">
Orihuela

Orihuela is a city on the coast in Spain in the Alicante province, on the Segura river in a district called "Vega Baja". Oranges and lemons are grown. The city has a population of 75,000 with very important historical monuments like the Cathedral and the church of Santiago, the church of Santa Justa and Rufina and the Seminarium.


</doc>
<doc id="20204" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20204" title="Alicante Province">
Alicante Province

Alacant (catalan) or Alicante (spanish) province is the fifth largest Spanish province by population with 1,750,000, and the second largest in the Valencian Community. It is on the south-east Mediterranean coast and the capital is the city of Alicante, a sea- port with a University. It is a commercial city with monuments like Sainte Barbra Castle. Other importants cities are Elche, 215,000 with palms trees and its important shoe industry; Torrevieja, 100,000, tourist centre with the world-famous Habaneras contest; Orihuela, 75,000, agricultural important center; Benidorm, 67,000, the Mediterranean Manhattan; Alcoi, 60,000; textile center, and Elda, 55,000, shoes industry.

The most important river is the Segura, in the south, which provides the water to Alicante, Elche, Torrevieja, Orihuela and other cities. There are others like Vinalopo, Serpis, Amadorio, Ravine of the Sheeps and Monnegre.

The biggest mountain is Aitana, and other mountains are Mariola, Puig Bell, Maigmo and Gold Head, near Alicante. In the coast there are islands, the most important is Tabarca, and other is the Benidorm island. An important coast success is the Penon of Ifach, in Calpe.

The activities in Alicante province are tourism, industry (shoes, carpets, plays, dolls, textil) and modern agriculture of regadium (oranges, lemons, tomatoes, almonds, wine). There are two Universities: University of Alicante and University of Michael Hernandez.


</doc>
<doc id="20205" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20205" title="Turkmenistan">
Turkmenistan

Turkmenistan or Turkmenia is a country in the South-central Asia. It has borders with Afghanistan, Iran (Persia), Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan. It has no ocean coastline, but is on the Caspian Sea. The capital of Turkmenistan is Ashghabad.

<noinclude>


</doc>
<doc id="20206" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20206" title="Caesium">
Caesium

Caesium (or cesium) is the chemical element with the atomic number 55 on the periodic table. Its symbol is Cs.

Caesium is an alkali metal. Its melting point is low (28 °C). It is extremely reactive. Because of its high reactivity, it is a dangerous chemical. It may set itself on fire (ignite) in air. It explodes on contact with water. It reacts more violently than the other alkali metals with water. Because of this, caesium is stored in mineral oil.

Caesium is a rare element. Since there is little caesium on the Earth, it is rather expensive. The human body does not need caesium. In large amounts, it is mildly poisonous because it is close to potassium, which the body does need.

Caesium was first described in 1861, by Gustav Robert Kirchhoff and Robert Wilhelm Bunsen. They were testing mineral water, from Bad Dürkheim. After they separated calcium, strontium, magnesium and lithium, they saw two lines in the "blue" range of the spectometry. Because of these lines, they concluded that in addition to the elements already found, there must be another unknown substance in the mineral water. They named this substance caesium, after the color blue.

Caesium has at least 39 known isotopes ranging in atomic mass from 112 to 151. Only one of these, Cs, is stable. Therefore, the naturally-occurring isotope of caesium is Cs, which is not radioactive. Cs is used in atomic clocks, its vibration frequency used to define the length of the second. Another isotope, Cs is not made naturally but is made after nuclear fission has been done. It is very radioactive and used as an industrial gamma ray source. 

Caesium forms compounds with many other chemical elements. Caesium formate is used in oil drilling because of its high density.


</doc>
<doc id="20207" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20207" title="Rubidium">
Rubidium

Rubidium is chemical element 37 on the periodic table. Its symbol is Rb. Its atomic mass is 85.47. It has 37 protons and 37 electrons. It is a soft silver colored metal. It was first discovered in 1861 by Robert Wilhelm Bunsen and G. Kirchoff in Heidelberg, Germany.

Rubidium melts at a very low temperature, for example it could melt in a person's hand. Rubidium is an alkali metal. It can make an amalgam with mercury.

Rubidium is very reactive. It will ignite in air because it reacts with many other elements in the air like oxygen and nitrogen. Rubidium reacts very violently with water to make hydrogen and rubidium hydroxide, a strong corrosive base. The reaction is normally very hot so the hydrogen ignites. 

Rubidium forms chemical compounds in only one oxidation state: +1. Some rubidium compounds have a mixed oxidation state, though. Rubidium chloride is the most common rubidium compound. Rubidium hydroxide and rubidium carbonate are also used commonly. Rubidium compounds makes a red-violet color in a flame. Most rubidium compounds are colorless. Rubidium compounds are not as common as other alkali metal compounds.

Rubidium is about as common as zinc. It is the 23rd most common element in the Earth's crust. Most minerals only have a small amount of rubidium in them. It normally comes in small quantities in other minerals. It is made by reduction of rubidium ores with calcium. It is expensive because calcium is difficult to make and the rubidium needs to be kept in argon and away from water or air.

There are not many common uses for rubidium. Rubidium compounds are sometimes used in purple fireworks. It and its compounds are used mainly in science research though. It is also used to make superoxide ions. It is used in some special types of glass. 

Rubidium compounds are not very dangerous in the human body; however, if a person gets too much from eating, they could get sick because it acts like other alkali metal ions such as sodium ions in sodium chloride. 

Rubidium is very dangerous. It reacts with air and water and makes corrosive substances.


</doc>
<doc id="20208" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20208" title="Barium">
Barium

Barium is chemical element 56 on the periodic table. Its symbol is Ba. It contains 56 protons and 56 electrons. Its mass number is about 137.3. It is a metal.

Barium is part of a group of elements known as the alkaline earth metals. It is a silvery metal that easily turns black. It is soft and ductile. It can form alloys with some metals that are partially alloys and partially chemical compounds.

Barium is reactive, and if you put pure barium metal in the air, it will react with oxygen. At first it will turn black, then white as barium oxide is formed. Barium reacts with water to make barium hydroxide and hydrogen gas. Barium also reacts very fast with acids to make a barium salt and hydrogen. Barium can form barium peroxide if it is burned in air. 

Barium reacts with many other metal oxides and sulfides to make barium oxide or sulfide and the metal. It also reacts with carbon and nitrogen at a high temperature to make barium cyanide.

Barium is too reactive as a metal, so it is not found in the earth as a metal. It is found in chemical compounds. Barium only occurs in one oxidation state: +2. Most barium compounds are colorless. The ones that dissolve in water or stomach acid are very toxic. Barium sulfate is well known because it does not dissolve in water or acids. Barium compounds are quite heavy. Barium compounds put out a greenish flame when heated red-hot. 

Barium is found as barium sulfate (barite) and barium carbonate (witherite) in the ground. Both of these minerals do not dissolve in water. Barium sulfate hardly dissolves in anything. Barium is found mainly in China, Germany, India, Morocco, and the US. 

It is very hard to get barium from barium sulfate. So barium sulfate is reduced by carbon to make barium sulfide and carbon dioxide. The barium sulfide is dissolved in hydrochloric acid. This makes hydrogen sulfide and barium chloride. The barium chloride is melted and electrolyzed to get liquid barium metal. The barium metal is solidified and stored in oil.

Barium carbonate, the other ore of barium, is dissolved in hydrochloric acid to make barium chloride and carbon dioxide. The barium chloride is melted and electrolyzed, making barium metal.

Barium is used to remove oxygen from cathode ray tubes and vacuum tubes. It is placed inside and reacts with all of the oxygen, using it up. Barium is also used in spark plug wire. 

Certain compounds of barium, such as barium sulfate, are not toxic and can be put in the body. We can see where the barium travels in the body by X-rays and this can tell us whether there are problems, such as blockages. The barium sulfate stops the X-rays from going and makes a picture. Barium sulfate can be used as a pigment, too.

Other barium compounds have several other uses.

Barium is a very toxic element, though, and is dangerous. There is a really small amount of barium in our food, and this does not cause problems. If we get barium from other places, though, it can cause many problems. Even 1 gram of barium can kill you. It is dangerous because it acts like other really important elements, such as calcium and magnesium. If barium replaces these elements, it messes up the body.


</doc>
<doc id="20209" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20209" title="Scandium">
Scandium

Scandium is chemical element number 21 on the periodic table. Its symbol is Sc.

Scandium is a metal in a group known as the transition metals. It is also a rare earth metal. What this means is that there is not very much scandium found in the earth. Because of this, the pure metal can be expensive. The pure metal is very reactive, and will react with other elements like oxygen. The metal turns from shiny to gray.

Scandium is not very dangerous because there is not much of it on Earth, so there is not enough of it to harm us. It does not have many uses. Its main use is perhaps as a component in Mercury-vapor lamps. Such lamps are used to light Stadiums.



</doc>
<doc id="20210" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20210" title="Vanadium">
Vanadium

Vanadium is chemical element 23 on the periodic table. Its symbol is V.

Vanadium is a metal and is part of the group known as the transition metals. It is mostly used in steel where it helps strengthen the steel metal.

The human body may require a little bit of vanadium, even though scientists are not really sure. There is a little bit of vanadium in vitamins just to make sure that we do not get sick (in case our body does need vanadium).

Vanadium can react with a variety of other elements, and the chemical compounds it forms often have beautiful colors.


</doc>
<doc id="20211" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20211" title="844">
844





</doc>
<doc id="20212" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20212" title="Arsenic">
Arsenic

Arsenic is chemical element 33 on the periodic table. Its symbol is As. Its atomic number is 33 and its atomic mass is 74.02. It is in the pnictogen group on the periodic table.

Arsenic is found in three allotropes. Gray arsenic is the most common. It is a brittle, somewhat soft metalloid that is a little shiny. It has a density of 5.73g/cm. It is a semiconductor. Yellow arsenic is unstable and rare. It is the most toxic allotrope. It is a soft and waxy nonmetal, similar to white phosphorus. It turns into gray arsenic in light. Its density is 1.97g/cmAs, which has a half life of about 80 days.

Arsenic is a moderately unreactive element, similar to copper in reactivity. It burns in air to make garlic-smelling arsenic trioxide. Arsenic, as well as some of its compounds, do not have a liquid state; they sublime. Arsenic reacts with fluorine to make arsenic pentafluoride. It reacts with the rest of the halogens to make the arsenic trihalides. Arsenic does not dissolve in hydrochloric acid. It dissolves in concentrated nitric acid to make arsenic acid and in dilute nitric acid to make arsenious acid. It reacts with concentrated sulfuric acid to make arsenic trioxide. Arsenic burns with a pale lavender flame.

Arsenic forms chemical compounds in three oxidation states: -3, +3, and +5. -3 compounds are reducing agents. They are the main form of arsenic in the ground (as arsenides). Arsine is a colorless, highly toxic gas with a garlic odor. The +3 state is the most common. They are weak oxidizing agents. Arsenic trioxide is a white solid. It dissolves in water to make a solution of arsenious acid. The arsenic trichlorides are low melting covalent solids. The +5 state is common, too. They are strong oxidizing agents. Arsenic pentafluoride, a colorless and highly reactive gas, is the only stable arsenic pentahalide. Arsenic pentoxide dissolves in water to make arsenic acid, which can make arsenate salts.

Arsenic is found sometimes as an element in the ground, but is normally found in minerals. Some arsenic minerals have a metal and sulfur along with arsenic. Arsenopyrite is iron arsenic sulfide. It is the same as pyrite with arsenic added. Other arsenic minerals have a metal and arsenic. Erythrite, a cobalt arsenide mineral, is an example. Other arsenic minerals are simple. Realgar and orpiment (arsenic sulfides), simple arsenic minerals, are ores of arsenic.

Arsenic is found as a less toxic variety in fish and mushrooms. Some people think that humans need very small amounts of arsenic to be healthy. Some bacteria can use arsenic instead of phosphorus for some things; they are called arsenic bacteria.

Most arsenic is made from the waste products after other metals are processed. Only China actually mines arsenic.

Arsenic is made from arsenopyrite by heating it. This makes arsenic trioxide which sublimes (along with sulfur dioxide), while the iron oxide stays behind. The arsenic trioxide is condensed, while the sulfur dioxide does not condense. The arsenic trioxide can be reduced with carbon. Another way is to heat the arsenopyrite without air. Then gray arsenic is made. Realgar can be heated to make arsenic trioxide as well.

Arsenic was known since antiquity. It was alloyed with bronze to make the bronze harder. Some people used arsenic as make-up, although it was toxic. Arsenic was well known as a poison. Since people used it to kill royalty and it was hard to detect, it was called the "Poison of Kings" and the "King of Poisons". An arsenic compound could have been the first organometallic compound (a metal bonded to an organic compound).

Arsenic compounds were used as a preservative for wood. Once people saw how toxic arsenic was, they stopped using it to preserve wood. Some feed for animals had arsenic in it to prevent disease. Lead arsenate was used as an insecticide in orchards but damaged the brains of those who put the insecticide on the trees.

Arsenic was used in medicines in the 1700's, 1800's, and 1900's. Arsenic trioxide was used to treat cancer. Very tiny doses of arsenic compounds can act as stimulants. Some arsenic compounds are used as poison gases. 

Arsenic as an element is used in alloys. The lead in lead acid batteries has some arsenic in it to make it stronger. Some semiconductors have arsenic in them.

Copper arsenate was used as a coloring for sweets. Paris green, a green pigment having arsenic in it, made many people sick. Some bullets have arsenic in them. Arsenic is sometimes added to brass to prevent the zinc from coming out. Arsenic was used in optical glass but was taken out because it was toxic.

Arsenic and its compounds are highly toxic. They are carcinogens. Water near arsenic mines is normally contaminated with arsenic. Wood that was preserved with arsenic compounds can leach arsenic into the soil. Emissions from coke ovens have arsenic in them.


</doc>
<doc id="20213" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20213" title="Manganese">
Manganese

Manganese is chemical element 25 on the periodic table. It symbol is Mn. (Some people get it confused with magnesium, the symbol is Mg). It has 25 protons. Its mass number is 54.94.

Manganese is a silvery-gray metal and is part of the group known as the transition metals. It is similar to iron. It is hard to melt, but easy to oxidize. Manganese forms chemical compounds in several oxidation states: +2, +4, and +7 are the most common. +2 compounds are pink or light brown. Manganese(II) chloride is a common example. +4 compounds are black and rarer. Manganese(IV) oxide is an example. They are oxidizing agents. +7 compounds are purple-black and powerful oxidizing agents. Potassium permanganate is an example. Manganese compounds can be black, brown, pink, red, green, blue, and purple.
Manganese is sometimes found alloyed with iron naturally. These rocks, called meteorites, came from space. Pyrolusite is one of the main sources of manganese. It also occurs as manganese carbonate. Some silicates have manganese in them.

Manganese is normally made in an alloy with steel. This is made by mixing manganese ore and iron ore in a furnace and reducing it with carbon. This forms an alloy called ferromanganese. Pure manganese is made by reacting the manganese ore with sulfuric acid and electrolyzing it.

Manganese is used a lot in steel to make it stronger. This is the main use for manganese metal. Manganese compounds, particularly manganese(IV) oxide, are used in alkaline cells and Leclanche cells. Manganese metal is also alloyed with aluminium. 

Our bodies and plants need manganese to work right. If we do not get enough manganese, we can get sick. We get manganese from our food and vitamins also have some manganese to make sure that we get enough.

Manganese dust can irritate lungs. Some manganese compounds cause toxicity when ingested. Manganese is less toxic than nickel or copper. Permanganates are the most toxic manganese compounds. When someone is exposed to manganese for a long time it can cause a problem with the nervous system.




</doc>
<doc id="20214" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20214" title="Gallium">
Gallium

Gallium (chemical symbol: Ga) is chemical element 31 on the periodic table. 

Gallium is a metal, but is has some unusual properties. If it is held in a person's hand, it will melt. Gallium does not conduct electricity well, and is known as a semiconductor. That means gallium can be used in computers to make them work. It is very shiny, so it is used to paint mirrors when melted.

While not considered toxic, the safety data about gallium are inconclusive. Some sources suggest that it may cause dermatitis from prolonged exposure. Other tests have not caused a positive reaction. Like most metals, finely divided gallium loses its luster and powdered gallium appears gray. So, when gallium is handled with bare hands, the extremely fine dispersion of liquid gallium droplets, which results from wetting skin with the metal, may appear as a gray skin stain.


</doc>
<doc id="20215" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20215" title="Nikita Khrushchev">
Nikita Khrushchev

Nikita Sergeyevich Khrushchyov (Russian: Ники́та Серге́евич Хрущёв) IPA: , commonly spelled in English as Khrushchev) April 15, 1894 – September 11, 1971) was the leader of the Soviet Union after the death of Joseph Stalin. He ruled from 1953-1964.

Nikita was born in the town of Kalinovka in Russia. He later moved to Ukraine. He worked in mines, and became part of the Bolshevik movement. 

He moved his way up in the Communist Party, eventually becoming trusted by Premier Joseph Stalin. When Stalin died, Khrushchev became the leader of the Soviet Union.

He died of a heart attack on September 11, 1971.

When Nikita became the leader of the Soviet Union, he began something he called "De-Stalinization". In early 1956, he took down all posters and statues of Joseph Stalin. Also, he moved Stalin's grave to a place where people could not see it, and burying it 10 feet.

He also had better contacts with the western countries like the USA, Britain, and France. This means the USSR and the west were friendlier. He visited America in 1959.

But the USSR and the US still did not trust each other. In 1962 America and the USSR had problems over missiles being in Cuba (near the US), and could have had a war. Khrushchev had bargained with the Americans to get rid of the missiles in Turkey, for the missiles in Cuba for only way of withdrawal. 

Also, during this time, the Soviet Union became a lot less friendly with China. Because the Chinese leader Mao Zedong liked Stalin, and did not like it when Khrushchev became friendlier with the west, and when Nikita Khrushchev began a "destalinization" campaign.


</doc>
<doc id="20218" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20218" title="Rambla de las Ovejas">
Rambla de las Ovejas

The Rambla de las Ovejas (which translates to Ravine of the Sheeps) is a water course of the province of Alicante, in Spain. It originates at the foot of the Maigmo, to 1,100 meters of height and gathers the waters of the sides of the Maigmo, Cid and others of minor height across numerous tributary ravines. It ends in the city of Alicante, between the neighborhoods of Babylon and Saint Gabriel.

The tributary ravines are those of Rambuchar, Pepior, Alabaster and Bramble, between the most important. The normally dry riverbed experiences forts grown as consequence of torrents, like the rains in 1982 it came to 400 m³/seg. in Alicante causing serious destruction and human losses. It has since been canalized providing to the riverbed of a potential capacity of 735 m³/seg. In the floods of 1997 it came to 100 m³/seg.


</doc>
<doc id="20221" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20221" title="Guadalquivir">
Guadalquivir

Guadalquivir is a river to the south of Spain, which crosses the autonomous community of Andalusia. The name derives from the Arab "Wadi al-Kabir" ("big river"), whereas the Romans were called it a river "Betis".

Guadalquivir is born in the Glen of the Sources in the mountains near Cazorla (Jaen province) and ends in the population of Sanlucar de Barrameda (Cadiz province), passing through the provinces of Jaen, Cordoba, Seville and Cadiz. The length is 657 kilometres, and the principal tributaries are the rivers Genil (which flows through Granada), The Minor Guadiana, Guadalbullon, and Guadajoz on the left side, and Guadalmena, Jandula, and Guadiato on the right.

It is the only river in Spain with shipping traffic. At present, it only is navigable up to Seville, though in the Roman epoch it was navigable up to Cordoba.


</doc>
<doc id="20222" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20222" title="Ebro">
Ebro

Ebro is a Spanish river. It flows through Reinosa, Miranda de Ebro, Logrono, Tudela, Zaragoza, and Tortosa. It empties into the Mediterranean Sea in the province of Tarragona.


</doc>
<doc id="20223" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20223" title="Toledo Province">
Toledo Province

Province of Toledo () is one of the provinces of Castile-La Mancha, in the center of Spain, near Madrid. The capital is Toledo and the biggest city is Talavera of the Queen. The population of the province is near 600,000.


</doc>
<doc id="20224" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20224" title="Talavera de la Reina">
Talavera de la Reina

Talavera of the Queen ("Talavera de la Reina" in Spanish) is a city of the interior of Spain. It is the capital of a wide region belonging to the autonomous community of Castile-La Mancha. It is located in the northwest of the province of Toledo. Talavera of the Queen is the second biggest city of Castile-La Mancha, and the first one of the province, with a population of 85.172 inhabitants.

Its mistress is "Our Lady of the Meadow".

As curiosity of this locality emphasizes that Gwyneth Paltrow is an adopted child of this locality toledana.


</doc>
<doc id="20225" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20225" title="Castile-La Mancha">
Castile-La Mancha

Castile-La Mancha is an autonomous community in Spain with a population over 2,000,000. The capital is Toledo and the biggest cities are Albacete, Talavera of the Queen, Guadalajara, Ciudad Real, Puertollano, and Cuenca.

Provinces of Castile-La Mancha:


</doc>
<doc id="20228" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20228" title="Ciudad Real">
Ciudad Real

Ciudad Real (this translates to "Royal City") is a city in Spain. It is the capital of the province with the same name, in the autonomous community of Castile-La Mancha.

The city has 69,063 people who live there. It is an average of 628 meters above sea level. The municipal area is 285 km². It is approximately 200 km to the south of Madrid.


</doc>
<doc id="20230" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20230" title="Ciudad Real Province">
Ciudad Real Province

Ciudad Real (Royal City in English) is a province of Spain in the community of Castile-La Mancha. It has 497.691 people living in it.


</doc>
<doc id="20231" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20231" title="Puertollano">
Puertollano

Puertollano (which translates to Flatport, in English) is a city in Spain. It is the second biggest in Ciudad Real province, in the region of Castile-La Mancha. It is an important industrial center, with a population of 50,000.


</doc>
<doc id="20233" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20233" title="NOFX">
NOFX

NOFX is a popular punk rock band from California. The band was formed in 1983 by Fat Mike. As of April 2009, NOFX has released eleven full-length albums. Their latest one, "Coaster", came out on April 28, 2009.




</doc>
<doc id="20234" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20234" title="Toledo">
Toledo

Toledo is the name of several things. The best known cities are:



</doc>
<doc id="20235" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20235" title="Methane">
Methane

Methane is a hydrocarbon that is a gas at room temperature (20°C). Its molecular formula is CH, so it has one carbon atom and four hydrogen atoms in a molecule. It is often found as the main part of natural gas. Methane is a greenhouse gas 22 times more effective than carbon dioxide. It is also less stable and slowly oxidates by oxygen to carbon dioxide and water. 

Methane is used in gas taps in places such as chemistry classrooms, laboratories, etc. as it burns very easily because of its simple molecular structure.

Methane's molecular structure is very simple. It is a single carbon atom surrounded by four hydrogen atoms.

Methane can be produced by many chemical methods, but usually is found in natural gas and is obtained by fractional distillation, after it is become liquid.


</doc>
<doc id="20239" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20239" title="Category:Turkmenistan">
Category:Turkmenistan

Turkmenistan


</doc>
<doc id="20240" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20240" title="Template:Sisterlinks">
Template:Sisterlinks


</doc>
<doc id="20247" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20247" title="North Country">
North Country

North Country is a movie about a woman being harassed in a mining facility.


</doc>
<doc id="20248" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20248" title="Dance Dance Revolution">
Dance Dance Revolution

Dance Dance Revolution is a series of video games made by Konami in which players step on arrows on a large pad or mat to match the arrows on screen. The arrows are in time with the music. Because players are moving themselves along to the music, they look like they are dancing. There is a large variety of music.

There is a bar at the top of the screen. If players make mistakes, the bar gets smaller. If players do not make mistakes, the bar grows. The game ends if the player makes too many mistakes. 

Players can choose between three levels. They are called light, standard, and heavy. Light is easy and heavy is hard. On some of the newer games, there is a beginner mode, which is very easy, and a challenge mode, which is very hard.

Players are graded by their performance in letters (A, B, C, D, E) based on the length of the bar at the end.

From DDR SuperNOVA to later versions, the levels are called beginner, basic, difficult, expert, and challenge.

If the player gets an "AA" on the last stage in "Expert", "Heavy", or "Challenge", they can play an extra stage. This one is sudden-death, though, meaning one wrong step fails the game.

Some educators even believe DDR should be in schools as exercise.


</doc>
<doc id="20249" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20249" title="Street Fighter II">
Street Fighter II

Street Fighter II is a video game by Capcom made in 1991.

The player controls a martial arts fighter and has to knock out the opponent. There are many playable characters, the most popular of which are Ryu, Ken Masters, Guile, and Chun-Li. Each character has special moves that require commands. The game has 4 bosses - M. Bison (Vega in Japan), Vega (Balrog in Japan), Balrog (Mike Bison in Japan), and Sagat (Balrog and Sagat were opponents in the first game). There have been many follow-up games to "Street Fighter II". The street fighter series of games is still very popular. Though it is twenty years old, many game players still prefer "Street Fighter II" to newer fighting games. 

The game was released for Arcade and different consoles.


</doc>
<doc id="20250" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20250" title="Mighty Morphin Power Rangers">
Mighty Morphin Power Rangers

Mighty Morphin Power Rangers is a television series which ran for 3 seasons (one season of television is made in a year), which is longer than the Power Rangers shows after this series have lasted. This series has 155 episodes in total. This series aired on Fox from 1993 to 1996. This series will re-air on ABC Kids in January 2010. The next show after the third season is called Power Rangers: Zeo. There are many different versions of Power Rangers, and most of them were made with better technology, yet many still prefer this one more than any other. Like all Power Rangers shows, Mighty Morphin Power Rangers is based on Super Sentai shows from Japan. Each season of Mighty Morphin Power Rangers is based on a different Super Sentai show from Japan.

Five teenagers battle against the witch Rita Repulsa and the wizard Lord Zedd to defend the earth. They have large robots called Zords and battle suits for their fights. They are armed with special weapons like swords, axes, bows, daggers and lances to help them fight monsters. Rita and Lord Zedd have an army of fighters known as Putties, which get destroyed and broken into many pieces when they are hit by their weak spot - a Z plate on their chest.

Rita is in a prison on the Moon. When she gets out of it, she wants to destroy Earth, because that's what she wanted to do before she was put in prison. She brings along her helpers, who were also in prison. One of them is called Goldar. He is a blue gorilla in gold armor who can fight better than anyone. To stop her, five teenagers are chosen by a wizard called Zordon. Zordon has an robot called Alpha 5 who helps him. The teenagers are given special magic coins that turn them into Power Rangers.

Rita has her own magic coin, and uses it to make her own evil Power Ranger, the Green Ranger. The Green Ranger fights the good Power Rangers, because Rita is controlling his mind. They free him from Rita's evil magic, but his magic coin stops working the right way, and begins to hurt him when he uses it. The Green Ranger gives up his magic coin to the Red Ranger who will not get hurt by it.

When Lord Zedd comes into the show, he destroys the Power Rangers' Zords. Zordon takes the Green Ranger's magic coin and uses it to make new Zords for the Power Rangers. These new Zords are mostly fairy tale animals, like the unicorn and the dragon. The old Zords were Dinosaurs, like Triceratops and T-Rex. Lord Zedd also puts Rita back in her prison and throws her away into space, because she was not doing a good enough job of being evil.

But one day, a new Power Ranger appears. His costume is white, and his Zord is a white tiger. No one knows who he is, but he turns out to be the old Green Ranger. Later, three of the Power Rangers have to leave the team and go to Switzerland. They choose three teenagers from another school to take their powers.

Rita comes back, too, and gives Lord Zedd a love potion. He falls in love with her, and they get married. Goldar gives Lord Zedd another potion to stop the love potion, but Lord Zedd's love for Rita turns out to be true and they stay married.

Rita's brother, Rito Revolto, comes to visit his sister. He looks like a skeleton. Rito does what Rita and Lord Zedd could not do, and destroys the Power Ranger's magic coins. The Power Rangers go and find Ninjor, a powerful ninja (a ninja is a type of fighter from Japan), who made the magic coins. He agrees to help them and makes new coins and new Zords for them. They become Ninja Power Rangers, and their new Zords are animals like the wolf and the frog.

At the end of this season, Rita and Rito's father comes to Earth. He is very powerful, even more powerful than his son and daughter together. He uses magic to turn back time, making the Power Rangers into children. They lose their new ninja powers, and go off to find new powers. The next show, Power Rangers Zeo, starts after this happens.




</doc>
<doc id="20252" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20252" title="Office Space">
Office Space

Office Space is a 1999 comedy movie starring Ron Livingston and Jennifer Aniston. The movie was directed by Mike Judge. The movie is a satire of white collar office work in the United States.

Office Space received mostly positive reviews from reviewers, which means that most of them thought that it was a good movie. However, it did not make very much money at movie theaters, only earning $10,827,810 from movie tickets. The movie went on to become a cult classic, becoming more popular over time.


</doc>
<doc id="20256" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20256" title="Syriana">
Syriana

Syriana is an 2005 American movie, which has won Academy Award and Golden Globe awards. It is directed by Stephen Gaghan and produced by Jennifer Fox, Michael Nozik, Georgia Kacandes, Steven Soderbergh, George Clooney. The movie has Clooney, Matt Damon, Jeffrey Wright, Chris Cooper, and William Hurt as stars.

The movie is about a lot of people doing complicated things. One of the people is a CIA agent (George Clooney) who is angered when his boss tries to invade his privacy. Another person, Matt Damon, whose kid dies, gets a better job working for a king. Then another person, a lawyer, Jeffrey Wright finds out that the oil company is actually not good and should be removed from power immediately. The last part of the movie is about two Muslims who become suicide bombers because they feel offended.


</doc>
<doc id="20259" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20259" title="Shareware">
Shareware

Shareware is a way to sell software.

The user will get a preview or demo of the software for free. This way, the user can decide if he likes the program or not before buying the complete program.

Users can get games for free this way but most of the time these games do not have all the levels. Sometimes Internet Relay Chat clients let users have a demo of their client for 30 days, but after that, in order to keep using it, the user will have to pay money.


</doc>
<doc id="20260" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20260" title="Brokeback Mountain">
Brokeback Mountain

Brokeback Mountain is a 2005 movie about two gay cowboys who are in love with each other. They cannot be together because it is not allowed where they live. It made the eighth highest amount of money for a romantic movie since people have kept records.


</doc>
<doc id="20261" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20261" title="A Christmas Carol">
A Christmas Carol

A Christmas Carol is a famous book by the English writer Charles Dickens. It was first published on December 17, 1843. The pictures inside were drawn by John Leech. The story has a strong moral message against greed, among other things. It is usually read at Christmas time and has been adapted to theatre, movies, radio, and television many times. 

The story is about Ebenezer Scrooge. At the beginning of the book he is a mean old man who runs a business lending people money. These people are poor and often cannot pay him back. He pays his clerk Bob Cratchit badly. 

On Christmas Eve, Scrooge refuses an invitation to his nephew's house for Christmas dinner, telling him he hates it (he calls it a "Humbug"). He then refuses to give money to two men who are collecting for charity.

Later that evening, he is visited by the ghost of his dead business partner Jacob Marley, who went to Hell because of his bad life. He tells Scrooge that the same future will happen to him unless he changes and that during the night he will be visited by three more ghosts. These will show him where he went wrong in his life, and how to be a better person in the future.

The first ghost is the Ghost of Christmas Past. This ghost shows him where he went wrong in the past, showing him his unhappy childhood and how he did not get married.

The second ghost is the Ghost of Christmas Present. This ghost shows him things which are happening now, such as how his clerk, Bob Cratchit, is having a nice Christmas despite not having much money. He also shows him Bob's youngest son, Tiny Tim, who is crippled. Later, the ghost shows him how his nephew is having a good Christmas, and how Scrooge is missing out.

The third ghost is the Ghost of Christmas Yet to Come. This ghost shows Scrooge what Christmas will be like in the future if he does not change. Firstly, people are shown celebrating a man's death and robbing from his house. The ghost also shows him that Tiny Tim has died. Scrooge is then shown his own grave, and realizes that the celebrations were for his death. 

On Christmas morning, Scrooge wakes up and realizes that he has to change. He decides to celebrate Christmas, and help Tiny Tim get better. Through the ghosts' help he becomes a better man.

Online editions


</doc>
<doc id="20262" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20262" title="Aruba">
Aruba

Aruba is an island in the Caribbean Sea, just a short distance north of the Venezuelan Paraguaná Peninsula, and it forms a part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. Unlike much of the Caribbean region, it has a dry climate and an arid, cactus-strewn landscape. This climate has helped tourism, however, as visitors to the island can reliably expect warm, sunny weather.

The island broke off from the Netherlands Antilles in 1986, hoping to gain its independence by 1996. In 1990, that effort stopped at the request of the island itself.

The island came into the news after high school senior Natalee Holloway disappeared on a high school graduation trip on May 30, 2005.


</doc>
<doc id="20264" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20264" title="Kill Bill">
Kill Bill

Kill Bill is a movie directed by Quentin Tarantino. It was released in two parts; "Volume 1" and "Volume 2". In most countries it is rated for adult viewing only because of extreme violence and foul language.


</doc>
<doc id="20266" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20266" title="Drive-by shooting">
Drive-by shooting

A drive-by shooting is when a gun is fired from a moving vehicle, at a target outside the vehicle.

Tupac Shakur and Biggie Smalls were killed because of a drive-by shooting.


</doc>
<doc id="20278" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20278" title="Andalusia">
Andalusia

Andalusia or Andalucía, in southern Spain, is one of 17 regions of Spain.

Andalusia is part of the so called Autonomous communities of Spain. It is the first in population among the Autonomous communities and the second in area. With 7,975,672 people and eight provinces it is a well-known region in Europe. The capital is Seville, with 705,000 inhabitants and 1,350,000 in the metropolitan area. Another big city is Malaga, with 560,000 inhabitants and 1,075,000 in the metropolitan area. Other famous Andalusian cities are Cordoba, Granada, Almeria, Cadiz, Jaen, Huelva, Jerez, and Marbella. The most important river is the Guadalquivir and the highest mountain in Andalusia and in the Iberian Peninsula is the Mulhacen

The name Andalusia is the modern version of the name Al-Andalus which goes back to the Middle Ages. During that period, northern Iberian Peninsula was controlled by Christian kings and the southern Iberian Peninsula was controlled by Muslims. In 711 CE, the Muslims invaded the Iberian Peninsula, then controlled by Christians of Visigothic origin. By 719 the Muslims conquered all of the peninsula except for a small area in the northern Pyrenees Mountains. The Muslims used the name Al-Andalus for all of the territory of the Iberian Peninsula under their control. Christians in the north waged war for more than seven centuries against the Muslims, gradually taking over more and more of the southern areas. This process of war is called the reconquista, Spanish for reconquest. In the year 1492, King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella of Spain retook the last stronghold in the southern area at Granada. In that same year, the Muslims and Jews were forced to leave Spain.

The Andalusians are the inhabitants of Andalusia of the southern region in Iberia peninsula. They are generally considered an ethnically distinct peoples because of the two of the most important markers of distinctiveness: their own language and an awareness of a presumed common origin. Andalusian is said to be a distinct dialect of Spanish, although it is debatable, according to the nationalists. The Andalusians have a rich culture which includes the famous flamenco style of music and dance, even though it was adopted by the Spanish gypsies who have changed it and monopolized into their own culture.

Joseph O'Callaghan, A History of Medieval Spain, 1975, Cornell University Press.


</doc>
<doc id="20279" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20279" title="Granada">
Granada

Granada is a Spanish city, capital of the province of Granada, in Andalusia. With 233,000 inhabitants, it is an important artistic and cultural center. The city has several famous monuments, such as the Alhambra, the Cathedral, the "Alcaiceria", and the "Corral del Carbon". It is near Sierra Nevada, the highest mountain range in Spain, in the valley where the Genil and Darro rivers meet. The Darro runs through the "Albaicin" and the" Sacromonte", two charming historical areas of the city.
Battle of Granada



</doc>
<doc id="20280" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20280" title="Cadiz">
Cadiz

Cadiz is a Spanish city, capital of the Cadiz province, in Andalusia. It is the southern capital in the Iberian Peninsula. The population is 130,000, but it is the center of a metropolitan area, the Bay of Cadiz, with more than 500,000.


</doc>
<doc id="20281" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20281" title="Merida">
Merida

Mérida is the capital of Extremadura, an autonomous community in Spain. It has 55,000 inhabitants and is an important Roman center, with the theatre and the bridge over the Guadiana river.



</doc>
<doc id="20282" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20282" title="Cuenca">
Cuenca

Cuenca is a Spanish city, capital of the Cuenca province, in Castile-La Mancha. It is a small city with 50,000 inhabitants. It is very famous for its monuments: The hanging houses, the Cathedral and other churches. It is situated over the Jucar river, near the Serrania of Cuenca.


</doc>
<doc id="20283" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20283" title="Balearic Islands">
Balearic Islands

The Balearic Islands (officially and in Catalan Illes Balears) are an autonomous community of Spain, formed by the "Balearic Islands province". The main Balearic islands are Mallorca (also called in English "Majorca"), Minorca, Eivissa or Ibiza, and Formentera. The capital is Palma de Mallorca, and other cities are Mahon, Ibiza, Inca, Ciutadella, and Calvia.


</doc>
<doc id="20284" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20284" title="Henry Fonda">
Henry Fonda

Henry Jaynes Fonda (May 16, 1905 - August 12, 1982) was an American actor. He was the head of a family of actors: son Peter, daughter Jane, granddaughter Bridget and grandson Troy Garity.

Fonda starred in movies including "The Grapes of Wrath" (1940), "12 Angry Men" (1957), "Once Upon a Time in the West" (1968) and "Yours, Mine and Ours" (1968). His last performance was in 1981's "On Golden Pond".



</doc>
<doc id="20285" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20285" title="Provinces of Spain">
Provinces of Spain

There are fifty parts of Spain called provinces. They are:


</doc>
<doc id="20287" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20287" title="Cartagena">
Cartagena

Cartagena is a city in the Region of Murcia, in Spain. In the south of the region, at the Mediterranean Sea. The population of the city is 205,000 and it is an industrial centre. Cartagena was founded by the Carthaginese as "Qart Hadasht" and the name means "New City". 


</doc>
<doc id="20288" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20288" title="Palermo">
Palermo

Palermo is a Italian city, the capital of Sicily, with 720,000 inhabitants and more than 1,000,000 in the metropolitan area. The city was Islamic, Norman, and from the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies.


</doc>
<doc id="20289" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20289" title="Bosnia and Herzegovina">
Bosnia and Herzegovina

Bosnia and Herzegovina or Bosnia-Herzegovina (locally: "Bosna i Hercegovina/Босна и Херцеговина", most commonly abbreviated as "BiH/БиХ") is a country in Europe, with an area of 51,000 km and 4,600,000 people. Countries around Bosnia and Herzegovina are Croatia, Serbia and Montenegro. The capital is Sarajevo, and other important cities are Banja Luka, Mostar and Tuzla.

The first state in Bosnia and Herzegovina was in the Middle Ages. During the Ottoman Empire, it was a very important province in the Balkans and the capital, Sarajevo, had 100,000 people. In 1878 it became controlled by Austria-Hungary when the Empire took over Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1908. In 1914 the Archduke Ferdinand and his wife, Sophie Chotek were killed in Sarajevo, leading to World War I. From 1918 until 1992, the country was a part of the former Yugoslavia. After a 4 year war, Bosnia and Herzegovina proclaimed independence as a country consiting mostly of serbs, croats, bosnian muslims majority.



</doc>
<doc id="20296" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20296" title="Black bass">
Black bass

A black bass is a type of fresh water fish.

Some names and types are "Florida bass", "Florida" (or "southern") "largemouth", "smallmouth", "green bass", "bigmouth", "bucketmouth", "linesides", "Oswego bass", and "green trout". 

The largemouth is a fish which generally has greenish to brownish sides with a dark line which goes from the head to the tail. It's the largest member of the sunfish family. 

It prefers clear, still waters with aquatic vegetation (plants that live in water). A lot of food and cover must also be there. Also, they can tolerate a wide range of water clarities and bottom types, prefer water temperatures from 20 to 30°C, and are usually found at depths less than 20 feet. 

The feeding habits of bass change with its size. Young fish mainly feed on microscopic animals (plankton). Fingerling bass eat insects and small fishes. Adult bass will eat whatever is available, including fish, crabs, frogs, salamanders, snakes, mice, turtles, and even birds. 

Age and growth - Growth rates are highly variable with differences attributed mainly to their food supply and length of growing season. Female bass live longer than males and are much more likely to reach trophy size. By age two or three, females grow much faster than male bass. At five years of age females may be twice the weight of males. The oldest bass from Florida whose age has been determined by fisheries' biologists was 16 years of age.

The largemouth bass is a very popular fresh water game fish. Much of its popularity is due to its aggressive attitude and willingness to strike a lure or bait with explosive force. They can be caught with almost every bait. The value of the largemouth as a sport fish has prompted a movement toward catch-and-release fishing.

22 pounds, 4 ounces, caught in Montgomery Lake, Georgia (U.S. state) in 1932.


</doc>
<doc id="20297" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20297" title="Reinheitsgebot">
Reinheitsgebot

The Reinheitsgebot is a regulation about the purity of beer. The regulation started in Ingolstadt, in Bavaria, in Germany, in 1516. 

The regulation says several things:

Some people talk about the "Bavarian" Reinheitsgebot, or the "German" Reinheitsgebot. They all mean the same thing. There are similar acts in the other states which later became known as Germany.

The Reinheitsgebot is no longer part of German law. It has been replaced by the Provisional German Beer Law
, which allows things prohibited in the "Reinheitsgebot", such as wheat malt and cane sugar, but which no longer allows unmalted barley.

Yeast was not a part of beer until Louis Pasteur discovered what it did during fermentation. This was around the year 1800. Brewers (the people brewing beer) usually re-used some of the sediments of the fermentation. They took some sediments of an older brew and added those sediments to the next brew.

Hops were added as a method of preservation (to stop the beer going bad quickly). Hops were allowed to stop other things (like adding certain mushrooms to the beer, which was done in the Middle Ages) being done to preserve beer. Other herbs, like stinging nettles had been used. The stinging nettle is part of the same plant family as hops.

A brewer who broke the "Reinheitsgebot" was punished: The beer barrels were taken by the state and destroyed and he/she did not receive any money for the loss.

Even today, many brewers are proud of the "Reinheitsgebot"; most German breweries say they follow it. Some only use it as a marketing tool. The "Reinheitsgebot' says that beer is made of barley, so all wheat beers were not allowed by the original Reinheitsgebot). 

Belgian beers are different. The brewers often add sugar (to boost fermentation). Nevertheless, Belgian beers have a brewing tradition at least as long as those of Germany. They taste totally different from the German ones.


</doc>
<doc id="20298" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20298" title="Maß">
Maß

A Maß or Mass is an old unit of measurement of liquid. Literally translated, it means "mass". It is equal to 1.069 litre. Today, it is only used for measuring quantities of beer (one litre). Beer is usually served as 0.2 or 0.3 l ("small beer") or as 0.5 l ("big beer"), but at some occasions (like the Oktoberfest) and some places it is also served as a "Maß".

Usually this Maß is served in special mugs. These used to be made of ceramics, especially clay. During the 19th and 20th centuries most were replaced by ones made of glass.


</doc>
<doc id="20299" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20299" title="Wolverine">
Wolverine

The wolverine ("Gulo gulo") is a member of the Mustelidae family (the weasels). It is not related to the wolf or the bear, as some may think. The male is about 18 inches tall, the female 14 inches. Their length ranges from 36 inches (female) to 45 (male) and they reach a weight of around 25 to 36 pounds. Their tail measures about 8 inches. Their brown fur protects them from the extremely cold temperatures and their big feet enable them to walk on top of snow.

Wolverines can be found in the Northern United States, in Canada, Alaska, Siberia, Russia, and also in Northern Europe. Michigan is known as the Wolverine State, but wolverines were not observed there in the wild since the 1800's until 2004 when a female was found in the thumb. She died in 2010.

Wolverines are omnivores. They eat berries and nuts as well as small animals and even large game. Their main source of food is carrion. They often chase a predator away from its prey and take the kill for themselves. They are one of the smallest and most powerful predators in the world.

Wolverines feed on almost every type of food that they can find: mice, rats, birds, bird eggs, reindeer and other large prey. Wolverines prefer to hunt larger prey in winter, when the snow slows down the prey and gives the wolverine an advantage.

Wolverines reproduce every two or three years. The female gives birth to one to three young (called kits) in a tunnel called a den deep underneath snowdrifts.

The human is the wolverine’s main enemy. The wolverine’s thick, warm fur is used to manufacture the trim of a parka's hood or other winter clothes, as the dense guard hairs do not collect frost. The Wolverine is highly territorial. 


</doc>
<doc id="20300" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20300" title="Bismarck (ship)">
Bismarck (ship)

The German battleship Bismarck was one of the most famous warships of World War II. It only sailed for one mission, Operation "Rheinübung", before sinking in the Atlantic Ocean. Nearly 3500 seamen lost their lives in the battle which lasted around 8 days.

The whole ship with all the oil reserves weighed 53165 tonnes. It was about long and wide. 

The ship had eight big guns: cannons, called the heavy artillery. There were 12 smaller cannons, and several anti-aircraft "FLAK" cannons too. 

It had very thick armour, even for warships today. The thickest plating was around the heavy artillery, where the metal was thick.

First the "Bismarck" had to reach the open sea. This because it was a huge battleship few other ships would be able to get close enough to attack without being destroyed, so it could control a large area of sea.

The first problem the "Bismarck" had was how to pass the British Isles. It took the way near the Fjords of Norway. There it met the other German ship "Prinz Eugen". Both ships reached the open sea in the Denmark straits. The Royal Navy's battleships HMS Hood and HMS Prince of Wales were sent to sink the "Bismarck". The "Hood" lost this battle. The "Hood" was more than a ship for the British military leaders. It was kind of a myth. So the British Navy sent a large number of ships to hunt the "Bismarck". There were some cruisers, many battleships and some aircraft-carriers. There was a very dramatic hunt, because the Bismarck was damaged but escaped from the nearest British ships. 

Finally the "Bismarck" was found by a some aircraft from one of the ships, and its rudder and propeller were broken by the torpedoes they carried. then the British battleships, HMS King George V and HMS Rodney moved down to their shortest range (3km) and fired straight into the ships towers, one 16 inch shell hit the bridge and killed the captain and the German admiral. Now the Bismarck could not move, send radio or fight back due to its fire control taking a direct hit, and it was already taking on water due to its dual with HMS Hood, and the abandon ship order had been given so all the of the British ships, except two cruisers to pick the German sailors, left the Bismarck. But they had to leave lots behind because a U-boat (U49) had been sent to find and take the Bismarcks log book back to Germany. With the risk of the Bismarck being captured, her sailors seriously damaged her, and she sank at 10:39. Over 2000 men went down with her.


</doc>
<doc id="20302" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20302" title="Category:Bosnia and Herzegovina">
Category:Bosnia and Herzegovina


</doc>
<doc id="20305" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20305" title="Republic of Mahabad">
Republic of Mahabad

The Republic of Mahabad (also Republic of Kurdistan), established in Iranian Kurdistan, was the second independent Kurdish state of the 20th century after the Republic of Ararat in Turkey. Its capital was the Kurdish city of Mahabad in northwestern Iran. The Republic was part of the Iran crisis a conflict between the United States and USSR.

The republic was led by President Qazi Muhammad and Minister of Defense Mustafa Barzani. Prime Minister was Hadschi Baba Scheich. The Republic of Mahabad declared independence on January 22, 1946, but the movement was defeated a year later by the army of the central government of Iran. . After the collapse of the republic in 1947, Qazi Muhammad was hanged in public in Chuwarchira Square in the center of Mahabad.

Massoud Barzani, the current President of Iraqi Kurdistan, was born in Mahabad when his father, the late General Mustafa Barzani, was chief of the military of Mahabad declared in Iranian Kurdistan .

Archibald Roosevelt son of the former US-President Theodore Roosevelt, wrote in ""The Kurdish Republic of Mahabad"" , that a main problem of the peoples Republic of Mahabad, was the kurds needed the power of the USSR. Only with the Red army they had a chance. But these close relationship to Stalin and the USSR let many kurdish tribes to be in opposition with this kurdish state. 





</doc>
<doc id="20307" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20307" title="Coat of Arms of Iran">
Coat of Arms of Iran

The Emblem of Iran was made after the Islamic Revolution in that country in 1979. After the revolution, Iran decided to use a new flag. The old flag had a picture of a golden lion with a sabre that was a symbol for the Shah (king) of Iran. This emblem is a symbol for the whole country and the Islamic character of the new government. It is drawn to look like a version of the word الله which means "God" in Persian (the language of Iran) and also in the Arabic language. It looks like a tulip, which is an old symbol for Iran.


</doc>
<doc id="20310" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20310" title="Category:Kurds">
Category:Kurds

This category is about the kurds and their history, cities, culture and so on.


</doc>
<doc id="20311" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20311" title="Category:Kurdish people">
Category:Kurdish people

This category is for articles about famous Kurdish people. For example actors, politicians, writer and so on.


</doc>
<doc id="20314" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20314" title="Tennis">
Tennis

Tennis is a sport played with a felt-covered rubber ball, a racket, and a court.

First, early in the 12th century, players in France played this sport with their hands. It was called “Jeu de Paume”. In the 16th century the sport came to England and the players played with rackets. Now it was called “tennis”. It became very popular in England and France. King Henry III was a big fan of the game.

There are many different kinds of courts, like grass, clay, or a hard court. The goal of tennis is to hit the ball over the net into the other player’s court. When the other player cannot return the ball, a point is won. The game is played with two or four people. When it is played with two people, it is called “singles”, and when it is played with four people, it is called “doubles”. The court has "alleys" on each side, which are "fair" territory when playing doubles. 

A tennis game has a number of sets. Each set has a number of games, and each game has points. The points are counted love (0, after the French l'oeuf), fifteen (15), thirty (30), and forty (40). If both players get to forty, the score is "deuce" from which 2 more points are needed to win the game. When one player reaches six games, it is one set. If it is a three-set match, the player who wins two sets first is the winner. If the game count reaches 5–5, the set must be won with two more games than the other player, like 7–5 or 8–6. If the game count gets to 6–6, a "tiebreaker" is played. In a tiebreak, players have to get at least seven points while getting two more points than the other player to win the set. In tiebreak points are called “one,” “two,” etc.

The game started in England during the 1800s. Tennis is now a sport that is played at the Olympic Games. They also have big tournaments like the U.S. Open, Australian Open, French Open and Wimbledon. These four are known as Grand Slam events. Tennis’s official name is "lawn tennis". Since 1998, every September 23 has been called "Tennis Day". 

There is also soft tennis. Soft tennis is different from regulation tennis. For example, the racket, ball and rules are different. Soft tennis is popular in Asia. Thousands of people play soft tennis.



</doc>
<doc id="20315" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20315" title="Category:American Civil War">
Category:American Civil War

Articles about the American Civil War.


</doc>
<doc id="20316" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20316" title="Teacher">
Teacher

A teacher is a person who helps people to learn. A teacher often works in a classroom. There are many different kinds of teachers. Some teachers teach young children in schools called elementary or primary schools. Others teach older children in middle, junior high and high schools. Some teachers teach adults in more advanced schools (for example, colleges and universities).

There are different ways of teaching. Most teachers use a variety of methods to teach. Teachers often explain new knowledge, write on a blackboard, sit behind their desks on chairs, help students with their work, or mark students' work. They may use a computer to write tests, assignments or report cards for the class.


</doc>
<doc id="20323" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20323" title="Getafe">
Getafe

Getafe is a city located to 15 km to the south of Madrid, in the Community of Madrid, Spain. It has a population of 158,363 inhabitants and one great commercial and industrial activity and many mass media. In Getafe there is a university, a military air base, and has a football team that is in the first division of the Spanish's League.


</doc>
<doc id="20327" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20327" title="Manhattan Project">
Manhattan Project

The Manhattan Project was the program in which the United States tried to make the first nuclear weapons. The project went on during World War II, and was run by the U.S. Army. The head of the project was General Leslie R. Groves, who also lead the building of the Pentagon. The top scientist on the project was Robert Oppenheimer, a famous physicist. The project cost $2 billion, and created many secret cities and bomb-making factories, such as a laboratory in Los Alamos, New Mexico, a nuclear reactor in Hanford, Washington, and a uranium processing plant in Oak Ridge, Tennessee. The project was a success, and the United States created two nuclear bombs which they used against Japan in 1945.

The Manhattan Project operated under a blanket of tight security. This was to prevent the Axis powers, especially [Germany], to accelerate their own nuclear projects or undertake covert operations against the project. The possibility of sabotage was always present. At times, people suspected sabotage when equipment failed. While there were some problems believed to be the result of careless or disgruntled employees, there were no confirmed instances of Axis-instigated sabotage. However, on 10 March 1945, a Japanese fire balloon struck a power line, and the resulting power surge caused the three reactors at Hanford to be temporarily shut down.

Maintaining security was difficult because so many people worked on the project. A special Counter Intelligence Corps detachment handled the project's security issues. By 1943, it was clear that the Soviet Union was trying to penetrate the project. Lieutenant Colonel Boris T. Pash, the head of the Counter Intelligence Branch of the Western Defense Command, investigated suspected Soviet espionage at the Radiation Laboratory in Berkeley. Oppenheimer informed Pash that he had been approached by a fellow professor at Berkeley, Haakon Chevalier, about passing information to the Soviet Union.

The most successful Soviet spy was Klaus Fuchs. Fuchs was member of the British Mission who played an important part at Los Alamos. The 1950 revelation of Fuchs' espionage activities damaged the United States' nuclear cooperation with Britain and Canada. Subsequently, other instances of espionage were uncovered, leading to the arrest of Harry Gold, David Greenglass and Ethel and Julius Rosenberg. Other spies like George Koval remained unknown for decades. People will never know the value of the espionage. One reason was that the Soviet atomic bomb project was held back by a shortage of uranium ore. The consensus is that espionage saved the Soviets one or two years of effort.





</doc>
<doc id="20330" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20330" title="Hadschi Baba Scheich">
Hadschi Baba Scheich

Hadschi Baba Scheich (Haji Baba Sheikh) ("Hacî Baba Şêx" in Kurdish) was the prime minister of the Republic of Mahabad. After the republic was conquered by the Iranian army in 1947 he was the only one who was not hanged together with president Qazi Muhammad at the Chuwarchira Square in Mahabad in 1947. He was immune because of his religious standing. The journalist and lyric Hemin Mukriyani was his secretary during the republic.



</doc>
<doc id="20331" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20331" title="Ajam">
Ajam

Ajam (عجم) in Arabic means non-Arabic-speaker. Ajam is an Arabic word that came from Jam the name of a king or prophet according to old story he was the king of world. 
The early use of the term included all of the peoples with whom the Arabs had contact including Persians, Pakistanis,Greeks, Ethiopians, and the somewhat related Nabataeans. 

During the early age of the Caliphates, Ajam was often meant the same thing as barbarian. In some cases it was a word that was used as a way of making people seem like they were not as good as them. In the Middle East, it was usually used to the Persians. In Turkish, the usage of the term is not used to any group of people from a country, but instead seems to have changed from the original Arabic usage for outsiders and turned into a different meaning as the term "ajemi" (in modern Turkish "acemi") which means "clumsy", "inept" or "novice". 



</doc>
<doc id="20333" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20333" title="Boston Terrier">
Boston Terrier

Boston Terriers are a breed of dog. 

They are usually very small, but can also be bred as medium sized dogs. They are considered to be cute dogs and are getting ever more popular. They are in many commercials and many celebrities have them.

Boston Terriers are a smart breed of dogs. They can be extremely hyper, but overall are well behaved. Their excitement and enthusiasm is a perk of their personality. They are compactly built with short heads, short tails, but strong limbs. They are smooth coated, with colors of brindle, seal or black and evenly marked with white.

Boston Terriers are inside dogs that love affection. This breed is balanced with being independent (sometimes stubborn) and affectionate and wanting attention from humans. They require very little work when a part of a family and they are great dogs for children. 

Caring for a Boston Terrier requires little work. With a short coat, Bostons typically need a bath every one to two weeks and brushing is not necessary although it helps remove loose hairs and reduces shedding. Bostons love rawhides and other chew toys that help with keeping their teeth healthy but brushing your dog's teeth is recommended by vets for any breed. Boston Terriers do have sensitive stomachs and will eat grass when their stomach is upset but for the most part, this breed does not have restrictions on what they cannot eat. 


</doc>
<doc id="20334" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20334" title="1750s">
1750s





</doc>
<doc id="20337" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20337" title="1798">
1798





</doc>
<doc id="20338" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20338" title="1160">
1160


</doc>
<doc id="20339" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20339" title="1169">
1169


</doc>
<doc id="20340" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20340" title="1196">
1196





</doc>
<doc id="20341" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20341" title="1793">
1793




</doc>
<doc id="20342" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20342" title="1800">
1800


</doc>
<doc id="20343" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20343" title="Vigdís Finnbogadóttir">
Vigdís Finnbogadóttir

Vigdís Finnbogadóttir (born April 15, 1930) was the 4th president of Iceland. She was president from 1980 to 1996. She was the world's first elected woman president.

She studied literature and drama at the University of Grenoble and the Sorbonne in Paris, and also at the University of Iceland. She graduated in English and French literature, and has a degree in education. 
At her election in 1980 she was the first woman anywhere to be elected the head of state in a democratic election. She was re-elected unopposed in 1984 and 1992, and beat her opponent in the election of 1988.


</doc>
<doc id="20344" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20344" title="Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson">
Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson

Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson (born May 14, 1943, in Ísafjörður, Iceland) is the fifth and current President of Iceland, from 1996 to present, re-elected without opposition in 2000, and was re-elected for a third term in 2004. 

From 1962 to 1970, he studied economics and political science at the University of Manchester. He was a professor at the University of Iceland for political science, served as a Member of the Althing, and was the Minister of Finance (1988–1991).

He married Guðrún Katrín Þorbergsdóttir in 1974, who gave birth to twin daughters the following year. Guðrún Katrín was very popular in Iceland, and her charm is without a doubt one of the main reasons her husband was elected; she charmed the nation from the start of his campaign. Her death from cancer in 1998 was a shock to the nation and her family. 

Ólafur's second marriage was to Dorrit Moussaieff to whom he had been engaged since May 2000. This took place on his 60th birthday May 14, 2003.


</doc>
<doc id="20346" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20346" title="1811">
1811




</doc>
<doc id="20347" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20347" title="Coral Springs, Florida">
Coral Springs, Florida

Coral Springs, Florida, is a planned city in the United States. It was founded on July 10, 1963.


</doc>
<doc id="20348" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20348" title="1560s">
1560s






</doc>
<doc id="20349" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20349" title="Affenpinscher">
Affenpinscher

Affenpinscher is a small breed of dog in the toy group. They originated in Germany and their name means "Monkey Dog", because their faces are similar to the face of a monkey.


</doc>
<doc id="20350" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20350" title="Yorkshire Terrier">
Yorkshire Terrier

The Yorkshire Terrier or Yorkie is a small breed of dog. It originated in the United Kingdom in the town of Yorkshire, which it is named after. They were originally bred to catch mice, so they are often fast and energetic. Yorkies usually weigh about 7 pounds (3.18 kg) and have a dark gray or black coat with a brown face. According to the American Kennel Club (AKC), Yorkies are the second most popular dog breed in America, behind only the Labrador Retriever.


</doc>
<doc id="20351" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20351" title="The Chiffons">
The Chiffons

The Chiffons were an all women singing group. They started in New York City in 1960 and broke apart in 1972.


</doc>
<doc id="20352" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20352" title="Mott The Hoople">
Mott The Hoople

Mott the Hoople was a English Hard Rock/Glam Rock group. They formed in 1969 and broke up in 1976.


</doc>
<doc id="20353" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20353" title="Turner &amp; Hooch">
Turner &amp; Hooch

Turner & Hooch is an American movie that was released in 1989. It starred Tom Hanks as Detective Turner and Beasley the Dog as Hooch. It was a very successful movie.


</doc>
<doc id="20354" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20354" title="The Temptations">
The Temptations

The Temptations are a successful R&B singing group. They formed in Detroit, USA in 1960.


</doc>
<doc id="20355" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20355" title="Brenda Lee">
Brenda Lee

Brenda Mae Tarpley or Brenda Lee (born December 11, 1944 in Atlanta, Georgia) was an American pop singer popular in the 1960s.


</doc>
<doc id="20356" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20356" title="Buddy Clark">
Buddy Clark

Buddy Clark (July 26, 1912 - October 1, 1949) was a pop singer popular in the 1930s and 1940s.


</doc>
<doc id="20357" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20357" title="Air Supply">
Air Supply

Air Supply is a pop music singing group. They formed in Melbourne, Australia in 1976.

The current members are Russell Hitchcock (born June 15, 1949 in Melbourne) and Graham Russell (born June 1, 1950 in Nottingham, England). In 1981 they got with their song "The One That You Love" a number one hit in the United States. They had their most popular times during the early 1980s.


</doc>
<doc id="20358" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20358" title="Sex Pistols">
Sex Pistols

The Sex Pistols were the first popular punk group in Britain. They were only together for two years in the late 1970s and they were known for their rowdy behavior more than their music. The music they made gave many new artists a big influence on their music, mostly in the alternative music and punk scenes.

The members in the band were Johnny Rotten (vocals), Paul Cook (drums), Steve Jones (guitar) and Glen Matlock (bass). Sid Vicious later replaced Matlock on bass. They recorded only one studio album, called "Never Mind the Bollocks - Here's the Sex Pistols". One of their most famous songs is "Anarchy In The UK".




</doc>
<doc id="20360" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20360" title="Walter Murphy">
Walter Murphy

Walter Murphy is a classically trained pianist. He was born in New York City, USA in 1952. He had a hit song in the late 1970s, "A Fifth of Beethoven".



</doc>
<doc id="20362" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20362" title="1570s">
1570s





</doc>
<doc id="20364" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20364" title="Bette Davis">
Bette Davis

Bette Davis (April 5, 1908 - October 5, 1989) was an American actress of the stage, cinema and television. She was nicknamed "The Queen of Hollywood", the "First Lady of the American Screen" and "The Fifth Warner Brother" during her career.

Davis had the most Academy Award nominations for any actress (with ten) until Katharine Hepburn took her place with twelve. 

In 1981 Kim Carnes sang the hit song "Bette Davis Eyes". Davis liked the song. Carnes gave Davis a gold record. Davis hung the gold record on a wall.

The Kennedy Center honored Davis in 1987.



</doc>
<doc id="20365" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20365" title="Gunpowder Plot">
Gunpowder Plot

The Gunpowder Conspiracy of 1605 was a plan to kill King James I of England and VI of Scotland. Other names for the plot are The Powder Treason or The Gunpowder Plot. A group of Catholics wanted to blow up Houses of Parliament during the State Opening on 5 November 1605. This would have killed the king, and most of the Protestant aristocracy.

The conspirators also planned to kidnap the royal children, and lead a popular revolt in the Midlands.

Robert Catesby led the planning of the conspiracy, which started in May 1604. The people who helped him were either wealthy Catholics, or gentry families who had a lot of influence. Catesby may have come up with the plot when he saw that there was little hope that Great Britain would become more tolerant to Roman Catholics, under King James I. Many Catholics were disappointed about the situation. It is more likely though that Catesby simply wanted to give the Catholics in England a chance: The plot was intended to be the first step of a rebellion. Afterwards, James' nine-year-old daughter (Princess Elizabeth) could be put in as a Catholic head of state. 

Other plotters wereThomas Winter (also spelled Wintour), Robert Winter, John Wright, Christopher Wright, Robert Keyes, Thomas Percy (also spelled Percye), John Grant, Ambrose Rokewood, Sir Everard Digby, Francis Tresham and Thomas Bates (Catesby's servant). The explosives were prepared by Guy "Guido" Fawkes, a man with 10 years military experience. Fawkes had fought with the Spanish against the Dutch in the Spanish Netherlands.

The main Jesuit in England, Father Henry Garnet was said to know the details of the plot. Oswald Tesimond, a fellow Jesuit had told him. Robert Catesby confessed them to Tesimond, and gave him the permission to tell Garnet. Although he was convicted, there has since been some debate over how much Garnet really knew. As the details of the plot were known through confession, Garnet was not allowed to reveal them to the authorities. He did not think it was a good idea. Nevertheless, the plot went ahead. Garnet's opposition to it did not save him from being hanged, drawn and quartered for treason in 1606, though.

In the 17th century, the Palace of Westminster was made of many buildings, spread over a large area. They were grouped around the medieval chambers, chapels, and halls of the old royal palace. This palace housed both Parliament and the various law courts. The palace was also easier to access than it is today. Merchants, lawyers, and other people lived and worked on the palace grounds.

As a member of the King's Bodyguard, Percy was able to lease rooms next to the House of Lords, in May 1604. The plotters' original idea was to dig their way under the foundations of the Lords chamber to put the gunpowder there. The main idea was to kill James, but many other important targets would be present, including most of the Protestant nobility and senior bishops of the Church of England. Guy Fawkes, as "John Johnson", was put in charge of this building, where he posed as Percy's servant. Catesby's house in Lambeth was used to store the gunpowder with the tools for digging. 

However, when the Black Plague came back to London in the summer of 1604 and it proved to be particularly severe. For this reason, the opening of Parliament was changed to 1605. By Christmas Eve, the miners had still not reached the buildings of Parliament, and just as they restarted work early in 1605, they learned that the opening of Parliament had been further postponed to 3 October. The plotters then took the opportunity to row the gunpowder up the Thames from Catesby's house in Lambeth, to hide it in their new rented house: they had learned (by chance) that a coal merchant named Ellen Bright had vacated a ground-floor undercroft directly beneath the House of Lords chamber. Presented with this golden opportunity, Percy immediately took pains to secure the lease. He created the story that his wife would join him in London and that he would need the extra storage space. 

Fawkes assisted in filling the room with gunpowder, which was hidden beneath a wood store under the House of Lords building, in a cellar leased from John Whynniard. By March 1605, they had filled the undercroft underneath the House of Lords with 36 barrels of gunpowder, hidden under a store of winter fuel. Had all 36 barrels been successfully ignited, the explosion could easily have reduced many of the buildings in the Old Palace of Westminster complex to rubble, and would have blown out windows in the surrounding area of about a one kilometre radius. 

The conspirators left London in May, and went to their homes or to different areas of the country, because being seen together would arouse suspicion. They arranged to meet again in September; however, the opening of Parliament was again postponed. 

The weakest parts of the plot were the arrangements for the subsequent rebellion which would have swept the country and installed a Catholic monarch. Due to the requirements for money and arms, Sir Francis Tresham was eventually admitted to the plot, and it was probably he who betrayed the plot in writing to his brother-in-law Lord Monteagle. An anonymous letter revealed some of the details of the plot; it read: "I advise you to devise some excuse not to attend this parliament, for they shall receive a terrible blow, and yet shall not see who hurts them".

According to the confession made by Fawkes on Tuesday 5 November 1605, he had left Dover around Easter 1605, bound for Calais. He then travelled to Saint-Omer and on to Brussels, where he met with Hugh Owen and Sir William Stanley before making a pilgrimage to Brabant. He returned to England at the end of August or early September, again by way of Calais.

Guy Fawkes was left in charge of executing the plot, while the other conspirators fled to Dunchurch in Warwickshire to await news. Once Parliament had been destroyed, the other conspirators planned to start a revolt in the Midlands.

During the preparation, several of the conspirators had been concerned about the safety of fellow Catholics who would be present in Parliament on the day of the planned explosion. On the evening of Friday, 26 October Lord Monteagle received an anonymous letter while at his house in Hoxton.

Monteagle had the note read out loud, possibly to warn the plotters that the secret was out, and promptly handed it over to Robert Cecil, 1st Earl of Salisbury, the Secretary of State. The conspirators learned of the letter the following day, but decided to go ahead with their plan, especially after Fawkes inspected the undercroft and found that nothing had been touched. 

Having been shown the letter, the King ordered Sir Thomas Knyvet to conduct a search of the cellars underneath Parliament, which he did in the early hours of 5 November. Shortly after midnight, Fawkes was found leaving the cellar the conspirators had rented and was arrested, giving his name as John Johnson. Inside, the barrels of gunpowder were discovered hidden under piles of firewood and coal. Far from denying his intentions during the arrest, Fawkes stated that it had been his purpose to destroy the King and the Parliament. Nevertheless, Fawkes maintained his false identity and continued to insist that he was acting alone. Later in the morning, before noon, he was again interrogated. He was questioned on the nature of his accomplices, the involvement of Thomas Percy, what letters he had received from overseas and whether or not he had spoken with Hugh Owen.

A letter written by Gentleman of the Bedchamber, Sir Edward Hoby gave details of all those that would have been caught in the explosion:

On the 5th of November we began a Parliament, to which the King should have cometh in person, but refrained through a practice but that morning discovered. The plot was to have blown up the King at such time as he should have been sat in his royal throne, Nobility and Commons and with all Bishops, Judges and Doctors at one instant, and the blast to have ruined the whole estate and kingdom of England. 
Fawkes was taken to the Tower of London and interrogated there under torture. Torture was forbidden, except by the express instruction of the monarch or a body such as the Privy Council or the Star Chamber. In a letter of 6 November, King James I stated:
The discovery of the Gunpowder Plot aroused a wave of national relief at the delivery of the king and his sons, and inspired in the ensuing parliament a mood of loyalty and goodwill, which Salisbury astutely exploited to extract higher subsidies for the king than any (bar one) granted in Elizabeth's reign. In his speech to both Houses on 9 November, James expounded on two emerging preoccupations of his monarchy: the Divine Right of Kings and the Catholic question. He insisted that the plot had been the work of only a few Catholics, not of the English Catholics as a whole, and he reminded the assembly to rejoice at his survival, since kings were divinely appointed and he owed his escape to a miracle.

On hearing of the failure of the plot, the conspirators fled towards Huddington Court near Worcester, a family home of Thomas and Robert Wintour. Heavy rain, however, slowed their travels. Many of them were caught by Richard Walsh, the Sheriff of Worcestershire, when they arrived in Stourbridge.

The remaining men attempted a revolt in the Midlands. This failed, coming to a dramatic end at Holbeche House in Staffordshire, where there was a shoot-out resulting in the deaths of Catesby and Percy and capture of several other principal conspirators. Jesuits and others were then rounded up in other locations in Britain, with some being killed by torture during interrogation. Robert Wintour managed to remain on the run for two months before he was captured at Hagley Park.

The conspirators were tried on 27 January 1606 in Westminster Hall. All of the plotters pleaded "Not Guilty" except for Sir Everard Digby, who attempted to defend himself on the grounds that the King had reneged on his promises of greater tolerance of Catholicism. Sir Edward Coke, the attorney general, prosecuted, and the Earl of Northampton made a speech refuting the charges laid by Sir Everard Digby. The trial lasted one day (English criminal trials generally did not exceed a single day's duration) and the verdict was never in doubt.

The trial ranked highly as a public spectacle, and there are records of up to 10 shillings being paid for entry. Four of the plotters were executed in St. Paul's Churchyard on 30 January. On 31 January, Fawkes, Winter and a number of others implicated in the conspiracy were taken to Old Palace Yard in Westminster, in front of the scene of the intended crime, where they were to be hanged, drawn and quartered.

Fawkes, although weakened by torture, cheated the executioners: when he was to be hanged until almost dead, he jumped from the gallows, breaking his neck and killing himself, thus avoiding the gruesome latter part of his execution.

Henry Garnet was executed on 3 May 1606 at St Paul's. His crime was of being the confessor of several members of the Gunpowder Plot, and as noted, he had opposed the plot. Many spectators thought that his punishment was too severe. Antonia Fraser writes:
Due to the Gunpowder Plot, many Catholics found themselves persecuted or imprisoned in the Tower of London, including the following:










Greater freedom for Catholics to worship as they chose seemed unlikely in 1604, but after the plot in 1605, changing the law to afford Catholics leniency became unthinkable; Catholic Emancipation took another 200 years. Nevertheless, many important and loyal Catholics retained high office in the kingdom during King James' reign.

Interest in the demonic was heightened by the Gunpowder Plot. The king himself had become engaged in the great debate about other-worldly powers in writing his "Daemonology" in 1597, before he became King of England as well as Scotland. The apparent devilish nature of the gunpowder plot also partly inspired William Shakespeare's "Macbeth". Demonic inversions (such as the line "fair is foul and foul is fair") are frequently seen in the play. Another possible reference made in Macbeth was to equivocation, as Henry Garnett’s "A Treatise of Equivocation" was found on one of the plotters, and a resultant fear was that Jesuits could evade the truth through equivocation:

Faith, here's an equivocator, that could
Swear in both the scales against either scale;
Who committed treason enough for God's sake,
Yet could not equivocate to heaven
- Macbeth, Act 2 Scene 3

The Gunpowder Plot was commemorated for years after the plot by special sermons and other public acts, such as the ringing of church bells. It added to an increasingly full calendar of Protestant celebrations which contributed to the national and religious life of seventeenth-century England. Through various permutations, this has evolved into the Bonfire Night of today.
Professor Ronald Hutton has considered the possible events which could have followed the successful implementation of the Gunpowder Plot, with the resultant destruction of Parliament and death of the king. He concluded that the violence of the act would have instead resulted in a more severe backlash against suspected Catholics. Without the involvement of some form of foreign aid, success would have been unlikely, as most Englishmen were loyal to the institution of the monarchy, despite differing religious convictions. England could very well have become a more "Puritan absolute monarchy", as "existed in Sweden, Denmark, Saxony, and Prussia in the seventeenth century", rather than follow the path of parliamentary and civil reform that it did.

When Parliament met in January 1606 for the first time after the plot they passed an Act of Parliament called the "Thanksgiving Act". This made services and sermons commemorating the Plot an annual feature on 5 November. The act remained in force until 1859. On 5 November 1605, it is said that the people of London celebrated the defeat of the plot with fires and street festivities. The tradition of marking the day with the ringing of church bells and bonfires started soon after the Plot and fireworks were also included in some of the earliest celebrations. In Britain the fifth of November is also called Bonfire Night, Fireworks Night or Guy Fawkes Night.

It remains the custom in Britain, on or around 5 November, to let off fireworks. Traditionally, in the weeks running up to the 5th, children made "guys"—effigies supposedly of Fawkes—usually made from old clothes stuffed with newspaper, and with a grotesque mask, to be burnt on the 5 November bonfire. These effigies would be shown in the street, to collect money for fireworks, although this practice is becoming less common. The word "guy" came thus in the 19th century to mean an oddly dressed person, and in the 20th and 21st centuries to mean any male person.

Institutions and towns may hold firework displays and bonfire parties, and the same is done on a smaller scale in back gardens throughout the country. In some areas, particularly in Sussex, there are extensive processions, large bonfires and firework displays organised by local bonfire societies; the most extensive of which takes place in Lewes.

The Houses of Parliament are still searched by the Yeomen of the Guard before the State Opening of Parliament, however, this is done as a traditional custom rather than a serious anti-terrorist precaution. 

A commemorative British two pound coin was issued in 2005 to celebrate the 400th anniversary of the plot.

The cellar in which Fawkes watched over his gunpowder was demolished in 1822. The area was further damaged in the 1834 fire and destroyed in the subsequent rebuilding of the Palace of Westminster. The lantern which Guy Fawkes carried in 1605 is in the Ashmolean Museum, Oxford. A key supposedly taken from him is in Speaker's House, Palace of Westminster. These two items were shown in a major exhibition held in Westminster Hall from July to November 2005.

According to Esther Forbes (a biographer), the Guy Fawkes Day celebration in the pre-revolutionary American Colonies was a very popular holiday. In Boston, the celebration took on anti-authoritarian overtones, and often became so dangerous that many would not venture out of their homes.

In November 1930, taking advantage of the bonfires used on the holiday, Alfred Arthur Rouse murdered an unknown man and planted his body as a substitute for Rouse's in his Morris Minor (1928) automobile (which was then set alight). The scheme did not work out, and Rouse was arrested, tried and executed for the crime.

Many at the time felt that Robert Cecil, 1st Earl of Salisbury had been involved in the plot to gain favour with the king and enact more stridently anti-Catholic legislation. Such theories alleged that Cecil had either actually invented the plot or allowed it to continue when his agents had already infiltrated it, for the purposes of propaganda. These rumours were the start of a long-lasting conspiracy theory about the plot. Yet while there was no "golden time" of "toleration" of Catholics which Father Garnet had hoped for at the start of James' reign, the legislative backlash had nothing to do with the plot: it had already happened by 1605, as recusancy fines were re-imposed and some priests expelled. There was no purge of Catholics from power and influence in the kingdom after the Gunpowder Plot, despite Puritan complaints. The reign of James I was, in fact, a time of relative leniency for Catholics, few being subject to prosecution.

This did not dissuade some from continuing to claim Cecil's involvement in the plot. In 1897 Father John Gerard of Stonyhurst College, namesake of a Jesuit priest who had performed Mass to some of the plotters, wrote an account called "What was the Gunpowder Plot?", alleging Cecil's culpability. This prompted a refutation later that year by Samuel Gardiner, who argued that Gerard had gone too far in trying to "wipe away the reproach" which the plot had exacted on generations of English Catholics. Gardiner portrayed Cecil as guilty of nothing more than opportunism. Subsequent attempts to prove Cecil's responsibility, such as Francis Edwards's 1969 work "Guy Fawkes: the real story of the gunpowder plot?", have similarly foundered on the lack of positive proof of any government involvement in setting up the plot. There has been little support by historians for the conspiracy theory since this time, other than to acknowledge that Cecil may have known about the plot some days before it was uncovered.

According to the historian Lady Antonia Fraser, the gunpowder was taken to the Tower of London magazine. It would have been reissued or sold for recycling if in good condition. Ordnance records for the Tower state that 18 hundredweight (equivalent to about 816 kg) of it was "decayed", which could imply that it was rendered harmless due to having separated into its component chemical parts, as happens with gunpowder when left to sit for too long—if Fawkes had ignited the gunpowder during the opening, it would only have resulted in a weak splutter. Alternatively, "decayed" may refer to the powder being damp and sticking together, making it unfit for use in firearms — in which case the explosive capabilities of the barrels would not have been significantly affected.

"", an ITV programme presented by Richard Hammond and broadcast on 1 November 2005, re-enacted the plot by blowing up an exact replica of the 17th-century House of Lords filled with test dummies, using the exact amount of gunpowder in the underground of the building. The dramatic experiment, conducted on the Advantica Spadeadam test site, proved unambiguously that the explosion would have killed all those attending the State Opening of Parliament in the Lords chamber.

The power of the explosion, which surprised even gunpowder experts, was such that seven-foot deep solid concrete walls (made deliberately to replicate how archives suggest the walls in the old House of Lords were constructed) were reduced to rubble. Measuring devices placed in the chamber to calculate the force of the blast were themselves destroyed by the blast, while the skull of the dummy representing King James, which had been placed on a throne inside the chamber surrounded by courtiers, peers and bishops, was found a large distance away from the site. According to the findings of the programme, no-one within 100 metres of the blast could have survived, while all the stained glass windows in Westminster Abbey would have been shattered, as would all windows within a large distance of the Palace. The power of the explosion would have been seen from miles away, and heard from further still. Even if only half the gunpowder had gone off, everyone in the House of Lords and its environs would have been killed instantly.

The programme also disproved claims that some deterioration in the quality of the gunpowder would have prevented the explosion. A portion of deliberately deteriorated gunpowder, at such a low quality as to make it unusable in firearms, when placed in a heap and ignited, still managed to create a large explosion. The impact of even deteriorated gunpowder would have been magnified by the impact of its compression in wooden barrels, with the compression overcoming any deterioration in the quality of the contents. The compression would have created a cannon effect, with the powder first blowing up from the top of the barrel before, a millisecond later, blowing out. In addition, mathematical calculations showed that Fawkes, who was skilled in the use of gunpowder, had used double the amount of gunpowder needed.

A sample of the gunpowder may have survived: in March 2002, workers investigating archives of John Evelyn at the British Library found a box containing various samples of gunpowder and several notes suggesting a relation to the Gunpowder Plot:




</doc>
<doc id="20366" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20366" title="John Knox">
John Knox

John Knox (c. 1510 – 24 November 1572) was the man who brought the Protestant Reformation to Scotland. He was one of the founders of the Presbyterian Church. Knox joined the movement to change the Roman Catholic church in Scotland. He married twice and had five children, and continued preaching until he died.

A long-time fight between Catholic France and Protestant England for Scotland began again because of the Reformation. As the argument grew more heated, sometimes France had power, sometimes England. Knox spent many months as a galley slave; he also spent time in exile because of his Protestant beliefs. During a return visit to his native land, Knox's preaching helped the Protestant movement. Several Protestant noblemen came together and made a group called the Lords of the Congregation. When the group had more power, they invited Knox back to Scotland to stay.

During 1500 and 1561, the Scottish Parliament accepted the Reformed confession of faith made by Knox and other people. Knox argued many times with Mary, Queen of Scots. In his book "History of the Reformation in Scotland" he writes about his five "conversations" with the Roman Catholic queen. In one of these conversations, Mary asked Knox what right he had to the queen so directly and openly. Knox replied, "...I am a worm of this earth, and yet a subject...but I am a watchman, both over the realm (land) and the Kirk [Church] of God...For that reason I am bound in conscience (it is my duty) to blow the trumpet publicly (openly)". Mary's violent life finally made even her Catholic helpers lose their support. She gave up the throne. So, Knox was able to make the Protestant church in Scotland. Because of him, the Presbyterian church was made.


</doc>
<doc id="20367" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20367" title="Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine">
Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine

The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine is one of many Nobel Prizes which were created by Alfred Nobel. This award is given by the Karolinska Institutet, which is a major medical center in Sweden. The Prize is given out every year to a person or persons who have done excellent work in the area of medicine (treating or stopping disease) and physiology (the way the body works).













</doc>
<doc id="20368" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20368" title="Nobel Prize in Literature">
Nobel Prize in Literature

The Nobel Prize in Literature is one of many Nobel Prizes given in honor of Alfred Nobel. Every year, a writer is chosen by the Swedish Academy to receive the Nobel Prize in Literature. They choose someone who they think has written something that has great value. 

Writing of any language could possibly win the Nobel Prize. 

List of Nobel Prize laureates (winners) in Literature from 1901 to the present date.



</doc>
<doc id="20374" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20374" title="Zuni">
Zuni

The Zuni, also called Zuñi or Ashiwi are a Native American tribe. They live near the Zuni River. This river flows into the Little Colorado River, in western New Mexico, United States.

They are famous for their language, which is not like other Pueblo or Native American languages. It is one of the few language isolates.


</doc>
<doc id="20376" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20376" title="Great Schism">
Great Schism

The Great Schism (sometimes also called East-West Schism) is a word that is used to describe how Christianity developed into two big branches named after 
Sydney Lynn Hartman in the Middle Ages. The Western part later became the Roman Catholic Church. The Eastern part is known as the Eastern Orthodox Church. During the centuries views on politics and theology developed differently in several ways.

During the 5th and 6th Centuries the East and West became isolated from each other due to the invasions of the Balkan peninsula. They also had different languages. Latin was the most important language in the West. The East mainly spoke the Greek language. Because of this, talking to each other was difficult. The West came under Frankish influence (as opposed to Byzantine) in the 700s. 

The Roman Catholic Church changed the Nicene creed. It inserted a passage that is known as the Filioque. The Creed in its original form reads In the West, the Creed was changed to read 

There were many bishops in the church, and in the East the Pope was considered the "first among equals", but Rome claimed that the Pope was the only remaining Apostolic see. At first the Eastern Orthodox did not mind the Pope's claim for power over the West - as long as his power stayed in the West. But it came to pass that the Pope decided he also had power over Eastern Christendom as well and he tried to enforce his power on the eastern Patriarchates. A letter written in 865 by Pope Nicholas claims the Pope's power extends "over all the earth, that is, over every church". Pope Nicholas also went beyond his powers as stated in Canon 111 of the Council of Sardica (343) when he overturned a verdict and ordered a retrial on a matter concerning Photius and St. Ignatius, two Patriarchs of Constantinople. This was as a result of petitions to Rome by backers of Ignatius. However, it should be noted that not all the Popes after Nicholas were as extreme - that is, until Pope Leo IX. When, in 1053 Cerularius attempted friendly relations with Pope Leo IX after a disagreement, a bull (religious legal document) of excommunication (expulsion from the Church) was brought to Constantinople. Each Church excommunicated the other.

These were just some of the issues plaguing the Eastern and Western Christians that led to the Great Schism. It seems that even after 1054 relations between the east and west were not completely unfriendly, and the common peasant was probably not immediately affected by the schism.



</doc>
<doc id="20377" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20377" title="Fallacy">
Fallacy

A logical fallacy or simply a fallacy is some logical transition that people think can be done, but that really cannot be done. It is like an error in thinking. Aristotle and other philosophers identified several such kinds of fallacies:

The list is based on the "Organon" by Aristotle and is widely accepted in scientific literature. The terms used are those commonly used in English.

In practice, modern 'Behavioral Cognitive Therapy' contains many of these same abstractions.


</doc>
<doc id="20380" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20380" title="Myanmar">
Myanmar

The Republic of the Union of Myanmar, (originally known as the Union of Burma), is the largest country in South East Asia that is not an island, partly considered as South Asian. It is bordered by China on the north, Laos on the east, Thailand on the southeast, Bangladesh on the west, and the India on the northwest, with the Andaman Sea to the south, and the Bay of Bengal to the southwest. There are over 2,000 kilometers (1,243 mi) of coast line. The country was ruled by a military junta led by General Ne Win from 1962 to 1988, and its political system today stays under the tight control of its military government. Since 1992, Myanmar has been ruled by Senior General Than Shwe.

In 1989, the military junta officially changed the English version of its name from "Burma" to "Myanmar". It also made a new name in English for places in the country, such as its former capital city, from "Rangoon" to Yangon. The official name of the country in the Burmese language, "Myanma" did not change, however. The renaming was controversial, seen by some as linguistically bad. Accepting the name change in the English-speaking world has been slow, with many people still using the name "Burma" to refer to the country. Major news organizations like the BBC still call it Burma. Some question the military junta's authority to "officially" change the name in English in the first place. Aung San Suu Kyi, however, calls the country Myanmar now.

Myanmar had a strong kingdom in ancient times, but the nation was taken over by the British in the 1800s. Myanmar became independent in 1948 as the Union of Burma, and had a democratic government at first. However, in 1962, a coup d'état brought the military into power, where it has been ever since. The founder of modern Myanmar, Aung San was assassinated months before independence. His daughter Aung San Suu Kyi was placed under house arrest many times for leading the democracy movement.

In 1991, the military junta agreed to democratic elections, which were won by the National League for Democracy, and should have made Aung San Suu Kyi the Prime Minister. However, the dictatorship ignored the results of the elections and continued ruling. In November 2005, the military government stated that the national capital would be moved from Yangon to a location near Pyinmana, which was renamed Naypyidaw in March 2006.

Today, there are 14 sections. 7 are called states and the other 7 are called divisions.

The divisions are split into townships. The townships are divided into villages and wards.


</doc>
<doc id="20382" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20382" title="1460s">
1460s





</doc>
<doc id="20383" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20383" title="1460">
1460


</doc>
<doc id="20384" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20384" title="1517">
1517




</doc>
<doc id="20385" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20385" title="1554">
1554


</doc>
<doc id="20386" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20386" title="1532">
1532


</doc>
<doc id="20387" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20387" title="1206">
1206

1206 is a year in the 13th century.





</doc>
<doc id="20391" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20391" title="Ben Nevis">
Ben Nevis

Ben Nevis is the highest mountain in Great Britain at high. It is in Scotland, near Fort William and it is part of the Three Peaks Challenge and attracts an estimated 100,000 climbers per year,

The name comes from the Gaelic, Beinn Nibheis, meaning poisonous or terrible.

The summit of Ben Nevis is a large stony plateau of about . The highest point is marked with a large stone mound which sits an Ordnance Survey trig point.

The ruined walls of an observatory are also on the summit. An emergency shelter has been built on top of the observatory tower for people caught out by bad weather, and, although the base of the tower is slightly lower than the true summit of the mountain, the roof of the shelter is higher than the trig point by several feet, making it the highest man-made structure in the UK. A war memorial to the dead of World War II is located next to the observatory.

On 17 May 2006, a piano that had been buried under one of the cairns on the peak was uncovered by the John Muir Trust, which owns much of the mountain. The piano is believed to have been carried up for charity by removal men from Dundee over 20 years earlier.

The view from the UK's highest point can reach to over , and mountains such as the Torridon Hills, Morven in Caithness, Lochnagar, Ben Lomond, Barra Head and Knocklayd in County Antrim, Northern Ireland can be seen.


</doc>
<doc id="20392" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20392" title="Snowdon">
Snowdon

Snowdon is the highest mountain in Wales. Its top is known as "Yr Wyddfa" (Old Welsh meaning "the grave"). The English name Snowdon comes from Saxon "Snow Dun", meaning "snow hill".

It is in Snowdonia National Park. As the highest mountain in Wales, Snowdon is one of three mountains climbed as part of the Three Peaks Challenge.


</doc>
<doc id="20398" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20398" title="Manaus">
Manaus

Manaus is the principal city of the North Region of Brazil. It is the capital of Amazonas. Manaus had a great age when latex was discovered in the Amazon region. In that age, Manaus has suffered a great economical and cultural development,in the story journey to the river sea maia & miss minton travel to Manauys and it was with the money of the latex's exportation that the Amazon Opera House was built . After that great age, latex started to be produced in other countries, particularly Malaysia and Indonesia, being one of the first bio-piratery cases in the world, one English man bring the seed to Malaysia where due the similar climate the plants start grow even faster than in Brasil.
Manaus ubicated at the north of Brasil, itis considerated as the entrance door to the biggest ecological reservation in the planet: The Amazon rainforest. Its name come from a tribe called Manaós that use to live in this area and means "Mother of God". The colonization started on 1669, with a small fort, and around it born the city of Manaus. On 1833 become a village, with the name of Manaus. on October 24th of 1848 receive the name of city and became the Capital of the state.
In this place it's possible to visito "encontro of the waters" where 2 big rivers Rio Negro (black river) and Solimoes River find themselves and for more than 10 km "walk together but not mixed" because of the differente density of each one of them, and then become THE AMAZON RIVER THE BIGGEST IN THE WORLD"

The American Charles Goodyear developed a procedure with the juice of the rubber tree into rubber could be processed. The city revelled in the money intoxication and the India rubber barons afforded the biggest luxury from Europe, a copy the Grand Opera de Paris - the TEATRO AMAZONAS . Other monuments from this epoch how the MERCADO MUNICIPAL, a copy of the famous market halls Les Halles in Paris, the arts centre RIO PALACIO NEGRO between fascinating Portuguese facades, reflect this time still again.

Today Manaus is a foreign trade zone. Foreign enterprises must pay here no import duties what guarantees a certain income for the city and the region. Electronics, wood industry and oil refineries have settled in the outskirts in industrial areas. The harbour is the most important trading centre for the care of the city with regional, national and international products.
Currently, about 1.5 million people live in Manaus.
And was nominated as one of the places for the Soccer World Cup 2014. the city is growing faster and faster and start to prepare for the event that will bring a lot of people here.

The Opera house is the major cultural heritage of the Amazonas. It was inaugurated in 1896 during the rubber boom. In spite of the predominance of neoclassic elements, other styles were used, so the architecture is eclectic, with materials brought from Europe as well as artists like Domenico de Angelis, Giovanni Capranesi and Crispim do Amaral.Preserved like a national heritage since 1965, today, with more than 100 years, it has room for 681 people including balconies and three floors of boxes. After the restauration made by the state government in 1990, the theater rescued its splendor, with performances of famous operas, national and international musicians.

Visit Amazonas Opera House:

Monday to Saturday - open from 9:00 a.m. - 12:00 noon and 2:00 p.m.- 09:00 p.m.
bilingual tour guides. Entrance fee R$ 10.-


</doc>
<doc id="20400" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20400" title="Amazonas">
Amazonas

Amazonas is the name of four places in South American nations:




</doc>
<doc id="20401" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20401" title="Template:States of Brazil">
Template:States of Brazil

<br clear=all>

<includeonly></includeonly>


</doc>
<doc id="20403" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20403" title="1740s">
1740s






</doc>
<doc id="20404" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20404" title="Tocantins (state)">
Tocantins (state)

Tocantins is a state in central Brazil. The state was made in 1988 out of the northern part of Goiás, and construction began on the capital, Palmas, in 1989. Palmas is much newer than most cities in the area.

The state is the border between the Amazon Rainforest and Brazil's grassy flatlands. The state is very important for raising and selling cows and other farm animals. 


</doc>
<doc id="20406" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20406" title="Amazon Rainforest">
Amazon Rainforest

The Amazon Rainforest is the forest that grows in the tropical basin of the Amazon River.

The forest lies in a basin drained largely by the Amazon River, with 1100 tributaries. It is a moist broadleaf forest that covers seven million square kilometers (1.7 billion acres), of which five and a half million square kilometers (1.4 billion acres) are covered by the rainforest. 

This region includes territory belonging to nine nations. The majority of the forest is contained within Brazil, with 60% of the rainforest, followed by Peru with 13%, and with minor amounts in Colombia, Venezuela, Ecuador, Bolivia, Guyana, Suriname and French Guiana. 

The Amazon represents over half of the planet's remaining rainforests, and it comprises the largest and most species-rich tract of tropical rainforest in the world.

The forest was formed at least 55 million years ago, in the Eocene period.

Wet tropical forests are the most species-rich biome, and tropical forests in the Americas have more species African and Asian wet forests. As the largest area of tropical rainforest in the Americas, Amazonian rainforests have more biodiversity than anywhere else in the Americas (which means that they have many different species).

The region is home to ~2.5 million insect species, tens of thousands of species of plants, and some 2000 species of birds and mammals. The diversity of plant species is the highest on earth with some experts estimating that one square kilometre may contain over 75,000 types of trees and 150,000 species of higher plants. One square kilometre of Amazon rainforest can have about 90,000 tons of living plants. This is the largest collection of living plants and animal species in the world. One in five of all the birds in the world live in the rainforests of the Amazon. To date, an estimated 438,000 species of plants of economic and social interest have been registered in the region with many more remaining to be discovered or cataloged. (Note: Brazil has one of the most advanced laws to avoid biopiracy, but enforcing these laws is a problem.)

More than one fifth of the Amazon Rainforest has already been destroyed. The forest which remains is threatened. People who care for the environment warn about the loss of biodiversity. They also point out that releasing the carbon which is stored in the trees will increase global warming.

Some people have calculated that it may even pay to save the forest. They said that one hectare of Amazonian forest in Peru is worth about US $ 6280, if it is used to harvest fruits, latex and timber (wood). If all the wood is cut down for timber, it has a value of about US $ 1000. Obviously, this can only be done once; it is not sustainable. When the forest has been cleared, the hectar of land can be used as a pasture, and is worth about US $ 148.
Not all people agree on the study; some have questioned the assumptions behind it. 

The Força Aérea Brasileira has been using EMBRAER R-99 surveillance aircraft to monitor the forest. This was done as part of the SIVAM program. At a conference in July 2004, scientists warned that the rainforest will no longer be able to absorb the millions of tons of greenhouse gases annually, as it usually does, because of the increased speed of rainforest destruction.

9,169 square miles of rain forest were cut down in 2003 alone. In Brazil alone, European colonists have destroyed more than 90 indigenous tribes since the 1900's. With them have gone centuries of knowledge of the medicinal value of rainforest species. As their homelands continue to be destroyed by deforestation, rainforest peoples are also disappearing.

Once the process of vulcanization was invented, companies began to make many kinds of new rubber products, such as boots and seals for machines. American and European companies began buying large amounts of latex from Brazil. This boom in Brazilian rubber began around 1870, but it was the need for automobile tires that brought the greatest wealth to the new rubber producers.

Other rain forest had rubber trees, but in Amazonia were by far the best. However, the trees could not be planted on farms or plantations because if they were next to each other, the insects would eat them. Therefore, people had to find the trees in the rain forest, cut slits in them, leave cups to collect the latex, and come back later to get it.
Thousands of people moved to the rain forest to work collecting rubber. Most of these people were hired by wealthy rubber merchants. The rubber merchants loaned them money to come down the river and buy tools. Each rubber merchant’s collectors were forced to sell the rubber only to their rubber merchant at low prices and buy supplies only from them at high prices. That meant the collectors were always in debt to their merchant and could not leave to do something else. The rubber merchants quickly became very rich. The center of the rubber trade was the city Manaus on the Rio Negro. It became first a boom town and then a beautiful, wealthy city. It had electricity before most of the cities in the United States did. The newly rich merchants built huge expensive homes and brought in new automobiles to travel on the city’s few roads. They built a magnificent opera house with crystal chandeliers and decorated tiles brought all the way from Europe.

However, the rubber boom only lasted about forty years, ending by 1913. Some men had taken the seeds of the Amazon rubber trees and began growing them in the Asian rain forests. The trees grew well there, and they could be grown on plantations. The insects that could destroy them were in South America. So the price of rubber began to fall, and the rubber boom stopped.


 Turner, I.M. 2001. "The ecology of trees in the tropical rain forest". Cambridge University Press, Cambridge. ISBN 0-521-80183-4

Tian, H., J.M. Melillo, D.W. Kicklighter, A.D. McGuire, J. Helfrich III, B. Moore III and C.J. Vörösmarty. 2000. Climatic and biotic controls on annual carbon storage in Amazonian ecosystems. "Global Ecology and Biogeography" 9:315–335.



</doc>
<doc id="20407" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20407" title="Gosport">
Gosport

Gosport is a town in Hampshire, England. The population of Gosport is around 78,000 


</doc>
<doc id="20408" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20408" title="Indonesian language">
Indonesian language

Indonesian language is the official language of the Asian country of Indonesia (since its independence in 1945). It is a type of the Malay language, which it resembles.

It is spoken as a second language by most natives living in the country, because they use a regional one (such as Javanese). However, Indonesia's education, media and communication all use Bahasa Indonesia.

The language's official name is "Bahasa Indonesia" (language of Indonesia), which is also used in English.


</doc>
<doc id="20410" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20410" title="All in the Family">
All in the Family

All in the Family was a popular television show in the 1970s. It was about a family who lived in New York. It dealt with many controversial issues during its run (like abortion and racism).


</doc>
<doc id="20411" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20411" title="Saint">
Saint

Saint can mean different things:

Different religions & groups use the term "saint" differently. The word comes form Latin "Sanctus", which means holy. In general, saints are believed to be good examples of how people should live, or what people should do. Saints are synonymous, or are associated, with holiness. In the Roman Catholic Church, to become a saint, you have to go through a process called canonization, which is performed by the Pope.





</doc>
<doc id="20412" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20412" title="Saint Lucia">
Saint Lucia

Saint Lucia is a tropical island country in the eastern Caribbean Sea. It is a part of the Lesser Antilles, and it is north of the islands of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines and south of Martinique.

The island of Saint Lucia has more mountains than many other Caribbean islands, with the highest one being Mount Gimie, at above the sea. Two other mountains, the Pitons, are the island's most famous landmark. They are located near Soufrière, on the west side of the island. Saint Lucia is also one of the few islands in the world that has a volcano that people can drive into.

The capital city of Saint Lucia is Castries, where about one third of the population lives. Major towns include Gros Islet, Soufrière and Vieux Fort. The local climate is tropical, with a dry season from January to April and a rainy season from May to November.


</doc>
<doc id="20413" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20413" title="Yuri Gagarin">
Yuri Gagarin

Yuri Alekseyevich Gagarin (Russian: Юрий Алексеевич Гагарин; March 9, 1934 – March 27, 1968) was a Russian cosmonaut (astronaut). He became the first human in space on April 12, 1961, in a rocket launched by the Soviet Union.

Yuri Gagarin was born in the village of Klushino near Gzhatsk (now in Smolensk Oblast, Russia), on 9 March 1934. The town next to Gzhatsk was renamed Gagarin in 1968 in his honour. His parents, Alexey Ivanovich Gagarin and Anna Timofeyevna Gagarina, worked on a collective farm. While manual workers are thought as "peasants," this may be too-simple if applied to his parents — his mother was said to love reading, and his father was a skilled carpenter. Yuri was the third of four children, and his elder sister helped raise him while his parents worked. Like millions of people in the Soviet Union, the Gagarin family suffered during the Nazi invasion in World War II. His two elder siblings were sent out to Nazi Germany for slave work in 1943, and did not return until after the war. While a youth, Yuri became interested in space and planets, and began to dream about his space tour which would one day become a reality. Yuri was thought by his teachers, as smart and hard-working, sometimes . His mathematics and science teacher had flown in the Soviet Air Forces during the war, which was said to make some impression on young Gagarin.

After starting an apprenticeship in a metalworks as a foundryman, Gagarin was selected for further training at a technical high school in Saratov. While there, he joined the "AeroClub", and learned to fly a light aircraft. In 1955, after finishing his technical schooling, he entered military flight training at the Orenburg Pilot's School. While there he met Valentina Goryacheva. Yuri married her in 1957, after gaining his pilot's wings in a MiG-15. Post-graduation, he was told to go to Luostari airbase in Murmansk Oblast, close to the Norwegian border, where bad weather made flying risky. As a full-grown man, Gagarin was tall, which was an advantage in the small Vostok cockpit. He became Lieutenant of the Soviet Air Force on 5 November 1957 and on 6 November 1959 he got the rank of Senior Lieutenant.

Gagarin kept physically fit throughout his life, and was a good sportsman. As the space explorer Valery Bykovsky wrote:

As well as being a good ice hockey player, Gagarin was also a basketball fan, and coached the Saratov Industrial Technical School team, as well as being an umpire/referee.

In 1960, after the search and selection process, Yuri Gagarin was selected with 19 other space explorers for the "Soviet space program". Along with the other soon to be space explorers, he was tested by experiments made to test his physical and psychological score; he also underwent training for the upcoming flight. Out of the twenty selected, the choices for the first launch were Gagarin and Gherman Titov because of their performance in training, as well as their physical well being.

On 12 April 1961, Gagarin became the first man to travel into space, launching to orbit aboard the "Vostok 3KA-3" (Vostok 1). His call sign in this flight was Kedr (Cedar; ). During his flight, Gagarin famously whistled the song ""The Motherland Hears, The Motherland Knows"" (). The first two lines of the song are: ""The Motherland hears, the Motherland knows/Where her son flies in the sky"". This song was written by Dmitri Shostakovich in 1951 (opus 86), with words by Yevgeniy Dolmatovsky.

Around the same time, some Western people claimed that Gagarin, during his space flight, had made the comment, ""I don't see any God up here"." However, no such words appear in the direct record of Gagarin's talk with the Earth during the spaceflight. In a 2006 interview a close friend of Gagarin, Colonel Valentin Petrov, said that Gagarin never said such words, and that the phrase came from Nikita Khrushchev's speech at the fullness of the Central Committee of the CPSU, where the anti-religious propaganda was talked about. In a certain context Khrushchev said, ""Gagarin flew into space, but didn't see any God there"."

After the flight, Gagarin became a world famous celebrity. He toured in many places like in Italy, the United Kingdom, Germany, Canada, and Japan. He did this to promote the Soviet .

In 1962, he began serving as a deputy to the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union. He later came back to Star City. While there, he worked on designs for a spacecraft. Gagarin worked on these designs in Star City for seven years. He became Lieutenant Colonel (or Podpolkovnik) of the Soviet Air Force on 12 June 1962. Then on 6 November 1963 he got the rank of Colonel (Polkovnik) of the Soviet Air Force. Soviet people tried to keep him away from any flights, being worried of losing their hero in an accident. Gagarin was backup pilot for Vladimir Komarov in the Soyuz 1 flight. As Komarov's flight ended in a deadly crash, Gagarin was banned from training for and helping out in further spaceflights.

Gagarin then became deputy training director of the Star City cosmonaut training base. At the same time, he began to re-join as a fighter pilot. On 27 March 1968, while on a training flight from Chkalovsky Air Base, he and flight instructor Vladimir Seryogin died in a MiG-15UTI crash near the town of Kirzhach. Gagarin and Seryogin were buried in the walls of the Kremlin on Red Square.

People are not sure what caused the crash, but a 1986 inquest thinks that the turbulence from a Su-11 'Fishpot-C' using its afterburners may have caused Gagarin's plane to go out of control.

Russian documents opened to the public in March 2003 showed that the KGB had changed their own investigation of the accident. In addition to this, one government and two military investigations. The KGB's report removed many conspiracy thoughts, instead of showing the actions of air base personnel added to the crash. The report says that an air traffic controller made Gagarin have old weather information. But by that time of his flight, conditions had become very bad. Ground crew also left fuel tanks on the aircraft. Gagarin's planned flight needed good weather and no outboard tanks. The investigation ended, saying that Gagarin's aircraft entered a spin, either because of a bird strike or because of a sudden move to avoid another aircraft. Because of the lod weather report, the crew thought their altitude to be higher than it actually was, and could not properly react to bring the MiG-15 out of its spin.

In his 2004 book "Two Sides of the Moon", Alexey Leonov tells that he was flying a helicopter in the same area that day when he heard "two loud booms in the distance." Approving other , his thoughts are that a Sukhoi jet) was flying below its minimum allowed altitude, and ""without realizing it because of the terrible weather conditions, he passed within 10 or 20 meters of Yuri and Seregin's plane while breaking the sound barrier."" The resulting turbulence would have sent the MiG into an uncontrolled spin. Leonov thinks the first boom he heard was that of the jet breaking the sound barrier, and the second was Gagarin's plane crashing.




</doc>
<doc id="20414" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20414" title="Yangtze River">
Yangtze River

The Yangtze River, or Yangzi, or Chang Jiang, is a river in China. It is the longest river in Asia and the third longest in the world (after the Amazon and the Nile).

The river is about 6,300 kilometers (almost 4,000 miles) long and goes from the western part of China (Qinghai Province) into the East China Sea, which is part of the Pacific Ocean. It has been thought of as a dividing point between northern and southern China. It helped start the Chinese civlization.

On the river is a big dam called the Three Gorges Dam, which is one of the biggest in the world. It forms a man-made lake that stretches almost upstream.



</doc>
<doc id="20415" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20415" title="Sons and Daughters of Saint Lucia">
Sons and Daughters of Saint Lucia

"Sons and Daughters of Saint Lucia" is the national anthem of Saint Lucia. The song has been used since the country became independent in 1979. 

Sons and daughters of Saint Lucia, 

love the land that gave us birth,
land of beaches, hills and valleys, 

fairest isle of all the earth. 

Wheresoever you may roam, 

love, oh, love your island home. 

Gone the times when nations battled 

for this 'Helen of the West, 

gone the days when strife and discord. 
Dimmed her children's toil and rest. 

Dawns at last a brighter day, 

stretches out a glad new way. 

May the good Lord bless our island, 

guard her sons from woe and harm! 

May our people live united, 

strong in soul and strong in arm! 

Justice, Truth and Charity, 

our ideal for ever be!


</doc>
<doc id="20416" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20416" title="Category:Saint Lucia">
Category:Saint Lucia

Saint Lucia


</doc>
<doc id="20418" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20418" title="1590s">
1590s

1590


</doc>
<doc id="20419" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20419" title="794">
794



</doc>
<doc id="20420" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20420" title="537">
537


</doc>
<doc id="20421" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20421" title="Category:Greenland">
Category:Greenland


</doc>
<doc id="20424" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20424" title="Category:United Nations">
Category:United Nations


</doc>
<doc id="20425" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20425" title="Tampico">
Tampico

Tampico is the main city in the state of Tamaulipas, Mexico.

It was the site of an incident called the Tampico Affair during the Mexican Revolution in the early 20th century that led to armed conflict between Mexico and the United States. About 80 years earlier Tampico was part of a less serious conflict between the two countries, called the Tampico Expedition.


</doc>
<doc id="20427" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20427" title="Goalkeeper">
Goalkeeper

A goalkeeper is someone who protects a team's goal. There are goalkeepers in sports like football (soccer) and ice hockey, for example. The goalkeeper's mission is to prevent the opposing team from scoring a goal. Goalkeepers normally wear more protective gear than other players on the team but this is not always true.

A goalkeeper's kit (or "uniform") consists of shin guards and gloves to protect his hands from the impact of the ball when he catches it.

Historically, however, until the 1970s goalkeepers would wear little or no hand protection. 

Until the early 20th century, the goalkeeper would often wear the same coloured strip as his teammates, with the only different item of clothing being his cap. However, in 1909, the Scottish Football Association took steps to ensure the goalkeeper would wear a different colour from the outfield players. This was to show his different role, as the only player allowed to handle the ball.

The goalkeeper in ice hockey (a "Goalie") uses thicker padding than the other players on the team. This is to prevent damage caused by being hit by the puck. The hockey stick of the goalie is much wider than the stick of other players. The bottom edge is also longer and flatter. The goalie has a very large leather glove on one hand. This glove has a large area to help catch the puck. Goalies normally wear masks that give protection to the entire face and head as well as the neck.



</doc>
<doc id="20434" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20434" title="1580s">
1580s


Mary, Queen of Scots (b. 1542)


</doc>
<doc id="20435" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20435" title="1583">
1583



</doc>
<doc id="20436" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20436" title="1810">
1810



</doc>
<doc id="20437" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20437" title="1730s">
1730s




</doc>
<doc id="20438" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20438" title="1730">
1730


</doc>
<doc id="20439" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20439" title="1754">
1754



</doc>
<doc id="20440" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20440" title="1600s">
1600s



</doc>
<doc id="20441" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20441" title="1609">
1609



</doc>
<doc id="20442" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20442" title="1601">
1601




</doc>
<doc id="20443" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20443" title="705">
705




</doc>
<doc id="20444" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20444" title="314">
314


</doc>
<doc id="20445" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20445" title="1500">
1500


</doc>
<doc id="20446" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20446" title="1780">
1780




</doc>
<doc id="20447" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20447" title="1245">
1245


</doc>
<doc id="20448" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20448" title="Mel Brooks">
Mel Brooks

Mel Brooks (born June 28, 1926) is a Jewish American actor, comedian, writer, film director, and producer. When he was born in Brooklyn, his name was Melvin Kaminsky.

He has directed, produced and written several films. Most of these are comedies that make references to other films. Some of his films include "Young Frankenstein", "The Producers", "Blazing Saddles", "History of the World: Part I", "Silent Movie", "Spaceballs" and "Men in Tights"

Brooks is one of the few people to have won Oscar, Emmy, Tony, and Grammy Awards. Most of those were for "The Producers", which was both a movie and a musical.



</doc>
<doc id="20452" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20452" title="Hawaii Volcanoes National Park">
Hawaii Volcanoes National Park

Hawaii Volcanoes National Park is a national park in the U.S. state and island of Hawaii. It is also an "International Biosphere Reserve" and a World Heritage Site.

The park was created in 1916. In it are Mauna Loa, the Earth's biggest volcano, and Kilauea, the Earth's most active volcano.

The Park shows the results of hundreds of thousands of years of volcanism, and evolution. These processes thrust a bare land from the sea, and clothed it with complex and unique ecosystems, and a distinct Ancient Hawaiian culture.
Kīlauea, one of the world's most active volcanoes, and Mauna Loa, the most massive, offer scientists insights on the birth of the Hawaiian Islands, and give visitors views of dramatic volcanic landscapes.
In recognition of its outstanding natural values, Hawaii Volcanoes National Park has been designated as an International Biosphere Reserve in 1980 and a World Heritage Site in 1987.

On March 19, 2008, there was a small explosion in Halemaumau crater, the first explosive event since 1924 and the first eruption in the Kīlauea caldera since September 1982. 

Debris from the explosion was scattered over an area of . A small amount of ash was also reported at a nearby community. The explosion covered part of Crater Rim Drive and damaged Halemaumau overlook. The explosion did not release any lava, which suggests to scientists that it was driven by hydrothermal or gas sources.

This explosion event followed the opening of a major sulfur dioxide gas vent, greatly increasing levels emitted from the Halemaumau crater.



</doc>
<doc id="20453" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20453" title="Template:Infobox State">
Template:Infobox State


</doc>
<doc id="20454" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20454" title="Wikipedia:Sister projects">
Wikipedia:Sister projects

Wikipedia has many sister projects created by the Wikimedia Foundation. This page lists the templates you need to make links to related information in the different projects.

Use these templates when linking between Wikimedia projects. You can also use direct .


</doc>
<doc id="20455" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20455" title="Category:States of Brazil">
Category:States of Brazil

These articles are about the States of Brazil.


</doc>
<doc id="20459" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20459" title="Pertussis">
Pertussis

Pertussis, also known as whooping cough, is a disease that kills about 300,000 people in the world every year, out of 30–50 million cases per year. There is a vaccine that can prevent it, so most cases of it are in places where people cannot afford, or cannot get, the vaccine. However, this vaccine does not work forever. The disease lasts about 6 weeks, and symptoms include vomiting, violent coughing, and other flu-like symptoms. It is called whooping cough for the sound an infected person makes when they cough.

The disease usually infects younger people, as they are more prone to diseases.



</doc>
<doc id="20464" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20464" title="Deity">
Deity

Some people believe that deities are powerful spirits that control the nature of things. 
Deities are also called gods. 
A female god is called a goddess. 
"Divine" is the adjective of deity.

Different religions believe in different gods. Followers of many ancient religions and some modern religions believe in many gods and goddesses. The belief in more than one god is called polytheism and, a belief in only one god is called monotheism. In most religions, a deity is believed to be immortal (cannot die), and to have powers far beyond those of humans.

Some of the gods and goddesses of different religions are:



</doc>
<doc id="20468" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20468" title="Odin">
Odin

In Norse mythology, Odin was the king of the Æsir. He is a god of war, but also associated to wisdom, poetry, and magic. Odin rides on an eight-legged horse called Sleipnir, and his famous spear is called Gungnir. He also has an precious arm ring called Draupnir, and two ravens called Hugin and Munin who tell him all the things happening around the world. Odin only has one eye, because he sacrificed one to drink from the fountain of wisdom.

Half of the souls of heroes slain in battles will be guided by the Valkyries, battle maidens, to Odin's hall, Valhalla. The other half belongs to the goddess Freyja.

His wives are Frigg and Jord, the Earth. His eldest son is Thor, god of thunder.

Odin would be swallowed by Loki's son, the wolf Fenrir at Ragnarok.

In german Odin is named Wotan. It is from that name the weekday Wednesday in English comes from - "Wotans day".
In old norse he is named Oden and the weekday wednesday is today in scandinavia onsdag from "Odens day".
Odin sacraficed his eye for wisdom. He impaled himself to a tree for many days, driving a spear through his eye. He got his wish, wisdom.



</doc>
<doc id="20470" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20470" title="Qazi Muhammad">
Qazi Muhammad

Qazi Muhammad (1893-1947) was the Nationalist and Religious Kurdish leader and the Head of Republic of Mahabad (Republic of Kurdistan), the second modern Kurdish state in the Middle East (after Republic of Ararat). He acted as the president of the Russian backed Republic of Mahabad, in Kurdistan of Iran (Eastern Kurdistan) in 1946. He was also the founder of the Kurdish Democratic Party of Iran. A year later, the Kurdish national movement (Komeley Jiyanewey Kurd) that he helped organize was crushed by Iran's central government. The Iranian military court sentenced him to death, and he was hanged in Chuwarchira Square in the center of city of Mahabad at March 30 1947. Mustafa Barzani, the father of nationalist Kurdish movement in Iraqi Kurdistan (Southern Kurdistan), was the defence minister in his cabinet. One of his sons Ali Qazi is today an active member in the kurdish movement.



</doc>
<doc id="20474" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20474" title="Brine">
Brine

Brine is water that has more than 5% salt in it. It is used for preserving food. For this it is much like vinegar or sugar. Brine is also used to transport heat. Adding salt to water lowers the freezing point of the water. At 15.5 ° Celsius, a saturated solution of brine can hold 26.4 % salt by weight. At 0°, it can hold 23.3% salt.

Brines also have some pharmaceutical properties, which can be used to treat people, especially those with diseases of the skin, allergies and common colds.



</doc>
<doc id="20476" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20476" title="1450s">
1450s





</doc>
<doc id="20477" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20477" title="1855">
1855



</doc>
<doc id="20480" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20480" title="Aladdin">
Aladdin

Aladdin is a fictional person from the story "Aladdin and the Enchanted Lamp", which is part of the "Book of One Thousand and One Nights". 

The young man Aladdin is told by a sorcerer (magician) to get him an oil lamp from a cave. Aladdin gets the lamp, but the sorcerer tries to trick him. So, Aladdin keeps the lamp for himself. Aladdin learns that inside the lamp there is a djinn. The djinn can fulfill every wish of the lamp's owner. With the djinn's help, Aladdin becomes rich and powerful and marries a princess. 

The sorcerer returns and tricks Aladdin's wife into giving him the magic lamp. Aladdin finds out that in a ring he has, there is another djinn. This djinn helps Aladdin defeat the sorcerer, get back the magic lamp, and save his wife.

There have been different versions of the story:


</doc>
<doc id="20482" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20482" title="Nirvana">
Nirvana

In Buddhism, Nirvana is the state of perfect peace reached by not wanting more than you have. It means happiness and peace. It is every Buddhist's goal to achieve Nirvana. The Buddha described it as:

“the far shore, the subtle, the very difficult to see, the unaging, the stable, the undisintegrating, the unmanifest, the unproliferated, the peaceful, the deathless , the sublime, the auspicious, the secure, the destruction of craving, the wonderful, the amazing, the unailing, the unailing state, the unafflicted, dispassion, purity, freedom, the unadhesive, the island, the shelter, the asylum, the refuge...” (SN 43:14)


</doc>
<doc id="20483" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20483" title="Lahti">
Lahti

Lahti is a city in Finland. It is part of the province of Southern Finland. Lahti has been a city since 1905. As of 2009, there are 100 776 people living in Lahti. 

The concert house Sibeliustalo in Lahti is named after Jean Sibelius. Many stars, including Antti Tuisku, have performed there. 



</doc>
<doc id="20484" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20484" title="British Virgin Islands">
British Virgin Islands

The British Virgin Islands are part of the Virgin Islands chain of islands shared by both the United States and the United Kingdom. It has sixteen inhabited and more than twenty uninhabited islands, and it includes the island of Anegada. It has an area of 153 km². Its population of more than twenty-two thousand is small, compared to that of the United States Virgin Islands.

The capital city, Road Town, is located on Tortola, one of the islands in the group.

In 1666 England took over the islands. The first lieutenant governor was appointed in 1701, but the British Virgin Islands were usually governed as part of other groups of islands in the Caribbean until 1960 when last legal links with the Leeward Islands were abolished.

A new constitution was given in 2007. It grants more control over everyday life to the Islanders, and lists the protection a person can expect from the government. The Chief Minister will become the Prime Minister, and the Legislative Council will be called the House of Assembly. These changes usually happen when a colony gets close to being independent.


</doc>
<doc id="20487" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20487" title="Lamp">
Lamp

A lamp is a device that makes light or sometimes heat. Lamps usually work with electricity. Lamps often work by transferring electricity into a bulb, causing it to light up.



</doc>
<doc id="20489" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20489" title="Pinocchio">
Pinocchio

Pinocchio is a made up story person that first was told and printed in 1883, in the book "The Adventures of Pinocchio" by Carlo Collodi.

It is the story of a puppet who was made by woodcarver, Gepetto. The puppet, Pinocchio, learns about being a real life boy. He really wants to be a human being instead of being a puppet made of wood with strings. He is famous because when he tells lies, his nose grows much longer of Harlequinade.

The most well-known version of the tale is the Disney animated movie from 1940.


</doc>
<doc id="20491" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20491" title="Diplomacy">
Diplomacy

Diplomacy is when countries make agreements with each other, or when they do not. Diplomacy is the talk between two or more countries' heads of state. Sometimes these talks are about trade or business, and sometimes they are about war and peace. Diplomacy happens a lot when two or more countries fight. 

Diplomats are people that are sent from their home country to meet with and talk to diplomats from foreign countries. An important type of diplomat is called an ambassador. An ambassador lives in a foreign country so that they are available for meetings with the government of that country. 


</doc>
<doc id="20492" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20492" title="Acellular">
Acellular

If something is acellular, it contains no cells or is not made up of cells.They are usually too small to see with the naked eye and must be seen with a microscope.


</doc>
<doc id="20495" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20495" title="Mexico (state)">
Mexico (state)

The state of México is one of the administrative divisions of the country of Mexico. It is one of 32 administrative divisions. It is in the centre of the country. It borders Hidalgo, Querétaro Arteaga, Tlaxcala, Puebla, Michoacán, Morelos and Guerrero as well as Mexico Federal District. The capital of the state is Toluca de Lerdo. Its biggest city is Ecatepec de Morelos, which borders Mexico Federal district. Teotihuacan is also in this state. It is about 21.355 km² in surface. Approximately 14 million people live there, as of 2005.


</doc>
<doc id="20501" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20501" title="Yawn">
Yawn

A yawn is a reflex. It involves a large, long taking in of air, the stretching of eardrums as the jaw opens wide, and last a (sometimes loud) breathing out. Pandiculation is the act of yawning and stretching simultaneously.

Yawning is commonly associated with tiredness, stress, overwork, lack of stimulation and boredom. In humans, yawning is often triggered by others yawning (e.g. seeing a person yawning, talking to someone on the phone who is yawning) and is a typical example of positive feedback. This "infectious" yawning has also been observed in chimpanzees and dogs. Cats both yawn and stretch, though not necessarily at the same time.

The yawn reflex has long been observed to be contagious. In 1508, Erasmus wrote, "One man's yawning makes another yawn.," and the French proverbialized the idea to "Un bon bâilleur en fait bâillier deux." ("One good gaper makes two others gape"). Often, if one person yawns, this may cause another person to "empathetically" yawn. Observing another person's yawning face (especially his/her eyes), even reading, or thinking about yawning, or looking at a yawning picture can cause a person to yawn. 

The immediate cause for contagious yawning may be the mirror neurons in the frontal cortex of certain vertebrates, which, upon being exposed to a stimulus, activates the same regions in the brain. Mirror neurons have been proposed as a driving force for imitation which lies at the root of much human learning such as language acquisition. Yawning may be an offshoot of the same imitative impulse.

Charles Darwin argued, in "The Expression of the Emotions in Man and Animals", that if a behaviour was present in many cultures, then it must be inherited (wholly or partly). All traits which appear in a wide range of animals must have some function which is supported (or was supported) by natural selection. In most cases the function is obvious, but with yawning we do not know what that function is. Suggestions have been made, but they do not seem to account for its widespread occurrence in vertebrates.


</doc>
<doc id="20507" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20507" title="Constantine">
Constantine

Constantine can mean:



</doc>
<doc id="20510" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20510" title="Constantine Maroulis">
Constantine Maroulis

Constantine Maroulis (born September 17 1975) is an American singer, actor and writer from New York. He was on the popular television program "American Idol", in which he almost won. With his past work experiences, he stands out from other "American Idol" singers. Before he was on television, he sang in the rock band Pray for the soul of Betty. Right now, he is taking a break from his band to sing on his own. He is the first "Idol" alum to sign a contract for the making of a new television sitcom.


</doc>
<doc id="20511" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20511" title="Sean Lennon">
Sean Lennon

Sean Taro Ono Lennon (born October 9 1975) is the son of John Lennon and his second wife Yoko Ono. He is half Japanese and half Welsh, Irish, and English, this makes him Eurasian. He has the same birthday as his father, John Lennon.

He is currently dating model/musician Charlotte Muel. Lennon had been previously engaged to musican Bijou Phillips.
He has worked with Mark Ronson and childhood friend Jordan Galland.

Cibo Matto, Ghost of a Saber Toothed Tiger, Dopo Yume.


</doc>
<doc id="20512" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20512" title="Eurasian people">
Eurasian people

A Eurasian person is a person of mixed European and Asian descent or mixed parentage (someone with one Caucasian parent and one Asian parent). In Hawaii, the term "hapa" is used.


</doc>
<doc id="20513" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20513" title="Wallonia">
Wallonia

Wallonia (walloon: "Waloneye" or "Walonreye") is a French-speaking region in the south of Belgium. Its official languages are French (98%) and German (2%). Many people understand local language Walloon, some still speak it and few write it. German is spoken mainly in the area of the German-speaking Community of Belgium

Its one of three regions in Belgium. The other two regions are Flanders and the Brussels-Capital Region. 
French speaking Walloons share the French community with French speaking people of Brussels.

The capital of the region is Namur. Other important cities are : Liège, Charleroi, Mons, Tournai and Verviers.


</doc>
<doc id="20514" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20514" title="1610s">
1610s




</doc>
<doc id="20515" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20515" title="1498">
1498


</doc>
<doc id="20516" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20516" title="1772">
1772



</doc>
<doc id="20518" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20518" title="Cryptorchidism">
Cryptorchidism

Cryptorchidism is a condition where one or both testicles does not drop down ("descend") into the scrotum.


</doc>
<doc id="20519" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20519" title="Buddy Holly">
Buddy Holly

Charles Hardin Holley or Buddy Holly (September 7,1936 - February 3, 1959) was an American rock and roll singer, songwriter, and musician. He was from Lubbock, Texas. Buddy Holly is thought to be an important person in the history of Rock and Roll music and rockabilly music. Holly played several different types of instruments. 

Buddy Holly died February 3 1959 when an airplane he was on crashed into a field near Mason City, Iowa. Also killed in the crash were Richie Valens and J.P. "The Big Bopper" Richardson.

Singer Don McLean's popular 1971 song "American Pie" made February 3 famous as "The Day the Music Died." 



</doc>
<doc id="20522" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20522" title="John Denver">
John Denver

John Denver (born Henry John Deutschendorf, Jr.) (December 31, 1943 – October 12, 1997), was an American musician and songwriter. He was very popular in the 1970s. He died when the plane he was flying crashed in California.


</doc>
<doc id="20523" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20523" title="MediaWiki:Bureaucratlogentry">
MediaWiki:Bureaucratlogentry

set rights for "$1"

</doc>
<doc id="20524" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20524" title="Castaic, California">
Castaic, California

Castaic is a community in southern California, USA. It is in the Los Angeles County area.


</doc>
<doc id="20525" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20525" title="North West England">
North West England

North West England is one of the regions of England in the United Kingdom. The cities of Liverpool and Manchester are located in the south of this region. The northern area (which includes Cumbria and part of Lancashire) is full of villages.
The official region consists of the following subdivisions:


</doc>
<doc id="20526" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20526" title="Central Point, Oregon">
Central Point, Oregon

Central Point is a city in Oregon, USA. It has a population of 16,550 people as of 2006. It has an area of 3.1 square miles. 



</doc>
<doc id="20528" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20528" title="Puebla, Mexico">
Puebla, Mexico

Puebla is a Mexican city. It is located 60 miles south east of Mexico City in a broad valley. The city has had many names over the years including City of Angels, City of Tiles, and Heroic City of Zaragoza.

Puebla was the main city of colonial Mexico. The architecture and look of Puebla is the most European of all the colonial cities. This is because it was built completely by a Spanish. Most cities at the time were built within an existing Native American community.

Puebla is highly industrialized. The historic downtown area remains a Spanish colonial treasure. It is filled with 17th and 18th century European architecture. The city has a nice climate all year around, friendly and courteous people living there and good food.


</doc>
<doc id="20530" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20530" title="Puebla">
Puebla

Puebla is part of the name of several places:



</doc>
<doc id="20535" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20535" title="Namur (city)">
Namur (city)

Namur (Nameûr in walloon, Namen in Dutch) is a city in Belgium. It is both the capital of the province with the same name, as well as of Wallonia, one of the three administrative regions of Belgium. It is located in the French speaking part of Belgium. 

In 2011 its population was 110.347.

It is located at 50° 27 North, 04° 51 East.


</doc>
<doc id="20540" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20540" title="Mariska Hargitay">
Mariska Hargitay

Mariska Hargitay (born January 23, 1964 in Los Angeles, California, USA) is an American actress. She is best known for her role on the television series "". She is also the daughter of actor Jayne Mansfield.


</doc>
<doc id="20542" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20542" title="Santa Cruz de Tenerife">
Santa Cruz de Tenerife

Santa Cruz de Tenerife is the capital of the Canary Islands. It is situated in Tenerife, the biggest and most important (political and economic) island of the Canary Islands.

The city is home to the Parliament of the Canary Islands. With a population of 222,417 in 2009. During the Carnival of Santa Cruz de Tenerife, thousands of people take to the streets each year for over a week. On January 18, 1980 it was declared a Fiesta of International Tourist Interest by the Secretary of State for Tourism, and is one of the world's largest carnivals.



</doc>
<doc id="20544" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20544" title="Category:Canary Islands">
Category:Canary Islands


</doc>
<doc id="20545" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20545" title="Saint Helena">
Saint Helena

Saint Helena is an overseas territory of the United Kingdom. It is in the South Atlantic Ocean. It consists of the island of Saint Helena, as well as the dependencies of Ascension Island and Tristan da Cunha. Napoleon was sent to this island by the British and their allies as a result of Napoleon's return from Elba and loss at the Battle of Waterloo. Napoleon died there in 1821.


</doc>
<doc id="20547" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20547" title="Helicopter">
Helicopter

A helicopter is a kind of flying machine or aircraft. A helicopter lifts up off of the ground and moves because of its rotors. A rotor is several small wings, called rotor blades, that spin together around a shaft. For that reason, helicopters are sometimes called "rotary-wing aircraft". A helicopter flies differently from an airplane. An airplane must move forward to stay in the air, but because the helicopter's rotor blades are always moving, the helicopter can stop and stay in one place above the ground. This allows them to land in places where an airplane cannot. Helicopters can move by tilting their rotors, which causes the rotor blades to fly in the direction the rotor is tilted.

Since around 400 BC, the Chinese had a flying top that was used as a children's toy. The flying top was made from bamboo and used the same method of spinning wings to fly up in the air. Later flying tops were made of feathers tied to a stick. Leonardo da Vinci first thought of a helicopter flown by a man in 1490, and drew pictures of his ideas. It was hundreds of years later (in the early 20th century) before anyone built one that could really fly. The first man to fly a helicopter was a Frenchman, Paul Cornu. Then a Russian immigrant to America, Igor Sikorsky, built and perfected the first practical helicopter.

Helicopters are especially useful when there are floods and other disasters. Food packets, water, medicines and clothes are dropped from the air to people on the ground who cannot be reached by road. When people are injured, helicopters can carry them to hospitals faster than an ambulance on the road. Helicopters are also used by the military, because they can move troops and equipment to places an airplane cannot take them. Guns can be mounted on them, and missiles can be shot from them.


</doc>
<doc id="20548" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20548" title="Baku">
Baku

Baku (Azerbaijani: Bakı, in full: Bakı şəhəri - The Baku City) is the capital and the largest city of Azerbaijan. It is located on the southern shore of the Apsheron Peninsula, at 40°23′N 49°52′E. Modern Baku has three parts: the Old Town (İçəri Şəhər), the boomtown and the Soviet-built town. Population 2074,3 (January 1, 2003). About 3 million people live in metropolitan area (due to large numbers of refugees and internally displaced persons).
In Baku area is a lot of oil. There are a lot of state and private universities.


</doc>
<doc id="20549" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20549" title="Windows Me">
Windows Me

Windows ME is the Millennium Edition of the Microsoft Windows operating system. Windows Me is based on Windows 98. Windows Me was based on MS-DOS (as were Windows 98 and Windows 95), and is meant for people using computers in their homes. Windows 2000 and Windows Me are similar in looks, but Windows Me has features that families find useful, while Windows 2000 was meant for businesses. It was released near the year 2000 because it was the Third Millennium, calling it Windows Millennium Edition. It was the last Windows to be based in MS-DOS. Many people had problems with Windows ME because of the kind of computers they are using.


</doc>
<doc id="20550" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20550" title="Librarian">
Librarian

A librarian is a person who works in a library and helps people to find books, magazines, and other information. In the 2000s, librarians also began helping people to find information using computers, electronic databases, and Internet search tools. There are different kinds of librarians including children's, teens, adult, historical, law, and more.

To become a librarian in a university, a person needs to have a Master's degree in Library Science (MLS) or a Master's degree in Library and Information Science.

Most librarians work for libraries in schools, colleges, or universities or in municipal, regional, or national libraries. Some librarians also work for private companies, to help them to organize their documents and reports. There are librarians that also work with the deaf and in prisons.

Other jobs in libraries include the job of library technician. To become a library technician, a person needs to complete a college diploma.


</doc>
<doc id="20552" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20552" title="Category:Azerbaijan">
Category:Azerbaijan


</doc>
<doc id="20554" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20554" title="Geronimo">
Geronimo

Geronimo ("Chiricahua" Goyaałé 'One Who Yawns'; often spelled Goyathlay in English), (June 16, 1829–February 17, 1909) was a well-known Native American leader, but not chief, of the Chiricahua Apache tribe, but he was a Bedonkohe Apache. He was born in what is now the state of New Mexico and was also a respected medicine man. The name Geronimo was given to him by Mexican soldiers who either called to Saint Jerome while fighting him or transcribed his name into Spanish wrong. He led 38 Apache men, women, and children to resist being sent to reservations by the United States government or being captured by the Mexican Army. He surrendered in 1886. After that, he was moved to many different forts in the United States. In 1904 during the world fair in St. Louis, he sold souvenirs and pictures of himself. He died in 1909 from pneumonia.


</doc>
<doc id="20555" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20555" title="Namur">
Namur

Namur has these meanings:


</doc>
<doc id="20558" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20558" title="Gold rush">
Gold rush

A gold rush is when a lot of miners go to a mining place full of gold. Well-known examples are the California Gold Rush of 1849 and the Australian gold rush which started in 1851.


</doc>
<doc id="20559" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20559" title="California Gold Rush">
California Gold Rush

The California Gold Rush was when a lot of people went to the mountains of California to find gold. It started when James W. Marshall found pieces of gold while building a sawmill for John Sutter in 1848. The news spread across the United States. It was a long way to go that demanded a lot of force, but even so hundreds of thousands of people went to California in 1849. However, some people stayed home and opened supply shops supplying travelers with mining tools. 

Some people became rich but most did not. Besides trying to find gold some people started selling things. This gave them benefits and popularity. Sometimes a woman could earn more than her mining husband. Men like Levi Strauss also sold things. He invented and sold jeans made from denim. We can say that the California Gold Rush ended in 1855. At that time many gold miners went back home because gold was harder to find.


</doc>
<doc id="20560" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20560" title="Jeans">
Jeans

Jeans are a type of pants made from heavy, strong cotton material (fabric) called denim. They were invented in the United States by Levi Strauss in 1872. In the late 1800s, jeans were worn by workers. Jeans are one of the most obvious symbols of American cultural influence in the world. They are worn in many countries around the world.

In the 1950s, jeans became a popular fashion for teenagers and young adults. In the 1950s, jeans were part of rockabilly fashion for teenagers. Now, jeans are a very popular type of pants. They are usually worn as casual fashion clothing. Jeans are made in many styles and colors.

The word "jeans" came from the French name of the city in Italy where a strong cotton fabric was made. The Italian city's name, Genoa, was spelled "jene" in Middle English and "Gênes" in the French language. 


</doc>
<doc id="20561" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20561" title="Sovereignty">
Sovereignty

Sovereignty is the right of a government to have complete control over its area. 

James Otis in his defense of the American colonists against the writs of assistance stated that ""every man is his own sovereign"". The United States Declaration of Independence, states ""We hold these truths to be self evident, that all men are created equal"".


</doc>
<doc id="20564" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20564" title="Category:Island insular areas of the United States">
Category:Island insular areas of the United States


</doc>
<doc id="20569" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20569" title="FIFA">
FIFA

The Fédération Internationale de Football Association (French for International Federation of Association Football), or FIFA for short, is the organization that controls international football (also called "association football"). The organization’s main buildings are in Zürich, Switzerland, and right now the president is Sepp Blatter. FIFA organizes major international football tournaments, and the most famous one is the FIFA World Cup, which has been held since 1930. FIFA was established on May 21, 1904 in Paris and has 208 national associations as its members. The organization’s official languages are English, French, German and Spanish.

The most powerful organ of FIFA is the FIFA Congress, which is an assembly made up of representatives from each member association. The Congress holds a regular meeting once a year, and since 1998 an additional meeting has been held every year. Only the Congress can pass changes to FIFA's laws.

The Congress decides whether FIFA should accept new national associations and elects the President of FIFA, its General Secretary and the other members of FIFA's Executive Committee. The President and General Secretary take care of what goes on within and around FIFA. The Executive Committee, with the President as its head, is responsible for deciding the dates, locations and format of tournaments.

Also, there are six regional confederations recognized by FIFA which take care of the game in the six different continents of the world. National associations must be members of both FIFA and their regional confederation in order for their teams to compete in FIFA's competitions. The six confederations are AFC (Asian Football Confederation in Asia and Australia), CAF (Confédération Africaine de Football in Africa), CONCACAF (Confederation of North, Central American and Caribbean Association Football in North America and Central America), CONMEBOL (Confederación Sudamericana de Fútbol in South America), OFC (Oceania Football Confederation in Oceania) and UEFA (Union Européenne de Football Association in Europe).




</doc>
<doc id="20576" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20576" title="American Idol">
American Idol

American Idol is a popular TV show in America that lets anyone sing to people watching the show on television while they are being judged. It is based on the British show "Pop Idol". After the episode, people call in on the phone to vote, and the person with the least votes is off the show. The singers can be anyone between the age of 16 and 28 years. In 2008, the show finished the seventh season.

"American Idol" has four judges, who give comments on performances. The four judges are: 

"American Idol" also has a host, Ryan Seacrest.






</doc>
<doc id="20577" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20577" title="Smile">
Smile

A smile is a face made by flexing the muscles near both ends of the mouth.. The smile can also be made through the eyes (See 'Duchenne smile' below). Smiles usually show happiness. A smile can be natural or fake. However, smiling can be different with animals. When smiling, the teeth shows, but sometimes animals do this when they are threatening. When chimpanzees show their teeth, it can also be a sign of fear.

Dimples are genetically inherited. They are caused by the flesh underneath the skin, that forms on some people's cheeks, especially when they smile. Some people may only have one dimple on only one side of the face.

Although there are many different types of smiles, researchers are interested in the duchenne smile because it is done with the eyes. The Duchenne smile was named after the French physician Guillaume Duchenne. Duchenne identified two types of smiles. A Duchenne smile is when the cheek raises and forms a wrinkle around the eyes. Many researchers think that Duchenne smiles are usually hard to make when you are pretending to smile.

On the Internet, smiles can normally be typed up. This is normally called a smiley, smiley face, or happy face. Smileys show emotion when people are not able to see it in real life. Smileys typed on the computer are called emoticons. Smileys can change depending on where the person typing the smiley is.

Western Style: :-), :-(, ;-), :-O, :-D

Eastern Style: d(^.^)b, \(^o^)/, >.<, ^_^, *<):)





</doc>
<doc id="20591" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20591" title="Słupsk">
Słupsk

Słupsk is a city in northern Poland in voivodship of Pomerania. It has about 100.000 inhabitants and 43,15 km².


</doc>
<doc id="20598" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20598" title="Emperor of Ethiopia">
Emperor of Ethiopia

The Emperor of Ethiopa was the name of the ruler of Ethiopia until 1975 when the emperors and the royal family, the Solomonids, were taken out of power. 

The name that was used for "Emperor" by the Ethiopians means "King of Kings".


</doc>
<doc id="20599" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20599" title="Solomonid dynasty">
Solomonid dynasty

The Solomonid dynasty was a line of emperors that ruled in Ethiopia from 1270 to 1975. There were some other emperors that ruled who were not from the Solomonid dynasty, but the Solomonids were in control most of the time. 

The emperors did not use their real name when they became Emperor of Ethiopia, but they made up a new one for their rule. For example, the first Emperor of the Solomonids was Yekuno Amlak. But he used the name "Tasfa Iyassus" after he became ruler. 

The dynasty began in 1270, when Yekuno Amlak killed the last king of the Zagwe dynasty, which had ruled Ethiopia. Yekuno Amlak was made king, and European historians say was the first ruler of the dynasty. But most Ethiopian books say that Menelik I, the son of King Solomon of Israel and the Queen of Sheba, was the first Emperor of this dynasty.

The leaders of Ethiopa from 1270 to 1975 (mostly Solomonids):


</doc>
<doc id="20601" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20601" title="The Sound of Music">
The Sound of Music

The Sound of Music is a 1959 Broadway & West End musical by Rodgers and Hammerstein, and a 1965 movie from 20th Century Fox. Both are loosely based on the lives of the von Trapp family. (In 1956 and 1958, two movies from Germany and Austria were also based on them.)

In the movie, Julie Andrews (from "Mary Poppins and The Princess Diaries") plays a nun in Salzburg, Austria. She is sent from her convent to the home of Captain von Trapp, whose wife has died, to be the governess (home teacher) of his seven children. (children's names are: Liesl, Friedrich, Louisa, Kurt, Brigitta, Marta, and Gretl.) Mischievous at first, von Trapp's children come to like Maria, and Maria falls in love with their father. Maria teaches the children how to sing and have fun because after their mother died, Captain von Trapp almost completely erased all forms of fun. Instead of choosing baroness (wife of a noble figure) Shroeder as his new wife, he ends up marrying Maria.

After all of this takes place, the Nazis take over Austria (in the Anschluss), and wanted Captain von Trapp to join them. But, in an attempt to escape, the Captain and his family leave the house late one evening, and while pushing their car out of the drive, they are caught by the head of the army in the area. After being caught, Maria and Captain come up with a crafty lie to save themselves. They told them that their car broke down and that the family was supposed to be performing at the Salzburg Festival. Then they get to the festival and perform. Their dear Uncle Max helps them to escape while the army is entertained.

The family escapes to the Alps and eventually walks over them into the next country (Switzerland) to live.

This movie is based on a true story, but not all of the movie is true. One make-believe scene is that the family is seen walking over the Alps into the next town. In real life, the family would not do that, because they would have been walking right into Hitler's home area.

Also, in real life, after the von Trapp family left their house, Adolf Hitler used it as a headquarters later on.

At the time that it came out, "The Sound of Music" made the most money of any movie. That may still be true.

There is a 40th Anniversary Edition of this movie available on DVD with special features like interviews with Julie Andrews and Christopher Plummer and an entire cast reunion of all 7 children.



</doc>
<doc id="20604" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20604" title="Academy Award for Best Picture">
Academy Award for Best Picture

The Academy Award for Best Picture is one of the Academy Awards. Also called Oscars, the Academy Awards are given to people working in the film industry by the American Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS). The name of the award has changed over time. It was first Best Production in 1927. They also gave out Best Picture, Unique and Artistic Production also known as "Best Artistic Quality of Production" in 1927. the Best Picture, Unique and Artistic Production award was only given out the first year. In 1930, the name was changed to Best Picture. It is still called that today.

In the list below are the winners of the award for each year. A list of the winners and other nominees is in the main article for each decade.












</doc>
<doc id="20607" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20607" title="Bulimia nervosa">
Bulimia nervosa

Bulimia nervosa (bulimia) is a disease and a type of eating disorder. It is when a person wants to starve his or her self. People who have it feel that they are fat and want to be skinny. When they are hungry, they eat a lot of food. Then, they try to take it back by vomiting, exercising, or using drugs.

The person with bulimia eats large amounts of food. Then, they want to get rid of it. To do this, they vomit or use drugs. They do this at least two times a week or more often. The person always thinks about how his or her body looks, and he or she wants to be skinny. The person may also have anorexia nervosa. However, some people with bulimia have a normal weight or are overweight, which makes it difficult to know when someone has bulimia.

Bulimia nervosa can cause many health problems. Because vomit has a lot of acid in it, doing it a lot can burn the person's mouth, throat, or teeth. Someone can lose nutrients or fluids in his or her body. Glands in one's throat and face may get bigger and hurt. The immune system is weakened, and a person can get muscle or heart problems.
Sometimes bulimia can cause difficulty breathing. This is because the acids that are in your mouth go to your lungs and damages the bronchioles.

Most people who get bulimia are ages 10 to 25. Usually girls have bulimia, but boys can have it too. People who have had bad things happen to them are more likely to get the disease too. People with obsessive compulsive disorder or perfectionism are also more likely to have bulimia.



</doc>
<doc id="20609" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20609" title="Turks and Caicos Islands">
Turks and Caicos Islands

The Turks and Caicos Islands are two groups of islands that are owned by the British. They are in the Caribbean Sea, near the Bahamas. Fishing is the biggest part of the economy. 

The ruler of Great Britain is also the ruler of the Turks and Caicos, but that ruler always acts through a governor. There are no elections for president, and all the officers of government are named by the ruler, or "monarch".

This is the main island where all the government offices are held. Grand Turk is the capital of the Turks and Caicos Islands. It has its own International Airport.

Often shortened to just 'Provo', this island has its own International Airport and is host to a large number of holiday resorts including Sandals' Beaches resort. A large coral reef is situated to the north of the island. To the east of the island, a new development named "Leewood" is being built.

There are few beaches on West Cay. The main income is salt processing. It does not have an airport.

The population of Turks and Caicos Islands is nearly 22,000. The ethnic make up of the population is: 61.0% Mulatto 34.0% Black 5.0% White, Americans 5.0% Other (mainly Dominicans and Haitians).


</doc>
<doc id="20610" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20610" title="Vichy France">
Vichy France

Vichy France was the government set up by the Germans in southern France during World War II. It was led by Marshal Petain, notable for helping to win World War I. In 1944, the government moved to Nazi Germany, and later disbanded.


</doc>
<doc id="20611" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20611" title="Anguilla">
Anguilla

Anguilla is a group of five islands in the Caribbean Sea. The islands are ruled by Great Britain. 

Anguilla was once part of what is now Saint Kitts and Nevis, but broke away in 1980. Anguilla wanted to still be a part of Great Britain, and Saint Kitts and Nevis wanted to be independent.

It is named after the Spanish word for "eel", because it has such a shape.

The queen of the United Kingdom is the ruler of Anguilla, but she works through a governor. She names, or "appoints" the governor, and he is just working there in her place. The legislature is elected by the people, has 11 members, and is called the House of Assembly.

Anguilla gets most of its money from fishing and tourism.

Most people in Anguilla are Protestants, and speak English.


</doc>
<doc id="20612" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20612" title="Bermuda">
Bermuda

Bermuda (/bɜrˈmjuːdə/ "Ber-myu-dah"; officially, the Bermudas or Somers Islands) is a British overseas territory in the North Atlantic Ocean. The land has one main island and 180 smaller islands. Bermuda is a popular tourist place, with mild weather during the winter months.

Located off the east coast of the United States, Bermuda's nearest landmass is Cape Hatteras, North Carolina, about 1,030 kilometres (640 mi) to the west-northwest. It is about 1,373 kilometres (853 mi) south of Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada, and 1,770 kilometres (1,100 mi) northeast of Miami, Florida. Its capital city is Hamilton ("picture below").

Bermuda has a wealthy economy, with finance as its largest sector, followed by tourism. In 2005, Bermuda was even claimed to have the world's highest GDP per capita, yet these statistics are hard to verify as Bermuda is not classified as a country but rather as a territory of the U.K.
Bermuda has a subtropical climate. The weather is humid and, as a result, the summertime heat index can be high, even though mid-August temperatures rarely exceed Winters are mild, with average daytime temperatures in January and February around The temperature rarely drops below 10 °C 

Bermuda is the easternmost point of the so-called "Bermuda Triangle"– a region of sea in which a number of aircraft and ships have allegedly disappeared under mysterious circumstances. Some people think there is a pattern to the disappearances, while other people think it is only coincidence.




</doc>
<doc id="20613" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20613" title="Tarja Halonen">
Tarja Halonen

Tarja Halonen (born December 24, 1943) is the President of Finland. She is from Helsinki. She was elected in 2000 and 2006. Her mandate ends 2012.


</doc>
<doc id="20614" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20614" title="Turku">
Turku

Turku is the oldest city in Finland. It is also the fifth-biggest, with about 170,000 residents.
Official languages in Turku are Finnish and Swedish.

Turku used to be the largest city and capital of Finland, until 1812, when it was moved to Helsinki.



</doc>
<doc id="20616" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20616" title="Wings (movie)">
Wings (movie)

Wings is a silent movie released in 1927. It is most famous as the first movie to win the Academy Award for Best Picture.

Jack Powell (Charles "Buddy" Rogers) and David Armstrong (Richard Arlen) are rivals in the same small American town, both vying for the attentions of pretty Sylvia Lewis (Jobyna Ralston). Jack fails to realize that "the girl next door", Mary Preston (Clara Bow), is desperately in love with him. The two young men both enlist to become combat pilots in the Air Service. When they leave for training camp, Jack mistakenly believes Sylvia prefers him; she actually prefers David and lets him know about her feelings, but is too kindhearted to turn down Jack's affection.

Jack and David are billeted together. Their tent mate is Cadet White (Gary Cooper), but their acquaintance is all too brief; White is killed in an air crash the same day. Undaunted, the two men endure a rigorous training period, where they go from being enemies to best friends. Upon graduating, they are shipped off to France to fight the Germans.

Mary joins the war effort by becoming an ambulance driver. She later learns of Jack's reputation as an ace and encounters him while on leave in Paris. She finds him, but he is too drunk to recognize her. She puts him to bed, but when two Military Police barge in while she is innocently changing from a borrowed dress back into her uniform in the same room, she is forced to resign and return to America.

The climax of the story comes with the epic Battle of Saint-Mihiel. David is shot down and presumed dead. However, he survives the crash landing, steals a German biplane, and heads for the Allied lines. By a tragic stroke of bad luck, he is spotted and shot down by Jack, who is bent on avenging his friend. When Jack lands to pick up a souvenir, he becomes distraught when he learns what he has done, but before David dies, he forgives his comrade.

With the end of the war, Jack returns home to a hero's welcome. When he returns David's effects to his grieving parents, David's mother blames the war, not Jack, for her son's death. Then, Jack is reunited with Mary and realizes he loves her.


</doc>
<doc id="20617" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20617" title="Sunrise (movie)">
Sunrise (movie)

Sunrise: A Song of Two Humans or Sunrise is a 1927 silent movie. It is the only movie to ever win Academy Award for Unique and Artistic Production. This category was not used again. It won the award for Best Cinematography and actress, Janet Gaynor, won the Best Actress award. It was the first to improvise a primitive version of CGI using nuclear warheads. It was directed by F.W. Murnau.


</doc>
<doc id="20618" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20618" title="The Broadway Melody">
The Broadway Melody

The Broadway Melody is one of the first Hollywood musical movies. It was released in 1929 and made more money than any movie that year. It was also the winner of the Academy Award for Best Picture.


</doc>
<doc id="20619" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20619" title="Rocky">
Rocky

Rocky is a 1976 movie. It was written by, and starred, Sylvester Stallone. The movie is about a man living in Philadelphia, who is trying to become a great boxer. It won three Academy Awards, for Best Picture, Best Director, and Film editing (it was nominated for seven other Awards), and was ranked #78 in AFI's 100 Years... 100 Movies list. It was followed by 5 sequels, the most recent came out in 2006.



</doc>
<doc id="20620" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20620" title="The Deer Hunter">
The Deer Hunter

The Deer Hunter is a 1978 movie. It told the story of 3 friends affected by the Vietnam War. It won the Academy Award for Best Picture.


</doc>
<doc id="20624" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20624" title="Tailor">
Tailor

A tailor is a person whose job is to make clothes to fit people. A tailor might make a new piece of clothing, or change an item so that it fits better. They also mend (fix) clothes. A tailor is also called a seamster, or a seamstress for a woman.


</doc>
<doc id="20625" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20625" title="Template">
Template

A template is a tool that shows the shape of something or it is a tool to help make something. It can separate the form of something from the things inside it.
In drawing, a template can be a wood, plastic or metal tool that is used to help make marks with a pen or pencil. Lines can be drawn on paper, or on metal or wood to make the same shape many times.

In publishing for example, a template is a made by someone else to give an idea what to write in different parts of a book or story. A simple publishing template can have spaces for the words, for pictures, for the story title (name), and for the name of the publication.

Humans or machines can use templates. Some computer programs that work with the Internet use a template to separate the way the program works from the way it shows the words and pictures. It can be a way to copy words and pictures. In computer programming, templates save time because the programmer does not need to write the same words over and over.

When doctors plan to give a person a new bone joint made of metal or plastic, they can use a template in the shape of the new joint. This type of template is put on an x-ray picture of the person to help to decide the size of joint needed.






</doc>
<doc id="20626" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20626" title="Oliver!">
Oliver!

Oliver! is a British musical, based on the book "Oliver Twist" by Charles Dickens. It was first performed in Britain in 1960 and in America in 1963. It was made into a movie in 1968, which won the Academy Award for Best Picture.


</doc>
<doc id="20627" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20627" title="Patton">
Patton

Patton can mean:


</doc>
<doc id="20629" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20629" title="Dr. Hook &amp; The Medicine Show">
Dr. Hook &amp; The Medicine Show

Dr. Hook & The Medicine Show or simply just Dr. Hook was an American band. They formed in Union City, New Jersey in 1968. Their two best known songs were "Cover of the Rolling Stone" and "Sylvia's Mother".


</doc>
<doc id="20630" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20630" title="Glider">
Glider

Gliders are aircraft which do not have a motor. 'Glider' can also describe an animal which flies without flapping or beating wings. Animal gliders use passive flaps to glide from higher to lower points, usually in a forest.

Mechanical gliders are sometimes called 'sailplanes'. Gliders are controlled by their pilots by using control-sticks. Some gliders can only carry one person, but some gliders can carry two people. In gliders with two seats, each pilot has a control-stick. Gliders always have seats for the pilots.

Gliders have long wings so that they will only lose height slowly. In some places the air goes up faster than the glider is going down. The pilot of a glider can make it climb by flying to these places. Good pilots can travel long distances by always finding rising air. Some pilots race each other over hundreds of kilometres each day. Other pilots just fly for fun.

Gliders cannot get into the air by themselves. They are pulled into the air by an aircraft with a motor or they are pulled up by motor on the ground.

There are two 
other types of gliders. Hang-gliders have frames to give the wings their shape, but do not have seats for their pilots and do not have control-sticks. The wings of paragliders are like parachutes and so do not have frames to give them their shape. These other two types of glider are often launched from the tops of hills or cliffs.


</doc>
<doc id="20632" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20632" title="Category:Ethiopia">
Category:Ethiopia


</doc>
<doc id="20637" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20637" title="John Stuart Mill">
John Stuart Mill

John Stuart Mill (May 20, 1806 – May 8, 1873), was an English philosopher and political economist. He was a classical liberal thinker of the 19th century. He was for utilitarianism, the ethical theory first proposed by his godfather Jeremy Bentham.



</doc>
<doc id="20638" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20638" title="Jeremy Bentham">
Jeremy Bentham

Jeremy Bentham (15 February 1748–6 June 1832) was an English, jurist, philosopher, and legal and social reformer. He is best known as one of the first people for utilitarianism and animal rights and gay rights. 

Bentham was one of the most influential (classical) liberals, partially through his writings but particularly through his students all around the world, including John Stuart Mill and several political leaders (and Robert Owen, who later became started the idea of socialism). He is believed to be the innovator of classical liberalism, a term first coined in the 19th century.
After he died, his body was preserved.


</doc>
<doc id="20644" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20644" title="Dinosaur Comics">
Dinosaur Comics

Dinosaur Comics is a comic by Ryan North. It shows dinosaurs who have adventures and talk about philosophy and some other topics. The art is the same every day, but the words are different. This comic is intended to be funny.
Things in the comic that are not true: 


</doc>
<doc id="20646" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20646" title="Lucid dream">
Lucid dream

A lucid dream is a dream where the person knows that they are dreaming. The person can then try to control things in the dream because it is not real. In a lucid dream, it is possible to do anything the dreamer wants, such as flying.

Some people have lucid dreams for spiritual reasons, but they can also be used for fun or to stop bad dreams.

Although some people can have lucid dreams without trying, most people do not have them often. It is important to be able to remember dreams, because if the dreamer does not remember them, he or she will not know if they were lucid dreams or not. Remembering dreams becomes easier if they are written in a dream diary upon waking up. 

There are some ways that help make lucid dreams more likely. Stephen LaBerge, a psychologist who studies lucid dreams, made the MILD (mnemonic induction of lucid dreaming) technique. To do this, the dreamer must wake up after having a dream, and visualise himself or herself being in the dream again, except now knowing it is a dream. The dreamer should think "the next time I am dreaming, I want to remember I am dreaming", and should concentrate on this while returning to sleep.
There are many other ways to help someone lucid dream. One other way is to fall asleep while keeping the mind awake. This is called the WILD (wake induced lucid dreaming) technique. It is easiest to perform after waking up from a few hours of sleep.



</doc>
<doc id="20653" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20653" title="Template:Click">
Template:Click

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="20659" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20659" title="My Fair Lady">
My Fair Lady

My Fair Lady is a musical. It is based on George Bernard Shaw's "Pygmalion". It was first performed on stage in 1956 starring Julie Andrews and Rex Harrison. It was made into a movie in 1964. The movie won the Academy Award for Best Picture that year. Audrey Hepburn and Rex Harrison starred in the movie.

GB Shaw never wanted to turn his book into a musical. That is why the film was created after his death.


</doc>
<doc id="20660" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20660" title="A Man for All Seasons">
A Man for All Seasons

A Man for All Seasons is a play by Robert Bolt about the life of Sir Thomas More that was first put on in 1960. It was made into a movie in 1966 that won the Best Picture Academy Award that year. It was also made into a TV movie in 1988.


</doc>
<doc id="20662" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20662" title="Composite number">
Composite number

A composite number (or simply a "composite") is a natural number, that can be found by multiplying prime numbers.

For example, the number "9" can be found by multiplying "3" by "3", and the number "12". You get it by multiplying "3", "2" and "2".

All natural numbers (greater than 1) can be put in one of the two classes below:




</doc>
<doc id="20663" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20663" title="Fundamental theorem of arithmetic">
Fundamental theorem of arithmetic

The Fundamental theorem of arithmethic (also called the unique factorization theorem) is a theorem of number theory. The theorem says that "every" positive integer greater than 1 can be written as a product of prime numbers (or the integer is itself a prime number). The theorem also says that there is only one way to write the number. If two people found two different ways to write the number, the only thing that can be different is the order in which the primes are written. For example, we can write:

and if somebody else finds "another" way to write 6936 or 1200 as product of prime numbers, we can put those prime numbers in the right order and find out that it is the same as what we have here. Finding the prime numbers is called factorization. 

This theorem can be used in cryptography.

The first person who proved the theorem was Euclid. The first detailed and correct proof was in the "Disquisitiones Arithmeticae" by Carl Friedrich Gauß. 

Some people may think that the theorem is true everywhere. However, the theorem is "not" true in more general number systems, like algebraic integers. This was first mentioned by Ernst Kummer in 1843, in his work on Fermat's last theorem. For more information about that: read algebraic number theory. 

The proof consists of two parts: "first" we show that every number can be written as a product of primes; "second" we show that if we write a number as a product of primes for a second time, then the two lists of prime numbers must be the same. 

We show that if "not" every number greater than 1 can be written as a product of primes, we end up in some kind of impossibility. So after that we conclude that it "must" be true that every number can be written as a product of primes. 

So, now see what happens when somebody says that he knows a positive integer, greater than 1, which can "not" be written as a product of primes. In that case we ask him to mention "all" the numbers, greater than 1, that can "not" be written as a product of primes. One of these numbers must be the "smallest": let's call it "n". Of course, this number "n" cannot be 1. Further, it cannot be a prime number, because a prime number is a 'product' of a single prime: itself. So it "must" be a product of numbers. Thus 

where both "a" and "b" are positive integers that are of course smaller than "n". But: "n" was the "smallest" number that can not be written as a product of primes. So it must be possible to write "a" and "b" as products of primes, because they are both smaller than "n". But then the product 

can be written as a product of primes as well. This is an impossibility because we said that "n" can not be written as a product of primes. 

We have now shown the impossibility which exists if the first part of the theorem would not be true. In this way we have now proven the first part of the theorem. 

Now we have to prove that there is only one way to write a positive number greater than 1 as a product of prime numbers. 

To do this, we use the following lemma: if a prime number "p" divides a product "ab", then it divides "a" or it divides "b" (Euclid's lemma). 
First we now prove this lemma. Well, assume now that "p" does not divide "a". Then "p" and "a" are coprime and we have Bézout's identity that says that there must be integers "x" and "y" such that 

Multiplying everything with "b" gives 

On the left-hand side we have now two terms that are divisible by "p". So the term on the right-hand side is also divisible by "p". We have now proven that if "p" does not divide "a", it must divide "b". That proves the lemma. 

Now we will prove that we can write an integer greater than 1 in "only one" way as a product of prime numbers. Take two products of primes "A" and "B" which have the same outcome. So we know for the outcome of the products that "A" = "B". Take any prime "p" from the first product "A". It divides the "A", so it also divides "B". Using several times the lemma that we just proved, we can see that "p" must then divide at least one factor "b" of "B". But the factors are all primes themselves, so also "b" is prime. But we know that "p" is also prime, so "p" must be equal to "b". So now we divide "A" by "p" and also divide "B" by "p". And we get a result like "A*" = "B*". Again we can take a prime "p" from the first product "A*" and find out that is equal to some number in the product "B*". Continuing in this way, at the end we see that the prime factors of the two products must be exactly the same. This proves that we can write a positive integer as a product of primes in only one unique way.


</doc>
<doc id="20666" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20666" title="A Portuguesa">
A Portuguesa

A Potruguesa A Portuguesa (pronounced IPA:([]) is the national anthem of Portugal. Only the first part of the lyrics is the national anthem. The other parts, or "stanzas", are part of the song, but not part of the anthem. 

"Heróis do Mar"
"Nobre Povo"
"Nação Valente"
"Imortal"
"Levantai hoje de novo"
"O explendor de Portugal"
"Entre as brumas da memória"
"Ó pátria sente-se a voz"
"Dos teus Egrégios Avós"
"Que hão de guiar-te à vitória!"

"Às armas, Às armas"
"Sobre a terra, sobre o mar"
"Às armas, Às armas"
"Pela pátria lutar"
"Contra os canhões marchar, marchar!"


</doc>
<doc id="20667" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20667" title="Welding">
Welding

Welding is a way of heating pieces of metal using electricity or a flame so that they melt and stick together. There are many kinds of welding, including arc welding, resistance welding, and gas welding. The most common type is arc welding. Anyone who is near arc welding needs to wear a special helmet or goggles because the arc is so bright. Looking at the arc will hurt your eyes, maybe forever. It is also important to cover all your skin because it can give you something like a sunburn. Hot sparks from the weld can burn any skin that is showing. One kind of welding that does not use an arc is Oxy-fuel welding (OFW), sometimes called gas welding. OFW uses a flame to heat up the metal. There are other kinds of welding that do not use an arc.

Any welding process that utilizes an electrical arc is known as arc welding. The common forms of arc welding include: 

Shielded metal arc welding (SMAW): SMAW is also known as "stick" welding.

Gas metal arc welding (GMAW): GMAW is also known as MIG (metal/inert gas welding).

Gas tungsten arc welding (GTAW): GTAW is also known as TIG (tungsten inert gas welding).

Arc welding heats metals by making a high-current electric arc between pieces of metal to be joined and an electrode.

Use of the electrode varies based on the type of welding process. In SMAW, GMAW, and related welding processes, the electrode is consumed and becomes part of the weld. The electrode is usually made of the same kind of metal to be welded. Because the electrode is consumed by the welding process, the electrode must constantly be fed into the weld. The SMAW welding process features a "stick" electrode impregnated with a weld promoter known as flux, clamped to the end.

The GMAW welding process features a continuous electrode as a thin wire on a rotating spool. The size of this electrode varies from around 0.635 millimeters to about 4 millimeters. The welding machine has a motor-driven spool inside that feeds the wire electrode into the weld.

The TIG welding (GTAW) process features an electrode that is not consumed by the welding process as the metal that makes up the weld does not have any electricity flowing through it. The electrode is made of Tungsten, so used as it will not melt while immersed in the electrical arc. A filler metal, in the form of a rod, can be used to add metal to the weld area.

Almost all welding uses filler metal to fill in the small gap between the metal. The extra metal helps to make the weld strong. Sometimes welds need to be made without any filler metal. Welding with no filler metal is called autogenous welding.

All types of welding require that the hot metal have protection. Dirt, rust, grease, and even the oxidation of the metal under the weld process can prevent a proper weld joint. As such all weld processes use one of two protection methods: flux, and shielding gas.

Welding flux may be used in a solid, liquid, or paste form. During welding, the flux will melt and some of it will evaporate. This creates a small pocket of gas around the weld. This pocket of gas prevents oxidation of the metal under weld. Melted flux, through a corrosive reaction, cleans contaminants that prevent a proper weld. After welding, the flux solidifies. This layer of solid flux is called slag, and must be removed from the weld. The SMAW weld process most commonly uses flux, and is most commonly used on steel.

Shielding gas protects the weld by being a pocket of gas around the weld. The purpose of this gas is to keep normal air out, especially oxygen. It is different from flux because there is no liquid on the weld. There is only a gas around the weld. Because there is no liquid, it will not clean up dirt and other things on the metal. This means that the metal has to be clean before it is welded. If it is not, the dirt and other things could cause problems. The gases that are usually used are argon, helium, and a mixture that is 3 parts argon and one part carbon dioxide. Other mixtures of gases can have nitrogen, hydrogen, or even a little bit of oxygen in them. One kind of welding that uses shielding gas is gas metal arc welding. It is usually used in factories to make things.

Welding that uses flux is easier to do outside when it is windy. This is because the liquid flux is protecting the hot metal and it will not blow away. Also, the flux is always making the pocket of gas which keeps the electric arc from going out. Welding that uses shielding gas usually cannot be used outside because the gas would blow away if there were any wind.

Some kinds of welding do not use an electric arc. They might use a flame, electricity without an arc, an energy beam, or physical force. The most common type of welding that does not use an arc is called gas welding. In gas welding, a flammable(meaning it will burn) gas and oxygen are combined and burn at the end of a torch. Gas welding does not need any special shielding because a flame which is adjusted right has no extra oxygen in it. It is still important to make sure the metal is clean. The flame heats up the metal so much that it melts. When both the pieces of metal are melted at the edge, the liquid metal becomes one piece.

The other kind of welding that does not use an arc still uses electricity. It is called resistance welding. With this kind, two pieces of thin metal are pinched together and then electricity is made to go through them. This makes the metal get really hot and melt where it is pinched together. The two pieces melt together at that place. Sometimes this is called spot welding because the welding can only happen at one small place(or spot) at a time.

Forge welding is the first kind of welding that ever was used. Forge welding needs the two pieces of metal to so hot that they almost melt. Then they are beat together with hammers until they are one piece.

The other kinds of welding that do not use an arc are hard to do, and usually new. They are expensive too. Most of these kinds of welding are only done where specially needed. They might use an electron beam, laser, or ultrasonic sound waves.

Every kind of welding needs to use energy. This energy is usually heat, but sometimes force is used to make a weld. When heat is used, it can be from electricity or from fire.

A lot of electricity is used in arc welding. Some kinds of welding use alternating current like the electricity that buildings use. Other kinds use direct current like the electricity in a car or most things with a battery. Almost all kinds of welding use a lower voltage than the electricity that comes from a power plant. Arc welding requires using a special power supply that makes the electricity from the power plant usable for welding. A power supply lowers the voltage and controls the amount of current. The power supply usually has controls on it that allow these things to be changed. For kinds of arc welding that use alternating current, sometimes the power supply can do special things to make the electricity alternate differently. Some power supplies do not plug into a power plug, but instead generate their own electricity. These kind of power supplies have an engine that turns a generator head to make the electricity. The engine might run on gasoline, diesel fuel, or propane.

OFW uses a flame from burning fuel gas and oxygen to heat up the metal. This fuel gas is almost always acetylene. Acetylene is a flammable gas that burns very hot, hotter than any other gas. That is why it is used most of the time. Other gases like propane, natural gas, or other industrial gases can be used too.

Some kinds of welding do not use heat to make the weld. These kinds of welding can get hot, but they do not make the metal melt. Forge welding is an example of this. Friction stir welding is a special kind of welding that does not use heat. It uses a very powerful motor and a special spinning bit to mix the metals together at the edge. This seems odd because metals are a solid. this is why it takes a lot of force to do and is very hard. The energy for this kind of welding is mechanical energy from the spinning bit.



</doc>
<doc id="20670" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20670" title="Stalk">
Stalk

Stalk sometimes means following something to watch it. A person who likes to watch other people is also known as a voyeur. When this is continually done to a person it can have a bad effect.

Stalking in a way that makes someone feel unsafe is a crime in many countries. It is not just one event but an ongoing process that threatens or makes that person feel scared. Someone who does this is called a stalker. The stalker may do this because they want to be involved in that person's life, because they want to have power over that person's life, or for other sexual reasons. The stalker can hurt that person's feelings by making them scared. They may feel they do not have the power to stop the stalker. Psychologists say stalking is a way of hurting someone's mind with serious effects. Sometimes a stalker may go on to hurt that person's body by assaulting, raping or murdering that person.

Stalking can sometimes be done on the internet. This is called Cyber stalking.


</doc>
<doc id="20671" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20671" title="Bill Cosby">
Bill Cosby

William Henry Cosby, Jr., Ed.D (July 12, 1937), known as Bill Cosby, is a famous American comedian. He has been a regular star of movies and television as well.

Cosby is the creator of such shows as Filmation's animated "Fat Albert and the Cosby Kids", NBC's "The Cosby Show" (in which he played a doctor named Heathcliff Huxtable) and Nick at Nite's "Fatherhood" (with Blair Underwood).

On television, he starred in the 1960s spy spoof "I Spy", and has also advertised Jell-o products.

On the big screen, he appeared in "Leonard Part 6" (1987), "Ghost Dad" (1990), and "The Meteor Man" (1993).


</doc>
<doc id="20673" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20673" title="Ham">
Ham

Ham is meat that comes from a thigh of a pig. Ham is a kind of pork, which is any meat from a pig.

Ham can be dry-cured or wet-cured. Dry-cured ham is made by rubbing the meat with a mixture with salt. Then, it is dried and aged. Wet-cured ham is made with brine.

Kinds of dry-cured ham:

Ham is used in SPAM.


</doc>
<doc id="20675" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20675" title="Spam (food)">
Spam (food)

Spam is a canned meat food made by the Hormel Foods Corporation. It is made from pork shoulder meat and ham. Spam Lite, a newer kind of Spam, is made with pork and chicken.

There have been many ideas about what the word "Spam" means. The Hormel Foods Corporation once said that it means "Shoulder of Pork and Ham", but in some dictionaries "Spam" means "SPiced hAM".

Spam also refers to unwanted bulk email.

Monty Python created a skit about Spam in 1970.
There is also a song entitled spam sung by Weird Al Yankovic.


</doc>
<doc id="20676" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20676" title="Mushroom">
Mushroom

A mushroom is the fruiting body of a kind of fungus. Unlike plants, mushrooms do not use sunlight to make energy for themselves. A toadstool is a poisonous mushroom. Some mushrooms that can be eaten are used for cooking in many countries such as China, Korea and many European countries. People who look for mushrooms to eat are called "mycophagists", meaning "mushroom eater". The act of looking for mushrooms is simply called "mushrooming".


It is hard to pick mushrooms in the wild, because most mushrooms have "look-alikes". Mushroom hunters learn how to tell these look-alikes apart, usually by chemical features. Edible mushrooms are used in cooking in many cultures and are usually grown in farms. In some places in the world, people learn already in childhood to recognize the edible and delicious mushrooms in the wild.

Most mushrooms have a stem and a cap. The bottom of the cap sometimes has gills to hold spores, and sometimes holds the spores themselves.




</doc>
<doc id="20678" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20678" title="Factorization">
Factorization

Factorization (or factorisation - British) is taking a composite number apart into numbers that multiply together to get the original number. These smaller numbers are called factors or divisors. 1 is a factor of all numbers.

Prime factorization is breaking apart a composite numbers into prime numbers that can be multiplied to give the larger number. Note that since 1 is not prime, it is not included in the prime factorization.

For example, 12 can be factorized as 4 × 3. Since 4 is not a prime number, that is not its prime factorization. 12's prime factorization is in fact 3 × 2 × 2.

The numbers which are obtained from the factorization are usually ordered, for example, starting with the smallest number. For example, 72=2^3*3^2. The factorization of every number is unique. This generalizes to:


Since finding the numbers to multiply together is very difficult for large numbers, this fact can be used in cryptography.



</doc>
<doc id="20680" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20680" title="Joint">
Joint

A joint (articulation) is the place at which two bones make contact (articulate). Joints allow movement and give mechanical support.

Joints have cartilage in between to make the movement flexible.Joints are mainly classified structurally and functionally. Structural classification is determined by how the bones connect to each other, while functional classification is determined by the degree of movement between the articulating bones. In practice, there is significant overlap between the two types of classifications. 


</doc>
<doc id="20682" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20682" title="Hosni Mubarak">
Hosni Mubarak

Muhammad Hosni Said Mubarak (Arabic : محمد حسنى سيد مبارك ) (born 4 May 1928), commonly known as Hosni Mubarak (Arabic: حسنى مبارك ), is a former President of Egypt. He served in that position from from 14 October 1981 to 11 February 2011.

Mubarak became the Vice-President of the Republic of Egypt after moving up the ranks of the Egyptian Air Force. Then he became the President after President Anwar Sadat was assassinated on 6 October 1981. 

As President of Egypt, Mubarak is thought to have been one of the most powerful leaders in the region. Under the 1971 Constitution of Egypt, Mubarak exercised strong control over the country and was generally considered a dictator. In 2005, he called an election and easily won it. Many opponents believed Mubarak changed the election results so he could win.

In early 2011, during the Arab Spring, there were huge protests against his government. In the end, Mubarak resigned and handed over power to the armed forces. It is hoped that elections will be held later this year for a new government.


</doc>
<doc id="20683" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20683" title="Euclid">
Euclid

Euclid of Alexandria (Greek: ) (about 325 BC–265 BC) was a Greek mathematician who lived in Alexandria, Egypt and worked at the Library of Alexandria. Little is known about this person, but people think he lived there when Ptolemy I was Pharaoh. It is not known where or when he was born.

Euclid collected together all that was known of geometry, which is part of mathematics. His "Elements" is the main source of ancient geometry. Textbooks based on Euclid have been used up to the present day. In the book, he starts out from a small set of axioms (that is, a group of things that everyone thinks are true). Euclid then shows the properties of geometric objects and of whole numbers, based on those axioms.

The "Elements" also includes works on perspective, conic sections, spherical geometry, and possibly quadric surfaces. Apart from geometry, the work also includes number theory. Euclid came up with the idea of "greatest common divisors". They were in his "Elements". The greatest common divisor of two numbers is the greatest number that can fit evenly in both of the two numbers.

The geometrical system described in the "Elements" was long known simply as geometry, and was considered to be the only geometry possible. Today that system is referred to as "Euclidean geometry" to distinguish it from other so-called "non-Euclidean geometries" that mathematicians discovered in the 19th century.

In addition to the "Elements", at least five works of Euclid have survived to the present day. They follow the same logical structure as "Elements", with definitions and proved propositions.



</doc>
<doc id="20689" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20689" title="Guadeloupe">
Guadeloupe

Guadeloupe is dependency of France in the Caribbean Sea. It is made up of five islands. Its capital is Basse-Terre. Arawak Native Americans first lived on the islands, but they were wiped out when Europeans came. Guadeloupe was first governed by France. It was then taken over by England, given to Sweden, and given back to France. 

Today, most of the people in Guadeloupe are Roman Catholic, and are of African descent.


</doc>
<doc id="20690" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20690" title="1770">
1770





</doc>
<doc id="20694" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20694" title="1616">
1616





</doc>
<doc id="20695" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20695" title="Lou Reed">
Lou Reed

Lou Reed (born March 2, 1942) is an American rock and roll musician. He is originally from Long Island, New York and spent most of his life in New York City. He is remembered for being in the Velvet Underground, although he also released solo work. He was great friends with artist Andy Warhol.

He is perhaps most famous for his songs "Walk on the Wild Side" (about Candy Darling and other such people Reed had known), "Perfect Day" (which was covered by many other artists, including Duran Duran and a version used by the BBC) and "Heroin" (an "love song" about the drug). Reed's 1989 album "New York" drew attention and praise, for its matter-of-fact look at the condition of New York City in the late 1980s.

At the height of his popularity as a solo artist, Reed released one of the least "commercial" recordings ever; his 1975 experimental album "Metal Machine Music". It was an hour of electric guitar feedback, and not what many people thought was music. The album did not hurt his career in the long run, and it reminded people that Reed was a unique musician.

Reed was believed to be a heroin addict because of his song about it, but he was not. He was a longtime user of , marijuana and tobacco, but gradually stopped using any drugs. He began exercising more, and enjoyed .

In May 2000, Reed performed before Pope John Paul II at the Great Jubilee Concert in Rome. He is currently married to Laurie Anderson the performance artist and musician.


</doc>
<doc id="20699" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20699" title="Albany">
Albany

Albany can be any of the following:











</doc>
<doc id="20702" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20702" title="Augusta">
Augusta

There are many cities in the United States named Augusta:



</doc>
<doc id="20708" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20708" title="Berkeley">
Berkeley

Berkeley could mean:



</doc>
<doc id="20725" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20725" title="Anthropomorphism">
Anthropomorphism

Anthropomorphism is giving human characteristics, like emotions (feelings like being happy or sad) and the ability to talk, to a living thing or object that is not a human. This living thing or object that is not a human may be a god, an animal, a plant, sound, weather storm, an idea, or any other object. It is often used in stories. The story of the Three Little Pigs with a wolf and pigs that talk and act like humans is an example of anthropomorphism.
The Call of the Wild also has elements of anthropomorphism, with the human traits being placed in dogs and wolves.


</doc>
<doc id="20727" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20727" title="Category:Egypt">
Category:Egypt


</doc>
<doc id="20731" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20731" title="Apostrophe">
Apostrophe

The apostrophe (’) is a punctuation mark used in writing. It is a diacritic (a mark used with letters). 

In English, it has two jobs:

The most common grammatical mistake in written English is to put "it's" where "its" is correct. 

The same applies to "yours", "theirs" and "ours" because these are also possessive adjectives of personal pronouns.

Apostropes are also used to show something belongs to someone (or something). Again, correct uses can be expanded:

Comes in plurals which don't ("do not") need it. Do not put an apostrophe in word ending in s, such as a plural. Put an apostrophe, or 's, at the end of the word instead.


Apostrophes are also used when other words are shortened, as in slang:
This is just a version of the abbreviation function.


</doc>
<doc id="20734" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20734" title="Ryan North">
Ryan North

Ryan North is the Canadian author of the popular comic strip Dinosaur Comics, as well as Whispered Apologies and several other projects. He is also the programmer of ohnorobot, a web comic search engine. Ryan North is also a member of The Ryans, a group dedicated to being called Ryan and making comics.


</doc>
<doc id="20736" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20736" title="By-election">
By-election

A by-election or bye-election is a type of special election.

A General Election is the name of an election for all members of an elected body. A by-election is the name of an election for just some members.

A by-election could be needed if a member dies or resigns while in political office. They are also used if a person is removed from office for some reason, for example he is guilty of a crime or is not qualified to be a member anymore.

In the 1980s all 12 of the Unionist MPs in the British House of Commons resigned and all of the elections happened on the same day. Although unusual, these were still only by-elections.


</doc>
<doc id="20762" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20762" title="Secretary">
Secretary

A secretary is a person who is employed to help in an office, and help the people in charge of the office do their job. 

By definition, the main task of a secretary is to keep organized paper and electronic files for the business, school, hospital, or government agency they work for. Other common jobs that secretaries do are answering telephones; typing and writing letters; plan and schedule meetings with guests; and manage the website of their office.

In different workplaces, and for different reasons, a secretary may also be called an administrative assistant, receptionist, clerk, or executive assistant.

In the past, most secretaries were men. Today, 98% of secretaries are women, according to the US Census. 

In 1952, several groups, for example the National Secretaries Association, founded Secretary's Day. It is celebrated in the 4th week of April. It has been renamed "Administrative Professional's Week" to represent the more challenging roles of secretaries today. 

In government, secretaries are important people who hold high positions in government. Many secretaries in government are in charge of government agencies. 

In the United Kingdom, a Secretary of State is a senior Cabinet Minister in charge of a Government Department. 

In the United States, the Secretary of State is in charge of dealing with other countries. The current US Secretary of State is Hillary Rodham Clinton.


</doc>
<doc id="20763" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20763" title="Happiness">
Happiness

Happiness is a feeling of pleasure and good ol' satisfaction. When someone feels good, proud, relieved or satisfied about something, that person may be described as "happy". Feeling happy may help people to relax and to smile. 

Happiness is usually thought of as the opposite of sadness. However, it is possible to feel both at once, often about different things, or sometimes even about the same thing.

Many philosophers have said that people in this world go back and forth between times of happiness and sadness, but there is nobody who is always happy or always sad. Happiness sometimes causes you to cry when you laugh because the emotion takes control. Happiness is the key to love.


</doc>
<doc id="20764" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20764" title="Perfect number">
Perfect number

A number is called a perfect number if by adding all the positive divisors of the number (except itself), the result is the number itself.

Six is the first perfect number. Its divisors (other than the number itself: 6) are 1, 2, and 3 and 1 + 2 + 3 equals 6. Other perfect numbers include 28, 496 and 8128.

Euclid discovered that the first four perfect numbers are generated by the formula 2(2 − 1):

Euclid saw that 2 − 1 is a prime number in these four cases. He then proved that the formula 2(2 − 1) gives an even perfect number whenever 2 − 1 is prime (Euclid, Prop. IX.36).

Ancient mathematicians made many assumptions about perfect numbers based on the four they knew. Most of the assumptions were wrong. One of these assumptions was that since 2, 3, 5, and 7 are precisely the first four primes, the fifth perfect number would be obtained when "n" = 11, the fifth prime. However, 2 − 1 = 2047 = 23 × 89 is not prime and therefore "n" = 11 does not give a perfect number. Two other wrong assumptions were:


The fifth perfect number (formula_1) has 8 digits. This falsifies the first assumption. For the second assumption, the fifth perfect number indeed ends with a 6. However, the sixth (8 589 869 056) also ends in a 6. It is straightforward to show the last digit of any even perfect number must be 6 or 8.

In order for formula_2 to be prime, it is necessary that formula_3 should be prime. Prime numbers of the form 2 − 1 are known as Mersenne primes, after the seventeenth-century monk Marin Mersenne, who studied number theory and perfect numbers.

Two millennia after Euclid, Euler proved that the formula 2(2 − 1) will yield all the even perfect numbers. Therefore, every Mersenne prime will yield a distinct even perfect number—there is a concrete one-to-one association between even perfect numbers and Mersenne primes. This result is often referred to as the "Euclid-Euler Theorem". Till September 2009, only 47 Mersenne primes are known. This means there are 47 perfect numbers known, the largest being 2 × (2 − 1) with 25,956,377 digits.

The first 39 even perfect numbers are 2(2 − 1) for
The other 8 known are for "n" = 20996011, 24036583, 25964951, 30402457, 32582657, 37156667, 42643801, 43112609.
It is currently not known whether there are others between them.

It is still not known if there are infinitely many Mersenne primes and perfect numbers. The search for new Mersenne primes is the goal of the GIMPS distributed computing project.

Since any even perfect number has the form 2(2 − 1), it is a triangular number, and, like all triangular numbers, it is the sum of all natural numbers up to a certain point; in this case: 2 − 1. Also, any even perfect number except the first one is the sum of the first 2 odd cubes:

It is not known whether there are any odd perfect numbers. Various results have been obtained, but none that has helped to locate one or otherwise resolve the question of their existence. Carl Pomerance has presented a heuristic argument which suggests that no odd perfect numbers exist. Also, it has been conjectured that there are no odd Ore's harmonic numbers. If true, this would mean that there are no odd perfect numbers.

Any odd perfect number "N" must satisfy the following conditions:
Let formula_9 be odd perfect number. Since divisor function is multiplicative,
formula_10.

formula_11 must be an even not divisible by 4 and all the remaining must be odd.

formula_12
forces formula_13.


Even perfect numbers have a very precise form; odd perfect numbers are rare, if indeed they do exist. There are a number of results on perfect numbers that are actually quite easy to prove but nevertheless superficially impressive; some of them also come under Richard Guy's Strong Law of Small Numbers:

The sum of proper divisors gives various other kinds of numbers. Numbers where the sum is less than the number itself are called deficient, and where it is greater than the number, abundant. These terms, together with "perfect" itself, come from Greek numerology. A pair of numbers which are the sum of each other's proper divisors are called amicable, and larger cycles of numbers are called sociable. A positive integer such that every smaller positive integer is a sum of distinct divisors of it is a practical number.

By definition, a perfect number is a fixed point of the restricted sum-of-divisors function s(n) = σ(n) − n, and the aliquot sequence associated with a perfect number is a constant sequence.




</doc>
<doc id="20768" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20768" title="StarCraft">
StarCraft

StarCraft is a real-time strategy game for the PC. It was created in 1998 by Blizzard Entertainment.

The story is set in the future, where humans (called "Terrans") get stuck in a war between two alien species, the "Zerg" and the "Protoss". The Zerg look like monsters, and are all controlled by a very powerful Zerg called the "Overmind". They fly around the universe and invade planets. The Protoss, who have very advanced technology, look for the planets that the Zerg have taken over. When they find a Zerg planet, they burn it so that the Zerg on that planet cannot spread to others.

"StarCraft" players can choose to be the Protoss, Zerg, or Terran. Each race has different soldiers and buildings. Players can choose one-player or multiplayer games. In both, the player must build a base, gather resources, and make fighters to attack the enemy.

In one-player mode, there is the Campaign mode, and Custom mode. In Campaign mode, the player goes through a series of missions, which tell the story. Custom mode lets a player choose what race they want to be, what area they want to play on, and what race they will fight against (all enemies are controlled by the computer).

During a game, the player must use units to gather minerals and vespene gas. They must also build structures or units which provide "supplies". Each type of unit costs a certain amount of gas, minerals, and supplies. If the player does not have enough of a resource, he or she cannot build more units. Also, there is a supply limit, 200 units, to make the game more fair. Resources are gathered by worker units. Minerals are needed for all units and buildings, and come as blue crystals from the ground. Vespene gas is needed for stronger units and comes as a geyser with green smoke blowing out of it. A special building must be built on these geysers before worker units can gather the gas.

There are many different buildings in the game. Some buildings let the player build units, and other buildings can make units stronger, or do research to let more powerful units be built. Every units needs something called 'supply', which is supplied by buildings or units that are different in each species. Players need to have supply, because if they do not they cannot build any more units. No player can have more than two hundred supply, so they can only build a certain number of units.

Each species has very different types of units. The Protoss have powerful warriors and machinery, which cost a lot, and the Zerg use many fast, cheap units to defeat their enemies. The Terran are a middle between these, having strong but easy to kill units that are very powerful when they are used in formation. No species in "StarCraft" is more powerful than another species. Blizzard has released many small updates to the game that keep all the species balanced. 

To win, players must capture and use resources wisely, and use smart strategies. To become very skilled at the game, players also need to become good at micromanagement and macromanagement all at the same time. Macromanagement means building new bases and collecting resources. Micromanagement means moving units so that they can use their special powers to protect each other, and doing many small things to make the fight go smoothly. This makes "StarCraft" different from many newer games, because the newer games often will do much of the micromanagement without the player having to do it.

"Starcraft" is 12 years old, but still played by many people, in many countries around the world. It is very popular in countries like Korea and the United States.

On May 19, 2007 Blizzard said that they are making StarCraft II. Also, they have held some events for South Korean Starcraft pro-gamers to participate and give them assist about the game.



</doc>
<doc id="20769" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20769" title="Acid rain">
Acid rain

Acid rain is rain that is unusually acidic. In other words, it is rain that has high levels of hydrogen ions (low pH). Acid rain can have harmful effects on plants, animals, and on humans. Acid rain is caused when gaseous compounds of ammonium, carbon, nitrogen, and sulfur are given out into the atmosphere. The wind carries the gases high into the sky. There the compounds react with the water in the atmosphere and acids are made.

Scientists have realised that humans are resposible for giving out most of the compounds that cause acid rain. People started producing acid rain gases when they started building factories and power stations. The buildings burns coal or oil and this causes the acid rain gases. So governments have tried since the 1970s to reduce the amount of sulfuric oxide being released into the Earth's atmosphere. They have had good results so far. However, it is expensive to clean the smoke from factories and power stations. Great Britain still produces about five million tonnes of these gases every year. China produces eighteen million tonnes. The United States of America produces more than twenty million tonnes.

Acid rain can can also be caused naturally. For example, it can be caused by nitrogen compounds can be split by the energy from lightning strikes, and volcano eruptions can release sulfur dioxide into the atmosphere.

Acid rain poisons rivers and lakes. Fish and other animals cannot live in acid water. It is also bad for buildings. The acid damages the stone. Many of the world's oldest and most famous buildings are in danger because of acid rain.


</doc>
<doc id="20774" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20774" title="Charlie Parker">
Charlie Parker

Charlie Parker (born August 29, 1920 in Kansas City, Missouri), also known as "Bird" or "Yardbird", is considered one of the greatest jazz saxophonists, specifically alto saxophonist. Parker is thought to have created bebop.


</doc>
<doc id="20775" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20775" title="Mount Price">
Mount Price

Mount Price (sometimes Price Mountain) is a volcanic mountain in the Garibaldi Volcanic Belt, in British Columbia, Canada.



</doc>
<doc id="20776" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20776" title="Bun">
Bun

A bun is a type of food made out of bread.

A bun can be either savoury (like a hot dog) or sweet (like a hot cross bun or a bun with icing and a cherry on top).


</doc>
<doc id="20778" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20778" title="Goldfinger (band)">
Goldfinger (band)

Goldfinger are a American punk band. It was founded in the 1990s. They released their self-titled first album in 1996. They were named after the Ian Fleming book and 1964 movie "Goldfinger", based on the James Bond franchise.

Their line-up is as follows:



</doc>
<doc id="20779" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20779" title="Salamanca">
Salamanca

Salamanca is a city in central Spain. It is the capital city of the province with the same name. 
The city has a very important university started in 1218. It has two cathedrals and a famous Plaza Mayor (Main Square) built in the 18th century.

Salamanca has quite the obsession with frogs, and souveniers of frogs can be found in almost every shop in the Plaza Mayor.


</doc>
<doc id="20780" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20780" title="1440s">
1440s





</doc>
<doc id="20781" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20781" title="Tudor dynasty">
Tudor dynasty

The Tudor dynasty was a series of kings and queens in England. This line of rulers started in 1485, when Henry VII defeated Richard III at the Battle of Bosworth Field. Henry was accepted as the true king. 

One of his sons, Arthur (Prince of Wales and son of Elizabeth of York), married Catherine of Aragon (daughter of Ferdinand II of Aragon and Isabella I of Castile). The marriage ended with Arthur's death in 1502. Arthur's brother and next of kin, Henry VIII, married Catherine and became king in 1509.

During their marriage, Catherine had six children; only one, Mary I of England survived. When Catherine became too old to have any more children, Henry divorced her and married a new wife, Anne Boleyn, and had another daughter, Elizabeth I of England.

Anne Boleyn was executed in 1536 under the plotting of Thomas Cromwell. Shortly after, Henry VIII married Jane Seymour of England. She had one son, Edward VI of England. But, Jane died in 1537 due to medical problems caused by Edward's birth.

Henry was eventually married to three other wives until his death in 1547. Edward, his only living son, succeeded him.

Edward ruled until 1553, when he fell ill. Immediately, he created the "Devise for Succession," naming his cousin Lady Jane Grey his successor. But, Lady Jane was only queen for nine days.

Mary I of England became the next ruler of the Tudor dynasty. Because of her radical Catholicism, Mary used her time as queen to rampage against hundreds of Protestants. Because of all the executions carried-out under her rule, she was given the nickname "Bloody Mary."

After Mary's death in 1558, her half-sister Elizabeth I of England took over as queen, bringing Protestant faith with her

The dynasty ended when Queen Elizabeth I died. She had not named a person to be ruler after her death, so her cousin's son took over. He became James I of England, and started the Stuart dynasty.

During the Tudor period, there were many changes in religion. Henry VIII, for example, was a Catholic but behaved like a Protestant as he broke away from the Pope's power and named himself as head of the Church. Edward VI was raised a Protestant, and shut down all Catholic churches. Mary I was a strong Catholic, having been raised in Spain because of her Spanish mother, Catharine of Aragon. She shut down the Protestant churches and burnt about 300 people for being Protestant (these were later called martyrs). When Protestant Elizabeth came to the throne, things changed and the Anglican church was introduced. Since then, religion in England has much calmer.

The Tudors also conquered Ireland.

Here are the rulers of the Tudor dynasty:



</doc>
<doc id="20782" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20782" title="Elizabeth Blackwell">
Elizabeth Blackwell

Elizabeth Blackwell (3 February 1821-1910) was the first modern woman doctor, and the first woman doctor in the United States. 

She was born in Bristol, England, on 3 February 1821. When she was young, her family moved to America. At first, she was a teacher. She became a doctor in 1849. She founded her own hospital in New York.



</doc>
<doc id="20784" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20784" title="Doom">
Doom

Doom is a violent first-person shooter computer game made by id Software in 1993. It is one of the first games to use 3 dimensional levels. The game is about killing demons and zombies. Doom has traps that will hurt you and sometimes make you die and fall to the ground. Doom was also the first game with multiplayer deathmatch. This means you can fight with other players instead of the demons and zombies. The game was made with a computer language called C using some new techniques John Carmack created.

It has two sequels: Doom 2 that came out in 1994, and Doom 3 that came out in 2004.

Doom is split into three basic components, the engine, the Iwad file, and the optional Pwad file. The engine contains the code needed to run the game on a computer. The Iwad file contains the default levels, sounds, pictures, and other components. Pwad files contain custom levels.


</doc>
<doc id="20785" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20785" title="The Jam">
The Jam

The Jam was an English based pop group from Woking in Surrey. The members were Paul Weller (guitar, vocals), Bruce Foxton (bass guitar, vocals), and Rick Buckler (drums). Having come out of from the short Punk movement they went on to become one of the UK's top bands. They had four number one hits which were Going Underground, Start!, Town Called Malice and Beat Surrender.

The Jam disbanded in 1982. Lead singer Paul Weller went on to have hits with The Style Council during the remainder of the 1980's. During the 90's he has had a successful solo career.


</doc>
<doc id="20794" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20794" title="Alchemy">
Alchemy

Alchemy is a study of the basic elements called fire, water, earth and air. It is the study of transmutation. It was first studied to learn how to change lead into gold. It is similar to chemistry, but much older. People who studied alchemy were called "alchemists".

Alchemists in the Middle Ages often tried to make gold using things that were not gold. They also tried to make the Elixir of Life (which would give the gift of immortality). Many times alchemists would use stories and legends to try to veil (cover up) how to make gold. The psychologist Carl Gustav Jung was interested in this as well but in relation to the soul of man. Alchemists are objective (they deal with external existence) while psychologists are subjective (they deal with the inner life of man). Alchemists deal with the First Matter (a substance that makes transmutation easy) while Psychology deals with the mind. A famous saying in Alchemy: "As above, so below" veils the relationship existing between Alchemy and Psychology. 

Alchemy is not a science any more. Some things that the alchemists learned about were important for other sciences, like chemistry.

In 1980, an American scientist named Glenn Seaborg actually changed a very tiny amount of bismuth into gold with a nuclear reactor. But it cost much more to transform the energy to do this than the tiny amount of gold was worth. This is the closest a scientist has come to discover the Philosopher's Stone of the ancient Alchemists. The Philosopher's Stone is the means (way) Alchemists use to achieve (to succeed in) transmutation. 

Alchemy was an important science because it helped create many other sciences that came after it, for example, Chemistry, Physics, Biology, and astronomy. Alchemists not only tried to create gold but they also looked for self-purification (to separate the pure from the impure with great care) and enlightenment.

Wikipedia: Fulcanelli

Wikipedia: Glenn T. Seaborg

Wikipedia: Alchemy

Wikipedia: Carl G. Jung


</doc>
<doc id="20797" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20797" title="Goldfinger">
Goldfinger

Goldfinger (also known as "Ian Fleming's Goldfinger") is a 1959 novel. It is the seventh James Bond book written by Ian Fleming. "Goldfinger" is the third James Bond movie in the series. It is also third to star Sean Connery as the British Secret Service agent James Bond.

In this movie, the main bad guy is named Auric Goldfinger, and he likes gold a lot. In the movie, James Bond tries to find out what Goldfinger's bad plan is, and in the end James Bond wins and stops Goldfinger. His plan is to blow up Fort Knox so that the price of gold will go up. Goldfinger has a sidekick called Oddjob who throws his metal hat at people. 

It is noted for the character with the unusual name "Pussy Galore", played in the movie by Honor Blackman.


</doc>
<doc id="20799" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20799" title="Scar">
Scar

A scar is the natural result of a healing process in the human body. When the deeper layer (scientists call that "dermis") is hurt by a wound, the wounded tissue will be replaced by scar tissue. Scar tissue is not identical to the tissue it replaces. A scar will look different (and have different characteristics) than the surrounding tissue.



</doc>
<doc id="20800" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20800" title="Warcraft">
Warcraft

Warcraft is a series of computer games made by Blizzard Entertainment. The games in this series are real-time strategy games, where players play as their characters and gain experience to level up.

The different games from the series are , (with an expansion pack) and Warcraft 3 and its expansion pack, The Frozen Throne. The most successful game of the series is The Frozen Throne expansion pack, which sold more than 12 million copies. The MMORPG World of Warcraft is based on these games. Blizzard Entertainment also created World of Warcraft, which was published by Vivendi Games.



</doc>
<doc id="20808" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20808" title="Deutsches Institut für Normung">
Deutsches Institut für Normung

DIN Deutsches Institut für Normung e.V. (DIN German Institute for Standardization) is the German national organization for standardization. 

It publishes on average 2,000 standards per year in almost all fields of technology and increasingly in non-technical fields (e.g. services).



</doc>
<doc id="20809" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20809" title="Paper size">
Paper size

Paper comes in different sizes. There are names for the different sizes of paper. In different parts of the world, different sizes and names are used.

There are also envelope sizes made to fit different kinds of paper.

In the United States and Canada the normal size of paper is called Letter size. Or sometimes it is called US Letter. It is 8½ inches wide and 11 inches long.

The other common size of paper in the is called Legal size. Or sometimes it is called US Legal. it is also 8½ inches wide, but it is 14 inches long.

Another size is called Executive. It is 7¼ inches wide by 10½ inches long. It is not very common. It is sometimes used for writing personal letters to people.

There is also a size called Tabloid. It is 11 inches wide, and 17 inches long. That is the same size as two pieces of Letter size put next to each other.

There are also many other paper sizes used for for writing notes, for big posters, for books, and for other things.

In Europe and other places an international system of paper sizes is used. The normal size of paper is called A4. It is measured in metric. It is 210 millimeters wide and 297 millimeters long. This is about the size of US Letter, but it is a little narrower, and a little longer.

The other common size of paper in Europe is called B5. It is 176 millimeters wide by 250 millimeters long. This is about the same as Executive size in the United State. It is sometimes used for writing personal letters to people.

There are also many other paper sizes used for for writing notes, for big posters, for books, and for other things.

In the international paper size system, the sizes are based on mathematical formulas. A0 is the biggest. A1 is half as big as A0. A2 is half as big as A1, and so on. The sizes with "B" and "C" in their name are in between the "A" sizes.

Most printers used with computers are designed to fit US Letter and A4, and smaller paper sizes. Sometimes they can fit US Legal also. For paper sizes that are bigger than that, you have to have to use a more expensive printer. These are usually only available at professional printing businesses.

Here are charts showing all the different sizes of paper that are usually made. If a company wants to make something with a different size of paper than these, they have to have it specially cut for them.


</doc>
<doc id="20813" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20813" title="Envelope">
Envelope

An envelope is a form of packing. Envelopes are used for sending letters or documents using regular postal mail. Envelopes are usually made of paper or hardened paper.

An envelope may be small enough to make you need to fold the paper going into it, or it can be as large as the paper so that you do not need to fold it. A large envelope is called a "manila envelope", usually colored a color in between yellow and orange, and is used to send several pages of papers when a regular envelope would be too small. Another reason a manila envelope would be used would be to send important papers (e.g. birth certificates) that are better left unfolded.

To pay to send the mail, a stamp is usually attached to the envelope.


</doc>
<doc id="20815" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20815" title="Francis Hutcheson">
Francis Hutcheson

Francis Hutcheson (born August 8, 1694, died August 8, 1746) was an Irish philosopher and one of the founding fathers of the Scottish Enlightenment.


</doc>
<doc id="20817" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20817" title="Yasser Arafat">
Yasser Arafat

Yasser Arafat or Yassir Arafat (Arabic: ياسر عرفات‎) (August 4 or August 24, 1929 in Jerusalem, Palestine or Cairo, died November 11 2004), born Mohammed Abdel-Raouf Arafat al-Qudwa al-Husseini (محمد عبد الرؤوف القدوة الحسيني) and also known by the "kunya" Abu `Ammar (أبو عمّار) became known as the first leader of the Palestinian people. He was Chairman of the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) from 1969 to 2004. In 1993 he also became president of the Palestinian National Authority (PNA).

In 1994, Yasser Arafat was one of the three recipients of the Nobel Peace Prize. The others were Yitzhak Rabin and Shimon Peres. They got the prize for their peace efforts in the Middle East.

The views of him are somewhat divided. Some people see him as a hero, who fought for the cause of the Palestinian people. Others see him as a terrorist, who promoted the use of violence to reach his goals. Still other think he was a charismatic leader, but he made too many concessions to the Israeli government. Yasser died in Paris, the next day he was buried at his compound in Due to hasty funeral in Ramallah on November 12, he was reburied on November 13th, around 3:30 AM.
He was buried in a special casket, with the hope of being reburied in Jerusalem one day when Palestine becomes free and independent with Jerusalem as its capital.



</doc>
<doc id="20818" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20818" title="Antidote">
Antidote

An antidote is a substance or a thing that can make people feel better who took a certain poison. The antidote will make some of the effects of the poison go away.

Antidotes are specific to certain poisons. They often are poisons themselves. As an example, Atropine, a substance that is found in the deadly nightshade is a very poisonous substance. However, by the way it reacts with the body, it is used as an antidote against some insecticides, as well as certain kinds of nerve gas.


</doc>
<doc id="20821" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20821" title="Yitzhak Rabin">
Yitzhak Rabin

In 1994, Yitzhak Rabin was one of the three recipients of the Nobel Peace Prize. The others were Yasser Arafat and Shimon Peres. All three got the prizes for trying to make peace in the Middle East.



</doc>
<doc id="20823" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20823" title="General">
General

General is a word with many meanings:




</doc>
<doc id="20826" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20826" title="After">
After

After means later in time. 

English fairy tales often end with the words "and they lived happily ever after." "Ever after" means for a long time, not forever or for all time.





</doc>
<doc id="20835" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20835" title="Kettle">
Kettle

A kettle is a type of pot that is used in a kitchen. It is used to make water hot or to boil water. It comes from the Latin word "catillus" ("deep pan or dish for cooking").

In the past, kettles were made of metal bins like copper. Kettles were put on a rack or a hook above the fire to become hot. Now, metal kettles is put on the stove or rangetop. Sometimes they are made of ceramic or clay. 

Now, some people have electric kettles. These kettles plug into the wall and use electricity to generate heat. They are usually plastic or metal. They heat water faster than kettles on a stove. Kettles are often used to make tea. 

They are more common in the United Kingdom and the Commonwealth than other places like the United States.


</doc>
<doc id="20837" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20837" title="Nerve agent">
Nerve agent

Nerve gas or nerve agent is the name of a family of chemical poisons. Usually people call them "nerve agents", they do not need to be a gas. They are often used during wars. They work by changing the way the nerves work in the human body. Messages from the brain are no longer transmitted to the muscles and organs.

Since they are chemical weapons, they are classified as weapons of mass destruction by the United Nations according to UN Resolution 687. It is forbidden to stockpile or to produce them since 1993. 

People who are subjected to such nerve agents most often die, or bear mutilations and scars for life. 



</doc>
<doc id="20839" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20839" title="Herbicide">
Herbicide

A herbicide is a poison that kills plants. There are many kinds of herbicides, from weedkillers for gardens to Agent Orange which was used to destroy forests in the Vietnam War.


</doc>
<doc id="20844" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20844" title="Hugh Hefner">
Hugh Hefner

Hugh Hefner (born April 9, 1926) founded "Playboy Magazine" in the 1950s. He owns a multi-million mansion called the Playboy Mansion. 


</doc>
<doc id="20846" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20846" title="Urination">
Urination

Urination is how animals remove urine from their bodies. Urine is the scientific term for "pee", the liquid bodily waste filtered out of the bloodstream and from the liquids that a person drinks.


</doc>
<doc id="20847" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20847" title="Mainframe">
Mainframe

Mainframes (often nicknamed big iron) are large and expensive computers used mainly by government institutions and large companies for things like data processing, industry and consumer statistics, and financial transaction processing.

The term was first used during the early 1970s after the introduction of smaller, easier-to-use systems such as DEC's PDP-8 and PDP-11 series. The DEC computers were soon called minicomputers (minis for short). The name "mainframe" was used for larger, earlier types of computers. 


</doc>
<doc id="20850" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20850" title="Nyctalopia">
Nyctalopia

Nyctalopia (Greek for Night blindness) is a disease of the human eyes.The eyes of people who are night-blind cannot adapt to situations where there is relatively little light; as a result, they have trouble seeing in such situations. 

There are a number of conditions that can cause this; most commonly:


</doc>
<doc id="20852" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20852" title="Martinique">
Martinique

Martinique is an island in the Caribbean Sea, and is an overseas region of France. It has an area of 1,128 km². Nearly 400,000 people live there.

The capital city is Fort-de-France. Other towns include Sainte-Anne and St. Pierre (which was destroyed by a volcano named Mont Pelée in 1902).

Martinique is well-known for its zouk music. Artists such as Kassav have made it famous over the years.




</doc>
<doc id="20854" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20854" title="PHP">
PHP

PHP (PHP: Hypertext Preprocessor) is a scripting language that helps make webpages more interactive by allowing them to do more things. For example, a website programmed with PHP can have pages that are password protected, whereas a website with no programming can not do this. Standard PHP file extensions are: .php .php3 or .phtml, although a webserver can be configured to use any extension. Its structure was influenced by many languages like C, Perl, Java, C++, and even Python. It is considered to be free software by mean of the Free Software Foundation.

Wikipedia, which runs on MediaWiki, uses the PHP scripting language.

PHP was first created by a man called Rasmus Lerdorf in 1995. It is now developed and improved by a large team of people.

An example Hello World program:
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
</html>


</doc>
<doc id="20858" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20858" title="Hello world program">
Hello world program

A Hello world program is usually a program made by computer programmers that are new to a programming language, or to test if the compiler for this language is working correctly. It will simply put the text Hello, World! on the screen. This program is used in most programming languages.



</doc>
<doc id="20861" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20861" title="1720s">
1720s




</doc>
<doc id="20864" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20864" title="2030s">
2030s

This decade will be called "the twenty-thirties". The Roman number will be MMXXX.



</doc>
<doc id="20867" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20867" title="DarkBASIC">
DarkBASIC

DarkBASIC is a programming language that is very easy to create games in so people do not need to worry about DirectX. People now use the more powerful DarkBASIC Professional.

 print "Hello, World!"



</doc>
<doc id="20870" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20870" title="XML">
XML

The Extensible Markup Language (short XML) is a computer language. It is a markup language like HTML but is extensible. It's created by the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C). XML defines rules for the construction of a document. XML adds context to the information in a document. It does not say how this should be displayed.

Some programs get information out of an XML-document. To do that, they need an API. There are many APIs for XML.

You can write a description of an XML document in a way that is useful for programmers. There are several languages for this; the best known is called DTD.

The following languages are based on XML.






There are a lot more languages that use XML. A couple of them are:



</doc>
<doc id="20871" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20871" title="JavaScript">
JavaScript

JavaScript is a scripting language for computers. It is often run in web browser applications to create dynamic content like message boxes popping up or a live clock. It is not related to and is different from the programming language Java.

The following script writes "Example" on the screen:

The JavaScript is enclosed by codice_1 tags, to tell that it is a script and not text.




</doc>
<doc id="20877" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20877" title="Category:1003">
Category:1003


</doc>
<doc id="20878" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20878" title="Category:1005">
Category:1005


</doc>
<doc id="20879" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20879" title="Category:1012">
Category:1012


</doc>
<doc id="20880" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20880" title="Category:1052">
Category:1052


</doc>
<doc id="20881" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20881" title="World Money Fair">
World Money Fair

The World Money Fair is an international bourse of coins. A "bourse" is where dealers, collectors and the public to buy, sell and trade coins. 

In 1970 A. M Beck founded in Muinch the "Organisation of European Coins-Bourses", "Organisation Europäischer Münzen-Börsen" (OEMB) in German. He had the idea to build up a stronger market for the collecting of coins.

Two years later the organisation organized in Basel the 1st international bourse of coins. During the time it was developed to the "World Money Fair". Today more than 40 nations are members of this organisation. In 2006, the bourse is at the 1st time in Berlin. At the start the German Secretary of State Karl Diller presented the new German 2 Euro Coin. It shows the Holstentor of Lübeck.


</doc>
<doc id="20882" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20882" title="Category:1071">
Category:1071


</doc>
<doc id="20883" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20883" title="Category:1082">
Category:1082


</doc>
<doc id="20884" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20884" title="Category:1098">
Category:1098


</doc>
<doc id="20885" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20885" title="Category:1096">
Category:1096


</doc>
<doc id="20886" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20886" title="Category:1095">
Category:1095


</doc>
<doc id="20887" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20887" title="Category:1128">
Category:1128


</doc>
<doc id="20888" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20888" title="Category:1129">
Category:1129


</doc>
<doc id="20889" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20889" title="Category:1160">
Category:1160


</doc>
<doc id="20890" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20890" title="Category:1162">
Category:1162


</doc>
<doc id="20891" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20891" title="Category:1164">
Category:1164


</doc>
<doc id="20892" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20892" title="Category:1169">
Category:1169


</doc>
<doc id="20893" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20893" title="Category:1196">
Category:1196


</doc>
<doc id="20894" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20894" title="Category:1206">
Category:1206


</doc>
<doc id="20895" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20895" title="Category:1225">
Category:1225


</doc>
<doc id="20897" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20897" title="Category:Articles to be updated">
Category:Articles to be updated

Articles in this category need the information in them to be updated, do what you can! Add items to this category by adding to the top of the article.


</doc>
<doc id="20898" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20898" title="Template:Update">
Template:Update

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="20899" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20899" title="Category:1233">
Category:1233


</doc>
<doc id="20900" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20900" title="Category:1243">
Category:1243


</doc>
<doc id="20901" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20901" title="Category:1245">
Category:1245


</doc>
<doc id="20902" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20902" title="Category:1278">
Category:1278


</doc>
<doc id="20903" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20903" title="Category:1286">
Category:1286


</doc>
<doc id="20904" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20904" title="Category:1270s">
Category:1270s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 1270s which begins in the year 1270 and ends in the year 1279.


</doc>
<doc id="20905" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20905" title="Category:1316">
Category:1316


</doc>
<doc id="20906" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20906" title="Category:1340">
Category:1340


</doc>
<doc id="20907" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20907" title="Category:1354">
Category:1354


</doc>
<doc id="20908" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20908" title="Category:1451">
Category:1451


</doc>
<doc id="20909" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20909" title="Category:146">
Category:146


</doc>
<doc id="20910" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20910" title="Category:140s">
Category:140s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 140s which begins in the year 140 and ends in the year 149.


</doc>
<doc id="20911" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20911" title="Category:1476">
Category:1476


</doc>
<doc id="20912" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20912" title="Category:1489">
Category:1489


</doc>
<doc id="20913" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20913" title="Category:1498">
Category:1498


</doc>
<doc id="20914" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20914" title="Category:1500">
Category:1500


</doc>
<doc id="20915" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20915" title="Category:1513">
Category:1513


</doc>
<doc id="20916" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20916" title="Category:1532">
Category:1532


</doc>
<doc id="20917" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20917" title="Category:1541">
Category:1541


</doc>
<doc id="20918" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20918" title="Category:1543">
Category:1543


</doc>
<doc id="20919" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20919" title="Category:1561">
Category:1561


</doc>
<doc id="20920" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20920" title="Category:1579">
Category:1579


</doc>
<doc id="20921" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20921" title="Category:1583">
Category:1583


</doc>
<doc id="20922" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20922" title="Category:1588">
Category:1588


</doc>
<doc id="20923" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20923" title="Category:1588 births">
Category:1588 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1588.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="20924" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20924" title="Category:1580s births">
Category:1580s births

This category consists of people who were born in the 1580s.

See also: .


</doc>
<doc id="20925" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20925" title="Category:1601">
Category:1601


</doc>
<doc id="20926" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20926" title="Category:1614">
Category:1614


</doc>
<doc id="20927" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20927" title="Category:1636">
Category:1636


</doc>
<doc id="20928" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20928" title="Category:1635 births">
Category:1635 births


</doc>
<doc id="20929" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20929" title="Category:1632 births">
Category:1632 births


</doc>
<doc id="20930" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20930" title="Category:1635">
Category:1635


</doc>
<doc id="20931" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20931" title="Category:1623 births">
Category:1623 births


</doc>
<doc id="20932" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20932" title="Category:1620s births">
Category:1620s births


</doc>
<doc id="20935" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20935" title="Category:1637">
Category:1637


</doc>
<doc id="20936" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20936" title="Category:1639">
Category:1639


</doc>
<doc id="20937" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20937" title="Category:1661">
Category:1661


</doc>
<doc id="20938" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20938" title="Category:1682">
Category:1682

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the year 1682.


</doc>
<doc id="20939" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20939" title="Category:1662 deaths">
Category:1662 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="20940" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20940" title="Category:1679 deaths">
Category:1679 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="20941" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20941" title="Category:1679">
Category:1679


</doc>
<doc id="20942" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20942" title="Category:1662">
Category:1662


</doc>
<doc id="20943" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20943" title="Category:1688">
Category:1688

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the year 1688.


</doc>
<doc id="20944" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20944" title="Category:1704">
Category:1704


</doc>
<doc id="20945" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20945" title="Category:1707">
Category:1707


</doc>
<doc id="20946" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20946" title="Category:1706 births">
Category:1706 births


</doc>
<doc id="20947" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20947" title="Category:1703 deaths">
Category:1703 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="20948" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20948" title="Category:1704 deaths">
Category:1704 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="20949" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20949" title="Category:1700s deaths">
Category:1700s deaths

Note that the year 1700 is actually the last year in the 17th century; 1701 is the first year in the 18th century.


</doc>
<doc id="20950" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20950" title="Category:1714">
Category:1714


</doc>
<doc id="20951" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20951" title="Autocracy">
Autocracy

Autocracy is a form of government. In an autocracy, a single person has all legal and political power, and makes all decisions by himself or herself. The person who holds the power is called an autocrat.

When there is a monarch ruling a country as an absolute monarchy, this is also called an autocracy. Having an autocratic government does not mean the country is governed well or governed poorly. It is just a description on how it is set up. 

In modern times, most autocrats gain power as part of a larger nationalist, communist, or fascist movement. Once in power, they eliminate all other kinds of authority in the country, such as judges, the legislature, and political parties. 



</doc>
<doc id="20953" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20953" title="Oligarchy">
Oligarchy

Oligarchy is a form of government. In an oligarchic system, all the power is held by a small group of people. It is usually to the most powerful people to govern the state. It was firstly used by Sparta.

An oligarchy where "the best" rule is called "Aristocracy".

If the richest people rule the country, this is called "Plutocracy".



</doc>
<doc id="20959" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20959" title="Punctuation">
Punctuation

Punctuation is the name for marks used in writing. These marks help with understanding. There are many kinds of punctuation. Some of them can do many things. These are some common punctuation marks used in English:


The use of punctuation in English can change from place to place and from time to time.

The use of these marks is often decided by a group or organization and then written down as a style guide. A newspaper may have a style guide to make their stories use the same rules (called consistency).

Some people become angry about what they call "bad" punctuation. The rules are really up to the writer to decide, as long as the meaning is clear. However, if the rules are not followed, a writer's work may seem to be poorly written.

A period, known as a full stop in some countries, looks like this: .

A period is used to end a sentence. It shows when an idea is finished.

A period can show numbers that are smaller than one. With money, a period is used to show the amount of money less than one dollar.

A period is used to show that a word has been made shorter. A word that is made shorter with a period is called an abbreviation.

A comma looks like this: ,

A comma has many uses. Some of these are shown below:


A question mark looks like this: ?

Question marks are used when writing a question, to make an inquiry, or to ask something.

An exclamation mark looks like this: !

An exclamation mark is used write about a strong emotion, or to write the words a person shouted. It can be used to make a statement stronger or more forceful.

An exclamation mark can be used with a question mark, to make a question more forceful.

An apostrophe looks like this: <nowiki>'</nowiki>

An apostrophe has two main uses.

An apostrophe can be used to show that something belongs to something else.

If there is only one thing, the letter "s" is used after an apostrophe to show ownership.

Sometimes the letter "s" is not used after an apostrophe to show ownership. A word will end with just an apostrophe if there is more than one thing and the word already ends with an "s".

An apostrophe can be used to put two small words together. Two small words that are put together with an apostrophe to make one word are called contractions. This is normal in writing about a person speaking. Spoken English often uses contractions because these words are easier to say.

Pronouns do not use an apostrophe to show that something belongs to something else. Among these are "its", "his", "hers", "theirs".

Plurals (words referring to more than one thing) do not need an apostrophe.

Quotation marks (also called quote marks or quotes for short) are used around the words that people have said, or direct speech. They are used in pairs.

In these cases, quotation marks go after the commas and periods, not before.

Quotation marks are also used in some other cases besides direct speech, for example around the name of a song. In these cases, the commas can come after the quote marks.

This is a colon: :

Colons can be used at the beginning of a list. ""This is a list of animals: birds, cats, insects, pigs, and sheep."".

Colons can be used to replace a semicolon in between two parts of a sentence, but this is not common today.

Standard English usage is to have no spaces before, and one space after a colon.

A semicolon looks like this: ;

A semicolon is used to connect two sentences, in one sentence, where a comma could also be used.

An ellipsis is a mark that looks like this: ...

It is used to show where words have been missed out when writing what a person said. It can also be used to show that there is more to be said but the person stopped at that point.

A hyphen looks like this: -. Hyphens have many uses in writing:


"Eats, Shoots, and Leaves" By Lynne Truss. Published By Profile Books, Ltd. in 2003


</doc>
<doc id="20961" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20961" title="Land">
Land

Most of the Earth's surface is covered with water. The roughly 22 percent that is not, is called Land (as opposed to water). Land can have different types of soil. It may be covered with stones, sand, dirt, etc.

A Land can also mean some territory, forming part of a country.




</doc>
<doc id="20962" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20962" title="Surface">
Surface

A surface is the outer part of something. Most surfaces have a width and a length, but no depth. 

Surfaces are studied in geometry. 



</doc>
<doc id="20963" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20963" title="Sexual slavery">
Sexual slavery

Sexual slavery is a special case of slavery or forced labour. Sexual slaves are like normal slaves, except for the following:

This term is also used by the Vienna Declaration for the women's rights and by the name of humanitarian international law.


</doc>
<doc id="20964" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20964" title="List of Internet top-level domains">
List of Internet top-level domains

Here is a list of currently existing Top Level Domains (TLDs).



</doc>
<doc id="20965" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20965" title="1784">
1784





</doc>
<doc id="20967" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20967" title="List of Atlantic hurricane seasons">
List of Atlantic hurricane seasons

The following is a list of Atlantic hurricane seasons. All began on June 1 in their respective years. They ended on November 30. These dates are when tropical cyclones usually form in the Atlantic Ocean.

Before-1600

1600-1619 1620-1639

1640-1659 1660-1679 1680-1699

1700-1719 1720-1739 1740-1759

1760-1769 1770-1779 1780-1789 1790-1799

1800-1809 
1810-1819 
1820-1829 
1830-1839 
1840-1849 

1850-1859 
1860-1869 
1870 
1871-1879

1880
1881
1882
1883
1884
1885
1886
1887
1888
1889

1890
1891
1892
1893
1894
1895
1896
1897
1898
1899

1900
1901
1902
1903
1904
1905
1906
1907
1908 
1909

1910
1911
1912
1913
1914
1915
1916
1917
1918
1919

1920
1921
1922
1923
1924
1925
1926
1927
1928
1929

1930
1931
1932
1933
1934
1935
1936
1937
1938
1939

1940
1941
1942
1943
1944
1945
1946
1947
1948
1949

1950
1951
1952
1953
1954
1955
1956
1957
1958
1959

1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
1966
1967
1968
1969

1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976
1977
1978
1979

1980
1981
1982
1983
1984
1985
1986
1987
1988
1989

1990
1991
1992
1993
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999

2000
2001
2002
2003
2004
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009

2010



</doc>
<doc id="20969" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20969" title="List of Pacific hurricane seasons">
List of Pacific hurricane seasons

The following is a list of Pacific hurricane seasons. They all began on May 15 in the eastern Pacific and June 1 in the central Pacific in their respective years. There, they end on November 30. These dates are when tropical cyclones usually form in the eastern Pacific Ocean.

1950
1951
1952
1953
1954
1955
1956
1957
1958
1959

1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
1966
1967
1968
1969

1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976
1977
1978
1979

1980
1981
1982
1983
1984
1985
1986
1987
1988
1989

1990
1991
1992
1993
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999

2000
2001
2002
2003
2004
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010



</doc>
<doc id="20977" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20977" title="1963 Atlantic hurricane season">
1963 Atlantic hurricane season

The 1963 Atlantic hurricane season started on June 1, 1963, and ended in November 30, 1963.

The most famous hurricane of the season was Hurricane Flora. It was one of the most deadly. It killed 7,200 people as in Haiti and Cuba.

A group of clouds in the central Atlantic became a tropical storm on July 31. It went to the west and it became a hurricane on August 2. The hurricane quickly became a category 2 hurricane with 100 mph (160km/h) winds. Arlene got to Bermuda on August 9. Afterwards it got wind speeds of 100 mph (160km/h) again that night. It got weaker until it left the tropics on August 11. No one died from it.

Before Hurricane Beulah there was a tropical wave moving in the tropical Atlantic. It was put together enough to be called a tropical depression on August 20, and it became strong enough to be called a tropical storm the next day. Beulah moved to the northwest, becoming a hurricane on the 22nd and a big hurricane on the 24th. The hurricane moved to the north.

A weak storm north of Puerto Rico moved northeast. It became a tropical depression on September 10. It became a tropical storm on the 11th. This small storm had 60 mph (100km/h) winds on the 12th. That was the fastest the winds would become. 

Over the Gulf of Mexico Cindy turned into a tropical storm on September 16. Cindy turned into a hurricane the next day. It did not become any stronger before it got to High Island, Texas. Cindy brought a lot of rain to southeast Texas as it moved to the southwest over the state. The hurricane weakened on the 20th, after causing $12.5 million (1963 dollars) in damage. It killed three people.

On September 19, a tropical wave became a tropical depression in the Atlantic Ocean. It turned into a tropical storm on the 21st. It did not hit the islands as it moved north. Debra became a hurricane later on the 21st.

The Intertropical Convergence Zone developed a tropical depression on September 23, east of the Lesser Antilles. It moved west and it became a hurricane on the 24th. It went through the Windward Islands on the 25th as a hurricane with 95 mph (140km/h) winds. Upper level winds made it stay as a minimal hurricane before it got to Dominican Republic on the 27th. The island killed the hurricane. Edith was gone by the 29th. Edith killed ten people in Martinique, injured 50 people across the Caribbean, and caused $47 million in damage. It was unlucky that Hurricane Flora came just days later.

Hurricane Flora was the deadliest hurricane of the season. It killed over 7,000 people and created hundreds of millions of dollars in damage.

Ginny was strange. It is one of the most recent hurricanes to make landfall near New England. It made 18 inches (50cm) of snow over Maine. The hurricane killed 7 people and created $300,000 in damage (1963 dollars).

Tropical Storm Helena formed on October 25. It reached its maximum of 50 mph (80km/h) before it hit the Lesser Antilles. Helena's strength changed a lot for the next 3 days. Though it was weak, Helena was able to kill 5 people and create $500,000 in damage.
The following names were used for tropical storms and hurricanes that formed in Atlantic in 1963. Names that were not used are marked in gray.

The name Flora was never used again.



</doc>
<doc id="20978" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20978" title="Sildenafil">
Sildenafil

Sildenafil is a medication that is also called Viagra, Revatio and (in the Indian subcontinent) Caverta. 
Sildenafil makes the blood vessels become wider. This lowers the blood pressure. Sildenafil mostly works in the penis and in the lungs. This medicine increases blood flow to the penis. This helps the penis become erect during sexual intercourse. Sildenafil also helps pulmonary hypertension. Because this medicine makes the blood vessels wider, it makes it easier for the heart to pump blood. Sildenafil was patented in 1996 and first made to sell in 1998.

Adverse effect


</doc>
<doc id="20979" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20979" title="1825">
1825




</doc>
<doc id="20980" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20980" title="1771">
1771



</doc>
<doc id="20981" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20981" title="1777">
1777



</doc>
<doc id="20982" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20982" title="1757">
1757



</doc>
<doc id="20983" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20983" title="4 BC">
4 BC




</doc>
<doc id="20984" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20984" title="Sylvester McCoy">
Sylvester McCoy

Percy James Patrick Kent-Smith or Sylvester McCoy (born August 20, 1943) is a Scottish actor. He is best known for playing the seventh incarnation of the Doctor on "Doctor Who" from 1987–1989, he also briefly played the Doctor in beginning of the 1996 TV movie.


</doc>
<doc id="20985" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20985" title="Paul McGann">
Paul McGann

Paul McGann (born November 14, 1959) is an English actor. He is best known for his roles in "Withnail and I" (1987) and as the Eighth Doctor in the 1996 "Doctor Who" television movie.


</doc>
<doc id="20987" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20987" title="Georgia O'Keeffe">
Georgia O'Keeffe

Georgia O’Keeffe (November 15 1887 - March 6 1986) was an American artist who was born near Sun Prairie, Wisconsin, USA.

She is mainly known for her paintings. These paintings use both "abstract" and "concrete" elements.


</doc>
<doc id="20988" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20988" title="Genesis (band)">
Genesis (band)

Genesis is an English progressive rock group. They formed in 1967. They have sold about 150 million albums all over the world. This puts them among the top 30 best-selling recording artists of all time. The group's members have included Peter Gabriel and Phil Collins. Both of them were successful as solo artists as well.

Over the years, Genesis has changed members more than once. The first line-up was Peter Gabriel (vocals), Anthony Phillips (guitar), Tony Banks (keyboards), Mike Rutherford (bass & guitar), and Chris Stewart (drums).

Other drummers until 1970 were John Silver and John Mayhew. In August 1970, Phil Collins began playing drums for Genesis. In some songs, he also sang. The same year Phillips left, and Steve Hackett joined as a guitarist in 1971.

The band also made a song called "Supper's Ready" which is almost 23 minutes long. Many fans call it their best because it has many different parts.

After the release of the album "The Lamb Lies Down on Broadway" (1974), Gabriel left the band. Collins took over the singing. He was singer for Genesis from 1976 to 1996. When Hackett also left, in 1977 there were only three members left. The 1978 album was called "...And Then There Were Three..." because of this.

The band ended up making lots of well-known songs, like Abacab, Invisible Touch and No Son of Mine.

The last studio album with Collins was "We Can't Dance" in 1991. He left the band in 1996 and was replaced with singer Ray Wilson. Because the album "Calling All Stations" (1997) with Ray Wilson was not very successful, the group disbanded.

After a break of almost ten years, Genesis started a world tour in 2006. The members now are Phil Collins, Mike Rutherford and Tony Banks.


</doc>
<doc id="21011" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21011" title="Deadly nightshade">
Deadly nightshade

Deadly nightshade or belladonna ("Atropa belladonna") is a well-known, hardy perennial shrub, a member of the nightshade family. 

Originally, it grew in Europe, North Africa and Asia. It has also been seen in North America, but is far less common there. Usually it grows in the shade. The plant does not like direct sunlight. Often it grows in places where the soil is rich in limestone. 

Most parts of the plant, its leaves, its berries are known to be very poisonous. Children have died from eating as little as three berries. One leaf contains enough poison to kill an adult. The root usually contains the most poison.

The poison present in the plant is called "Atropine".

The effects of "Atropine" are: Dilated pupils (big), hallucinations, difficulty in seeing (vision may not be as sharp as always, it may be difficult to focus on objects), problems remaining upright, feeling like one is flying, being confused. Also, the pulse of the victim grows faster and faster, and the rate at which the heart is beating will go up. 


</doc>
<doc id="21012" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21012" title="Perennial">
Perennial

A perennial is a plant that bears leaves and perhaps flowers every year. Some plants only bear leaves and flowers once, then they die. Such plants are called "annual". Other plants live for two years. They are called "biennial".

Most trees and shrubs are perennial plants.

The word perennial can also refer to a tradition, an event, or a seasonal item that remains popular every year, such as a holiday song.


</doc>
<doc id="21014" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21014" title="Shrub">
Shrub

A shrub or bush is a category of plants. A tree usually has one stem, which at some height has branches. A "shrub" can have multiple stems from the bottom up. Usually, bushes do not grow as tall as trees, very often they are less than 10–12 m tall. 

Very many plants can be either shrubs or trees, depending on the growing conditions. Small, low shrubs such as lavender, periwinkle and thyme are often termed subshrubs. Shrubs can be either deciduous or evergreen.

A Shrubbery is a garden with shrubs as the main feature.

In botany and ecology a shrub is more specifically used to describe the particular physical structural or plant life-form of woody plants which are less than 8 meters high and usually have many stems arising at or near the base. 

For example, a descriptive system widely used in Australia is based on structural characteristics based on life-form, plus the height and amount of foliage cover of the tallest layer or dominant species.

For shrubs 2–8 m high the following structural forms are categorized:

For shrubs less than 2 m high the following structural forms are categorized:



</doc>
<doc id="21015" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21015" title="Evergreen">
Evergreen

An evergreen plant is a plant that keeps its leaves over the winter. Most plants lose their leaves in autumn.


</doc>
<doc id="21016" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21016" title="Deciduous">
Deciduous

Deciduous means "temporary" or "tending to fall off" (deriving from the Latin word "decidere", to fall off).
When talking about plants this means that the plant loses its leaves, usually in autumn. The leaves will then grow again in spring. The average annual temperature is 50 degrees F (10 degrees C). The annual rainfall is 30-60 inches a year.

When referring to teeth it means the teeth at the front of the mouth that grow and fall out and are replaced in childhood. They are called .


</doc>
<doc id="21017" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21017" title="Shade">
Shade

A place is called in the shade when the sun is shining, and some object, a tree for example, blocks the direct sunlight. So the sunlight can not reach the spot. The dark image, which the object casts on the ground (or on another object) is called shadow, not "shade".

Shade can also mean a darker or lighter color of the same base color. For example: in a picture of a tree's shadow, the grass in the shade will be a darker "shade" of green than the grass out of the shade.


</doc>
<doc id="21018" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21018" title="Hallucination">
Hallucination

A hallucination is a perception without a stimulus. Usually people have to be awake and conscious to have hallucinations. That way, a person who sees or hears something that is not really there has a hallucination. Hallucinations are different from dreams. When people dream they are not awake. Hallucinations are also different from illusions. Illusions are based on real perceptions, which are distorted or interpreted in a wrong way. 
Certain drugs can cause hallucinations. Some illegal drugs are taken because they cause hallucinations. Certain mental illnesses can also cause hallucinations. In some cases, withdrawal of a drug can also cause hallucinations. This has especially been reported by people trying to stop taking sleeping pills, or by alcoholics. 

People who have hallucinations are not necessarily ill, lack of sleep can also cause hallucinations. Hallucinations just before going to sleep or just after waking up are considered normal. 

Hallucinations can affect all of a person's senses. People with the mental illness of schizophrenia may hear sounds or voices that are not really there. People with certain mental illnesses may also have hallucinations in which they see a person or thing which is not really there. People are less likely to have hallucinations in which they smell or touch something that is not really there. Certain forms of epilepsy can cause hallucinations. Finally, hallucinations can be the result of certain substances taken or of certain physical constellations. Most of the time, these substances are taken to get the hallucinations. Sometimes, (severe) lack of sleep, or high fever can lead to hallucinations brought on by such viruses as the common cold.

Many studies have shown hallucinatory experiences take place across the world. Several studies, one of them done as early as 1894, have reported that approximately 10% of the population experience hallucinations. A recent survey of over 13,000 people reported a much higher figure. According to the study, almost 39% of the people reported hallucinatory experiences. 27% of the people reported daytime hallucinations, mostly outside the context of illness or drug use. From this survey, hallucinations affecting smell or taste seem the most common in the general population.

Some diseases such as brain disorders or infections may cause a person to have hallucinations. As well, an alcoholic (person who is addicted to alcohol) who stops drinking alcohol suddenly may experience a type of hallucinations called delirium tremens (or "DT's"). Some people have hallucinations if they do not sleep for a number of days, or if they do not eat for a number of days.

Some people have hallucinations because they purposefully or accidentally put chemicals or drugs into their bodies.

Some people use illegal drugs that cause vivid (strong) hallucinations, such as LSD ("acid") and PCP ("angel dust"). Many kinds of drugs - even legal ones - will cause hallucinations, if very large doses are taken, and it is seen as a side effect.

Some legal drugs that dentists, doctors, or surgeons use cause hallucinations. The dentists, doctors, and surgeons use drugs called anaesthetics to make people not feel pain, or to make people become unconscious. The main effects (result) of these drugs are that they make the patient not feel pain, or become unconscious. But the drugs also have some other additional effects, which are called side effects, such as nausea (feeling sick) and hallucinations. 

Many dentists use an anaesthetic called nitrous oxide ("laughing gas"). Inhaling large quantities of nitrous oxide can cause people to have hallucinations. Doctors and surgeons use many types of anaesthetic gases so that patients who are being operated become unconscious. When a person inhales anaesthetic gases, they may have hallucinations for several minutes, until they become unconscious.

Some adults accidentally swallow a poisonous chemical because it is in a bottle that has the wrong label. In some cases, children swallow a poisonous chemical because they think that it is a food product or a drink. Some dangerous, poisonous chemicals which can make people very sick or even kill them also cause hallucinations.

Some people have hallucinations when they have not slept for a long time; other people have something resembling a hallucination before falling asleep. This is usually called Hypnagogia. Most of the time, the people experiencing this kind of hallucinations are aware of the fact that they are not real.


</doc>
<doc id="21019" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21019" title="Shadow">
Shadow

When a beam of light shines onto something, that thing will cast a dark image of itself onto the ground or another surface. This image is usually called shadow. A place where the sun does not reach when it is shining can also be called "shade".

To make a shadow, there must be a light source, and an object to shine the light at. As light travels in straight lines, it cannot reach the shadow area without bending around the object. This makes the shadow. A shadow is not completely black though, as some light reflects off other objects to reach the shadow area.


</doc>
<doc id="21024" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21024" title="1553">
1553


</doc>
<doc id="21025" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21025" title="1732">
1732


</doc>
<doc id="21026" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21026" title="1768">
1768



</doc>
<doc id="21033" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21033" title="The Sims">
The Sims

The Sims is a video game released in 2000 . It is a life simulator that imitates real life. Sims can get jobs, have needs, and can get married. It was the third best selling computer and video game of all time (it mostly sold well on the computer).

In 2004, EA Games released the sequel, called "The Sims 2". It features a 360 degree rotational view, aspirations and aging. Eight expansion packs have been released for this game with the most recent one coming out in August 2008.

EA Games has announced another sequel called "The Sims 3". It was released on June 2, 2009.

It was created by Will Wright, who worked at Maxis, which was owned by EA Games. It was first released in February 2000. His intention was to make an open-ended game without a set objective. This feature was the reason why it attracted so many gamers.

The first part of the game is to make a family. This can be of children and adults. A player can choose what they look like from many different clothes and hair styles. The family must include at least one adult.

Each family starts with $20,000. After the family is made, the player can move them into a lot. Some lots are empty and other lots have houses on them.

There are many different floor coverings, wall coverings and doors to choose from when building a house. After building, the player can purchase objects, such as a refrigerator, bed, or other things.

Players control the Sims in Live Mode. The main goal is to keep the Sim's eight needs up and in the green. These needs eventually go down as time goes by. If Sims have no energy, they will fall to the ground. If they are swimming and run out of energy they will drown. If they are too hungry, they will die of starvation.

Other goals include making money (called Simoleons in this game). Sims must get jobs to get more money so they can pay bills, buy new objects, and expand the house. If they do not go to work two days in a row, they will be fired. Each Sim has eight skill levels to work towards. Each skill level has 10 points. For instance, in the military job, the ultimate requirement is 10 body points. Jobs also require a certain number of friends to receive a promotion. The higher they go, the more money they make per day.

Children must go to school. If they do not keep their grades up, they will be sent to military school and will never return. They can read books to study.

"The Sims" is well-known for having many expansion packs, or smaller games that add onto the main game. The player must own the original game to buy and install these packs.

After it sold well on the computer, it was put on other platforms like the PlayStation 2, PlayStation Portable, GameCube and Xbox. The console releases are:


These all follow a different concept. They are more objective-based rather than free-willed. They have not been as popular as the original PC editions.


</doc>
<doc id="21038" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21038" title="Webcam">
Webcam

A webcam is a type of camera that connects to a computer, and can let people see each other over the Internet. Most people that have webcams use them with an instant messenger to see each other at the same time. Webcams can also be used for recording videos and video blogs.


</doc>
<doc id="21041" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21041" title="Y-intercept">
Y-intercept

The y-intercept of a line on a graph is where the line touches (or intercepts) the y-axis (the numbered line going straight up).

The equation for straight lines is formula_1. "formula_2" is the formula_3-intercept.



</doc>
<doc id="21047" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21047" title="Wikipedia:Interwiki">
Wikipedia:Interwiki

Interwikis (short for "interwikimedia links") are links you can make between wikis which are normally used to display links to articles in other languages, but can also be used in the article text to link to other projects, for example, Wiktionary and Wikimedia Commons.

It is important to add interwikis to other languages. They help people to find more information and other Wikipedias. 

Please add interwikis to other languages. You can also help adding an interwiki link to a Simple English page from the page. Most articles on the Simple English Wikipedia have articles in the English Wikipedia.

If the page "Example" has interwikis, and the pages in other languages also have interwikis to this page (Example), can add more interwikis.

At the bottom of the article, type the code for the language followed by the page title in that language in square brackets. For example, in an article on the Internet, a link to the English Wikipedia would look like this:

<nowiki></nowiki>

'en:' is the language code and 'Internet' is the page title. Remember that the title in the link must be the same as the title in the language you are linking to.

You might find a list of links to put on a page at the bottom of the articles on the English Wikipedia. Links to other languages are always in alphabetical order.

When you have completed all that, preview the article: the link should appear in the left-hand toolbar.

Adding a link to your user page at another Wikipedia is the same as creating a link for an article. If your user name on the English Wikipedia is "Example", then you would add <nowiki></nowiki> at the bottom of your user page. If you also had the same user name on the Japanese Wikipedia, you would add <nowiki> </nowiki> (ja: is the language code for Japanese).

If you are not adding a link to show it up at "In other languages" of the sidebar, please remember to add a colon (:) at the front of the language code. For example, if you are linking to the English Wikipedia's Internet article, use the following code:

<nowiki></nowiki>

First of all, check to see if a template in your article would work for what you want to do.

If not, find where you want the link in the article, and type the code for the project and the page title in that project in square brackets. You could also type text to appear instead of the link. For a link to the main page of the Simple English Wiktionary, you would type:

<nowiki>Simple English Wiktionary</nowiki>

'simple:' tells Wiktionary what language to display itself in. The link looks like this:

Simple English Wiktionary

For projects in the same language, just the project interwiki is needed. For example:

<nowiki>Main Page of Simple English Wiktionary</nowiki>

Wiki look like this:

Main Page of Simple English Wiktionary



</doc>
<doc id="21049" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21049" title="Template:Wikispecies">
Template:Wikispecies


</doc>
<doc id="21050" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21050" title="The Last Waltz">
The Last Waltz

The Last Waltz was final concert of the Canadian/American rock group The Band. It took place on Thanksgiving (November 26) in 1976 at the Winterland Ballroom in San Francisco, California. It was also made into a movie by Martin Scorsese, that came out in 1978. 

Other musicians who were in "The Last Waltz" concert were:


</doc>
<doc id="21051" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21051" title="Template:Wikinews">
Template:Wikinews


</doc>
<doc id="21053" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21053" title="1436">
1436



</doc>
<doc id="21054" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21054" title="1241">
1241

1241 is a year in the 13th century.


</doc>
<doc id="21055" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21055" title="886">
886


</doc>
<doc id="21056" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21056" title="1204">
1204

1204 is a year in the 13th century.




</doc>
<doc id="21060" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21060" title="985">
985



</doc>
<doc id="21061" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21061" title="681">
681


</doc>
<doc id="21062" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21062" title="1593">
1593



</doc>
<doc id="21063" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21063" title="1721">
1721


</doc>
<doc id="21064" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21064" title="Vedas">
Vedas

The Vedas are the four holiest books of the Hindu religion. They are believed to be one of the oldest books ever made by mankind. They are written in an old Indian language called Sanskrit. They have words (called "mantras") which are chanted at the religious ceremonies.

Although they were finally written down sometime between 1,500 and 500 BC they are actually much much older and were passed down orally from one generation to the next possibly over thousands of years. The Vedas have stories about the Hindu gods, instructions for rituals, hymns, poetry, and prayers. The word "Vedic" means something about the Vedas. The language of the Vedas is called "Vedic Sanskrit".

Hindus believe the Vedas are the basis of all Hindu religion. Even later types of Hinduism that are very different from the types of Hinduism that follow the Vedas respect them. 

The four Vedas are:


Rig Veda is the first Veda of the four Vedas. Rig Veda means a "Veda of praise". This Veda has several verses (hymns). These hymns praise a number of gods. This Veda is also the oldest Hindu holy book.

Yajur Veda is the second Veda of the four Vedas. Yajur Veda means the Veda of the Yajus. Yajus were mantras sung during religious activities. Yajur Veda is divided into two parts. The name of the first part is Black Yajurveda, called Taittiriya. The name of the second part is White Yajurveda, called Vajasaneyi.

Sama Veda is the third Veda of the four Vedas. Sama Veda means the Veda of sacred songs. This Veda also has many hymns. They were sung by the Hindu priests and other Hindus during religious activities.

Atharva Veda is the 4th Veda out of the four Vedas. Atharva Veda means the "Veda of knowledge". 

All these books are considered by Hindus to be of ultimate knowledge on both types of education: spiritual and mental.








</doc>
<doc id="21066" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21066" title="Wikipedia:Vandalism">
Wikipedia:Vandalism

Vandalism is about making changes to Wikipedia content so that it becomes incorrect or does not make sense. This also includes removing content for no reason. Vandalism is a very bad problem. People who vandalize may be so they are no longer able to make changes. s are usually not vandalism. There are two Wikipedias in English; the Simple English Wikipedia and English Wikipedia (). Sometimes, vandals from the English Wikipedia will come here to vandalize. This is called cross-wiki vandalism.


For repeated vandalism by an anonymous IP addresses, it is helpful to do the below:

Note: Not all of these warning templates are for vandalism.

The owners of IP addresses can be found using:


If an address is not in one, it will might be in a different one.

"" is a script that allows autoconfirmed users to and warn vandals.

"Vandal Warner" is a you can use to warn the vandals more easily. In order to use it, you should click on the "" link and go to the "Gadgets" tab. Then you should select "Vandal Warner" and save the settings. Of course, you can use gadgets only when you are logged in.

 has revert script in it that lets you revert to a specific version, to add this by:

After that you'll need to flush your old monobook.js from your cache. Pressing Ctrl+F5 on some browsers might work, or Ctrl-R on some others. Then it will work, if not ask for help. There are also other anti vandalism gadgets there besides these.



</doc>
<doc id="21070" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21070" title="Category:Songs">
Category:Songs

Category for songs


</doc>
<doc id="21074" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21074" title="List of Prime Ministers of Greenland">
List of Prime Ministers of Greenland

List of Prime Ministers of Greenland



</doc>
<doc id="21076" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21076" title="Serbia and Montenegro">
Serbia and Montenegro

Serbia and Montenegro (Serbian: Србија и Црна Гора, Srbija i Crna Gora, abbreviated as "SCG") was the name of the state union of Serbia and Montenegro. They used to be two separate Yugoslav republics. In 2006, they became their own countries. 

It was on the west-central Balkan Peninsula, next Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia on the western sides, Hungary to the north, Romania and Bulgaria to the east, the Republic of Macedonia to the south and Albania to the southwest, with just over 200 km of coast on the Adriatic.

Serbia and Montenegro worked together in only some political areas. The states had separate economic policies and currencies (money). Although both the states now had more freedom to do as they pleased then they did as Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Serbia and Montenegro was still a Sovereign State united under one government.

The people of Montenegro still wanted independence though, on 21 May 2006 they held a vote to ask the Montenegrin's whether they still wanted to stay in the union. The vote for independence won by 55.5%. On 3 June 2006 Montenegro declared independence; followed by Serbia's deceleration of independence two days later on the 5 June.


</doc>
<doc id="21081" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21081" title="Minister">
Minister

A Minister can be a Member of Parliament, or a Clergyman (person who works as a Minister in the Church). This article talks about a Minister as a Member of Parliament.

A Minister is a Member of Parliament who has a special role dealing with a certain area of Government. In the British Government, there are Ministers for lots of different things, like Children, Work & Pensions and Culture, Media & Sport. There are descriptions (things that describe) of what these people do at the bottom of this page.

Ministers in the government report to the Prime Minister, who also tells them what they need to do in relation to their jobs. The Deputy Prime Minister also reports to the Prime Minister.

Other Ministers, even though they are not called Ministers, include the Foreign Secretary, and the Home Secretary.

Minister for Children

The Minister for Children looks after children's rights - these are laws which take care of how children are treated by their parents or guardians (a guardian is someone who looks after a child when their parents are not able to), and their care in society. The job means that this Minister has a special role in the lives of all children in the UK.

Minister for Work and Pensions

This Minister looks after jobs (Employment) and money given to people who are in need (Welfare Benefits). They set the rules saying what people who have no job must do to try and get one, and how much money people who have no job or are in need, get to live on. The Minister also sets rules about what happens to people who do not do enough to find a job, or who break the law by working while they are getting Welfare Benefits.

Minister for Culture, Media and Sport

This Minister has a special role which means they promote (make popular) British Culture and Traditions. They also take care of Broadcasting laws and laws about what newspapers and television stations can and cannot do. Also, they have a duty to promote sporting activities which take place in Britain and help the government attract major sports events to Britain (the recent decision to let Britain host the Olympic Games in 2012 is an example of this).

There are a lot of other Ministers in the Government, and you can find out about them by writing to the "Houses of Parliament"' in London. Their address is:

The Houses of Parliament

Westminster

London

SW1A 0AA

Other countries also have Ministers who, like those in Britain, deal with special things related to how people live. You can find out about them by looking at the Wikipedia in your own country.


</doc>
<doc id="21083" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21083" title="Jealousy">
Jealousy

Jealousy or envy is a feeling (or emotion) people get when they want what others have. This is a negative feeling. When someone is jealous of someone else, he or she usually dislikes the other person.These particular emotions are usually caused by a person having a certain object or quality which you desire but can not obtain.


</doc>
<doc id="21084" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21084" title="Anger">
Anger

Anger is a negative feeling which often happens when a person thinks that someone or something has done something wrong, bad or which puts them in danger, and they want to stop the risk, or punish the person for what they have done. Anger may be the brain's reaction if it thinks there may be pain - as part of the fight or flight decision (whether to attack or run away). When someone is angry, anger becomes the feeling that has the biggest effect on what they do, once a person makes the choice to do something without waiting, to stop something which they think is a threat which puts them in danger.

People show anger to others by their face, what they do with their body, not trying to understand or help other people's problems, and sometimes acts of aggression or force in public (e.g. punching a wall). Animals and humans might try to intimidate - for example they could make loud sounds, try to make their bodies look bigger, bare (show) their teeth, or stare.

Anger is a way to behave which is designed to make something showing aggression ("aggressors") stop its threatening behavior. Usually a fight will only happen after at least one of the people or animals fighting has shown anger. Most people who become angry explain that it happened as a result of "what has happened to them", though it makes the angry person less aware of themselves (and so less able to monitor or control themselves) and they tend to see the situation from their own viewpoint.

Being angry changes the human body by making the heart beat faster, increasing blood pressure (the pressure made by the blood at right angles of the walls of blood vessels) and increasing amounts of the hormones adrenaline and noradrenaline (chemicals which send messages to parts of the body to make changes).

Being angry makes the levels of the hormones adrenaline and noradrenaline in the body go up, although this does not last for very long.

Adrenaline quickly makes the body ready to act when there is important trouble by increasing the supply of oxygen and glucose (needed to make energy) to the brain and muscles, while slowing less important things the body is doing, like digesting food.

Noradrenaline is released during stress (making it a stress hormone) and goes to areas of the brain which control attention (how much and how strongly you think or concentrate) and reactions. It is very important in the when the body chooses "fight-or-flight" (attacking or running away), so it increases heart rate (speed at which the heart pumps), starting glucose being taken out of stores of energy, so it can be used, and increasing blood flow to particular muscles.

When a person has an anger problem, he or she gets angry a lot more than usual people, and are sometimes more violent. People with anger issues have a short-temper. People with anger issues usually go to see a counselor, to do therapy so the person can control their anger.



</doc>
<doc id="21095" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21095" title="Light microscope">
Light microscope

A light microscope works a lot like a refracting telescope except that the object is very close to the objective lens. Put a tiny organism (a "daphnia" or water flea) found in pond water on a glass slide. The clips on the microscope's flat stage hold the slide in place. Now take a look through the microscope eyepiece. A mirror at the bottom of the microscope reflects light rays up to the daphnia through a hole in the stage. Objective lenses magnify the image which is made even larger when it is seen through the eyepiece lenses.

The light microscope is widely used in colleges and high schools. It normally has a top magnification of 40x with the option of having 4x and 8x. This lets the microscope have the ability to see basic cells and other items. 


</doc>
<doc id="21113" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21113" title="Category:Very good articles">
Category:Very good articles

This category contains articles that are of a very good quality. If you've helped write one of these articles, well done!

Please do not add your own articles to this page. If you think your article is good enough to go here, ask for a review. Articles can be proposed and discussed at if they meet most of the . 

See also .


</doc>
<doc id="21116" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21116" title="Rembrandt">
Rembrandt

Rembrandt Harmenszoon van Rijn (Leiden, 15 July 1606 – Amsterdam, 4 October 1669) was a famous Dutch painter and artist.

He is generally considered one of the greatest painters and printmakers in European art history, and the most important in Dutch history. His contributions to art came in a period that historians call the "Dutch Golden Age".

After he success as a young portrait painter, in his later years he had personal tragedy and financial hardships. Yet his etchings and paintings were popular throughout his lifetime, and his reputation as an artist remained high. For twenty years he taught nearly every important Dutch painter. 

Rembrandt's greatest creative work is seen in his portraits of his contemporaries, self-portraits and illustrations of scenes from the Bible. His self-portraits are a unique biography, in which the artist surveyed himself without vanity and with the utmost sincerity.

In 1631 he went to live in Amsterdam, because people there had heard of him and wanted him to paint their portraits. He married a woman called Saskia van Uylenberg. They had four children, but three of them died very young. Only their fourth child, Titus, who was born in 1641, survived into adulthood. Saskia died in 1642 soon after Titus's birth, probably from tuberculosis.

During Saskia's illness, a nurse was hired, who probably also became Rembrandt's lover. She later charged Rembrandt with breach of promise and was awarded 200 guilders a year. When Rembrandt learned she had pawned Saskia's jewellery, which Rembrandt had given her, he had her committed for twelve years to a poorhouse (a 'bridewell') at Gouda.

Rembrandt then lived with a young woman called Hendrickje Stoffels from Bredevoort who had been his maid. They had a daughter called Cornelia. Rembrandt died in Amsterdam on 4 October 1669.

Rembrandt painted many famous pictures. Some of them are large, and some of them are dark and sad. He was such a good painter, that many of his pictures make people feel as if they are taking part in what is happening. Paintings by Rembrandt can be seen in famous art galleries all over the world.

Throughout his work Rembrandt used colour which darkens as it approaches the edge of the painting, and lighter towards the center. There is always a certain person, or event, or group of people that is near the center, and they are shown to be brighter than the rest of the picture. However the dark backgrounds are not to be ignored. They are painted to be as interesting and important as the main focus. In most of his paintings there are deep whites and blacks which shows contrasts between different parts of the work.


</doc>
<doc id="21119" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21119" title="Major movie studio">
Major movie studio

The Big Ten are the United States's ten major movie production studios. Most of them have their offices in Hollywood.

The Big Six are the group of major companies who own them.



</doc>
<doc id="21120" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21120" title="Culinary mustard">
Culinary mustard

Culinary mustard is a condiment people use when making food. It comes from the seeds of the mustard plant.

Mustard is prepared by grinding the seeds of the Mustard plant, and mixing them with water or vinegar. Depending on which seeds are taken, and/or how much vinegar is added, the mustard may turn out hotter or less hot.

Most mustard is made available as a bottled condiment and can be spread on a slice of sandwich bread or squirted onto a hotdog along with ketchup, horseradish and other spices. It is also commonly found in most fast-food restaurants in the form of a small packet which the diner may open and squeeze into the dish of choice, but it is usually already included in the average hamburger bun.



</doc>
<doc id="21121" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21121" title="Condiment">
Condiment

A condiment is a prepared food that is put to other food, to make the food tastier or taste different. It usually is in the form of a sauce or a powder. Salt and pepper are examples of well-known condiments. Ketchup, Mustard, Relish, Mayonnaise, Horseradish, Soy Sauce and Worcestershire sauce are also well known condiments.


</doc>
<doc id="21127" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21127" title="Vinegar">
Vinegar

Vinegar is a liquid used mostly in cooking. It can be made from wine or other liquids containing alcohol, like cider or fermented fruit juices. Ethanol is oxidized from the liquid, resulting in vinegar.

It can also be made through the use of certain bacteria. Vinegar contains about 5% of Acetic acid.

In cooking, it is often used as a condiment to add to salad. To get an Italian-type dressing, vinegar, oil and salt are used.


</doc>
<doc id="21128" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21128" title="Insecticide">
Insecticide

An insecticide is a poison made to kill insects and spiders.

Insects are very tough animals that have adapted to a great variety of settings. Therefore, the poison used to kill them is also deadly to humans. There can be great danger of eating pesticide when you have vegetables. This is why often people will rub an apple on their jumper before eating it. This adds a nice shine to the apple and rubs away the pesticides. If you do not clean the jumper there is a risk pesticide might build up.


</doc>
<doc id="21130" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21130" title="Paranoia">
Paranoia

Paranoia is a condition where a person has, often strange, fears that other people are planning to hurt them or thinking bad things and ill persecution. For example, a person might believe that video cameras are watching them to see if they are doing anything bad or that other people can control their thoughts or use magic to hurt them. To be considered paranoid by a doctor the fears must not be explained by common beliefs, like the religion the person grew up with.

Very often, the symptoms of paranoia occur with other thought disorders and with mood disorders. It can be a symptom of schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and other mental illnesses. 

In day to day talk people may use "paranoid" to mean more normal worries. For example, someone may call their friend paranoid for thinking that their teacher hates them.


</doc>
<doc id="21131" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21131" title="Delusion">
Delusion

A delusion is a false belief held by a person. If doctors talk about delusions they mean that the false belief is the result of some disease, usually a disease of the mind, like "paranoia" or "schizophrenia".

Delusions also have other properties, according to Karl Jaspers


</doc>
<doc id="21132" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21132" title="Paganism">
Paganism

Paganism is a term that covers a great number of spiritual and religious beliefs, and someone who follows one of these beliefs is known as a Pagan. Those in ancient times, who are called "Pagans" today, believed there was not just one god (see Monotheism), but a number of gods and goddesses they prayed to, for example, the ancient Greeks, Romans, etc. (see Polytheism or Pantheism). 

Today, some people call themselves Pagans (see Neopaganism) and believe that everything around them is holy or sacred because is all part of a god or goddess (or represents a number of gods and goddesses). For example, they believe that a stone or a tree is "part" of a god and/or a goddess, and so is sacred, but Neo-Pagans do not actually worship the stone or the tree itself. Most Neo-Pagans not only believe the Earth is a living being, but also that she represents "the goddess". This is not true for all Neo-Pagan religions.

In the Roman Empire, people from the countryside were called "paganus" from the Latin word for 'boundary stone' or "country dweller." The soldiers, who were usually from another area, would use the word "paganus" to mean anyone local who was not a soldier. Soldiers would later also use it as an insult for each other, to mean a sloppy soldier. When Romans started to become Christian, they called themselves "soldiers" because they were disciplined, and so they also came to use the word 'pagan', to refer to non-Christians.
The word "pagan" (without a capital P) is often used to describe anyone who is not of the three Abrahamaic religions: Islam, Judaism, or Christianity. Today Pagan, with a capital P, often refers to people who follow Neo-Pagan religions that honour the Earth. The best known of the modern Neo-Pagan religions is Wicca, but there are many other paths and traditions that are not Wicca but consider themselves Pagan.




</doc>
<doc id="21133" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21133" title="Category:Music genres">
Category:Music genres


</doc>
<doc id="21136" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21136" title="1578">
1578


</doc>
<doc id="21137" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21137" title="1504">
1504

1504 was a year of the Gregorian calendar, that started on a Friday.





</doc>
<doc id="21138" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21138" title="1726">
1726


</doc>
<doc id="21144" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21144" title="Courage">
Courage

A person has courage if he does something even though he is afraid. Courage can be doing things that other people think should be scary. A person has courage if he puts himself in danger to save another person. If someone has courage, it is said that they are courageous, standing up for what you believe in.

For example, someone may be said to have courage if they fight a lion, or save a baby from a burning building. 


</doc>
<doc id="21147" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21147" title="1710s">
1710s




</doc>
<doc id="21157" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21157" title="Fanatic">
Fanatic

Fanatic is a word which means someone who loves a thing, or a person, or an idea more than anything else. It is used to talk about people who care a lot about politics, religion or their own group of people. Some fanatics can hurt other people who they do not like, or who they do not agree with.

A short form of the word, Fan, means a person who loves a hobby, a sport (often a team), music, a kind of movie or book, or almost anything. These people mostly do not try to hurt people. This word is used in American English. There are lots of kinds of fans, including science fiction fans and fans of popular music stars, like The Beatles. Fans will meet with each other to talk about and share their interest, often in large groups called conventions.

In British English, supporter is their word for a person who likes and supports a sportsperson or a team. Many teams of some sports have thousands of supporters, for example, the football team Real Madrid.

In American English, supporter is more often used to talk about people in politics. Supporters of a politician, a political party, or an idea like government regulation like their subject very much, but usually are not violent.


</doc>
<doc id="21161" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21161" title="Formula One">
Formula One

Formula One, or F1 or Fun formula 1, is a type of race-car driving. Teams compete in a series of Grand Prix races, held in different countries around the world. Some of the most popular races are held in Monaco, Japan, Italy and Britain. The cars are very fast, reaching speeds of up to 370 kilometers per hour. The championship has been won many times by different teams like McLaren, Ferrari and Williams. Teams can consist of as many as 600 people, who all come together every race weekend, and using each of their individual expertise try to obtain the best result - a victory. The winning driver and team each get twenty-five points towards the drivers and constructor's championship. Teams consist of drivers, test drivers, a team principal, mechanics, engineers, and designers. Winning a race takes a good qualifying position, flawless strategy, perfect pitstops and a fast car. 

Drivers are paid huge salaries and money to risk their lives every time they step into the cockpit of the F1 car. Like all types of motor racing, the dangers associated with Formula One are great. Therefore, there are many safety measures. Drivers wear 4 layers of flameproof overalls, made of a fire resistant material called Nomex. A drivers helmet must be able to resist an 800 degree celsius flame for at least 45 seconds, as well as big G forces. The helmets are so strong that they can be driven over by trucks with no damage being done to them. Carbon fibre is the ideal material for the bodywork of Formula One cars, as it is light and strong. Because of this, the cars are very expensive to build and repair. The design of cars differs from team to team. Each team has two entries into the championship, which means two cars to build. The current tyre suppliers are Pirelli - making sure every car has the right tyre for the differing weather conditions. Wet weather driving is considered a skill in Formula One, as the cars are harder to drive. 

The body that runs Formula One, the FIA or observers, is based in France. Although Formula One is a 'billion dollar business', a drop in viewership and attendance figures at races has prompted the FIA to make a number of rule changes in recent years. These changes are meant to make the races more interesting, so more people watch F1 on tv.



</doc>
