<doc id="6402" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6402" title="Baseball">
Baseball

Baseball is a sport played by two teams that each have nine players. In baseball, one team throws a small round ball called a baseball and the other team tries to hit it with a club called a bat. Teams get points by running and touching markers on the ground called "bases". 

Many people in North America, South America, and East Asia play baseball. In the United States, baseball is called the "national pastime", because so many people in the United States spend a lot of time playing or watching games.

Baseball got started in the United States in the 1700s and 1800s. Historians are not sure exactly who invented it.

A game of baseball is played by two teams on a baseball field. Each team has nine players. There are also umpires, who watch everything carefully to decide what happened, and make sure everyone follows the rules. 

On a baseball field, there are four bases. The bases form a line that goes around the field to the right from the starting base. The starting base is called "home plate". Home plate has five sides. First base is on the right side of the field, second base is at the top of the infield, third base is on the left side of the field, and home plate is at the back of the field, where the catcher plays. In major league games, there are usually four umpires, with one standing near each base. In important games, like playoffs, two more umpires are usually added, and stand farther down each baseline toward the outfield.

The game is played in "innings". Professional and college baseball have nine innings. In an inning, each team has one turn to bat and try to score "runs" worth one point. When one team bats, the other team plays defense and tries to get three players on the other team "out". The team that is playing defense always has the ball. This is different from other team sports. When the team on defense gets three players out, it is their turn to hit. Then the team that was batting starts playing defense, and the team that was playing defense starts batting. After nine innings, the team that has the most runs is the winner. If the teams have the same number of runs, they play more innings until one team wins. At the start of the game, the home team pitches, while players on the visiting team bat. Only one player can bat at a time.

The baseball field, or "diamond", has two main parts, the infield and the outfield. The "infield" is where the four bases are. The "outfield" is beyond the bases, from the view of home plate. The lines from home plate to first base and home plate to third base are the "foul lines", and the ground outside of these lines is called "foul territory". A ball that is hit with a bat and flies between the foul lines is a "fair ball". A ball that is outside the foul lines is a "foul ball", and if caught in the air by the team on defense, is an "out". If the ball hits the ground in foul territory rather than being caught in the air, the batter continues to bat, and anyone on base must return to their base. If the batter has fewer than two strikes, a foul ball counts as a strike.
The most important part of the game is between the "pitcher" and the "batter". The pitcher throws, or "pitches", the ball towards home plate. The pitcher normally throws the ball close enough for the batter to hit it. If the pitcher throws the ball over home plate and between the hitter's knee and chest, the pitch is a "strike", unless the batter hits the ball. The pitch is always a strike, regardless of where it is, if the batter swings the bat and misses, so the batter must have good aim with the bat. Three strikes are a "strikeout", and this is one way to make an "out". A pitch that the batter does not swing at, and which is not a strike, is a "ball." On the fourth "ball" thrown by a pitcher, the batter "walks" to first base, so it is important to pitch well. 

The "catcher" for the pitcher's team waits behind the batter, and catches any ball that the batter does not hit. The catcher uses signals to tell the pitcher where to throw the ball. If the pitcher does not like what the catcher says, he will shake his head, which signals "no". If he agrees with what the catcher has signaled, he will nod his head, which signals "yes".

There are many ways to get batters out, and runners can also be gotten out. Some common ways to get batters out are catching a batted ball in the air, whether in fair or foul territory, throwing the ball to the defensive player at first base (an out if it gets there before the batter), and a strikeout. Common ways to get a runner out are tagging the runner while the runner is not on a base, and a force out (when a base is touched before a player can get there, with no base for the runner to retreat to). When the fielding team has put out three of the batting team's players, the "half-inning" is over and the team in the field and the team at bat switch places.

The batting team wants to get runs. In order to get a run, a player must bat, then become a base runner, touch all the bases in order, and then touch home plate. So first, the batter wants to make other players get to home plate, or to run the bases himself. The batter also tries to hit the ball between the foul lines, so that the fielding team cannot get anyone out. After the batter hits the ball, if it lands outside of the foul lines, it will be called a "foul ball".

A base runner who touches home plate after touching all previous bases in order, and without getting out, scores a "run".

If the batter hits the ball over the fence (between the foul lines) without touching the ground, it is a home run. The batter, and any base-runners, are allowed to advance to the home plate and score a run. The fielding team can do nothing to stop them.

The team in the field tries not to let the team at bat get any runs. The fielding team has a pitcher and a catcher. This pair is often called the "battery". The remaining seven fielders may stand anywhere in the field. However, there are usually four "infielders" that stand around the infield close to the bases and three "outfielders" who stand around the outfield.

The four infielders are the "first baseman", "second baseman", "shortstop", and "third baseman". The first baseman and third baseman stand close to first base and third base. The second baseman and the shortstop stand on either side of second base.

The first baseman's job is to make "force plays" at first base. In a force play, another infielder catches a ball that has touched the ground, and throws it to the first baseman. The first baseman must then touch the batter or the base with the ball before the batter can touch first base. Then the batter is out. First basemen need to have quick feet, stretch well, be quick and know how to catch wild throws. First base is one of the most important positions as 90% of the plays are there.

The second baseman's job is to cover the area to the right of second base and to back the first baseman up. The shortstop's job is to cover the area between second and third bases. This is where right-handed batters usually hit ground balls. The shortstop also covers second or third base and the near part of left field. The shortstop is usually the best fielder on the team. The third baseman needs to have a strong throwing arm. This is because many times the batter will hit a ball toward third base. The third baseman must throw the ball very quickly to the first baseman, to get the runner out. Because the balls that go to third base are usually hit very hard, the third baseman must also be very quick.

The three outfielders are called the "left fielder", the "center fielder", and the "right fielder", because they stand in left field, center field and right field. Left field and right field are on the left and right sides, if you look out from home plate. Center field is straight ahead from home plate. Center field is very big, so the center fielder is usually the fastest. The center fielder usually decides who should catch fly balls.

The team can decide where to put the infielders and outfielders. Players often shift their positioning because of how the game is going. They may change positions at any time.

Teams can change pitchers during a game. Teams change their pitchers often because its hard for a pitcher to do a full game of nine innings. A pitcher can sometimes throw a no hitter where no one on the opposite team gets a earned hit. A team can use as many pitchers as it wants to, but it is rare to use more than eight in a game. The ways that a pitcher throws the ball are called "pitches". Most pitchers use two or more different pitches. Pitchers change their pitches so that the batter will not know exactly what kind of pitch will be thrown. This makes it more difficult for the batter to hit the ball. Pitchers can make the ball move differently: faster or slower, closer or farther from the batter, higher or lower. Pitches are usually categorized into three categories: fastballs, change-ups ("off speed pitches"), and breaking (balls that curve) balls.

There are many types of break/off-speed pitches, such as the slurve, curve, slider, splitter, sinker, screw, 2-seam cut, 2-seam screw, knuckle, knuckle curve, change-up, circle change-up, palm ball, and others.

When throwing the ball, the pitcher must touch the "pitcher's rubber" with his foot. The pitcher's rubber is on top of the mound. So the pitcher cannot take more than one step forward when he throws the ball. That makes the pitcher throw the ball slower. Most major-league pitchers can throw the ball up to ninety miles per hour (145 km/h). Throwing a baseball that fast can be bad for the body. Pitchers can end up with a lot of injuries.

The batting team wants to get runs. The batting team sends its players up to home plate in a special order. This order is called the "lineup". Each team chooses its lineup at the start of the game. After the game starts, the team cannot change the order. But the team can use a player who was not on the lineup. The new player has to change with an original player. The new player's name is written in the lineup where the original player's name was. After the ninth player has batted, the first player in the lineup starts again. If a runner comes to home plate, he scores a run. Then he is not a base runner. After scoring a run, the player must leave the field until it is his turn again. So a player can only score one run for each time he bats.

Since people began to have more free time, baseball has become the national pastime of America. About 12 million people play baseball in the United States.



</doc>
<doc id="6409" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6409" title="Antonym">
Antonym

An antonym is a word that has the opposite meaning as another word.

Examples:



</doc>
<doc id="6413" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6413" title="Names of God in Judaism">
Names of God in Judaism

In Judaism, God (written "G-d" for religious reasons by many people) is known by many names. The most important of these names is the "Tetragrammaton", or "Four-lettered word": YHVH, YHWH, or י - ה וה. Jews are not allowed to say this name, and instead say "Adonai". Even "Adonai" is only used by some Jews in prayer. Most Jews would refer to God as "Hashem", or "The Name". Jews are not allowed to erase the Tetragrammaton, so they rarely write it down outside of their most holy books, such as the Torah.

Other names include "Elohim", "El", "Shaddai", "Tzeva-ot", "‘Elyon", and "Ehyeh-Asher-Ehyeh" which are respectively pronounced by observant Jews as Elokim, Kayl, Shakkai, Tzeva-Kot.

Certain names, such as Shalom, are pronounced as written, but when written one letter, in this case the last letter, is omitted. The last of the above "other" list is often said as Ek-yeh Asher Ek-yeh.



</doc>
<doc id="6415" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6415" title="Football League Championship">
Football League Championship

The Football League Championship is the new name of the English First Division. It is often called The Championship for short, or the "Coca-Cola Football League Championship", as it is sponsored by Coca-Cola.




</doc>
<doc id="6416" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6416" title="Birmingham">
Birmingham

Birmingham is a city and metropolitan district in the West Midlands, England. More than one million people live in Birmingham, making it the United Kingdom's second most populated city.

Birmingham began as a small town in 1166. Many industries were developed in Birmingham during the 18th and 19th centuries. These included making weapons and food. Queen Victoria gave city status to Birmingham in 1889. It played a big role in the war effort in the First and Second World Wars. However, there is now a far lower amount of industry than at the end of the war.





</doc>
<doc id="6417" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6417" title="Richmond, Virginia">
Richmond, Virginia

Richmond () is the capital of the Commonwealth of Virginia, in the United States. It is an independent city and not part of any county. The population within the city limits was 204,214 in 2010, with an estimated population of 1,258,251 for the Richmond Metropolitan Area — making it the third largest in Virginia. 

Richmond is at the fall line of the James River, south of Washington DC, east of Charlottesville, VA, and west of Williamsburg, VA. Surrounded by Henrico and Chesterfield counties, the city is at the intersections of Interstate 95 and Interstate 64, and encircled by Interstate 295 and Virginia State Route 288.

Richmond began as an important village of the Powhatan Confederacy, and was briefly settled by English colonists from Jamestown in 1609, and in 1610–11. English settlers returned to found a permanent town in 1737. It became the capital of the Colony and Dominion of Virginia in 1780. During the Revolutionary War period, the city was known for Patrick Henry's "Give me liberty or give me death" speech in 1775 at St. John's Church, and the passage of the Virginia Statute for Religious Freedom written by Thomas Jefferson. During the American Civil War, Richmond served as the capital of the Confederate States of America. The city entered the 20th century with one of the world's first successful electric streetcar systems.

Richmond's economy is primarily driven by law, finance, and government. It has federal, state, and local governmental agencies in its downtown. The downtown also has offices for legal and banking firms. The city is home to both the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, one of 13 federal appellate courts, and the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, one of 12 regional Federal Reserve Banks. Dominion Resources, Carmax, Genworth Financial, and MeadWestvaco, Fortune 500 companies, along with Massey Energy and Universal Corporation, Fortune 1000 companies, are headquartered in the city. The historic sites in the area bring tourists.


</doc>
<doc id="6418" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6418" title="American Civil War">
American Civil War

The American Civil War (1861–1865), also known as the War Between the States, was a civil war in the United States of America. Eleven Southern slave states declared their secession from the United States (said that they wanted to separate from the United States of America) and formed the Confederate States of America, also known as "the Confederacy". Jefferson Davis led the Confederate states as they fought against the United States (the Union). The Union states (sometimes called "the North") were all those in which slavery was not legal (most of which were in "the North") and five states in which slavery was legal (the "border states").

In the presidential election of 1860, the Republican Party, led by Abraham Lincoln, was actively against expanding slavery beyond the states in which it already existed. The Republican party won in that election. This made seven Southern states declare their independence from the Union even before Lincoln became president on March 4, 1861. Both outgoing President James Buchanan and Lincoln disagreed with the legality of the secession, considering it rebellion. No nation ever recognized the Confederacy as a separate nation.

Fighting started when the Confederates bombarded a Union fort within the territory claimed by the Confederacy. The war was fought mostly in the South, and because both sides were American, was one of the deadliest in U.S. history. The Union won the war, resulting in the end of slavery in the United States.

The Confederate States claimed ownership of all forts and other federal buildings within their territory. Fort Sumter in South Carolina remained in Union hands. On April 12, 1861, Confederate forces bombarded and forced the surrender of Union forces inside the fort. Following this, President Lincoln called for volunteers from each state to take back the captured forts, defend Washington, D.C., and suppress the rebellion. Swiftly four more states joined with the Confederates rather than supply forces to suppress them.

There were two important areas where the American Civil War was fought - in the west and in the east. 

In the eastern area, there was the US capital, Washington D.C., and the Confederate capital, Richmond, Virginia. These two cities are only about 90 miles apart. In this area, the Confederate military leader from 1862 until the end of the war was Robert E. Lee. Lee was a great general, and won many battles. Many times, his actions prevented the smaller number of Confederate troops from being badly beaten or destroyed by the Union troops. Even though the North had more soldiers, they could not capture Richmond until the end of the war in 1865. 

In the western area, there was the great river, the Mississippi. Ulysses S. Grant (who later became US President) won many battles here. One of the earliest battles to take place in the western area was the Battle of Shiloh. The North captured almost all the cities on the Mississippi River, but the Confederacy still held Vicksburg, an important city and fort. On the 4th of July, 1863, following a long siege, Vicksburg surrendered to Grant. This divided the Confederacy into two. This victory is considered to be one of the turning points of the war.

There were also battles west of the Mississippi River, in the area called the Trans-Mississippi. Two battles which are considered important are the Battle of Wilson's Creek and the Battle of Pea Ridge. After the Union captured Vicksburg, this area became isolated from the rest of the South.

Another major turning point occurred at about the same time in the east. After several victories, General Lee decided to invade the North. Lee and his Army of Northern Virginia went into Pennsylvania. The Confederate army met the Union army near Gettysburg, Pennsylvania. The Battle of Gettysburg was fought over a three day period, July 1-3 in 1863. The invasion was stopped by Grant, and Lee and the Confederate army were pushed back to the South. 

Lincoln decided that Ulysses S. Grant was his best general. He put Grant in control of all the Union armies, and made William T. Sherman general of armies in Georgia. While Grant attacked Lee again and again, Sherman burned Atlanta and Savannah. Lee held out time and time again, but eventually the number of Union soldiers was too much for the smaller Confederate army. Lee decided he had too few soldiers to keep on fighting and he surrendered to Grant on April 9, 1865, near Appomattox Court House.

Following Lee's surrender, many other Confederate armies surrendered as well. The last Confederate general to surrender was Brigadier General Stand Watie on June 23 in Oklahoma. Some Confederates did not want to become part of the United States again; these people moved to Mexico and Brazil.

Inflation occurred on both sides. The prices on everything were raised, and caused people in both the North and the South to go hungry if they could not afford the newly priced food.
This suffering was an important factor in the South's surrender.

Many soldiers died for both sides during the war. The South was hurt the most because most of the war was fought there. The South's economy was hurt very badly, too. The Union Army stayed in some Southern states for many years. This time is called "Reconstruction". Reconstruction ended in 1877.

Also, soon after the war, several constitutional amendments were made by the US government and passed with enough support from the people. Slavery was ended by the 13th Amendment. The 14th Amendment makes it clear that all people born in the United States are citizens with equal rights that cannot be taken away unless they do something against the law. The 15th Amendment says that people in the United States cannot be kept from voting because of their race. (Citizens "could" be stopped from voting because of their gender, however. It was not until the passing of the 19th Amendment in 1920 that women could vote.) Other facts are that Generals Grant, Hayes, Garfield, Harrison, and McKinley became presidents or ran for the office.



</doc>
<doc id="6419" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6419" title="Tutankhamun">
Tutankhamun

Tutankhamun (sometimes called King Tut) was a Pharaoh (like a king) of Ancient Egypt from about 1334 BCE to 1323 BCE. He became Pharaoh of the 18th dynasty (royal family) during the New Kingdom at 9 years old. Tutankhamun ruled only 9 years and died very young, at 18, so he is known as The Boy King. He was married to his half-sister Ankhesenamun, daughter of Queen Nefertiti,his step mother.

Some scientists and historians think Tutankhamun was killed by someone else. When his mummy was examined by a CAT scan in January 2005, a very bad break in the leg was found. This may have been from a riding accident. Most scientists now think that Tutankhamun died because his broken leg got infected. Others believe that his vizier, Ay, murdered him, because Ay also succeeded him as Pharaoh. Because of this, Tut was buried in Ay's tomb and Ay in his. Other sources say that he had died from a sickness. It was discovered in 2010 that Tutankhamun had the most serious form of malaria at his time of death.

The tomb was discovered in March 1922 by the famous British archaeologist Howard Carter.

This mask is 24 pounds of solid gold, inlaid lapis lazuli, carnelian, quartz, turquoise, obsidian, and colored glass. When the boy king's tomb was found in 1922 by Howard Carter, the king rested inside three golden coffins. Two were made of wood with gold overlay, the third was 296 pounds of solid gold. He was wearing the mask shown above. Tutankhamun only lived about 18 years. He assumed the throne at around the age of 7. For most of his reign he was little more than a figurehead of a government that began reestablishing the stability of the traditional art and religion torn down by his predecessor, Akhenaten. The amount of wealth that was showered on this boy in his short life is truly staggering. Imagine the riches that must have been bestowed on Egypt in more stable and prosperous days.


</doc>
<doc id="6421" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6421" title="Independence">
Independence

The word independence means "not having to depend on anyone or anything else". It also means to "be strong and be able to survive alone". The word is usually used in a good way.

Anything can be independent. When people talk about independence, it is usually about people, countries, or different areas of science.

A country gets its independence when it is no longer part of another country. Sometimes countries get their independence in a war, like when the United States beat Britain in the American War of Independence. Countries can also get their independence peacefully, like Canada did. Help from another country may be needed to get independence, like in World War II, when the allies (especially the United States, Canada, United Kingdom and the Soviet Union) freed many countries that had been controlled by armies of Nazi Germany, Italy and Japan. 

Singapore gained independence from Malaysia in 1965. The newest country to get its independence was Montenegro. In June, 2006 it became independent from Serbia and Montenegro. This was done by a peaceful vote, although many other countries in the area fought wars. Other countries that became independent not long ago are Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1992, Eritrea in 1993 and East Timor in 2002. However, some countries have political parties that discuss whether their country should become independent. Some examples of these are the Scottish National Party (SNP) or the Puerto Rican Independence Party (PIP).



</doc>
<doc id="6422" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6422" title="Anubis">
Anubis

Anubis is the Greek name for the ancient god in Egyptian mythology who looks like a man with the head of a jackal. Jackals are predators that look like dogs and live in Africa.

People did not like jackals in ancient Egypt, because the animals messed up graves. The Egyptian people wanted to end this by deifying them. Deifying means in this case, that they created a god that was a jackal as well. Therefore, the god of the dead Anubis looked like a dog or jackal. Anubis was the god of the dead because the jackals were often in graveyards at night. This made the people think that the jackals protected the dead people in the graves. The priests who mummified the dead kings (these kings are called pharaohs) were also dressed up as jackals. Now that the jackal had become a holy animal, dogs and jackals were kept as pets in the temples. After their death, they were mummified and placed in the temples. Anubis was the protector of the mummies against the challenges in the netherworld. After a while Anubis became solely the god of mummification because he invented mummification by using it to preserve Osiris. Because Osiris was the first mummy and the first to go to the netherworld, he became king of it. The Egyptian people believed that Anubis helped with the ceremony that was performed with people once they arrived in the netherworld. In this ceremony, the heart of the dead was weighed against the feather of truth to see if the deceased had been a good person in life. If they had been a bad person in life, then they would go to a place where there would be food floating above their heads, just out of reach. If they ever got close to reaching it, then demons would dig holes at their feet that they would fall into, so that they could never get their hands on the food.

In later times, during the Ptolemaic period, as their functions were similar, Anubis came to be identified as the Greek god Hermes, becoming Hermanubis. The centre of this cult was in "uten-ha"/"Sa-ka"/ Cynopolis, a place whose Greek name simply means "city of dogs". In Book XI of "The Golden Ass" by Apuleius, we find evidence that the worship of this god was maintained in Rome at least up to the 2nd century. Indeed, Hermanubis also appears in the alchemical and hermetical literature of the Middle Ages and the Renaissance.

Although the Greeks and Romans typically scorned Egypt's animal-headed gods as bizarre and primitive (they mockingly called Anubis the "Barker"), Anubis was sometimes associated with Sirius in heaven, and Cerberus in hell.


</doc>
<doc id="6423" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6423" title="Atum">
Atum

Atum was the creator of everything in ancient Egyptian mythology. He represented the very first history; nothing existed yet except for him. According to the myth, he rose up out of the chaotic waters of Nu and used his own female side to create Shu (air) and Tefnut (moisture). For a while, his two children were lost at sea. Atum sent his removable eye, the Udjat Eye, to go look for them. When they returned, Atum cried tears of joy. Where these tears hit the ground is where men formed. Out of the two elements water and air, the other gods and goddesses were born. The Egyptians believed he was the father of all the gods.
Atum was fist the partner of the earth then the partner of the setting sun.


</doc>
<doc id="6426" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6426" title="Antisemitism">
Antisemitism

Anti-Semitism is the hatred of or prejudice against Jews. The word "semite" talks about a family of languages and its speakers, which include those of Jewish blood and those who speak Arabic. But, in this usage, it is used for Jews only.


</doc>
<doc id="6428" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6428" title="Esteban Huertas">
Esteban Huertas

Esteban Huertas (1876-1943) was a military leader from Panama.

He was born in Colombia. When he was 8 years old he ran away from home and he joined the army. He won many medals and in 1902 he became general. In 1900 he lost an arm when he fired a cannon.
In 1903 he was one of the people who made Panama independent. A year later president Manuel Amador forced Huertas to retire because he was afraid Huertas wanted to become dictator. Huertas died in Panama City in 1943.


</doc>
<doc id="6431" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6431" title="Panama">
Panama

Panama is a country in Central America. Its official name is the Republic of Panama, and it is most famous for the Panama Canal. Countries bordering Panama are Costa Rica in the Northwest and Colombia in the Southeast. Panama is between the Caribbean Sea and the Pacific Ocean. Most of the people in Panama are Roman Catholic (about 80%).

The Caribbean has many good natural harbors. However, Cristóbal, at the Caribbean of the , had the only important port facilities in the late 1980s. The many islands of the Archipiélago de Bocas del Toro, near the beaches of Costa Rica, made an natural roadstead and shield for the port of Almirante. The over 350 San Blas Islands, near Colombia, are spread out for more than 160 km along the sheltered Caribbean coastline.

The population of Panama is about 3,405,813 in May 2010. The ethnic makeup of Panama is:
The information there **Other** is likely including Arabs, East Indians, and some Russian.

For ships, Panama is a flag of convenience.



</doc>
<doc id="6432" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6432" title="Spanish language">
Spanish language

The Spanish language is one of the Romance languages that came from the Latin language. It is the most common Romance language.

The Spanish language is used by many people in the world today. This is partly because the people of Spain travelled to and colonized many different parts of the world. They created many new countries, and also new governments in some old countries. The countries that have Spanish as an official language are called the Hispanic countries. Most of them are in the Americas.

Some examples of places where Spanish is an important language are: 

In North America, Central America, and the Caribbean Islands: 
In the United States and Belize, most people use the English language, but Spanish is the second most-used language. 

In South America: 

The official language of Brazil is Portuguese, but many Brazilians learn Spanish as a second language.

In other parts of the world:

In Spain, there are other languages that also came from Latin that are connected to Spanish, like Catalan and Galician.

Portuguese, which is spoken in Portugal and Brazil, has a very close relation with Spanish. Basque is also spoken, but it is not related to Spanish. Therefore, the Spanish language is sometimes called Castilian, named after Castile, a region in Spain where the language came from. Many people defend that the most correct name for the language is Castilian because before the existence of Spain as a country the language already existed, while others say it is better to call it Spanish bacause they say that Castilian is the accent of Spaniards (though Spain is a small country and it has very varied accents).

The Spanish word for Spanish is "Español", and the Spanish word for Castilian is "Castellano".

In the other Romance languages spoken on the Iberian Peninsula, such as Galician, Catalan, Asturian, and others, the designation is "Castellán", "Castellà", etc., and the word "Spanish" is rarely used to refer the language. In Spain, the name of the subject in schools is "Lengua Castellana" (Castilian Language). In monolingual zones of Spain people can say "Spanish" to refer to their language.

In Portuguese it's common to use the word "castelhano" when talking about this language too.

In 2009 for the first time in History the Spanish was the first "mother tongue" language of the western world, bypassing the English language, and the second on earth

Spanish is spoken by 358 million people in the world as their first language, while English is only 350 million. This is because of the huge increase of population in Latin-American Spanish-speaking countries.



</doc>
<doc id="6433" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6433" title="Nahuatl language">
Nahuatl language

The Nahuatl language is a language spoken by 1.5 million people in Mexico. It was the language spoken by the Aztecs, the Toltecs and perhaps by the people of Teotihuacan. Since the end of the Aztec empire, several dialects of Nahuatl started to exist. Nowadays people who speak different Nahuatl dialects do not always understand each other.

Some English words from Nahuatl origin are:
Also the names of the countries Mexico, Guatemala and Nicaragua come from Nahuatl words.


</doc>
<doc id="6435" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6435" title="Category:English language">
Category:English language


</doc>
<doc id="6437" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6437" title="Stephen Hawking">
Stephen Hawking

Prof. Dr. Stephen Hawking, CH CBE FRS (born 8 January 1942) is an English theoretical physicist and mathematician. He is one of the world's leading theoretical physicists. A theoretical physicist is someone who uses information from experiments to make about the world. Hawking writes many science books for the public, or the people who are not scientists.

Hawking was a professor of mathematics at the University of Cambridge (a position that Isaac Newton once had). He retired on 1 October 2009.

He has ALS (Lou Gehrig's disease), and because of that he can not move or talk very well. The illness has worsened over the years and he is now almost completely . He uses a wheelchair to move, and an Intel computer to talk for him.




Note: On Hawking's website, he the publication of "The Theory of Everything" and asks buyers to boycott the book.


</doc>
<doc id="6439" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6439" title="Czech Republic">
Czech Republic

Czech Republic (, ) is a country in Central Europe, sometimes also known as Czechia (). The capital and the biggest city is Prague. The currency is the Czech Crown ("koruna" - CZK). 1€ is about 25 CZK. The president of Czech Republic is Václav Klaus. The Czech Republic's population is some about 10.5 million. 
Its official language is Czech language. The Czech language is a Slavic language. It is related to languages like Slovak and Polish. In 1993 the Czech Ministry of Foreign Affairs announced that the name "Czechia" be used for the country outside of formal official documents. This has not caught on in English usage.

Its history dates from the 9th century AD, for a long time it was one of the most powerful countries in Central Europe. Later on it was the biggest, most populated and richest country of the First Reich, where many Emperors started their career. Under the conditions of the Treaty of Vienna 1515 parts of the Czech Republic, then in the Kingdoms of Bohemia and Hungary came under Habsburg rule after the death of Louis the Jagiellon in 1526. They stayed a part of the Habsburg dynasty rule until 1918.

The area of the today's Czech Republic was a part of Czechoslovakia from 1918 to 1992. Czechoslovakia became independent in 1918 from Austro-Hungarian Empire. The first Czechoslovakian president was Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk. Czechoslovakia peacefully split into two countries (Czech Republic and Slovakia) in 1993.
Czech Republic has been a member of the European Union since May 1, 2004 and a member of NATO since March 12, 1999.

Czech Republic has no sea; its neighbour countries are Germany, Austria, Slovakia, and Poland.



</doc>
<doc id="6440" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6440" title="Flag">
Flag

A flag is a piece of coloured cloth with a special design that is put on a pole as a symbol.

Flags first appeared more than 2000 years ago in China, and in Europe under the Roman Empire.

There are many types of flags:









</doc>
<doc id="6448" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6448" title="Karaite Judaism">
Karaite Judaism

Karaite Judaism is a kind of Judaism that accepts only the Bible as authoritative, and rejects the Mishnah and Talmud, which are explanations of the Bible by rabbis in the first few centuries of the Common Era. Karaite Jews believe that each person should be able to explain the Torah for themselves, instead of following the explanations of the rabbis.

The list of main beliefs to Karaite Judaism are called the "Tuv Taam." It is called this because those are the first two words in Hebrew of the beliefs. These beliefs are:



</doc>
<doc id="6449" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6449" title="Warship">
Warship

A warship is a ship carrying weapons, which is used by the navy. Some warships also carry aircraft.

Warships come in many different sizes. Here is a list of different kinds of warships, from the largest to the smallest of World War II:

A submarine is a special kind of warship able to go under the sea. 

An aircraft carrier is like an airport on a ship.

Modern warships come in the same "class" of ship as they did in World War II, but the sizes are different. From largest to smallest:

Other warships are used to supply ammunition, food, and other supplies to the larger warships. Some warships exists because they have powerful computers that can spy on nearby ships. Usually these kinds of ships are smaller, and do not have many guns or missiles themselves.


</doc>
<doc id="6450" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6450" title="Coast guard">
Coast guard

A Coast Guard is a military or semi-military organization, similar to the Navy, but its main duties are the protection of a country's sea territories from terrorism and crimes, and to rescue ships and boats in danger. The most famous coast guard is the United States Coast Guard (USCG). Sometimes, the coast guard is also a law enforcement organisation. The United States Coast Guard does this. 



</doc>
<doc id="6451" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6451" title="Equilibrium market price">
Equilibrium market price

An equilibrium market price is the price at which there is no tendency for it to change. 

When price is lower than the equilibrium price, quantity demanded will be greater than quantity supplied. There will be a tendency for the price to increase.

When price is higher than the equilibrium price, quantity supplied will be greater than quantity demanded. There will be a tendency for the price to decrease.

Equilibrium market price is attained when the quantity demanded equals quantity supplied. It is sometimes called market clearing price.


</doc>
<doc id="6461" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6461" title="E Pluribus Unum">
E Pluribus Unum

The Latin motto "E pluribus unum" was suggested by the first Great Seal committee in 1776. The preferred English translation is: "Out of many, one." Consultant and artist Pierre Du Simitière chose the Latin motto, and his design expresses this theme.

This motto was well known to literate Americans of the 18th century. It appeared in the Gentleman's Magazine, published monthly in London since 1731. The legend "E pluribus unum" was used on the title pages of the annual volumes that contained a collection of the year's twelve editions of the magazine.

In Thomson's 1782 sketch, for the final design, Charles Thomson put this motto on a scroll held in the bald eagle's beak.

"E pluribus unum" is a clear reference to the thirteen colonies united into one nation – symbolized by the shield on the eagle's breast. As explained in the official description of the Great Seal, the thirteen vertical stripes "represent the several states all joined in one solid compact entire, supporting a Chief, which unites the whole & represents Congress. The Motto alludes to this union."


</doc>
<doc id="6471" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6471" title="Wikipedia:VOA Special English Word Book">
Wikipedia:VOA Special English Word Book

This is the Voice of America Special English Word Book retrieved from this list in the VOA Special English website.

Please credit VOA Special English & Voice of America in any reuse of this word list.
































</doc>
<doc id="6472" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6472" title="Samba">
Samba

Samba is a kind of music, dancing, and singing, which originated in Brazil. It began as a music/dance movement in the 1920s. 

Samba is a lively, rhythmical dance of Brazilian origin in 2/4 time. In ballroom dance there are three steps to every bar, making the samba feel something like a 3/4 timed dance. The timing is one, a-two, with the values about one beat, 1/4 beat, 3/4 beat.

There are two main types of samba that differ from each other: the modern ballroom samba, and the traditional samba of Brazil. Traditional Brazilian samba includes the samba which is danced solo at Carnival. In that case, the dancers take just one step on each beat.

The ballroom samba has its origins in Brazil at the beginning of the 20th century. Many steps can be traced back to the Maxixe danced in 1910s. A book published in France in 1928 already described how to perform the samba. The modern ballroom dance was created in England, mostly with steps adapted from those seen in Brazil. This version is now danced all over the world in international competitive dancing as regulated by the World Dance Council.

Ballroom samba, like other ballroom dances, is a form adapted for its suitability as a partner dance. The dance movements, which do not change depending on the style of samba music being played, borrows some movements from Afro-Brazilian traditional dances such those used in candomblé rituals.

The ballroom samba is danced to music in 2/4 time. The basic movements are counted either 1-2 or 1-a-2, and are danced with a slight bouncing action. This action is created through the bending and straightening of the knees, with bending occurring on the beats of 1 and 2, and the straightening occurring on the "a". Samba is notable for its constantly changing rhythms however, with cross-rhythms being a common feature. Thus, common step values (in beats are):

The following applies to the type of samba done during street carnivals where the musicians will move along with the dancers, sometimes on foot, sometimes on a motorized 'float' or platform.

The music is played with different instruments – bass drums (a surdo drum, used for keeping a steady beat), snare drums, a whistle (called an apito [a-peet-oh], used for beginning and ending sections of music), other types of untuned percussion, and different varieties of bells.

Other sections are when the apito blasts one rhythm, and all other instruments respond using another rhythm (that lasts the same amount of time as the first), called a call and response section; and a Samba piece can have instrument solos, when one instrument is playing an exciting rhythm. The apito caller signals the end of one section and the beginning of the next by blasting a short call. Pieces always have clear beginnings and ends.

Ballroom sambas are usually played by standard ballroom dance bands with one or two extra percussion instruments.



</doc>
<doc id="6475" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6475" title="Nuclear weapon">
Nuclear weapon

A nuclear weapon is a weapon that suddenly releases the energy in the nucleus of certain types of atoms. When triggered, these devices release a huge amount of energy in the form of an explosion. Nuclear weapons are also known as "atomic bombs", "atom bombs", or "A-bombs". Nuclear weapons are very powerful, and one nuclear weapon can destroy a city. They get their energy by changing some of their matter into energy. This is called a nuclear explosion. Nuclear explosions are difficult to ignite and control, and require uranium or plutonium that has been enriched for reactive isotopes. These isotopes are not concentrated enough in natural uranium to cause explosions.
The first nuclear weapons were created by the United States during World War II and used against the cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in Japan. This is the only time in history when nuclear weapons have been used in combat. This development was called the Manhattan Project. The Manhattan Project took place in Los Alamos, New Mexico. The first atomic bomb was tested at the Trinity site at White Sands in southern New Mexico.

Nuclear weapons are made from the elements uranium or plutonium. Certain forms of these elements can be made to undergo nuclear fission and have a nuclear chain reaction. This produces a very large amount of energy and radiation, and will kill any people or animals within several kilometers. Much of the radiation is X-rays, which heats air to produce a huge nuclear fireball. The rapid expansion of the fireball produces a dangerous shock wave that destroys houses or buildings even several kilometers away. It will eventually kill people farther away than several kilometers depending on how much radiation the person received. The mutations in the DNA cause cancer and radiation poisoning. Nuclear bombs release fallout, which is nuclear material and dust that has been irradiated and became radioactive. This poisonous dust is blown by the winds for tens or hundreds of kilometers, and can remain dangerous for several years.

A hydrogen bomb, or fusion bomb, is a nuclear weapon which utilizes hydrogen isotopes (deuterium and tritium) as another type of fuel. Hydrogen bombs can be many hundreds of times more powerful than fission bombs. Despite the name, in hydrogen bombs in use, the hydrogen is only there to produce enough neutrons to also detonate a casing made of natural uranium. The fuel in hydrogen bombs is thus mostly unrefined uranium.

The delivery of the nuclear weapon to its target is as complex as making one. A nuclear explosive device can be placed in a bomb, or into a missile, which is called a nuclear missile. Nuclear bombs can be carried by aircraft. Nuclear missiles can be carried by aircraft, submarines, or trucks, or they can be placed into underground missile silos. Strategic bomber aircraft like the B-36 Peacemaker, B-52 Stratofortress and B-2 Spirit are used to carry nuclear weapons. They are also carried by missiles, such as intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBM), or submarine-launched ballistic missiles (SLBM's). Some missiles travel to the border of space, and then launch a number of separate nuclear weapons back toward the ground, and each one can travel to a different target. This is called a MIRV Warhead, or Multiple Independent Reentry Vehicles. Very large nuclear bombs have been produced, by in practice a MIRV can produce as much damage from several smaller explosions.

Nuclear weapons cost a lot of money to make, because the materials they are made of are very rare and it takes many scientists to make them. But many countries have managed to create nuclear weapons. Many countries in the world possess nuclear weapons today. In the order that they first made nuclear weapons, they are: United States (1945), Russia (1949), United Kingdom (1952), France (1960), China (1964), India (1974), and Pakistan (1998). Israel is thought to also have nuclear weapons, but the government says they do not. Many people said that North Korea had nuclear weapons, and they have said that they do but now they say that they will not make any more. In (2006), North Korea held their first official nuclear test. South Africa once had nuclear weapons, but now says that it has destroyed them all. Iran is believed to be making nuclear weapons, but they say they are just making nuclear energy. When countries get or try to get nuclear weapons, it is called nuclear proliferation. Some of those countries may have lost their nuclear weapons. There are 92 atom bombs lost at sea from all countries with a nuclear arsenal. The bombs were lost in 15 different cases. However, there could be more lost bombs.



</doc>
<doc id="6479" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6479" title="Chojnów">
Chojnów

Chojnów is small city in Poland. As of the year 2000, 14,900 people live in the city. The city is on the river Skora. The city belongs to the county Legnica. It is in the region Dolnoslaskie. The average height of the city is 170 meters above sea level.

Chojnów is first mentioned in a note dated 1272 as a Haynow settlement. In 1288 it's called city (civitas) in documents of Prince of Legnica Henryk V Gruby. In 1333 in gained the status of a city (civitas).

Every year in first days of June, Days of Chojnów (Dni Chojnowa) are celebrated. The Whole-Poland bike race Masters has been organized in Chojnów once a year for the past few years.

Chojnów is an industrial and agricultural city. Among products produced in Chojnów are: paperware, agricultural machinery, chains, metal furniture for hospitals, equipment for the meat industry, beer, wine, leather clothing, clothing for infants, children and adults.

The most interesting monuments of Chojnów are prince of Legnica's castle from the 13th century (currently used as a museum), two old churches, Baszta Tkaczy (Weavers' Tower) and preserved fragments of city walls.

The biggest green area in Chojnów is small forest Park Piastowski (Piast's Park), named after Piast dynasty as part of Communist anti-German propaganda.

Wild animals that live around Chojnów are roe-deers, foxes, rabbits and wild domestic animals, especially cats.


</doc>
<doc id="6482" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6482" title="Comics">
Comics

Comics is short for "comic strips", usually a section in a newspaper. They can also be published in a magazine called a "comic book". The word "comic" simply means "funny", and can also refer to a person who tells jokes.

In comics, a story is told through different images, mostly in panels, following each other in order.
That means the first panel is supposed to be read first, and take place earlier in time than the panels following it.

In comics, speech is usually shown through word balloons.
There are many different kinds of word balloons, such as the "speech balloon", the "thought balloon" and the "scream balloon".

One difference between a comic and a simple cartoon is that a comic has many images,
while a cartoon only has one.

In Japan, comics are very popular. The Japanese word for comics is manga.
Manga can be either singular or plural, and can mean both the medium of comics, and a single comic example.


</doc>
<doc id="6490" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6490" title="Diamond">
Diamond

A diamond (from the ancient Greek αδάμας – adámas "unbreakable") is an allotrope of carbon. Diamonds have the highest hardness of any bulk material. Because of this, many important industries use diamonds as tools for cutting and polishing things. Many of them are clear, but some of them have colors, like yellow, red, blue, green and pink. Diamonds of a different color are called "fancies". Big diamonds are very rare, and are worth a lot of money. This is because a diamond is very useful - it is very hard and it spreads light very well. There are natural and synthetic diamonds. The earth makes natural diamonds. People make synthetic diamonds. Diamonds are the hardest natural substance known to man.

Diamonds are actually made of pure carbon, the same chemical element as graphite, fullerene, and coal. But diamonds are very hard and in crystalline form.

Because many diamonds are beautiful, people make jewelry using them.

Diamonds are very effective electrical insulators, but also very good conductors of heat.

Diamonds are made deep in the earth, where there is an intense amount of pressure and heat that makes the diamond form. The intense heat and pressure is forming the liquid ore to make volcanic eruptions which surfaces and becomes diamond crystals. (This makes the diamond a "metamorphic" rock.) Sometimes magma (very hot, liquid rock deep in the earth) having diamonds will come near the top of a volcano. People find diamonds where volcanoes were a long time ago. Sometimes people find diamonds on the top of the ground. But in places like South Africa, they must dig deep down into a diamond mine to get diamonds. Diamonds were first found in India.



</doc>
<doc id="6493" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6493" title="Thanksgiving">
Thanksgiving

Thanksgiving is a holiday in the USA and Canada when people give thanks. It is celebrated every year on the fourth Thursday of November in the USA and on the second Monday of October in Canada.

In 1863, Abraham Lincoln set aside the last Thursday of November as a national Day of Thanksgiving. American immigrants brought the customs and practices of the American Thanksgiving to Canada, beginning on April 5, 1872. The United States Congress permanently established the fourth Thursday of each November as a national holiday in the year 1941, and Canadian Parliament later established the second Monday of each October as a national holiday in the year 1957.

Although not as famous, the first "day of Thanksgiving" actually took place at Berkeley Hundred, Virginia in 1619 - a year before the "Mayflower" brought the Pilgrims to Massachusetts.

The Pilgrims were early settlers on the east coast of North America. They traveled from England on a ship called the "Mayflower" and made their new home in what is now Plymouth, Massachusetts, 380 km northeast of what is now New York. 

Many of the Pilgrims died during their first winter in North America. They were cold and did not have enough food. The following year, though, the Native Americans, who were from the Wampanoag tribe, helped them grow crops. At harvest time in the winter of 1621, they were very thankful that they had a good crop of food to eat during the coming winter. They thanked God and the Indians for teaching them how to grow the local foods.

They invited three of the Wampanoags who had helped them to their feast. They were Squanto, Samoset, and Chief Massasoit. The Wampanoags brought their families. This was over 90 people. There were so many people that the Pilgrims did not have enough food to make the meal, so the Wampanoags brought along their own food for the feast.

The Wampanoags brought turkey, duck, fish, deer, berries, squash, and cornbread. They also brought vegetables that they had farmed and shown the Pilgrims how to care for.

The Thanksgiving holiday is a four-day holiday over the weekend. Families and friends usually eat a special meal together (usually with a turkey as the main dish). This meal also usually includes mashed potatoes, cranberry sauce, pumpkin pie, several casseroles, and stuffing. The food eaten today for Thanksgiving is very different from the food that was eaten at the First Thanksgiving in 1621.


</doc>
<doc id="6494" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6494" title="Nobel Prize">
Nobel Prize

Every year, prizes called Nobel Prizes are given to people who have done very well in different areas. These areas include Literature, Science and Peace. They were established by the 1895 will of Alfred Nobel, which dictates that the awards should be administered by the Nobel Foundation. For many people, winning a Nobel Prize is a very special thing in their lives. People who have won a Nobel prize are called "Nobel laureates".

Each prize winner gets a medal, a diploma and a sum of money that has changed over the years. In 1901, the winners of the first Nobel Prizes were given 150,782 SEK, which is equal to 7,731,004 SEK in December 2007. In 2008, the winners were awarded a prize amount of 10,000,000 SEK. The awards are presented in Stockholm in an annual ceremony on December 10, the anniversary of Nobel's death.


The Bank of Sweden Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel, sometimes called the "Nobel Prize in Economics", was not a part of Nobel's will. It was started in 1969 by Sveriges Riksbank, the Bank of Sweden. Since this prize was not in Nobel's will, and is not paid for by his money, it is not a Nobel Prize. However, it is awarded together with the other Nobel prizes.

Since the establishment of the Nobel Prize, four people have received two Nobel Prizes:

As a group, the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) has received the Nobel Peace Prize three times: in 1917, 1944, and 1963. The first two prizes were specifically in recognition of the group's work during the world wars, and the third was awarded at the year of its 100-Year Anniversary.

The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) has won the Peace Prize twice: in 1954 and 1981.

A number of families have included multiple laureates.


</doc>
<doc id="6495" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6495" title="Graph">
Graph

A graph is a picture designed to express words, particularly the connection between two or more quantities. You can see a graph on the right.

A simple graph usually shows the relationship between two numbers or measurements in the form of a grid. If this is a "rectangular graph", these two measurements will be arranged into two different lines at right angles to one another. One of these lines will be going up (the "vertical" axis). The other one will be going right (the "horizontal" axis). These lines (or "axes", the plural of axis) meet at their ends in the lower left corner of the graph.

Both of these axes have "tick marks" along their lengths. You can think of each axis as a ruler drawn on paper. So each measurement is indicated by the length of the associated tick mark along the particular axis.

Another word for graph is chart or diagram. However, a chart or a diagram may not relate one quantity to other quantities. "Flowcharts" and "tree diagrams" are examples of charts or diagrams that are not graphs.

Let's say you wanted to make a graph showing your height as you were growing up. You might show your height in centimeters on the vertical axis and your age in years on the horizontal axis.

For example, say you were 60 centimeters tall at age 1, 85 centimeters tall at age 2 and 95 centimeters tall at age 3. You would draw an imaginary straight line passing through the 50 centimeters height mark on the vertical axis. Then you would draw a second imaginary line passing through the age of 1 year on the horizontal axis. At the place where the two imaginary lines meet (called their "intersection"), you would then draw a dot. Really, the imaginary lines are usually replaced by "graph paper" (see below). The drawing of this intersection is called ""plotting" the point 50 centimeters for year 1".

You would then plot 85 centimeters for year 2 and 95 centimeters for year 3. If you had more heights for more years, you would plot years 4, 5 and so forth. When you had enough points on your graph, you could draw a line through each of the plotted points, making your graph a "line graph". For example, the line graph at the upper right shows the unemployment rate (as a percent) on the vertical axis and the year (from 1950 to 2005) on the horizontal axis.

Let's say you wanted a single graph showing both your height and your brother's height. This could be expressed as two sets of plotted points: one for you and one for your brother. You could use different colors to tell your plot from your brother's. Or you might plot the Gross Domestic Product (in billions of dollars) as a second line against the same years on the unemployment graph above. This would show you the relationship between GDP and unemployment.

Graphs make information easier to see. This is especially true when two or more sets of numbers are related in some way.

For example, the unemployment rates graph at the beginning of this article could be expressed in the form of a "table". Like this:

But a long string of numbers makes it difficult to see the underlying meaning. It is much simpler to understand when the table is expressed in the form of a graph. In particular, it is easier to see the relationships between the two sets of data. For example, by looking at the graph you can see at a glance that unemployment was relatively low in the late sixties but relatively high in the early eighties.

Scientists and engineers use graphs so that they can get a better understanding of the broad meaning and importance of their data. Salesmen and businessmen often use graphs to add importance to their points in a sales or business presentation. Graphs with many plotted points may be created on a computer rather than being drawn by hand.

Mathematicians use graphs that "plot themselves", without taking measurements. For example, the formula "x = y" says that the value of x will always be equal to the value of y. If you plot this formula as a graph, with x as the horizontal axis and y as the vertical axis, you will get a graph that looks like a straight line angled at precisely 45 degrees. The use of these graphs forms a branch of mathematics called analytic geometry.

Usually, graphs are created on specially designed paper called "graph paper". This paper has evenly drawn horizontal and vertical lines on it. On the right is an example of a sheet of graph paper.

Different types of graphs require different forms of graph paper. What we have been talking about in the article above is the commonest form of graphs and graph paper. It is known as rectangular or Cartesian graphs. However the evenly drawn vertical and horizontal lines on the paper are "not" the graph itself but are part of the "graph paper". The "graph" is the set of plotted points, along with its axes.

There are various types of graphs (and graph paper) other than Cartesian. These include: bar graphs, pie graphs, polar graphs, scatter graphs, three-dimensional graphs, logarithmic graphs and many others.


</doc>
<doc id="6501" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6501" title="Collision detection">
Collision detection

Collision detection is a program used on computers to help it understand when two objects will hit into each other. When a computer shows two things on the screen, or controls two things in real life (like robots), it sometimes needs a special program to detect where objects to understand where things are. This might be used to help make sure things like planes do not hit each other, or just to display a videogame 

It is also called CD (for collision detection) or "interference detection".


</doc>
<doc id="6502" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6502" title="Berkeley Software Distribution">
Berkeley Software Distribution

Berkeley Software Distribution (BSD) is a kind of the UNIX operating system that is distributed for free since 1989. It was started by people in Berkeley, California, USA in the year 1977. Now, people from around the world work on it.

There are many different kinds of BSD that many people have worked on. Some of them are NetBSD, FreeBSD, OpenBSD and Mac OS X



</doc>
<doc id="6503" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6503" title="Jacques Cartier">
Jacques Cartier

Jacques Cartier was a French trader and explorer. He was born on December 31, 1491 in Saint-Malo, a small town in Brittany (which was later part of France), and lived until September 1,1557. He sailed three times to Canada looking for gold. 

He was the first European man to see Prince Edward Island, the St. Lawrence River, and also Hochelaga (today called Montreal), where the Wendats (also called "Huron" and "Wyandot", an Iroquoian people) and other First Nations (or American Indian) tribes lived. In 1534 he reached Newfoundland and explored coast of Labrador.

European countries raced to take the land and riches from the New World. Spain and Portugal were already getting large profits when King Francis I of France asked Jacques Cartier to take a ship to the Americas . Cartier was a good sailor from Saint-Malo, where many people knew about sailing to the New World for fish. 

Cartier sailed to what is now Canada in 1534. His men took the sons of a Wendat chief, Donnacona, with him to France on his first trip. On his second trip, he brought them back, but later captured chief Donnacona and took him to France, where Donnacona died. 

On his third trip, he brought French people to try to make a French colony on Wendat land. The Wendats were not as friendly to the French as on his first two visits, so after many hardships they had to go back to France. 

Because Cartier first led the French to visit Canada, the French later said they had a right to control Eastern Canada.


</doc>
<doc id="6504" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6504" title="Vasco da Gama">
Vasco da Gama

Vasco da Gama (1460 or 1469?-December 24, 1524) was a Portuguese sailor. He was the first European who went to India through the Cape of Good Hope, the southern end of Africa. He went to India three times by ship.

His exact date of birth was unknown but he was said to have been a knight in the 1490s at Sine, Portugal.

On July 8, 1497 four ships (the "São Gabriel", the "São Rafael", the "Berrio", and a storage ship of unknown name) left Lisbon, and his first trip to India began. Before him, no European had sailed past South Africa, even though another Portuguese explorer, Bartolomeu Dias had already been that far. Since it was almost Christmas time, da Gama's crew gave the coast they were passing the name Natal (meaning "Christmas" in Portuguese), a name it keeps today. 

By January, they had reached modern-day Mozambique, a coastland of East Africa controlled by Arabs as part of the Indian Ocean's network of trade. They were chased away by an angry crowd who discovered they were not Muslims, and continued north to Kenya. There, at Malindi, da Gama was able to employ a pilot from India, who brought the Portuguese the rest of the way to Calicut (the exact Malayalam name is "Kozhikode") on the southwest coast of India on May 20, 1498. He left a few Portuguese in Calicut, and was asked by the ruler of that city to leave everything he owned too, but he escaped and returned to Portugal in September 1499.

He sailed on his next trip in 1502, after he found out that the people of Calicut had killed the Portuguese he had left behind. On this trip, he plundered all the Arab and Indian ships he found in the Indian Ocean, then went on to Calicut and took over that city, capturing much wealth. This made the King of Portugal very happy with him.

He went on one last trip in 1524, to be the viceroy (governor) of the colony that the Portuguese had in India by that time, but he died soon after he got there on Christmas Eve.


</doc>
<doc id="6514" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6514" title="Kayseri">
Kayseri

Kayseri is a city in the center of Turkey. Kayseri used to be called Mazaka or Kaisareia. The city has a population of nearly 1 million. Famous meals in this city are pastirma, sucuk and manti. Erciyes mountain is the third highest mountain in Turkey. It is 3917m high.

The city of Kayseri consists of the following metropolitan districts:



</doc>
<doc id="6515" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6515" title="Category:Explorers">
Category:Explorers

Explorers are people who discovered new parts of the world.


</doc>
<doc id="6520" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6520" title="Lava plateau">
Lava plateau

A lava plateau is a flat, wide surface (plateau) that is formed when lava comes out of the ground and spreads out very quickly. The lava layers form a lava plateau. These are general properties of lava plateaus:

One example of a lava plateau is the Columbia Plateau in Washington, Oregon, and Idaho in the United States. Its area is 63,000 square miles (160,000 km²) and is 6,000 feet(1.8 km) thin. 


</doc>
<doc id="6521" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6521" title="Iodised salt">
Iodised salt

Iodised salt (also spelled "iodized salt") is table salt mixed with tiny amounts of iodine and is used to prevent disease of the thyroid gland.

People only need a very small amount of iodine to prevent disease. Food crops usually get iodine from the soil, but some places around the world have low amounts of iodine. Iodised salt is a very cheap and good way of getting the necessary iodine.

Ordinary table (cooking) salt is a chemical compound called "sodium chloride" (its chemical formula is NaCl). "Sodium iodide" (NaI) is added to the NaCl to make iodised salt.


</doc>
<doc id="6523" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6523" title="Category:Health">
Category:Health

Things that help achieve good health include:


</doc>
<doc id="6524" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6524" title="Category:Football clubs">
Category:Football clubs

This category contains clubs which play association football, also known as soccer.


</doc>
<doc id="6526" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6526" title="College">
College

College is a kind of school or university, a place where people go to learn skills for future jobs. Most people go to college right after high school but other people choose to go later in life.

College is a career choice that most people make because it will help them to earn more money and live better lives.

In some countries, for example the United Kingdom, college also means a house belonging to a university, where students and teachers live together.


</doc>
<doc id="6527" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6527" title="Battery">
Battery

A battery is a device that can store electricity. Some are rechargeable, and some are not. They store direct current (DC) electricity.

A battery really means two or more wet or dry cells connected in series for more voltage, or in parallel for more current, although people often call a cell a battery. AA, AAA, C, and D batteries all have 1.5 volts. The voltage of a cell depends on the chemicals used while the amount of power or current it can supply also depends on how large the cell is; a bigger cell of a given type can supply more amps, or for a longer time.

The chemical reactions that occur in a battery are exothermic reactions and, thus, produce heat. For example, if you leave your laptop on for a long time, and then touch the battery, it will be warm or hot. However, the batteries used in laptops are called lithium-ion batteries and they sometimes do have a fire hazard (A few years ago, Dell laptops that were powered by lithium batteries began to catch fire, though this event was rare.). 

Batteries come in lots of different shapes and sizes and voltages. It is possible, but not easy, to run wires to use an odd size battery for an odd purpose.

Batteries are always more costly/expensive than mains electricity. But mains electricity is not suitable for things that are mobile.

Bicycles have tail-lights that can be operated by batteries, and sometimes by a little generator powered by the wheels.

Hand and foot generators can be used to replace batteries in various devices, but they can be tiresome.

Wind-up generators are now available to power small clockwork radios, clockwork torches, etc.

Since clockwork clocks have been around for hundreds of years, and batteries for two hundred, it is amazing that no-one thought of a clockwork torch until recently.

Rechargeable batteries are recharged by reversing the chemical reaction that occurs within the battery. But a rechargeable battery can only be recharged a given amount of time (recharge life). Even iPods, with built in batteries, cannot be recharged forever. Moreover, each time a battery is recharged, its ability to hold a charge is degraded a bit. Non-rechargeable batteries should not be charged as various caustic and corrosive substances can leak out, such as potassium hydroxide.

The very first batteries were invented in the Middle East around 1000 B.C. Then they were buried and forgotten about.

The first battery was invented in 1800 by Alessandro Volta. Nowadays, his battery is called the voltaic pile.

Later batteries were bottles with a fluid and some metal rods in them. People had to be careful not to turn these batteries upside-down so the fluid would spill.

In modern batteries, the fluid is "soaked up" in a kind of paste. And everything is put in a completely tight case. Because of this case, nothing can spill out of the battery. An exception is car batteries; they still have liquid inside.





</doc>
<doc id="6528" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6528" title="Knife">
Knife

A knife is a metal tool with a sharpened metal blade that is used to cut all sorts of things. The plural form of "knife" is "knives".






There are many kinds of knives depending what to be cut. With the right knife, the cuts you want to make will happen faster and easier. With the wrong kind of knife, it will take more work to do the same amount of cuts. When a knife is too small to cut something, a saw, axe, or power tool may be needed. 

Carrying knives is illegal in many countries, especially if the blade is longer than several inches. Another type of knife which is illegal in many places is the "switchblade", a knife that has a button which when pressed activates a spring to open the knife.



</doc>
<doc id="6530" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6530" title="Category:Transportation">
Category:Transportation

Transportation allows people and goods to move around the country.


</doc>
<doc id="6532" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6532" title="Category:Politics">
Category:Politics

Politics is the science of government.


</doc>
<doc id="6533" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6533" title="Nyngan, New South Wales">
Nyngan, New South Wales

Nyngan is a town in New South Wales, Australia. It is built on the banks of the Bogan River. It is north west of Dubbo, and south east of Bourke in the Central West Plains of New South Wales. It is a town of 2500 people. It exists because of the people who work on the farms and in a copper mine, 50 kilometres to the west. 

It remains also well known as one of the last depots of Cobb and Co, the famous inland transporter of the 19th century (1801 to 1900). One of the overnight depots was at Nyngan because it is about half way between Dubbo and Bourke. In the days of Cobb and Co, the trip from Dubbo and Bourke would have taken at least 4 days. 

However, the route they took is not the route that is used today. The new route runs beside the railway. The railway is a direct line from Dubbo to Nyngan. There is not a single bend for almost 160 kilometres. In the other direction, the track goes 190 kilometres dead straight the whole way to Bourke.


</doc>
<doc id="6534" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6534" title="Category:Law">
Category:Law

Law


</doc>
<doc id="6536" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6536" title="Category:Philosophy">
Category:Philosophy

Philosophy is the study of human beings and the world by thinking and asking questions. The word philosophy comes from the Greek word for "lover of wisdom".


</doc>
<doc id="6537" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6537" title="Category:Years">
Category:Years


</doc>
<doc id="6539" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6539" title="Category:Cosmology">
Category:Cosmology

Cosmology is the study of the creation and basic structure of the universe.


</doc>
<doc id="6544" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6544" title="Category:Mythology">
Category:Mythology

Myths are stories from the distant past which are not supported by historical evidence. They might be true, but you could never prove it.


</doc>
<doc id="6545" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6545" title="Category:Amphibians">
Category:Amphibians

This category is for animals of the class Amphibia, the Amphibians. 


</doc>
<doc id="6546" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6546" title="Category:Diseases">
Category:Diseases

Diseases that make people and animals sick include:


</doc>
<doc id="6547" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6547" title="Film (disambiguation)">
Film (disambiguation)

Film may refer to:


</doc>
<doc id="6548" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6548" title="Photographic film">
Photographic film

Photographic film is a sheet of plastic used to record pictures. The plastic has been specially treated, so it is sensitive to light. That way, it is possible to record an invisible image with the plastic when it is exposed to light. Normal film is shipped in small canisters (boxes) that protect it from the light. A normal photographic film can hold up to 40 pictures. Once all pictures have been recorded, the film has to undergo a special chemical treatment. This is called "developing a film". Through that treatment, the pictures become visible (you can see them), and the exposed film is no longer sensitive to light. Different kinds of films exist. Some require more light to be exposed than others. There are also special films which can record infrared light. 
Film can only be used once. After that, it cannot be used again. When not in use, the film needs to be covered from light, otherwise it will record any lights that shine on it. This will make it useless to record a picture later on. Film comes in a can called a canister to cover it from light rays. Film needs the right amount of light to make a picture. If the picture is too bright or too dark, it will not record correctly. The longer that the film keeps recording, the more light it will get. If what is being photographed is bright, it will be recorded faster. If it is darker, the film will need more time to record. Films that need less time to record the picture are known as "faster" films. Different speeds of films are marked with an ISO number. The higher the number, the faster the films. Usual ISO numbers for
films are 100, 200 and 400. Films can only make a picture from focused lights. If there is no lens to focus light, the film will only turn white from receiving just the light. If a film with an ISO level of 200 instead of 100 is used, it will only need half as much time to record a picture of the same scene.

Films also come in different sizes. The usual camera film comes in metal cans or canisters, but there are other camera films that come in paper wrappings or in single sheets.



</doc>
<doc id="6551" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6551" title="Category:Medicine">
Category:Medicine

Medicine is the study of health and disease.


</doc>
<doc id="6556" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6556" title="Compass">
Compass

Compass can mean one of two things:

A magnetic compass points in the direction of the North Pole (strictly speaking, the Magnetic North Pole).

A compass is very useful for navigating on oceans and in deserts, or other places where there are few landmarks.

The first compass was invented by ancient Chinese in the Han Dynasty. It was a large spoon-like magnetic object made of magnetite ore set upon a square bronze plate.

A drawing compass is a drawing tool that can draw circles and arcs (incomplete circles) on sketches and diagrams. There is the mechanical, and normal compass. The mechanical compass is a compass that has a mechanical pencil, and the other is a compass that requires you to screw a pencil on to one end yourself, adjusting the length manually. 

It consists of two legs joined at a hinge.

One leg contains a sharp point used to centre the compass while it turns.

The other leg contains some kind of screw fixture that can hold a pen or pencil.

A divider is a drawing compass with two pointed ends, and is used to mark out distances and lengths.

The divider is so called because it can be used to divide a length in two, using theorems of Geometry.


</doc>
<doc id="6559" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6559" title="Category:Misc">
Category:Misc

Misc(ellaneous) items include:


</doc>
<doc id="6563" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6563" title="Category:Portuguese people">
Category:Portuguese people

This category contains famous people from Portugal.


</doc>
<doc id="6564" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6564" title="Ferdinand Magellan">
Ferdinand Magellan

Ferdinand Magellan (1480 – April 27 1521); Portuguese: Fernão de Magalhães; Spanish: Fernando de Magallanes) was a Portuguese sea explorer. He became the first European who sailed on the Pacific Ocean, and the first to sail a ship around the entire world. Magellan's voyage proved that the Earth was round. 

He was born in Oporto on 1480. He worked in a royal court where he learned many important skills, including map making, navigation and astronomy. In 1505 he joined the navy. When he worked for Portugal, he went to many parts of the world, such as India, the Spice Islands, East Africa, and Morocco. After he lost his job for the King of Portugal, he went to work for the King of Spain.

He was also the first to sail through the Strait of Magellan, so it was named for him. Magellan himself was killed in the Philippines, because he had traded with them with iron and fruits and thought, somehow, they were stealing. He ordered his crew to start a fire and some islanders died, which started the fight. The other 18 sailors, led by Juan Sebastián del Cano survived the entire voyage and returned to Spain in 1522. This was the first ship known to sail around the world. One of the crew, Henry, a Malay interpreter who was picked up by Magellan on his earlier trip for Portugal, became the very first person known to travel all the way around the world, when they reached his home country and he stayed there.


</doc>
<doc id="6565" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6565" title="Henry the Navigator">
Henry the Navigator

Prince Henry the Navigator (1394–1460) was a prince from Portugal. He was called Infante Dom Henrique in Portuguese. He was never a navigator himself. He got his name because he organized many ocean voyages on which lands were found. He is seen as the man who started European colonial expansion. He is also known for opening a navigation school in Portugal, so tools and ships could be made better. Henry the Navigator also discovered the first shipping routes directly from Europe to Asia for the Portuguese monarchy.


</doc>
<doc id="6567" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6567" title="Concrete">
Concrete

Concrete is an important material for making all sorts of buildings and structures. It is a composite made of Portland cement, sand, gravel or aggregate, and water in varying proportions depending on the task. 

Concrete is used more than any other man-made material in the world. As of 2006, about 7.5 billion cubic meters of concrete are made each year—more than one cubic meter for every person on Earth.

The ingredients are mixed together into a paste, a bit like making dough for bread. The concrete is then poured into a frame. After a few hours it sets hard. Concrete solidifies due to a chemical reaction known as hydration. The water reacts with the cement, which bonds the other components together, eventually creating a strong stone-like material. 

Concrete is strong in compression but weak in tension. For some purposes it needs to be reinforced with steel rods. These rods can be galvanised to prevent rusting and corrosion.

Concrete is used to make pavements, pipe, architectural structures, foundations, motorways, bridges, multi-story parking, walls, footings for gates, fences and poles and even boats.
Its biggest advantage is that it bonds together bricks and stones better than any other method known to mankind. 

Concrete is as old as 5600 BC. It was not invented by Romans, but much used by them. Some kinds of concrete are waterproof, and some kinds even set underwater.

Reinforced concrete buildings can be made to link all the parts together, the foundations, walls, floors and roofs, but concrete construction does not make buildings earthquake-proof.

There are many additives to make concrete better, set faster, set slower, make stronger, reduce corrosion and so on. The Romans discovered that adding volcanic ash produced a concrete which would set under water. The Romans also knew that adding horse hair made concrete less liable to crack as it set, and that adding blood made it more frost-resistant.

Modern concrete was made in 1756 by British engineer John Smeaton. He added pebbles and powered brick to the cement. In 1824, English inventor Joseph Aspdin invented Portland cement, which has remained the main cement used in concrete production. He burnt ground-up limestone and clay together. The burning process changed the chemical properties of the materials and Aspdin created a stronger cement than plain crushed limestone alone could produce.

The 19th century saw the invention of reinforced concrete by French gardener Joseph Monier in 1849 (patented in 1867). This is concrete with steel bars in it, called rebars (reinforcing bars). Glass fibre or plastic fibre is beginning to replace steel bars.

Many modern chemicals can be added to the mixture to achieve special objectives. 'Superplasticizers' are chemicals which improve workability, which means the ability to shape the concrete before it has set. Pigments can change the dull grey colour. Corrosion inhibitors can reduce rusting on the steel bars. 'Air entrainment' is blowing little bubbles in the concrete before it sets. This helps the concrete survive the freezing and thawing of a cold climate.



</doc>
<doc id="6569" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6569" title="Category:Military">
Category:Military

The Armed Forces or Military defend a country from attacks from others:


</doc>
<doc id="6570" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6570" title="Category:Astronomy">
Category:Astronomy

Articles and subjects about the broad study of Astronomy.


</doc>
<doc id="6571" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6571" title="Category:Lakes">
Category:Lakes

Lakes are large bodies of water, smaller than an ocean.


</doc>
<doc id="6572" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6572" title="Category:Days">
Category:Days

Days are equal to 24 hours. This category contains both days of the week and year.


</doc>
<doc id="6573" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6573" title="Category:Weapons">
Category:Weapons

Main page: weapon


</doc>
<doc id="6574" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6574" title="Category:Technology">
Category:Technology


</doc>
<doc id="6575" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6575" title="Category:Measurement">
Category:Measurement

Measurement is used to determine how much of a "thing" there is.


</doc>
<doc id="6576" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6576" title="Category:Geometry">
Category:Geometry

Main article: Geometry


</doc>
<doc id="6579" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6579" title="Category:Safety">
Category:Safety

Safety measures can decrease the likelihood of injuries and death.


</doc>
<doc id="6580" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6580" title="Marathon">
Marathon

A marathon is a long distance running sport event where an athlete must run 42.195 kilometres (26 miles and 385 yards). There are many marathons held all over the world each year. It is a very difficult event and runners are advised to run many miles before they compete. This event was named after the famous Battle of Marathon. 

In 390 B.C. there was an important battle in Greece. There was an army from Persia that came to fight the army from Athens. The battle was held at a place called "Marathon". The army from Athens was not expected to win, but they did. After the victory, they sent their best runner, a man named Pheidippides back to Athens to tell everyone the good news, but he died of exhaustion. He ran about 25 miles back to town. In 1896 the first modern Olympics was held. There was a race called the Marathon there. It was only about 25 miles then. 


</doc>
<doc id="6582" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6582" title="Category:Literature">
Category:Literature

Literature is the written work of people.


</doc>
<doc id="6583" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6583" title="Category:Natural events">
Category:Natural events

Natural events occur outside of human control.


</doc>
<doc id="6584" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6584" title="Category:Nature">
Category:Nature

Nature refers to all things which are not human or made by them. If you were looking for information on biology, go to the category on biology. 


</doc>
<doc id="6585" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6585" title="Holy Roman Empire">
Holy Roman Empire

The Holy Roman Empire (German: Heiliges Römisches Reich, or in the 15th century: Heiliges Römisches Reich Deutscher Nation) was a group of regions and free cities in central Europe which all came under the rule of an emperor who was elected by the princes and magistrates of the regions and cities within the empire. When Charlemagne died, his Frankish Empire was given to his children and divided into three different countries: West Francia, Lotharingia and East Francia. The Holy Empire started when Otto I of East Francia became Holy Emperor in 962, and it was ended by Napoleon in 1806. The emperors claimed to be heirs of Charlemagne and that the Empire dates from 800, when Charlemagne became Frankish Emperor.

In the 16th century the Holy Roman Empire (HRE) had to deal with the rebellion of the Frisians lead by Pier Gerlofs Donia and Wijerd Jelckama. This lasted from 1515 until 1523.

In the 17th century the Empire was shattered by the Thirty Years' War (1618-1648). Nearly thirty percent of the population of the Empire was killed. The "Holy Roman Empire of the German Nation" lost parts of its territory.

Until the 13th century, the Holy Roman Empire was powerful. Later, all the duchies and counties inside the Empire started to get more power. At the end, the Emperors did not have a lot of real power any more, and the country existed only in name.

Voltaire, a French philosopher in the 18th century, once joked that the nation was neither holy, nor Roman, nor an empire.


</doc>
<doc id="6587" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6587" title="Friesland">
Friesland

Friesland (Fryslân in Frisian, Friesland in Dutch) is a province in the north of the Netherlands The capital of Friesland is Leeuwarden ("Ljouwert" in Frisian). People in Friesland speak Frisian and Dutch. The Frisian language is also spoken in a small part of Groningen (province), and in East Friesland and North Friesland in Germany. In North Holland there is a region called West Friesland, but people who live there are not called Frisians.

Agriculture and tourism, on the lakes and the isles in the Wadden Sea, are important sources of income.

The province is also famous for its ice skaters, and also for the Elfstedentocht (Eleven cities tour), an ice skating race of 200 kilometers.

In Friesland the Frisians live. They are an old ethnic group. Members of this ethnic group are: 


</doc>
<doc id="6588" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6588" title="Groningen (province)">
Groningen (province)

Groningen is a province in the Northeast of the Netherlands. At the east is the German region Lower Saxony, in the south is Drenthe, in the west is Fryslân and in the north is the Wadden Sea.

The capital of Groningen is also called Groningen. People from Groningen often call Groningen City "stad" ("city") and the rest of the province "Ommelanden" (which means something like "surrounding lands").

Important source of income are agriculture and natural gas extraction Slochteren. 

Noticeable things in Groningen are the dialect, that is related to Low German, and the strong support for the communist party in the Northeastern part of the province.



</doc>
<doc id="6589" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6589" title="Groningen">
Groningen

Groningen is:


</doc>
<doc id="6590" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6590" title="Burgundy">
Burgundy

Burgundy (French: Bourgogne) is a historic region in eastern France. The capital of Burgundy is Dijon.

It was named for the Germanic Burgundian tribe who migrated there from an island in the Baltic, as the Roman Empire fell apart, and set up a kingdom with its own laws. This included part of what is now Switzerland.

During the Middle Ages, Burgundy was ruled by dukes. In the 15th century it was very powerful, but after duke Charles the Bold died when he wanted to conquer the city of Nancy in 1477, Burgundy was taken by France. It was a province until 1790. It is now an administrative région.

The region is also famed for its wines: both red and white. With many well-known wines, such as Macon and Beaujolais originating here. (A few wines are also of the characteristic 'Arbois'-type - between red and white, almost yellow in colour).


</doc>
<doc id="6591" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6591" title="Duke">
Duke

Someone who is a Duke is part of the nobility. In monarchies like the U.K. the title has legal status, and is inherited in the male line. 

The first English dukes were created by Edward III in 1337, when he gave his eldest son, Edward, the Black Prince, the title of Duke of Cornwall.

Dukes are formally referred to as 'The Duke of Westminster' (for example), and addressed as "Your Grace". On State occasions, dukes rank below Royal Dukes, and above Counts. This is called the order of precedence, because in procession to the opening Parliament, or on other state occasions, they walk in order of their rank. 

The wife of a duke is a Duchess. This is an honorary title, given for life to the lawfully wedded wife of a Duke. If she divorces and remarries a commoner (person with no title) their children bear no title. The children of a duke, on the other hand, do bear honorary titles (so long as they are born in lawful wedlock). The eldest son may bear what is called a junior title which an ancestor was given before the dukedom was created. Other children would be called 'Lady' Jane (or other Christian name) and 'Lord' James (or other Christian name). Children use the family surname, not the Dukedom.

The land that is ruled by a duke is a duchy. 

The son of a duke inherits the duchy when the duke dies.

The word comes from the Latin word "dux", which means leader.



</doc>
<doc id="6592" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6592" title="Latin language">
Latin language

Latin is an old language that was spoken by the Romans and others. Latin is a dead language. This means people do not speak or write this language very much any more. However, many students around the world study it in school. Latin is the mother of all Romance languages. This means that all Romance languages were developed from Latin. Speakers of Spanish, Italian, French, Portuguese and other Romance languages may understand some Latin words.

Latin is the language of the Vatican. People in the Roman Catholic Church sometimes use Latin for communication (if they have different mother tongues) and sometimes in ceremonies.

Latin is also used by zoologists and botanists to name and describe every new "species" (type of plant or animal). Plants and animals are usually named in writing related to zoology and botany, by giving a Latin name alongside the name in a modern language. The Latin name is the one that has a precise, agreed definition. Many other words used in science and medicine were created from Latin words, or are Latin words.

There were two types of Latin, Classical Latin and Vulgar Latin. Classical Latin was the kind of Latin used by the educated Romans and is the one used by the Roman Catholic Church and studied by many students around the world. Vulgar Latin, on the contrary, was the more common spoken variety used by the Romans.

Latin was the most important language in most of Europe in the Middle Ages. It was taught in many European schools, and all universities used Latin as the teaching language. Latin began to lose its importance in the Reformation, but it was still often used by authors of scientific books and encyclopedias. Until about 1900 many universities accepted dissertations written in Latin.

Some languages spoken today came from the Latin language. Those languages are called Romance languages. The five largest Romance languages are French, Romanian, Italian, Portuguese, and Spanish. Other Indo-European languages are related to Latin. The Romance languages are very close to each other, and it is possible for the speakers of one Romance language to understand another to at least some extent. For example, the speakers of Portuguese can well understand Spanish. It can be said that the Romance languages are modern dialects of Latin.

Latin has almost the same structure as Ancient Greek. It uses a different alphabet, though. 

Latin has seven different noun cases: nominative, accusative, genitive, dative, ablative and locative. The vocative case is almost always the same as the nominative case. Latin nouns are "declined", or changed, according to how they are used in the sentence. A noun can be declined five different ways. These ways are called declensions. The declensions are numbered 1 through 5 (1st Declension, 2nd Declension, ...), and each one has unique endings that identify the noun's declension. When a noun is declined, ten forms are made, two for each of the noun cases.

Verbs also have a similar thing done to them; changing a verb is called "conjugation". When a verb is conjugated, six forms are made. There are 6 factors that can change a verb: person, number, tense, aspect, voice, and mood. In all, there are 120 possible forms for Latin verbs.

Latin used to be written on plates of wax. These had little space, so words were run together (there was no space between words). Sometimes papyrus was used, but this was expensive. Punctuation and lowercase letters are a modern invention.

The following is the introduction to the Metamorphoses by Ovid; it describes the Golden Age.
"English translation"

"This was the Golden Age that, without coercion, without laws, spontaneously nurtured the good and the true. There was no fear or punishment: there were no threatening words to be read, fixed in bronze, no crowd of suppliants fearing the judge’s face: they lived safely without protection. No pine tree felled in the mountains had yet reached the flowing waves to travel to other lands: human beings only knew their own shores. There were no steep ditches surrounding towns, no straight war-trumpets, no coiled horns, no swords and helmets. Without the use of armies, people passed their lives in gentle peace and security."




</doc>
<doc id="6593" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6593" title="Middle Ages">
Middle Ages

The Middle Ages are a time period in European history. They started around the year 476 CE when the Western Roman Empire ended, and continued until around the time Christopher Columbus discovered the New World in 1492. The 'Middle Ages' are called this because it is the time between the fall of Imperial Rome and the beginning of the Early modern Europe. This period of time is also known as the Medieval Age, the Dark Ages (Because of the fall of education) or the Age of Faith (because of the rise of Christianity). To be exact, the term "Dark Ages" refer only to very early period, from 476 to 800 (coronation of Charlemagne).

Across Europe, the fall of the Roman Empire, after the invasions of different barbarian tribes, devastated towns and cities and their inhabitants. The Dark Ages are given this name because during this period of time Europe was in disarray, and it was not fun to live there. Much of the knowledge that the Romans used (science, technology, medicine, and literature) was lost. The Dark Ages period was marked by mass migrations, wars and plagues. Fortunately it was not long and lasted only some 300 years. Emperor Charlemagne was crowned in 800, and he promoted order, education and civilization. Europe began slowly regain what was lost during those centuries.

During the Middle Ages, Europe changed as the remains of a great empire (the Western Roman Empire) slowly became independent countries (England, France (The Franks), Germany (Germania), Hungary, Spain, Portugal, Poland, and Russia.

Meanwhile the remains of Eastern Rome had become the Byzantine Empire, which had been established by Roman emperor Constantine in 330, and likewise had a capital city named Constantinople. The Byzantine empire controlled Southern Spain, Northern Africa and Asia Minor, but its lands were slowly eaten away against enemies like the Turks and the Franks. Due to geographic and man-made defenses the city of Constantinople was extremely difficult to attack. But, the Byzantines were eventually destroyed by the Ottoman Turks, who seized Constantinople in 1453. They had trouble pronouncing "Constantinople" in their own tongue and so changed the pronunciation, calling the city by its present day name, Istanbul.

Islam was founded in the early 7th century by the prophet Muhammad. Muslims believe that the Qur'an is God's ultimate revelation to mankind and that Muhammed is the last prophet while Jesus was a prophet and not the son of god. The Qur'an is first given to Mohammed in the cave of Hira, near Mecca. Like Christianity and Judaism Islam is a religion that assents to only one supreme deity, also tracing its roots to Abraham. Islam spread quickly (quicker than any other religion)along the major trade routes of the old world, finding appeal with traders and travellers. All followers of Islam are charged to follow its five tenets, known as the Five Pillars.


The Islamic religion was split almost immediately after the death of Mohammed in 632; between the Sunni Muslims and the Shi'a. The Sunni religion is the majority (roughly 85% of Muslims belong to this sect), whereas most Shi'a live in modern day Iran. The Sunni-Shi'a split has been compared to the Roman-Eastern Orthodox split of the Christian church much later in 1054.

During the Early Middle Ages, Muslims achieved what is remembered as a golden age of knowledge. During these times of strife in Europe Muslims gathered the ancient texts of the great empires (Rome, Greece, Egypt) and attempted to re-integrate that knowledge. Muslims during this time invented algebra. Muslims are also credited with saving vast historic records such as the works of Aristotle, later brought back to Europe during the crusades, translated from Arabic. Europe remained inferior to the East in terms of knowledge in the sciences until the Crusades in the early 13th century. The Golden Age of Islam ended with the Turkoman invasions in the 11th century. The Muslims took hold of vast areas of Land Making them the Global Superpower of the Middle Ages.

During the Middle Ages trade between countries became much bigger. It was mostly through the Middle Eastern / Asian trade route known as the Silk Road. Arabs served as the middle men in international trade. Trade in this time was based on how valuable the item was. The items that had higher value, and low weight, travelled the farthest (gold, silk, etc...), and items that were heavier and worth less would travel mostly short distances .Food, for example, would mostly travel only within a few villages).

During the high Middle Ages, wealth began to return and consumers began to demand luxuries again. Silk, porcelain, spices, incense, gold and gems, all travelled thousands of miles across long stretches of deserts, mountains and plains. Glass was in turn imported from Europe to East.

Trade was greatly interrupted several times during the Crusades (1094-1291) due to the aggression between Muslims and Europeans, and because of Mongolian Invasions, and later because of the Black Plague. It is thought that the Mongols brought the Plague with them from Asia, and devastated the world population from 1348-1351. Almost a third of the worlds population was killed by the plague at this time, although the Americas were completely spared from the disease. 

Buddhism is a non-theistic religion (in other words, there is no god) that is based on philosophy. It originally began in India but is almost entirely gone from that area now. Muslim invaders drove out this system of beliefs, more or less forcing Buddhism to flee East (where it eventually took strong roots in China).

During the Middle Ages the Mongols created the worlds largest empire, controlling much of Asia, Middle East, and what is today far eastern Europe. Mongolia was so large and powerful that its strength lead to the "Pax Mongolica", similar to the Roman Pax Romana. In other words, the Mongol empire was so powerful that it created a period of time that saw no war; only a great deal of international trade and diplomacy along the Silk Road.

The famous Mongol leader, Genghis Khan built an empire that was so large it eventually collapsed under its own size (much like Rome did) around the time of Khans death in 1227. The former Mongol empire was split four ways, leaving the Chinese to become the dominant power in the Far East once again. The Chinese eventually regained control of northern China under the Yuan Dynasty. 

Around 1405, A Chinese mariner named Zheng He sought to explore the world. His fleet of 300 'treasure ships' explored vast areas of the Eastern world, and were many times larger than anything the Europeans had built. (A Zheng He Treasure ship was wider than Columbus' ship 'Santa Maria' was long). Unfortunately for Zheng, his voyages were ended before he had a chance to discover the Americas.

Late Middle Ages were the last two centuries of the Middle Ages, from 1300 to 1492. During this period the gun changed warfare and feudal nobility declined. States founded standing armies and enforced unified laws, unified money and national identity. Technology, economy and science developed. Cities were founded and existing cities grew larger and richer. France and England fought Hundred Years War. Russia regained its independence off the Mongols just like the Chinese, and Russia became the most important state in Eastern Europe.

In the 15th century, the Ottoman Turks conquered the Byzantine Empire. That event cut off the Silk Road, and the Europeans had to find new trade routes. In turn, the Muslims were driven off Spain. This event triggered the period called the Great Expeditions.

In the late Middle Ages the Frisians rebelled against the Habsburgians from 1515 until 1523. They were lead into battle by the legendary warriors and warlords Donia and Jelckama. They were eventually defeated and decapitated (beheaded) in Leeuwarden.



</doc>
<doc id="6594" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6594" title="Louis Bonaparte">
Louis Bonaparte

Louis I of Holland ("Lodewijk Napoleon" in Dutch) (1779-1884), was the younger brother of Napoleon Bonaparte, who made him King of the Kingdom of Holland in 1806. He served with his brother in the Italian campaign of 1796–97 and in Egypt in 1798–99. Napoleon named him king of Holland in 1806. When Louis disagreed with his policies, Napoleon dispatched troops against Holland. Louis abdicated in 1810 and lived most of the remainder of his life in Italy. 

Louis was born Luigi Buonaparte in Ajaccio, Corsica. He was a younger brother of Joseph, Napoleon, Lucien and Elisa, and the older brother of Pauline, Caroline and Jerome.

His early career was spent in the army and he served with Napoleon in Egypt. Thanks to Napoleon, he was a general by the age of 25, although he himself felt that he had risen too far in too short a time. Upon his return to France, he was involved in Napoleon's plot to overthrow the Directory. After becoming first consul, Napoleon arranged a marriage for Louis to Hortense de Beauharnais, the daughter of Empress Josephine and Napoleon's stepdaughter. Hortense, who was opposed to the marriage, was convinced by her mother to marry Louis for the sake of the family.

Napoleon made him king of Holland on June 5 1806. He took his duties as king seriously, calling himself Koning Lodewijk I(adopting the Dutch form of his name)He practiced to speak Dutch language and trying hard to be a responsible, independent ruler of Holland. His attempt at speaking the language earned him some respect from his subjects.While in Holland he declared that he was Dutch and renounced his French citizenship. He also forced his court and ministers (mostly supplied by Napoleon) to speak only Dutch languages.This was too much for his wife Hortense who refused his request. Two major tragedies occurred during his reign: the explosion of a ship filled with gunpowder in the heart of the city of Leiden in 1807, and a major flood in 1809. In both instances, Louis personally and effectively oversaw local relief efforts, which helped earn him the nickname of Louis the Good.

His reign of the Netherlands was short lived, which was due to Napoleon I's refusal. Napoleon then suggested that Louis should abdicate but his brother refused. Napoleon finally removed Louis to the Dutch throne and take over the entire Kingdom of Holland on July i, 1810. 

After his kingdom was taken from him, Louis remained in Holland for nearly three years and turned to writing and poetry. Louis wrote to Napoleon after the disastrous Russian campaign to restore him to the Dutch throne. Predictably, Napoleon refused and Louis returned to France in 1813.

After the death of his elder brother Joseph in 1844, Louis was seen by Bonapartists as the rightful Emperor of the French, although he took little action himself to advance the claim. His son and heir, Charles Louis-Napoleon Bonaparte , on the other hand, was at that time imprisoned in France for having tried to engineer a Bonapartist coup d'état. Louis died on July 25 1846, making his son the future Napoleon III.



</doc>
<doc id="6595" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6595" title="Michiel de Ruyter">
Michiel de Ruyter

Michiel Adriaenszoon de Ruyter (1607 – 1676) was a famous Dutch admiral. De Ruyter fought the English in the three Anglo-Dutch Wars and scored several huge victories. He won amongst others the Four Days Battle and the Raid on Medway, close to London, the English capital. He also fought battles against Sweden and France. He died because of injuries he got on a battle against France, he is buried in Amsterdam.


</doc>
<doc id="6596" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6596" title="Johan Rudolf Thorbecke">
Johan Rudolf Thorbecke

Johan Rudolf Thorbecke (January 14, 1798 - June 4, 1872) was an important Dutch politician. In 1848, he wrote a constitution almost on his own. This constitution gave the king less power and the people more, so it made the Netherlands a democracy. Thorbecke was a liberal.


</doc>
<doc id="6597" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6597" title="Category:World War II people">
Category:World War II people

This category contains important people from World War II.


</doc>
<doc id="6598" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6598" title="Karel Doorman">
Karel Doorman

Karel Willem Frederik Marie Doorman (April 23 1889 - February 28 1942) was a Dutch admiral (Dutch: "schout-bij-nacht") during World War II.

In 1942 he was made commander of the combined American, British, Dutch and Australian fleet in the Dutch East Indies.

In February 1942, he led his fleet against a much stronger Japanese fleet in the Java Sea. This battle became a disaster for the Allies. Doorman became a hero in the Netherlands, partly of his last words to the fleet: "Ik val aan, volg mij!" (I am attacking, follow me). 

Karel Doorman died when his ship "De Ruyter" (named after the famous Dutch Admiral Michiel de Ruyter) was hit by a torpedo and sank. There was enough time to escape, but Doorman rather went under with his ship, according to old tradition.


</doc>
<doc id="6599" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6599" title="The Star-Spangled Banner">
The Star-Spangled Banner

"The Star-Spangled Banner" is the official national anthem of the United States. Francis Scott Key wrote the words to it in 1814 after seeing British ships attacking Fort McHenry in Baltimore, Maryland during the War of 1812.

The words are set to the music of a British drinking song called "To Anacreon in Heaven". The song has 4 stanzas but only the first one is usually sung.



</doc>
<doc id="6602" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6602" title="Category:History">
Category:History

History is all of the events which have happened in the past.


</doc>
<doc id="6605" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6605" title="Abdou Diouf">
Abdou Diouf

Abdou Diouf (born September 7, 1935) was president of Senegal from 1981 to 2000. He was the second president since the country became independent.


</doc>
<doc id="6607" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6607" title="Needle">
Needle

A needle is a small tool used to push or pull a thread through a small hole.
It is most often used to make clothing and footwear.

The needle consists of a short stick with a sharp point at one end and hole for the thread at the other end. Needles are now mostly made of steel, but in ancient or Stone Age times they would have been made of small bones or twigs. 

Once the thread is put through the hole in the needle and "doubled-back" so that it cannot fall out, then the whole needle and its thread can be put through the material.


</doc>
<doc id="6609" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6609" title="Category:Holidays">
Category:Holidays

Holidays are days when people to celebrate some event. Holidays are made by religions or countries.


</doc>
<doc id="6610" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6610" title="February 3">
February 3





</doc>
<doc id="6617" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6617" title="Province">
Province

A province is a subdivision of a country.

Some countries are divided into provinces. The word "province" comes from the Latin word "provincia".

Canada, the Netherlands, Pakistan, Spain, and Denmark are examples of countries that are divided into provinces.

provinces are also given other names:

Departements usually have less power than provinces. States, Bundesländer and autonomous communities have more power than provinces.

Small countries like Singapore are not divided.

Province should not be confused with Provence, which is a region in France.


</doc>
<doc id="6618" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6618" title="Category:Months">
Category:Months

A year is divided into twelve months.


</doc>
<doc id="6621" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6621" title="Category:Canada">
Category:Canada


</doc>
<doc id="6623" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6623" title="Jade">
Jade

Jade is a kind of stone. We use the name "jade" for two different sorts of mineral. The first sort is nephrite. This is a form of actinolite (asbestos is a sort of actinolite, too). The second sort is the mineral jadeite, and it is a pyroxene. The first sort (nephrite) is harder than the second sort (jadeite). The first sort (jadeite) has more colors that the second sort (nephrite).

Nephrite is Ca(Mg, Fe)SiO(OH). 
Jadeite is NaAlSiO. 

The two sorts of jade look nearly the same. People only found that they were two different sorts in 1863. Jade is very hard. In the past, Chinese people and the Moaris used it to make knives and weapons. Later, when people could use metals, they liked jade because it looked nice and they thought it had special powers. Today people also use jade for jewelry.

Jade was found about 7000 years ago. The Chinese later made jewelry out of it. Only the rich could have jade because it was so rare and expensive. It was said that jade had healing powers and it was regarded as very lucky.


</doc>
<doc id="6625" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6625" title="Category:Ukrainian people">
Category:Ukrainian people

This category contains famous people from Ukraine.


</doc>
<doc id="6626" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6626" title="Viktor Yushchenko">
Viktor Yushchenko

Viktor Andriyovych Yushchenko (Віктор Андрійович Ющенко) (born February 23, 1954) is a previous President of Ukraine. On November 26, 2004, he lost the Ukrainian presidential election. However, he and his followers argued that the election had been corrupted. They argued that the election results had been falsified by the Ukrainian government, in support of the opposing candidate Victor Yanukovych. They organized political demonstrations in the autumn and winter of 2004 that gathered millions of people all over the country. They called the demonstrations "The Orange Revolution". The Constitutional Court ordered a second round of elections, which Yuschenko won.

Yushchenko claimed to have been poisoned by political enemies. Certainly, he was hospitalized and his appearance shows signs of a grave illness.

Yulia Tymoshenko and Yushchenko where once strong allies (during the Orange Revolution). Today there is a lot of political misunderstanding between Tymoshenko and Yushchenko.

In February 2010 Yushchenko lost the presidential election to Viktor Yanukovych. 

From December 1999 till May 2001 Yushchenko was the Ukrainian prime minister and from January 1993 till December 1999 head of the national bank of Ukraine.


</doc>
<doc id="6628" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6628" title="Category:Ukraine">
Category:Ukraine

In this category are pages about the country Ukraine


</doc>
<doc id="6630" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6630" title="Viktor Yanukovych">
Viktor Yanukovych

Viktor Fedorovych Yanukovych (Віктор Федорович Янукович) (born 1950) is the current President of Ukraine; he was Prime Minister of Ukraine from November 2002 until December 2004 (he was forced to resign (leave office early) on 31 December 2004). He again was Prime Minister of Ukraine from August 4, 2006 until December 18, 2007. He is the current leader of the Party of Regions the biggest political party of Ukraine. The party is part of the Ukrainian government.

In November 2004, he won the presidential election. Viktor Yushchenko, his opponent, said the result was false. Large daily demonstrations supporting Viktor Yushchenko followed. They were named "The Orange Revolution". Ukrainian Judges decided that there would be new elections in December 2004. Victor Yuschenko won those elections and is now president of Ukraine.

Yanukovych was supported by Vladimir Putin of Russia and by the former Ukrainian president Leonid Kuchma.

Yushchenko claimed to have been poisoned in a bid to silence his "orange power" base. Certainly, he was hospitalized and his appearance showed signs of a grave illness.

In February 2010, he won the presidential election; Yulia Tymoshenko, who lost the election with a 3.48% difference, said he won because of fraud.

Yanukovych was a victim of poverty in his childhood and was twice put in prison for violent crimes in his youth.



</doc>
<doc id="6631" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6631" title="Category:Planets">
Category:Planets

Planets are large objects which orbit around a star.


</doc>
<doc id="6632" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6632" title="Category:Moons">
Category:Moons

Moons are objects which orbit around planets.


</doc>
<doc id="6633" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6633" title="Category:Stars">
Category:Stars

Stars are very large objects in outer space which burn and produce light. Stars can be billions of years old. The Sun is a star.


</doc>
<doc id="6640" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6640" title="Salt">
Salt

In chemistry, a salt is any neutral chemical compound made of cations (positive ions) bound to anions (negative ions). The main type of salt is sodium chloride.

Solutions of salts in water are called electrolytes. Electrolytes, as well as molten salts, conduct electricity.

Salts can melt ice.

A salt can also be defined as an ionic compound which dissociates forming a positive ion other than hydrogen ion and a negative ion other than hydroxyl ion is called a salt.

The word "Salt" in English often means 'table salt' or 'edible salt' (salt that can be eaten). This kind of salt is made up mostly of "sodium chloride" (NaCl). It is one of the few minerals that are eaten a lot by humans, but it can be used for other things besides giving food its flavor.

There are different kinds of edible salt: unrefined salt (for example sea salt), refined salt (table salt), and iodized salt. It is a crystalline solid that has the color white, pale pink or light gray. It is usually taken from sea water or rock deposits. Natural sea salt has little parts and pieces of other minerals besides sodium chloride. Rock salts that can be eaten are sometimes a little grayish in color because of these other minerals.

Sodium (Na) and chlorine (Cl) are the two elements that make up sodium chloride. Both of these are needed for all living creatures, including humans, but they are not always eaten in the form of salt, where they are found together in large amounts. Some peoples, like the Yanomami tribe in South America, eat very little salt. Salt is used to control the amount of water in the body. Salt flavor is also one of the basic tastes. Salt cravings may be caused by not having enough minerals, like sodium chloride, in the body.

Eating too much salt can make health problems more likely to happen, for example high blood pressure. When food is made, salt is used as a preservative, to make the food last longer, and as a seasoning, for flavor.

There are different ways to get table salt:

Because salt can make things last longer, using it was one of the important things that let civilization get started in places like Egypt.
Salt was probably used there as long ago as 4000 BC. In ancient times, salt was worth much more, because it was hard to get, and could be used not only to give foods flavor, but also to make them last longer. Food could now be kept past its season, and taken on long trips.

People often traded salt for other things. It was of high value in China, Greece, the Middle East, and Africa. In the Mediterranean area, including Ancient Rome, salt was even used for money. The word "salary" comes from the Latin word for salt, because they paid people in salt. After people learned how to get salt from the ocean, salt became cheaper. The Phoenicians were some of the first to figure out how to do this, by pouring seawater on dry land. Then when it dried, they collected the salt and sold it.

Another use of salt was in war, as a way to punish a city by ruining its crops. This is called "salting the Earth". The Assyrians are said to have been one of the first to have done this to their neighbours.

Salts can be found in all different colours, like yellow (sodium chromate), orange (potassium dichromate), red (mercury sulfide), mauve (cobalt chloride hexahydrate), blue (copper sulfate pentahydrate, ferric hexacyanoferrate), green (nickel oxide), colorless (magnesium sulfate), white (titanium dioxide), and black (manganese dioxide). Most minerals and inorganic pigments, as well as many synthetic organic dyes, are salts.


</doc>
<doc id="6642" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6642" title="Business">
Business

A business is a method of organizing work, where one or more people offer to sell products or services to other people for more money than it costs them to make or give it. The word "business" comes from the word "busy" and means "being busy".

Some businesses are created to get more money for the owner of the business, others are created to give a service without getting more money, just to deliver the service and get "some" money.

The number of people who work for a business can be as low as one, such as a barbershop in a small village, or as many as hundreds of thousands of people all over the world, such as a company like Microsoft which makes computer software and some small electronic goods.

Some businesses do not need a fixed location, such as an office or a store. A carpenter or an electrician who works for himself usually brings everything they need for work in their truck. Fishermen who stay out at sea work out of their boats.

"Business" can also mean the work or current state of the business, as in "doing business" or "business is good".


</doc>
<doc id="6643" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6643" title="Winter">
Winter

Winter is the coldest time of the year. It is one of the four seasons. Winter comes after autumn and is before spring.

Winter begins on the winter solstice. In the Northern Hemisphere the winter solstice is usually December 21 or December 22. In the Southern Hemisphere the winter solstice is usually June 21 or June 22. The days become shorter and the nights become longer.

Some animals hibernate during this season. In temperate climates there are no leaves on deciduous trees in winter. One of the holidays in winter is Christmas.


</doc>
<doc id="6644" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6644" title="June 1">
June 1






</doc>
<doc id="6645" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6645" title="Category:Economics">
Category:Economics


</doc>
<doc id="6646" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6646" title="Junta">
Junta

A junta is a Spanish word that is used for military dictatorships.

Often juntas got their power because of a coup d'état.

Greece, Chile, Mauritania, Guatemala, South Vietnam, and El Salvador are examples of countries that were once ruled by juntas.

The most famous junta nowadays is that of Myanmar, but Myanmar is not the only country that is ruled by a junta now.

Some autonomous regional governments in Spain are also called junta.


</doc>
<doc id="6647" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6647" title="Category:Georgian people">
Category:Georgian people

This page is a list of people from the country of Georgia.


</doc>
<doc id="6648" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6648" title="Category:Russian people">
Category:Russian people

This page is a list of people from the country of Russia.


</doc>
<doc id="6649" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6649" title="Template:Calendar12">
Template:Calendar12


</doc>
<doc id="6650" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6650" title="Template:Calendar1">
Template:Calendar1


</doc>
<doc id="6651" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6651" title="Wikipedia:Calendars">
Wikipedia:Calendars

This page is to describe the usage and format of the various standard used to generate yearly calendars in article pages. These will usually be used in , like 2004.

Like many perpetual calendar systems, this one uses fourteen different year formats. There is one for each day of the week that the year begins on, and another for each equivalent leap year.
Each calendar will generate a link to the specified year at the top. Links to the month and days of the week articles are given. It will also provide links to articles related to individual days of the year (such as January 31), which contain significant daily anniversaries, holidays, and events. It will not link to "specific" days (such as September 11, 2001).
In order to use these, determine which generic calendar that year uses, and then copy the listed text into the page. You will usually include it as the first line of the page. Change "####" to the year you intend to use.

The links given in the table are just for convenience; when using the template, you'll only insert the plain text of the cell.

To insert this into a page, simply add <nowiki></nowiki> at the top of the desired page or section.

So that it is easy to see which years use a particular template, here is a reference. The number after each year refers to the numbered <nowiki></nowiki> template to be used.



</doc>
<doc id="6653" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6653" title="Template:Calendar">
Template:Calendar


</doc>
<doc id="6656" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6656" title="Nezahualcoyotl">
Nezahualcoyotl

Nezahualcoyotl (1402 - 1472) was king of Texcoco, a part of the Aztec empire. He was also a famous poet.

The name Nezahualcoyotl is Nahuatl, it means "hungry coyote".


</doc>
<doc id="6658" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6658" title="Miguel Hidalgo">
Miguel Hidalgo

Miguel Hidalgo y Costilla (8 May, 1753 – 30 July, 1811) was a Mexican priest. He started Mexico's war of independence against Spain. He was also a rebel at that time.

Hidalgo started a great revolt against Spain in 1810. After a few months he was taken prisoner and executed by firing squad. After he died, several other people, such as Vicente Guerrero, kept fighting against the Spanish until 1821, when Mexico became an independent country. Hidalgo is remembered today as a great liberator in Mexico.

The Mexican state of Hidalgo is named after him.


</doc>
<doc id="6659" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6659" title="Death penalty">
Death penalty

Death penalty, also called capital punishment, is when a government or state executes (kills) someone, usually because he or she has done a serious crime, such as murder.

The death penalty is a disputed and controversial topic.


About one third of the countries in the world have laws that allow the death penalty. The United States, The People's Republic of China, Japan and Iran are examples of countries that have a death penalty. Canada, Australia, Mexico and all members of Council of Europe are examples of countries that have abolished the death penalty.

Over half the countries in the world have gotten rid of the death penalty in law and practice: 75 countries have gotten rid of the capital punishment for all crimes and another 20 can be considered abolitionist in practice. The latter retain the death penalty in law but have not carried out any executions for the past 10 years or more.

Most of the countries that have a death penalty use it on murderers, and for other serious crimes such as rape or terrorism. Other countries especially ones with Authoritarian or Totalitarian governments, however, also use it for smaller crimes like theft, or for saying bad things about the government.

A study done in 2005 found that the following countries did the most executions:


It is common to have people executed for crimes like murder, but there are also other crimes that carry the death penalty. Some of these are:

During war time, the following crimes are often punished by death:

According to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights that became valid in 1976, people that were not at least eighteen years old at the time they committed the crime may not be executed. According to the European Convention on Human Rights, specifically its 13th amendment (2002), no one must be executed. 

Some people think the death penalty is a good thing, and others think it is a bad thing. Many people on both sides of the argument have very strong feelings. One side says the death penalty is good because it scares people away from doing things that could get them killed, the other side says there's a potential of executing an innocent man; one says justice, retribution, and punishment; the other side says that execution is murder. Most people know the threat of crime to their lives, but the question lies in the methods and action that should be used to deal with it. Throughout human history, governments and rulers have used many death penalty methods to execute people, such as crucifixion, flaying, and hanging. Some methods like crucifixion and flaying are no longer used by governments, because people think that these methods of killing are too cruel. The gas chamber was found unconstitutional in the United States (that is: against the US constitution not allowing "cruel and unusual punishments") and is no longer used.It can also be used in certain states for varying offenses.

The Council of Europe has abolished all death penalty by 13th amendment of the European Convention on Human Rights. Amnesty International oppose all death pernalty on ground of the right to life and prohibition of all tortures or any cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment insisted by Universal Declaration of Human Rights.

The following forms of execution are in use today.


</doc>
<doc id="6661" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6661" title="Kofi Annan">
Kofi Annan

Kofi Annan (born 8 April 1938 in Ghana) was the Secretary-General of the United Nations. His term began in 1 January 1997 and ended on 1 January 2007. He was replaced by Ban Ki-moon.

Annan was born in Kumasi, Ghana, to an elite family. His parents, Henry Reginald and Victoria Annan, are from the two major ethnic groups that make up the Akan – one of the groups of indigenous people of Ghana.

His father was half Asante and half Fante; his mother was Fante. The Asante were gold merchants while the Fante tribe were the middlemen in the gold trade between the Asante and the British.

Annan, whose first name means "born on a Friday", also had a twin sister, who died in 1991 from a still yet unknown disease. In Ghanaian culture, twins are considered special and are adored.

Annan probably got his first lessons in politics and diplomacy early on from his family. Both of Annan's grandfathers and his uncle were tribal chiefs. Upon his retirement, Annan's father, who worked as an export manager for the cocoa exporter Lever Brothers, was elected governor of Ghana's Asante province.

In 1954, Annan attended Mfantsipim School, an Methodist boarding school in central Ghana. The Secretary-General says that the school taught him "that suffering anywhere concerns people everywhere".

Annan went to Macalaster College in St. Paul, Minnesota and graduating in 1961. He was a Sloan Fellow at MIT in 1971–72, getting a master's degree in management. 

Annan became Secretary-General of the United Nations in January 1997, succeeding Boutros Boutros-Ghali of Egypt. Annan was a U.N. veteran who took his first job with the organization in 1962 and worked his way up through various posts including Deputy Director to the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees (1980–83) and head of the U.N.'s peacekeeping efforts (1995–96). Annan was the first Secretary-General chosen from the ranks of the U.N.'s staff. He is also the first black man to hold the post and the second African (after Boutros-Ghali). His second term began in 2002 and ran through the end of 2006. 

In 2001 he and the United Nations were awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for "for their work for a better organized and more peaceful world".

Annan is married to Nane Annan, a lawyer and artist from Sweden.


</doc>
<doc id="6662" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6662" title="United Nations General Assembly">
United Nations General Assembly

The United Nations General Assembly is made up of all United Nations member states. The Assembly meets once a year, which usually begins on the third Tuesday in September and ends in mid-December.

Voting in the General Assembly on important questions, for example suggestions on peace and security, is by two-thirds of those present and voting. Other questions are decided by popular vote. Each member country has one vote.



</doc>
<doc id="6663" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6663" title="Mining">
Mining

Mining is the process of taking things from the ground. Any material that cannot be grown must be mined. Mining things from the ground is called "extraction". Mining can include extraction of metals and minerals, like coal, gold, silver, platinum, copper, and iron. Mining can also include other things like oil and natural gas.

Some mining is done by scraping away the soil (dirt) from the top of the ground. This is called "strip mining". Some mining is done by going deep underground into a "mine shaft". This is called "underground mining". Some mining, such as gold mining, is done in other ways. Gold can be mined by searching in the bed of a river or other stream of water to remove the flakes of gold. This is called "panning" or "placer mining".

Mining is the only way to extract coal, a vital source of energy. These mines can be strip mines, or they can be hundreds of feet in the ground.

A person who works in a mine is called a miner.

Underground mining is a dangerous job. Many coal and copper mines have accidents. Several coal miners die every year from accidents. Safety rules and special safety equipment is used to try and protect miners from accidents.


</doc>
<doc id="6664" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6664" title="Bomber">
Bomber

A bomber is a type of airplane that is used to attack ground targets, mainly by dropping bombs. The first bombers were made at the start of World War I.

Bombers usually fly low to the ground and can fly at slow speeds. Because of this, bombers are not outfitted to fight other airplanes. To make up for this, bombers have many guns. 

Bombers in World War II had large crews, sometimes as many as 12 people. Usually a bomber had a pilot, a bombadier, a co-pilot/navigator, a nose gunner, a gunner on the bottom (which could shoot forwards and back, a tail gunner, a top gunner, and a couple of side gunners.

Bombers now have one or two people in them. The other positions have been replaced by computers. Bombers have very few guns on them partly because they are much faster. In bombing missions now, the pilot drops a bomb and leaves as quickly as possible. In the Vietnam War, bombers were made that could travel at Mach 2 or Mach 3, so a nuclear bomb could be dropped without killing the people in the airplane. This tactic was never used, obviously, but it changed the purpose of bombers.



</doc>
<doc id="6670" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6670" title="Category:Colors">
Category:Colors


</doc>
<doc id="6673" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6673" title="Huntingdon Life Sciences">
Huntingdon Life Sciences

Huntingdon Life Sciences (HLS) are the largest animal testing company in Europe. They are based in Huntingdon, Cambridgeshire, United Kingdom. They also have a laboratory in New Jersey, America. It is estimated that around 500 animals are killed at HLS in the UK every day. The UK lab carries out medical and product research for many organisations.

Many people feel strongly against HLS. The Stop Huntingdon Animal Cruelty (SHAC) campaign group are the main opposition group. SHAC were set up in 1999. The opposition to HLS has had many forms. While most animal rights people have used legal means of protest, some people have become extremists and done very bad things. Thus the opposition to HLS has become an example to many people of a good cause gone wrong.


</doc>
<doc id="6674" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6674" title="Huntingdon">
Huntingdon

Huntingdon is a town in Cambridgeshire in the United Kingdom. It stands on the River Ouse near the A1, a major road in England.

The town was chartered in 1205 and founded by Anglo-Saxons.

Huntingdon also has the largest meadow in England; Portholme Meadow. There are many small villages in Huntingdon, it has a high street and a main supermarket. The A14 runs through it.


</doc>
<doc id="6678" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6678" title="Condom">
Condom

A condom is a thin cover that is put on a man's penis and used during sexual intercourse. It is normally made of latex. Condoms are a form of birth control, they can prevent a pregnancy. They can also prevent the spread of certain sexually transmitted infections, such as gonorrhea, syphilis, or HIV. Another name for a condom is prophylactic sheath. 

In 2009, most condoms were made of latex. For people with latex allergy, plastic condoms are available.

The first condoms were made of tissue. Later models were made of the intestines of animals, such as sheep. Such condoms can still be found sometimes. Certain people prefer sheepskin condoms over latex ones, because sheepskin condoms can transfer body warmth better. However they do not prevent diseases as effectively as regular condoms.

Condoms are rolled up when they are packaged, and are meant to be rolled over an erect penis. They are most commonly made of latex, but are available in other materials. Condoms normally have an expiration date on them. Condoms weaken after this date, and may not work properly. Condoms are also not designed to be used more than once.

It is important to know how to use a condom before using one. If a mistake is made, the condom may not work. This happens a lot. When using a condom for the first time, it could help to try using it alone to get familiar with condoms without any danger.

Nowadays women also can use condoms. Like male condoms, they increase protection for partners from pregnancy and STD's. Female condoms look like a sheath with a flexible ring on both sides of this sheath. With these rings the condom is attached to the vagina. It covers the vagina and cervix to prevent sperm from getting inside the woman's uterus. It is necessary to know that female and male condom should not be used at the same time. In this case both condoms may rub against each other and this will result in failure.

There are two ways to see how effective condoms are. They are method effectiveness, where how many couples that use the condom every time they have sex properly do not get pregnant are looked at; and actual effectiveness, where the number of people that use condoms either correctly or incorrectly and do not get pregnant are looked at. Most studies show results of effectiveness over a year.

The method failure rate of condoms is 2% per year. The actual failure rate is different in different places, and the rates can be anywhere between 10 and 18% per year.

According to a 2001 study by the National Institutes of Health, correct and consistent condom use:

Other sexually-transmitted infections may be affected as well, but they could not draw definite conclusions from the research they were working with. In particular, these include STIs associated with ulcerative lesions that may be present on body surfaces where the condom does not cover, such as human papillomavirus (HPV), genital herpes simplex (HSV), chancroid, and syphilis. If contact is made with uncovered lesions, transmission of these STIs may still occur despite appropriate condom use. Additionally, the absence of visible lesions or symptoms cannot be used to decide whether caution is needed.

An article in "The American Journal of Gynecologic Health" showed that "all women who correctly and consistently used Reality® were protected from trichomonas vaginalis" (referring to a particular brand of female condom).

The most common reason for a condom failing is that the user has not put it on properly. A condom can also fail because it has been damaged, because the latex has weakened, or because it has come off the penis during sexual intercourse. Something else that can cause a condom to not work as it should, is sabotage. This is when one of the partners wants a baby, but the other one does not. Usually they pierce a condom with a sharp object, making the condom useless. Some people see it as not ethical, because one of the two sex partners does it without the other one's knowledge. There are websites that show how to do it, if the woman wants a baby, but the man does not.

One method of testing condoms for microscopic holes involves placing the condom being tested over one conducting form with another on the other side of the condom. If the condom does not prevent an electric current from flowing between the two conducting forms, it fails the test. Holes in condoms are unlikely if proper handling conditions (see below) are followed.

Several religious communities (like Catholic Christians, Muslims, and some of the Protestant Christians) see problems if condoms are used:




</doc>
<doc id="6679" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6679" title="St. Petersburg">
St. Petersburg

St. Petersburg can refer to one of two cities:



</doc>
<doc id="6684" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6684" title="Osaka">
Osaka

Osaka (大阪) is the third largest city of Japan. It is in the Kansai region. It is the capital of Osaka prefecture and the economic and cultural center of the Kansai region. Osaka is located on the mouth of the River Yodo and on the Osaka Bay at the eastern end of the Seto Inland Sea. Since 1980 it had been the second largest city in Japan. Sometimes it is called by its historical name "Naniwa".

Because it is located by the sea it is good for transportation. That is why an ancient emperor made Osaka the capital city. In the early part of the 8th century Naniwa was one of capitals of Japan. In the middle of the 16th century Toyotomi Hideyoshi founded Osaka castle and governed Japan in Osaka. The basis of development of Osaka was prepared in those times. Osaka castle was destroyed once by Tokugawa Ieyasu but Ieyasu choose Osaka as one of the political centers in the Western Japan. He made Osaka a direct dominion of the shogun. During the Edo period Osaka was a center of commerce, finance, pharmacy and other products. It was a center for literature and theater. Kabuki in Osaka is as famous as Kabuki in Edo and Kyoto. It is also known for bunraku (a traditional puppet theater) and manzai (a kind of stand-up comedy).

The people of Osaka enjoy their food. Traditional dishes include okonomiyaki (pan-fried batter cake) and takoyaki (octopus dumplings). Many people speak a dialect called Osaka-Ben (e.g. "oukini"="thank you").

After the Meiji restoration Osaka was modernized and industrialized. It was a center of Japanese industry. After the World War II its economical importance was relatively less because Tokyo grew as an international city and many companies moved their headquarters to Tokyo. But Osaka is still a large, important city.

The most famous theme park in Osaka is UNIVERSAL STUDIOS JAPAN. It is called USJ. There are shows, popular characters and musicals. So, everyone can enjoy from adult to children.


</doc>
<doc id="6688" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6688" title="Template:Calendar7">
Template:Calendar7


</doc>
<doc id="6689" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6689" title="Category:Saints">
Category:Saints

Saints are special holy people in the Christian religion.


</doc>
<doc id="6693" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6693" title="Piano">
Piano

The piano (or pianoforte to give it its proper name) is a musical instrument with a keyboard. A normal piano has 88 keys. Pianos use the keys to move hammers that hit strings inside, making a sound. Pianos come in two basic shapes: grand pianos and upright pianos. The piano has been an extremely popular instrument in Western classical music since the late 18th century. A person who plays the piano is called a pianist.

The piano was invented by Bartolomeo Cristofori of Padua, Italy. He made his first piano in 1709. It developed from the clavichord which looks like a piano but the strings of a clavichord are hit by a small blade of metal called a “tangent” . In the piano the strings are hit by a hammer. The early keyboarded instruments, such as the clavichords, harpsichords and organs that were used at that time, had a much shorter keyboard than they do today. This means they had fewer octaves, this means that music can be played however, will be played and sound with a smaller range of pitch. Gradually the keyboard became longer until it had the 88 notes (7 octaves plus three notes) of the modern piano.

At first the instrument was called the “fortepiano”. This means “loud-soft” in Italian. It was given this name because it could be played either loudly or softly, depending on how hard the note was hit (the harpsichord could not do this, and the clavichord could only make a tiny difference between louder and softer). Later this name changed to “pianoforte”. This is normally shortened to “piano”. The word “fortepiano” is sometimes used to describe the pianos of the late 18th and early 19th centuries. In some languages, such as Russian, “fortepiano” is the normal word for a piano.
Although the piano was invented at the beginning of the 18th century, it was not until 50 years later that it started to become popular. The first time the piano was played in a public concert in London was in 1768 when it was played by Johann Christian Bach. The upright piano was invented in 1800 by John Isaac Hawkings. Seven years later T. Southwell invented “overstringing”. This means that the strings for the low notes go diagonally across the soundboard so that they can be longer and make a much bigger sound.

The early pianos had strings that were fastened to a frame made of wood. They were not very heavy, but they were not very strong or loud, so they could not be heard very well in a big concert hall. In 1825 the cast-iron frame was invented in America. This made the piano much stronger so that it could make a bigger sound and the strings were not likely to break.

A piano has a keyboard with white keys and black keys. When a key is pressed down, the damper comes off the string and a hammer hits the string. It hits it very quickly and bounces off so that the string is free to vibrate and make a sound. When the player takes his finger off the key the damper falls back onto the string and the sound stops. The strings are stretched very tightly across the frame, passing over a bridge on the way. The bridge touches the soundboard. This means that the vibrations are sent to the soundboard. The soundboard is a very important part of the piano. If it is damaged the piano will not make a good sound.

The mechanism which makes the hammer bounce off the string very quickly is called the “escapement”. In 1821 Sebastian Erard invented a kind of double escapement. This made it possible to repeat the note very quickly. The hammer only touches the string for about one thousandth of a second. The hammers are covered with felt which is a mixture of wool, silk and hair.

The piano has two pedals. Larger pianos have three.




Once the piano became popular in the late 18th century many composers wrote music for the piano. Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart started to learn on harpsichords when he was very small, but the piano was becoming popular when he was a young man and he wrote many sonatas and concertos for the piano. Franz Joseph Haydn also wrote a lot of piano music. Ludwig van Beethoven was a very famous pianist before he became very famous as a composer. His piano compositions include 5 concertos and 32 sonatas. In the Romantic period many composers wrote for the piano. They include Franz Schubert, Robert Schumann, Johannes Brahms, and Franz Liszt. Later composers include Sergei Rakhmaninov, Claude Debussy, Maurice Ravel, Sergei Prokofiev, Dmitri Shostakovich and Bela Bartok.

Some famous piano players from the early days of the piano include Dussek, Mozart, Clementi, John Field and Chopin. In the 19th century Franz Liszt was a very great influence on the piano by composing and performing very difficult music. Other great pianists include Clara Schumann and Anton Rubinstein. 20th century pianists include Artur Schnabel, Vladimir Horowitz, Josef Hofmann, Wilhelm Kempff, Dinu Lipati, Claudio Arrau, Artur Rubinstein, Sviatoslav Richter, Alfred Brendel. Among the greatest pianists today are Vladimir Ashkenazy, Daniel Barenboim, Leif Ove Andsnes, Boris Berezovsky and Evgeny Kissin.

Pianists who play popular music include Liberace, Jerry Lee Lewis, Jimmy Swaggart, Little Richard, Elton John, Billy Joel, Thelonious Monk, Tori Amos and Ray Charles. Perhaps the greatest jazz pianist was Fats Waller.

The piano has been a very popular instrument ever since the mid 18th century when it soon replaced the clavichord and the harpsichord. By the early 19th century the sound that the piano made was big enough to fill large concert halls. Smaller pianos were made for use in people’s homes. At first these included square pianos and giraffe pianos, later on the upright pianos became popular for home use. Pianos are not often used in orchestras (if they are, they are part of the percussion section). They may, however, be used for piano concertos (pieces for solo pianist accompanied by orchestra). There is a vast amount of music written for piano solo. The piano can also be used together with other instruments, in jazz groups, and for accompanying singing.

Music for the piano is normally written on two staves: the upper stave is for the right hand, the lower stave for the left hand. Much of the time the right hand music is written in the treble clef, the left hand music in the bass clef. 

Pianists have to learn many things. It is important to sit comfortably with a straight back so that hands can reach all the keys. The hands should be shaped like a ball so that the fingers are curved. They should be able to control the sound they make with the weight of the arm and fingers. Lots of practice is needed to become a good pianist. Some people can play the piano very well “by ear”, but learning to read music helps a person to become a better pianist and musician. Playing the piano helps people to understand harmony because the piano can play chords.

Pianos need to be tuned regularly. A piano tuner is a person whose job it is to tune pianos. 

The Italian word “piano” (abbreviated to “p”) is used in music to show that music should be played softly. It is pronounced in the Italian way (Pee-AH-no). When we talk about the musical instrument we pronounce it the English way (PYAN-no). 




</doc>
<doc id="6695" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6695" title="Channel Islands">
Channel Islands

The Channel Islands are a group of islands near the coast of France. The five largest islands are: 

The main industries are tourism, horticulture (growing plants for food) and financial services (businesses to do with money). Most people speak English, although some people in Guernsey, Jersey and Sark still speak the traditional language of their island. 

Constitutionally, the islands are part of the British crown, but are not part of the United Kingdom. Being part of the mediaeval duchy of Normandy, allegiance is owed to the Queen but not to the Parliament of the United Kingdom, which cannot pass laws for the Bailiwick of Guernsey and the Bailiwick of Jersey except for defence and diplomatic matters, except if the bailiwicks ask it to. In general, the bailiwicks are self-governing, but they often pass laws which are like United Kingdom laws. However some of their laws are still based on Norman law.


</doc>
<doc id="6697" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6697" title="Hedonism">
Hedonism

Hedonism is a type of philosophy. Hedonism can be generally summed up as a belief that "pleasure is the highest good" or that "whatever causes pleasure is right." 

In Hedonism, people think that what makes them happy is good. Things that avoid pain are also good. Hedonism is focused around pleasure. There are different beliefs in hedonism. Some people believe it is important to get as many pleasurable experiences as possible, others believe that the quality of the pleasure matters. They think there are higher and lower pleasures. Some well known Hedonists were John Stuart Mill and Jeremy Bentham.

Many people also believe Hedonism is related to sex. This is not true. Sex can be a very pleasurable experience, but when philosophers talk about Hedonism, they think more about the pleasure of reading a good book, listening to classical music, or discussing with other philosophers.

Two types of Hedonism are Cyrenaicism and Epicureanism. Cyrenaicism is where people make themselves happy in the fastest amount of time. Epicureanism is where people like to be happy but they do so slowly so that they cause less pain to themselves. They also look more into the future and go for the higher pleasures in life.


</doc>
<doc id="6706" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6706" title="Shinkansen">
Shinkansen

The Shinkansen (新幹線) is a group of high speed railway lines in Japan, upon which the famous "Bullet Trains" run.

The Shinkansen are run by the many companies of Japan Railway. In the past, Japan Railway was called "Japanese National Railways" It is now one group of private companies.

The name "Bullet Train" is the English translation of the Japanese word "dangan ressha" (弾丸列車), which was the name given to the project while it was being made in the 1940s. Nowadays, the trains are called Shinkansen trains. The name Shinkansen means "New Trunk Line". The trains are called "Super Expresses".

Japan was the first country to build railway lines for high speed travel. Because Japan has many mountains, the network that already existed was made of 3'6" gauge (1067 mm) narrow gauge lines, which tended to take non-direct routes and could not be adapted to higher speeds. Because of this, Japan had a greater need for new high speed lines than countries where the existing standard gauge or broad gauge rail system could be upgraded easily. Unlike the older lines, Shinkansen lines are standard gauge, and use tunnels and viaducts to go through and over obstacles, rather than around them.

Construction of the first section of the Tokaido Shinkansen between Tokyo and Osaka started in 1959. The line opened on October 1, 1964, just in time for the Tokyo Olympics. The line was an immediate success, reaching the 100 million passenger mark in less than three years on July 13, 1967 and one billion passengers in 1976.

The first Shinkansen trains ran at speeds of up to 200 km/h (125 mph), later increased to 220 km/h (135 mph). Some of these trains, with their classic bullet-nosed appearance, are still in use for stopping services between Hakata and Osaka. A driving car from one of the original trains is now in the British National Railway Museum in York. 

Many more advanced models of train followed the first type, generally each with its own distinctive appearance. Shinkansen trains now run regularly at speeds of up to 300 km/h (185 mph), putting them among the fastest trains running in the world, along with the French TGV and German ICE trains.

Originally meant to carry passenger and freight trains by day and night, the Shinkansen lines carry only passenger trains. The system shuts down
between midnight and 6:00 every day to allow maintenance to take place, including the running of Doctor Yellow test trains. The few overnight trains that still run in Japan run on the old narrow gauge network which the Shinkansen runs parallel to.

In 2003, JR Tokai reported that the Shinkansen's average arrival time was within 6 seconds of the scheduled time. This includes all natural and human accidents and errors and is calculated from about 160,000 trips Shinkansen made. The previous record was from 1997 and was 18 seconds.

The first derailment of a Shinkansen train in passenger service occurred during the Chuetsu Earthquake on October 23, 2004. 6 of the total of 8 cars of the train on the Joetsu Shinkansen derailed near Nagaoka Station in Nagaoka, Niigata.

In recent years, due to noise pollution, increasing speed is getting harder. Thus, the current research is aimed to reduce the amount of noise, mainly when trains exit a tunnel.

Three extensions are under construction for opening by 2014-2018: Nagano-Kanazawa, Aomori-Hakodate and Takeo-Onsen-Isahaya.

The Shinkansen goes up to 300km/h.


Two further lines, known as Mini-Shinkansen (ミニ新幹線), have also been constructed by upgrading existing sections of line:


Another standard gauge line using Shinkansen trains is not considered to be a Shinkansen line:


The following lines are under development:


Most Shinkansen lines that were proposed during the boom of the early 1970s have been postponed indefinitely. These include a link to Shikoku by the Honshu-Shikoku bridge system, a link from Tokyo to New Tokyo International Airport, and a route covering the entire Sea of Japan coast of Honshu.





</doc>
<doc id="6707" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6707" title="Template:Particles">
Template:Particles


</doc>
<doc id="6708" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6708" title="Template:Leptons">
Template:Leptons


</doc>
<doc id="6709" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6709" title="Copper">
Copper

Copper is a chemical element. It is the 29th element on the periodic table. It has 29 protons. Its mass number is 63.55. It is a transition metal. It is in the middle of the periodic table. The symbol for copper is "Cu", which comes from the Latin word "cuprum", which, in turn, came from the Latin word for the island of Cyprus, where copper was found. 

It is a reddish-coloured metal. It is a pinkish color when it is new, but turns a redish orange color after it is exposed to air. It is very flexible and ductile. That means that it can be stretched into wires easily. It can be drawn into a wire thinner than a human hair! Copper is also very soft, it has a Moh's hardness of 2,5 to 3. That means that it is harder than a fingernail but softer than a steel pocketknife. It is also one of the few colored metals. Most metals are gray or silver. Gold, copper, and osmium are the only three colored metals. It conducts electricity and heat very well.

It is more pink when pure and turns reddish when exposed to air. The reddish color is a thin layer of corrosion on the copper (copper(I) oxide). Copper can also turn black when heated. This is because of a coating of copper(II) oxide. It can also turn green. This is because of a coating of copper(II) carbonate and copper(II) hydroxide. In other words, it turns green because it oxidises. Copper corrodes in solutions having sulfides. It reacts with solutions of hydrochloric acid or ammonia containing oxygen. It can also dissolve in a mixture of hydrogen peroxide and hydrochloric acid. This makes copper(II) chloride. It does not dissolve in plain acids. It can dissolve in nitric acid to make copper(II) nitrate and nitrogen dioxide or nitric oxide.
It forms chemical compounds. Copper in these compounds has two normal oxidation states. +2 is most common. Most +2 copper compounds are blue. +1 copper compounds can be white. Copper compounds are weak oxidizing agents. They corrode many metals. This corrosion takes the metal and puts it in the chemical compound, leaving the copper behind. An example would be iron and copper(II) sulfate reacting to make copper and iron(II) sulfate. +1 copper compounds are reducing agents when in air. They are normally made by reduction of +2 compounds.

Copper compounds can be black, green, reddish, white, blue, or yellow.

Copper can be found as a metal in the ground. Normally, it is green on the outside. Most copper is not as a metal but in chemical compounds. Chalcopyrite is the most common copper ore. It is a mixture of pyrite and copper sulfide. Copper is found in small amounts in living things. Some mollusks and arthropods have blue blood because they have copper in their blood. Animals such as humans and other mammals have red blood because it contains iron.

Copper is sometimes just taken out of the ground and shaped into objects. But most copper is not in a metal form in the ground. Chalcopyrite is the main copper ore. It is heated with air to separate the iron as iron(II) oxide. Some copper(I) oxide is made. Sulfur dioxide is also made. Then silicon dioxide is added, which reacts with the iron(II) oxide to make a liquid which is drained. Now only copper and sulfide are left. The copper sulfide reacts with air to make copper metal and sulfur dioxide. Some copper sulfide reacts with the copper(I) oxide to make copper and sulfur dioxide. This makes impure copper.

Copper is made pure by electrolyzing it. A thin sheet of pure copper is put on the cathode and a thick sheet of impure copper is put on the anode. The electrolyte is copper sulfate. The impure copper gets dissolved in the solution. It then coats the thin sheet of pure copper. This makes the copper pure.

Large amounts of copper are recycled because of its high value and the increasing depletion of worldwide copper reserves.
Copper may be the oldest metal in use, as very old copper tools have been found. Copper is used in electrical wiring. It can also be shaped into various parts. It can be used in a heat sink. The Statue of Liberty is made of copper. It is also used in pipes carrying water, because it does not corrode.

When people mix copper with tin, bronze is made. Bronze is an important metal because it can be shaped into useful things, but it was more important before the use of iron. When zinc is mixed with copper, brass is made. It can be alloyed with nickel to make cupronickel.

Copper is important in the human body. If a person does not get enough copper, the molecules in the body might not work. Having too much copper, though, can be a problem. Humans get most of the copper they need from food, and vitamins also contain copper to make sure we get enough. Copper compounds are also used to kill fungi and algae.

Copper is not toxic as a metal. Copper compounds are toxic though, although small amounts are needed to live. Copper is expelled from the body easily, so it does not build up in toxic effects. 



</doc>
<doc id="6710" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6710" title="Prince">
Prince

A prince is a male member of a royal family. A female prince is known as princess.

Each royal family has its own rules saying who is called a prince. In most of these families, the son of a king or a queen is a prince. In some families, the son of a prince is also a prince. In Monaco and Lichtenstein, the ruler of the country is called the prince.


</doc>
<doc id="6711" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6711" title="Princess">
Princess

A princess is a female member of a royal family, especially a daughter of a monarch. A son of a monarch is called a prince. In some cases a woman can become a princess by marrying a king.
A princess may also become a ruler by heredity or by marriage.
Sometimes the expression "princess" is used when a female has noble qualities such as kindness, charity, and virtue.


</doc>
<doc id="6712" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6712" title="Ore">
Ore

An ore is a mineral which has a metal inside it. Ores are usually extracted by being mined but can sometimes be found on the Earth's surface. The metal in ore is often valuable. There are different ways to get the metal out of the ore.


</doc>
<doc id="6713" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6713" title="Gainesville, Florida">
Gainesville, Florida

Gainesville is a city located in north-central Florida in the United States. It is the county seat of Alachua County

It is home to the University of Florida, the largest public university in the state. An alligator (Gator) named Albert is the mascot of the University of Florida. (A mascot is a symbol of qualities the school admires) 
People think that growth of the city comes from building the university in the city. People of the city show their strong good feelings for the university by going to football games there, and by showing "Gator" symbols in businesses and homes.

The city is also famous as the birthplace of singer Tom Petty.


</doc>
<doc id="6714" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6714" title="University of Florida">
University of Florida

The University of Florida (UF) is a public university that is in Gainesville, Florida in the United States. The campus is 2,000 acres and has more than 900 structures, as well as other locations in the state of Florida. Important research activities at the university are in medicine, at Shands Hospital, and in agriculture. The mascot of UF is an alligator, and students and fans of the university's athletic teams are often called "Gators."


</doc>
<doc id="6715" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6715" title="X-Men">
X-Men

The fictional characters, the X-Men, are a team of superheroes who were born with special mutant powers, making them different from regular humans. The X-Men characters are owned by Marvel Comics, which publishes comic books featuring them as well as many other superheroes. The comic book was one of the first to combine social issues and commentary into a superhero story, set in a world where people with mutant abilities are hated by those born without them. This is similar to acts of racism seen throughout history. Unlike "some" mutants, the X-Men try to be good and show tolerance toward humans and other mutants.

The original X-Men, as created by writer Stan Lee and Jack Kirby, were 
and all first appeared in "X-Men #1" (Sept 1963). 

The leader and mentor of the X-Men is Professor Charles Xavier, who is more commonly known as "Professor X" and has mental powers.

Some other well-known X-Men include 

Some of the X-Men's enemies include Magneto, Mystique, Sabretooth, Toad, Juggernaut, Mister Sinister and Apocalypse.

The X-Men characters have since been featured in various comic book series, motion pictures, toys, animated series, and much more.


</doc>
<doc id="6717" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6717" title="Iron Man">
Iron Man

Iron Man is a superhero created by Marvel Comics. He created a suit of armor when he was hurt by a piece of shrapnel while visiting Southeast Asia. 
Iron Man can fly using boot jets, shoot energy from his gloves called repulser blasts. He is not hurt by most weapons like guns and cannons.
Iron Man's real name is Tony Stark. He is the owner of a large American company called "Stark Industries" in his private life.


</doc>
<doc id="6723" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6723" title="Template:Barroso Commission">
Template:Barroso Commission


</doc>
<doc id="6725" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6725" title="Andris Piebalgs">
Andris Piebalgs

Andris Piebalgs (born September 17, 1957, in Valmiera) is a Latvian politician. Since 22 November 2004 he has been the European Commissioner for Energy.

He was born in Valmiera and was educated at the University of Latvia in Riga. He worked as a teacher in Valmiera in the 1980s. After Latvia became independent from the USSR he was education minister (in charge of schools) from 1990 to 1993, and finance minister (in charge of money) from 1994 to 1995. He was Latvia's ambassador to Estonia from 1995 to 1997, and to the European Union from 1998 to 2003, when he helped Latvia join the EU. He also helped to start a political party called the Latvian Way.

He speaks Latvian, English, German, French, and Russian, and some Estonian.

Before he was made a European Commissioner Piebalgs worked for Sandra Kalniete, a member of the last Commission.



</doc>
<doc id="6727" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6727" title="Category:Chilean people">
Category:Chilean people

In this category are famous people from the South American country of Chile.


</doc>
<doc id="6728" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6728" title="Augusto Pinochet">
Augusto Pinochet

General Augusto José Ramón Pinochet Ugarte (November 25, 1915 – December 10, 2006) was a Chilean army general and president who led Chile from 1973 to 1990. He became leader after he overthrew Salvador Allende, a socialist president.

About 3,000 Chilean people died because of Pinochet's rule and many other people were tortured. Many of the people that died during Pinochet's rule were communists, however many of Pinochet's supporters died as well.

Pinochet introduced many neoliberal free market policies, bringing growth and great economic progress to Chile.

The coup d'état that was launched to overthrow Allende and put Pinochet in power was supported by the United States, as was Pinochet's regime.

In 1988, there was a plebiscite in Chile. The people were asked whether Pinochet should rule for another eight and a half years. About 56% of the people did not want that. Pinochet respected the wish of the people, and stepped down from power in 1990. Patricio Aylwin became the next president. Pinochet kept his responsibilities as head of the military until 1998. After this, he became a senator. He left the senate in 2002, but he was not arrested because the Supreme Court of Chile said he suffered from dementia. In May 2004, judges said that was not true. On December 13 he was placed under house arrest.

He died from heart failure on December 10, 2006. He had had a heart attack a week earlier.


</doc>
<doc id="6732" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6732" title="Plasma (physics)">
Plasma (physics)

Plasma is a form (also called "state") of matter. The three other common states of matter are solids, liquids and gases, so plasma is sometimes called the fourth state of matter. Plasma is made by heating a gas until its atoms and molecules break up (called ionization) into negatively charged electrons, and positively charged ions. Unlike the other states of matter, the charged particles in a plasma will react strongly to electric and magnetic fields (ie. electromagnetic fields). If a plasma gets cold, the ions will re-form into a gas.

Over 99% of the matter in the universe is believed to be plasma. When the atoms in a gas are broken up, the pieces are called electrons and ions. Because these pieces have an electric charge, they are pulled together or pushed apart by electric fields and magnetic fields. This makes a plasma act different from a gas. For example, magnetic fields can be used to hold a plasma, but not to hold a gas. Plasma is a better conductor of electricity than copper.

Plasma is usually very, very hot, because it takes very high temperatures to break the bonds between electrons and the nuclei of the atoms. Sometimes plasmas can have very high pressure, like in stars. Stars (including our own Sun) are mostly made of plasma. Plasmas can also have very low pressure, like in outer space.

On earth lightning and aurora make plasma. Artificial (man-made) uses of plasma include fluorescent lightbulbs, neon signs, and plasma displays used for television or computer screens. Scientists are experimenting with plasma to make a new kind of nuclear power, called fusion, which would be much better and safer than ordinary nuclear power, and would produce much less radioactive waste.





</doc>
<doc id="6742" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6742" title="Puebla (state)">
Puebla (state)

Puebla is a state of Mexico. The capital of Puebla is also called Puebla. The volcanos Malinche, Popocatépetl and Iztaccíhuatl are in the state of Puebla.


</doc>
<doc id="6743" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6743" title="Dan Aykroyd">
Dan Aykroyd

Daniel Edward Aykroyd (born in Ottawa on July 1,1952) is a Canadian actor in theater and motion pictures. He also is a script writer, director and producer

Aykroyd was born in Ottawa Ontario, Canada. His parents were Peter and Lorraine Aykroyd. He studied criminology and social science at Carleton University. He dropped out to join a Toronto acting company. Later he went to the United States to pursue his acting career in movies.

Dan Aykroyd is a dedicated Blues fan. For some time he hosted a radio program. He used the alias Elwood Blues. This alias he would later use in the motion pictures The Blues Brothers and Blues Brothers 2000. The first of these movies was co-starred by John Belushi, the second one by John Goodman.

Aykroyd is married to Donna Dixon. They are parents of 3 daughters. Dan's brother Peter Ayrkroyd is a researcher.






</doc>
<doc id="6744" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6744" title="John Belushi">
John Belushi

John Belushi (January 24, 1949 - March 5, 1982) was a American actor in movies and television shows.

Belushi was born in Chicago, Illinois. His parents were immigrants from Albania. His brother is James Belushi, who is also an actor.

John was co-captain of the football team in high school as well as homecoming king in his senior year. In school he was already active in acting, but wanted to become a baseball-coach. His drama-teacher pursued him to become a professional actor.

He appeared mainly in TV shows, and was one of the founders of "Saturday Night Live". His "Blues Brothers" act with Dan Aykroyd was famous, long before "The Blues Brothers" movie (1980).

Unfortunately Belushi became a drug addict. He used both heroin and cocaine, and a lot of both. When "The Blues Brothers" was made, he spent about $40,000 to $70,000 a week on drugs.

John Belushi died in 1982 from a drug overdose.


</doc>
<doc id="6745" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6745" title="The Blues Brothers">
The Blues Brothers

The Blues Brothers (Elwood Blues and Joliet "Jake" Blues) are fictional characters which became well known from the TV show "Saturday Night Live". 

Elwood Blues was first played by Dan Aykroyd, in his radio program on Blues music. Jake Blues was played by John Belushi.

In 1980, Aykroyd and Belushi starred in the movie called "The Blues Brothers", playing again the same characters from TV. Unfortunately, Belushi died only two years later, due to a drug overdose. A sequel called "Blues Brothers 2000" (1998) starred John Goodman as new partner to Dan Aykroyd but it was not as successful as the first movie.

Both movies were made by Universal Pictures.

The movie version of the popular characters was directed by John Landis. 

Jake and Elwood are sent off by Sister Mary Stigmata of the orphanage to raise money. The money is needed to pay taxes, otherwise the orphanage will be shut down. They try to do this by getting their band back together again.


"Joliet" Jake Blues is released from jail. His brother, Elwood, picks him up in a former police car. They go to the orphanage they grew up in, since Jake promised the orphanage "Mother Superior" (nicknamed "The Penguin"). There they find out that the orphanage is in need of money, for taxes. Jake and Elwood are sent off to earn it, but in a legal manner. From the start they are under continuous attention of the police. But Elwood does not mind; they wreck a complete shopping mall (Dixie Square Mall in Harvey, Illinois) in a police chase. They arrive at Elwood's apartment, which is located directly next to an elevated railway. After a night's sleep the apartment is blown up by a mystery woman, right at the moment of a police raid.

The brothers have to find their former band members. They find "Bones" Malone and some others playing Latin music in a nightclub, as "Murph and the Magic Tones". Mr. Fabulous is maitre d' at a chic restaurant "Chez Paul". They convince him to join by ordering expensive bottles of champagne, and by acting like pigs, offending the other guests. They find Matt 'Guitar' Murphy and Blue Lou working in a diner. The place is run by Matt's wife, and she does not want them to join the band. Aretha Franklin, playing Matt's wife makes this clear in the song "Think!", but they go anyway. The next stop is Ray's Music Exchange, run by Ray Charles. Ray nearly shoots a boy who wants to steal a guitar (considering Ray is blind, that's amazing!). They sign an IOU for the equipment.

On the way to find the other members, they spoil a march of the Neo Nazi "American Socialist White People Party". The marching members are forced to jump off a bridge into a pond to save themselves. When the brothers try to call their booking agent, the payphone is torched by the mystery woman. Fortunately they survive, and find a couple of dollars change. The Neo Nazis in the meantime find out Elwood's address (which is faked: 1060 West Addison in Chicago is Wrigley Field, home of the Chicago Cubs). 

The Blues Brothers end up in a Country & Western club, "Bob's Country Bunker". They steal the gig of the "Good Ole Boys". When Elwood asks "What kinds of music do you usually play here?", the answer is: "Why we have both kinds-Country "and" Western!". They are protected from beer bottles by chickenwire as they try their first song, but the audience get crazy. So they decide to do "Rawhide", and "Stand By Your Man", along with some other songs. At the end of the performance they owe the owner $100 (the beertab). They have to run from the owner, and from the real Good Ole Boys. On the run, the Good Ole Boys' camper is wrecked by a police car in pursuit.

They blackmail Maury (their agent) into booking the "Palace Hotel Ballroom" with 5,000 seats. All kids in the neighborhood help in selling the tickets. Elwood and Jake end up in a gas-station that is out of gas, and the gig starts without them. Cab Calloway sings the opening song "Minnie the Moocher". Both the police and the Good Ole Boys find out where the gig is. When the brothers finally arrive, they sabotage the Good Ole Boys' car. They do two songs, "Sweet Home, Chicago", and "Come On". They are offered a record contract, and are paid $10,000 in advance.

They flee through a tunnel, being shot at by the mystery woman. She turns out to be Jake's ex-bride, whom he stood up at their wedding. Jake begs for their lives, and even takes off his sunglasses! They seem to fall in love all over again, but Jake leaves her behind.

In a crazy car chase the Good Ole Boys end up in a lake, hundreds of police cars are wrecked and the Neo Nazis cannot brake on an unfinished bridge. The Brothers succeed in getting to the tax office, pursued by police, special units, choppers and the army. They are arrested right after paying the taxes. Back in jail, the band plays their final song, "Jailhouse Rock".

Despite the name, this sequel (second story based on the first) came out in 1998.

A twenty-fifth anniversary edition DVD came out on August 30, 2005.


</doc>
<doc id="6748" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6748" title="Arnhem">
Arnhem

Arnhem is a city in the Netherlands. It is the capital of the eastern province Guelders (Gelderland). Arnhem has 147,244 citizens (as of January 1, 2010), the agglomeration 722,181 (Arnhem-Nijmegen conurbation). It is in the top-15 of largest cities in the Netherlands.

The history of Arnhem goes back to the Middle Ages. Arnhem got city-rights in 1233 from the Count of Zutphen. The exact text is still kept in the "Duivelshuis" (Devil's house) which is now part of Arnhem's City Hall.

In 1850 Arnhem had 9,000 citizens. The city became popular with wealthy people from the western part of the Netherlands. 

During the World War II Arnhem was severely damaged. The Battle of Arnhem in 1944 is the sad story of UK and Polish paratroopers who fought to get control of the Rhine-bridge. According to the plan of Field Marshal Montgomery, Arnhem was the last in a series of bridges which would be taken by paratroopers. At the same time a ground-army would advance from the Belgium-Dutch border across all these bridges. This operation was called Operation Market Garden. Market for the Airborne-element and Garden to represent the Ground-forces. Arnhem would be the responsibility of the British paratroopers, and would be the last bridge to be crossed by the ground forces. General John Frost succeeded in taking the Arnhem bridge from the Germans. Due to several reasons Frost had to retreat, and the bridge was again in German control. The movie A Bridge Too Far is about this battle. After the Battle of Arnhem the Germans forced Arnhem's citizens to evacuate the city. This was because they were afraid another battle would have to be fought. When Arnhem's citizens came back, they found their city destroyed.

After the war Arnhem was rebuilt, including the Eusebiuskerk (Eusebius Church). The bridge crossing the Rhine is now called John Frost Bridge after the famous UK general, since 1978.




</doc>
<doc id="6749" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6749" title="KNIL">
KNIL

KNIL is the abbreviation for a Dutch army. This army was located in what is now called Indonesia. The official name is "Koninklijk Nederlandsch-Indisch Leger" ("Royal Dutch-East Indies Army")

Indonesia was a Dutch colony from 1800 to 1949. It was then called "Nederlandsch Indië" (Dutch East Indies). The KNIL taskforce was sent there to maintain order.

When Indonesia declared itself independent in 1945 the Dutch fought a war to keep the colony. This war was won by the Indonesians. The Dutch government accepted Indonesia's independence in 1949, and the KNIL ceased to exist.


</doc>
<doc id="6750" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6750" title="Bronbeek">
Bronbeek

Bronbeek is a former Royal palace in Arnhem, the Netherlands. It is now a museum and a home for elderly soldiers.

Bronbeek was built early 19th century. In 1845 the Dutch King William III bought Bronbeek. He donated it to the Dutch state in 1859. William wanted it to be a home for disabled KNIL soldiers. The inhabitants took their collections of 'souvenirs' with them. This turned into a museum about the Dutch East Indies.

In 2004 50 former soldiers have their home in Bronbeek.


</doc>
<doc id="6751" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6751" title="David Bowie">
David Bowie

David Bowie was born on January 8, 1947. His real name is David Robert Jones. He was born in Brixton, London, England. He is a successful Rock musician, and also sometimes is an actor in movies.

David Bowie grew up in Bromley, Kent. He played the saxophone, and was a singer in London blues bands. He uses the alias "David Bowie" because "David Jones" sounded too much like Davy Jones (of The Monkees). He took the name "Bowie" from Jim Bowie, who invented the "Bowie knife".

He became known to the public with the 1969 song "Space Oddity". This was released when men first landed on the moon. The song is based on the movie by Stanley Kubrick.

His album "The Rise and Fall of Ziggy Stardust and the Spiders From Mars" was released in 1972. It is one of the best-known David Bowie albums. As a result of his performance, David Bowie became a leader of Glam Rock.

Ziggy Stardust became David Bowie's second personality (alter ego). For a press-conference he would show up as Ziggy. Bowie let Ziggy Stardust come to an end during a liveconcert in the Hammersmith Odeon theatre (London) on July 3, 1973. In 1983 this show was released as movie and soundtrack (Ziggy Stardust - The Motion Picture).

David Bowie settled in Los Angeles. He experimented with drugs, especially cocaine. A new second personality was "The Thin White Duke". This was introduced on the "Station to Station" album in 1976. Some think this is his best album. The song "Golden Years" scored high in the pop charts.

After releasing "Station to Station" David Bowie moved to Berlin. He was interested in the German music scene, and wanted to end his drug abuse. In Berlin, he started to work with producer Brian Eno. David Bowie, in his turn, was producer for Iggy Pop. The "Berlin Albums" are "Low" (1977), "Heroes" (1977) and "Lodger" (1979).

David Bowie left Berlin in 1980. The last album at that moment was "Scary Monsters... And Super Creeps". In 1981 he had a big hit with "Under Pressure", together with Queen.

In 1989 David Bowie formed a new band. This was his first real band since the seventies. The band was called "Tin Machine". With this band David Bowie recorded three albums: "Tin Machine" (1989), "Tin Machine II" (1991) and "Oy Vey, Baby" (1992).

By the nineties, David Bowie had become more interested in soul, jazz and hip hop. This was first noticed on the album "Black Tie, White Noise".

David Bowie covers many genres including art rock, hard rock, glam rock, alternative rock, krautrock, protopunk, post-punk, electronica, Blue-eyed soul, New Wave, Industrial, Techno, Jazz, Dance music, Funk, Disco, Experimental rock, Folk, Instrumental, Ambient and house.




</doc>
<doc id="6752" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6752" title="1952">
1952








</doc>
<doc id="6753" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6753" title="Category:Italian people">
Category:Italian people

In this category are people from the European country Italy.


</doc>
<doc id="6754" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6754" title="Benito Mussolini">
Benito Mussolini

Benito Amilcare Andrea Mussolini (29 July 1883 - 28 April 1945) ruled Italy as a dictator from 1927 to 1943.

Benito Mussolini was named after Benito Juarez in Mexican history. Before being involved in politics, Mussolini was a newspaper editor (where he learned all his propaganda skills) and elementary school teacher.

At first Mussolini was a socialist, but when he wanted Italy to join the First World War he was thrown out of the socialist party. He 'invented' a new ideology, Fascism, much out of Nationalist and Socialist views. Fascism is a system where one leader has complete power over a nation, with a goal of making it completely independent of other nations; and also where the goals of the nation being more important than anything else, including citizens. Therefore it is called a totalitarian ideology.

In 1922, he took power by having a large group of men, "Black Shirts," march on Rome and threaten to take over the government. King Vittorio Emanuele III gave in, allowed him to form a government, and made him prime minister. In the following five years, he gained power, and in 1927 created the OVRA, his personal secret police force. Using the agency to arrest, scare, or murder people against his regime, Mussolini was dictator of Italy by the end of 1927. Only the King and his own Fascist party could challenge his power.

Mussolini's form of Fascism, "Italian Fascism"- unlike Nazism, the racist ideology that Adolf Hitler followed- was different and less destructive than Hitler's. Although a believer in the superiority of the Italian nation and national unity, Mussolini, unlike Hitler, is quoted "Race? It is a feeling, not a reality. Nothing will ever make me believe that biologically pure races can be shown to exist today".

Mussolini wanted Italy to become a new Roman Empire. In 1923, he attacked the island of Corfu, and in 1924, he occupied the city state of Fiume. In 1935, he attacked the African country Abyssinia (now called Ethiopia). His forces occupied it in 1936. Italy was thrown out of the League of Nations because of this aggression. In 1939, he occupied the country Albania. In 1936, Mussolini signed an alliance with Adolf Hitler, the dictator of Germany.

In 1940, he sent Italy into the Second World War on the side of the Axis countries. Mussolini attacked Greece, but he failed to conquer it. In 1943, the Allies landed in Southern Italy. The Fascist party and King Vittorio Emanuel III deposed Mussolini and put him in jail, but he was set free by the Germans, who made him ruler of the Italian Social Republic puppet state. When the war was almost over, Mussolini tried to escape to Switzerland with his mistress, Clara Petacci, but he was captured and shot by partisans. Mussolini's dead body was hanged upside-down, together with some of Mussolini's helpers, on a pole at a gas station in the village of Mezzegra, which is near the border between Italy and Switzerland.

After the war, several Neo-Fascist movements have had success in Italy, the most important being the Movimento Sociale Italiano. His granddaughter Alessandra Mussolini has outspoken views similar to Fascism.



</doc>
<doc id="6755" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6755" title="Puppet state">
Puppet state

A puppet state is a country that is officially independent, but not in practice. Puppet governments are usually kept in power by military force provided by an occupying country. Puppet state is a biased term. It is used to denigrate the government of the alleged puppet state. It asserts that government's lack of legitimacy.

Examples of puppet states before World War II are:

In World War II the Axis countries created some puppet states, like:

After Italy surrendered in World War II the Italian Social Republic was a puppet state created by Germany.

During the Cold War some Eastern European countries were puppet states of the Soviet Union:
In some of these countries the people overthrew the government, but each time they did that (before 1989) the Soviet Union and some of its other puppet states invaded and put the old government back in power. The Soviet Union had also some puppet states outside Europe, such as Mongolia.

The United States also had a some puppet states during the Cold War:

There are several countries that may be called puppet states now:

Some people call Israel a puppet of the United States.



</doc>
<doc id="6756" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6756" title="Banana republic">
Banana republic

Banana republic is a pejorative name for a country which has an unstable government, high corruption and which largely depends on agriculture, such as growing bananas. There are many coups in banana republics. Some countries in Central and South America are often called banana republics.

The 'original' Banana republic is Honduras. In the early 20th century the United Fruit Company had very much influence in the country. They even deposed a president and installed a new one because the old president wanted too high taxes. 

The first known use of the term banana republic was by American author O. Henry in his 1904 book of linked short stories, "Cabbages and Kings". The book is based on Henry's 1896-97 stay in Honduras, while hiding from federal authorities for embezzlement in the United States. O.Henry used the term to refer to a "servile dictatorship" which directly supported large-scale plantation agriculture in return for payments or gifts. Usually, the agriculture was to grow bananas. 

Some people say the coup against Jacobo Arbenz, president of Guatemala, in 1954 was because Arbenz took land from banana companies.

The Banana Republic is the name of a clothing company in the United States.



</doc>
<doc id="6760" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6760" title="Kingdom of Holland">
Kingdom of Holland

The Kingdom of Holland was a country that existed from 1806 to 1810. It was in Central and North Netherlands and East Friesland in Germany. It was a puppet state created by France. The king of Holland was Louis Bonaparte.



</doc>
<doc id="6761" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6761" title="Vittorio Emanuele III">
Vittorio Emanuele III

Vittorio Emanuele III (11 November, 1869 – 28 December, 1947) was king of Italy from 1900 to 1946.

Vittorio Emanuele III was the son of Umberto I. He became king, at age 31, after his father was killed in 1900. Because people said Vittorio Emanuele had worked together with Benito Mussolini too much, Italy became a republic in 1946.


</doc>
<doc id="6763" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6763" title="Alter ego">
Alter ego

An alter ego (from Latin, "other I") is another self — a second personality within a person. 

For example, in "The Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde", Mr. Hyde was Dr. Jekyll's evil alter ego (same person, different personalities).

The term is also used in popular fiction, like comic books, for the secret identity of a superhero, vigilante or crimefighter:


And sometimes an artist uses an alter ego, like:



</doc>
<doc id="6764" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6764" title="Ziggy Stardust">
Ziggy Stardust

Ziggy Stardust is a fictional character. Ziggy was created and used by David Bowie, from 1970 to 1973.

Bowie used Ziggy Stardust as a second personality (alter ego). Ziggy appeared to be neither male nor female.

Ziggy's band was The Spiders From Mars. They recorded a couple of albums:

Ziggy's 'life' came to an end in a live concert at Hammersmith Odeon, on July 3, 1973. This show was in 1983 released in a movie: "Ziggy Stardust - The Motion Picture". A 30th anniversary edition was released in 2003.


</doc>
<doc id="6765" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6765" title="The Spiders From Mars">
The Spiders From Mars

The Spiders From Mars was a Rock band from 1970 to 1973. It was a project from David Bowie. Bowie himself was the lead-singer. He created a secondary personality (alter ego) for this purpose: Ziggy Stardust. Ziggy's 'life' came to an end in a live concert at Hammersmith Odeon, on July 3, 1973. This show was in 1983 released in a movie: Ziggy Stardust - The Motion Picture. A re-release of this movie was in 2003: 30th Anniversary Edition.

Ziggy Stardust and The Spiders From Mars recorded a couple of albums:






</doc>
<doc id="6766" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6766" title="Michael Schumacher">
Michael Schumacher

Michael Schumacher (born 3 January 1969 in Hürth, near Cologne) is a German Formula 1 driver. He has won seven world championship titles and has the most Grand Prix victories in the world. This champion, nicknamed "campionissimo" by Italian fans of Ferrari, is considered the most popular German personality in the world. Michael's younger brother Ralf is also a Formula 1 driver. When he was small, his father gave him a little kart. It had a small motor bike engine in it. He started getting interest from that time.

In 1984 Michael won the German Kart Championship and went on to win many more. In 1987 he won the German and European Kart Championship. Michael signed up with Will Weber's Formula 3 race team and won the 1990 championship.

He made his debut in the Belgian Grand Prix on 25 August. He impressed many fans as he qualified 7th on a track where he had never previously(before) driven with an inferior car. At the start be burnt the clutch and retired.

He was quickly snapped up by Benetton and finished in 5th place at the Italian Grand Prix.
He followed it up with 6th in both Portugal and at the then new Circuit de Catalunya in Spain. He then crashed out in Japan and spun in the torrential rain at the season finale in Australia. In the 6 races he entered, he scored 4 points and 14th in the championship.

He started the season off well with 4th in South Africa followed by his maiden podium finish in 3rd at the Mexican Grand Prix. He followed it up with another 3rd place in Brazil and 2nd in Spain. In San Marino he crashed out, then came 4th in Monaco and 2nd in Canada. He spun off in the rain at the French Grand Prix and finished 4th in Britain and 3rd in Germany. He retired again in Hungary but at Spa Francorchamps, where he made his debut, he won a rain-affected race. He came 3rd in Italy, 7th in Portugal, retired in Japan and came 2nd in Australia. He finished the season in 3rd place overall (in front of Senna) with a total of 53 points.

He qualified 9th for the South Korea GP.

 Season in progress.

 Season in progress.

As of the end of the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix, Michael Schumacher holds the following Formula One records:


</doc>
<doc id="6774" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6774" title="Yokohama">
Yokohama

Yokohama (横浜,よこはま) is the second largest city in Japan. It is the capital of Kanagawa Prefecture in the Kantō region. Yokohama is a neighbor city of Tokyo and has been the second largest city of Japan since 1980s. 

Yokohama has an international trade seaport. The Yokohama port was created in the middle of the 19th century for foreigners. It was five ports opened to foreign countries who demanded Japan to open ports. And Yokohama was the nearest port to Tokyo which was called then "Edo". Still today Yokohama port is the largest port. Many cars and machinery are exported from the port.

Around the port the downtown is located. Today the area of Yokohama city includes its former suburb areas like Hodogaya or Totsuka.

In Minato Mirai, there are a lot of places for sightseeing. For example, there are amusement parks, shopping malls and recently 109 was built.

Yokohama was an entrance for foreign cultures for a long time. Still today Yokohama has the largest China town in Japan.

Because Yokohama is very near to Tokyo, it has no airport. Tokyo international airport known as Haneda airport in Tokyo and Narita international airport in Chiba prefecure serve it. 

Many educational institutes locate in Yokohama including Yokohama National University and Yokohama City University.



</doc>
<doc id="6777" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6777" title="Axis countries">
Axis countries

Axis countries and Axis Powers are the names for some countries that fought together against the Allies during World War II. They were dictatorships. The Axis lost the war.

The most important Axis countries formed an alliance called the Berlin-Rome-Tokyo Axis Powers (1937 to 1945). They included: 


All three countries had extreme right-wing governments.

In addition to the main three countries, the less important Axis countries were: 

Other countries that helped the Axis without being a part of them were:

Several countries that were created by the Axis during the war are:



</doc>
<doc id="6780" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6780" title="Axis">
Axis

Axis means several things:



</doc>
<doc id="6786" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6786" title="Icelandic language">
Icelandic language

Icelandic is the language spoken by the people of Iceland.

It is a Germanic language. It comes from the Old Norse language, the language spoken by the Vikings. Because Iceland is far away from other countries, the language has not changed much. Icelandic people can still read words from hundreds of years ago.

Icelandic uses four characters that are not used in English: þ (thorn), (like 'th' in thin), ð (edh), (like 'th' in this), æ (pronounced like I) and ö (pronounced like the french U). It can also be said that ð is a "softer" version of þ.

Some linguists say there are only two Nordic languages, Eastern-Nordic and Western-Nordic, which includes Icelandic and Faroese because of their similarity.

Icelandic is also one of the most difficult languages to learn. 


</doc>
<doc id="6789" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6789" title="Category:Iceland">
Category:Iceland


</doc>
<doc id="6790" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6790" title="Passu">
Passu

Passu is a small village by the Khunjerab River in the Northern Areas of Pakistan. It lies at an altitude of 2500m. The Batura and Passu glaciers and the Karakoram Highway are close to the village. The people speak the Wakhi language and follow the Ismaili sect of Islam. 


</doc>
<doc id="6792" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6792" title="Equator">
Equator

The equator is a line which is not real drawn around a sphere or planet, such as the Earth. It is one of the lines known as a line of latitude, or circle of latitude. The name "equator" is Latin language and means "even-maker"; at equator the day and night are exactly the same length around the year.

The equator is halfway between the North Pole and the South Pole. There, the surface of the planet is parallel to the axis of rotation. The equator divides the surface into the Northern Hemisphere and the Southern Hemisphere.

Unlike the Northern Hemisphere and the Southern Hemisphere, countries around the equator do not experience the four seasons, and the climate is usually very humid.



</doc>
<doc id="6793" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6793" title="Rocket">
Rocket

A rocket may be a missile, spacecraft, aircraft or other vehicle which is pushed by a rocket engine. Some rockets are manned (e.g. Saturn V). Other rockets are unmanned (e.g. Phoenix air-to-air missile). ("Manned" means that a person is in it; "unmanned" means that the machine can go without a person.) Most rockets can be launched from the ground because exhaust thrust from the engine is bigger than the weight of the vehicle in relation to its weight on earth. 

The rocket was invented by the Chinese while using gunpowder.

Rockets are used for fireworks, weapons, for placing man-made satellites, and to control moves in outer space.

Manned rockets, like other manned flying machines, are designed to limit their acceleration and vibration to protect the crew.

Unmanned rockets however are not bound by the limits of humans. Rockets go faster than the speed of sound (Mach 1) and may reach speeds of up to Mach 5 and even up to 30'000 km/hr when in Orbit. 

Yuri Gagarin was a Soviet cosmonaut who, on 12 April 1961, became the first human to journey into outer space.


</doc>
<doc id="6797" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6797" title="Advisor">
Advisor

Advisors are people who give advice. The job of an advisor is to give good advice that helps the person that he or she is advising. Usually, only certain people, like businessmen or politicians, have advisors. This is because these kinds of people are usually very busy, and they do not have the time to make decisions alone.

In the United States, the President's advisors are called his "Cabinet." Some well-known cabinet members, current and former, from the Bush Administration are:



</doc>
<doc id="6800" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6800" title="Rendsburg">
Rendsburg

Rendsburg (Danish: "Rendsborg") is a town in Schleswig-Holstein with 30,000 people.


</doc>
<doc id="6803" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6803" title="Jacques Chirac">
Jacques Chirac

Jacques René Chirac (born 29 November 1932 in Paris) was the President of the French Republic from 1995 until 2007. He was re-elected in 2002. Before that, he was Prime Minister of France twice.


</doc>
<doc id="6805" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6805" title="Mario Jeckle">
Mario Jeckle

Mario Jeckle (25 August 1974 – 11 June 2004) was a German computer scientist.

From 1997 to 2003, Jeckle attended the University of Applied Science in Augsburg. In 1998, he received his computer science degree for his thesis (paper) "Prozeßkettenmodellierung am Beispiel der Gießwerkzeugentwicklung und prototypische Implementierung auf Basis des EDM/PDM - Systems Metaphase" (An example of process chain modelling in casting tool development and prototype implementation on basis of the EDM/PDM - Systems Metaphase). At Augsburg, he taught Java, Java Threads, XML and software engineering.

In 2003, Jeckle became a professor at the University of Applied Sciences in Furtwangen. He taught about XML, databases, software engineering, and "eBusiness" (electronic business). 

Jeckle was also a W3C and OMG representative of DaimlerChrysler Research and developed technical standards for XML, UML 2.0, and others. At the beginning of 2004, he was a member of the Technical Architecture Group of the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C). Jeckle was also an author of books and a well-known speaker at conferences and seminars (information groups).

Jeckle was a member of the International Red Cross. On 11 June 2004, he died while giving aid to others who had a car accident on a German highway. While helping, another driver lost control and hit Jeckle and another man. 




</doc>
<doc id="6806" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6806" title="Category:German people">
Category:German people


</doc>
<doc id="6810" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6810" title="Category:Wars">
Category:Wars


</doc>
<doc id="6812" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6812" title="Eighty Years' War">
Eighty Years' War

The Eighty Years' War, also called Dutch Revolt, was a war between the modern Netherlands and Spain. It lasted from 1568 to 1648. The Netherlands achieved independence in the Eighty Years' War.


</doc>
<doc id="6814" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6814" title="Exponent">
Exponent

An exponent is the number of times another number is multiplied by itself in exponentiation.

For example:
The exponent in formula_1 is 3. This can also be written as formula_2.
The exponent in formula_3 is 5. This can also be written as formula_4.

Exponents are used in algebra.

It is a number or symbol, placed above and to the right of the expression to which it applies, that indicates the number of times the expression is used as a factor. For example, the exponent 3 in formula_5 indicates formula_6; the exponent "x" in formula_7 indicates formula_8 multiplied by itself "x" times.


</doc>
<doc id="6815" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6815" title="Moresnet">
Moresnet

Moresnet or Neutral Moresnet (Esperanto: "Neutra Moresneto") was a very small territory that existed from 1816 to 1919. It had a size of 3.5 km². It existed because its neighbours could not agree on who should own it, so they decided to make it a neutral territory where both neighbours would both have power. It was 7 km Southwest of Aix-la-Chapelle (Germany), and south of the points were the borders of Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands come together on the Vaalserberg.

At the Congress of Vienna in 1815 many borders and countries changed. One of the borders was the one between the new United Kingdom of the Netherlands and Prussia. For the most part Prussia and the Netherlands agreed on the border, because it was mostly the same as the old border. Around Moresnet there was a problem. Between the villages of Moresnet and Neu-Moresnet was the zinc mine of Vieille Montagne (in French) / Altenberg (in German). Both countries wanted to have this mine. In 1816 it was decided that the village of Moresnet itself would become part of the Netherlands, Neu-Moresnet would become part of Prussia and the mine and the village of Kelmis around it would become neutral territory where both countries shared the power.

Neutral Moresnet was shaped more or less like a triangle. The southern border was the road between Aix-la-Chapelle and Liège. The mine was just to the north of this road. The most northerly point of the country was the Vaalserberg. When Belgium became independent from the Netherlands in 1830, the land on the Dutch side became Belgian. So from 1830 Belgium and Prussia were in power in Moresnet. At first Moresnet was governed by two royal commissioners, one from each neighbour. Later Moresnet got its own rulers: a mayor and a council of ten members were installed. The mayor was the Head of State, he was appointed by the council.

Most people in Moresnet worked in the zinc mine. Many people from the neighbouring countries also worked in the zinc mine. Because Moresnet was neutral, there were very low taxes and there were no import-tariffs (like in Andorra now). The people from Moresnet were allowed to choose in which army they wanted to serve, but they were not allowed to have their own army.

The mine was exhausted by 1885, so people from Moresnet had to find a new way to find money. Some wanted to start a casino, or issue their own stamps. Dr. Wilhelm Molly, wanted to change Moresnet into a country were everyone would speak Esperanto. He wanted to name the country Amikejo ("place of friendship"). None of these plans succeeded. Belgium and Prussia (which became a part of Germany in 1871) both wanted to take over the territory. In 1914, in the First World War, Germany invaded Belgium and occupied Moresnet. In 1915 the officially annexed it, so Neutral Moresnet did not exist any more.

In 1919, after the war, in the Treaty of Versailles it was decided that Moresnet would become part of Belgium. From 1940 to 1944, during World War II, Moresnet was occupied by Germany again, but since 1944 it has been part of Belgium again.


</doc>
<doc id="6822" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6822" title="MacGyver">
MacGyver

MacGyver, a reference to someone who is able to perform amazing feats with the use of very few and often irrelevant objects. This term comes from the TV show "MacGyver," which was first shown in the September 1985 on the television network, ABC. The main character, Angus MacGyver (Richard Dean Anderson), often prevented inevitable defeats, saved lives, distracted enemies, made weapons, and even performed everyday tasks usually using very few objects that seemed irrelevant or abnormal to use in such situations. His use of duct tape has led some parts of the world to call it "MacGyver tape."


</doc>
<doc id="6825" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6825" title="December 22">
December 22

December 22 is the 356th day of the year (357th in leap years) in the Gregorian Calendar. There are 9 days left in the year.






</doc>
<doc id="6826" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6826" title="December 24">
December 24






</doc>
<doc id="6828" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6828" title="Quark">
Quark

Atoms are made of neutrons, protons, and electrons. It was once thought neutrons, protons and electrons were fundamental particles. Fundamental particles can not be broken up into anything smaller. After the invention of the particle accelerator, this was found to not be true. Although electrons are fundamental, neutrons and protons are not. Neutrons and protons are made up of smaller particles called quarks, and held together by gluons.

There are six types of quarks. The types are called flavours. The flavours are up, down, strange, charm, top, and bottom. Up, charm and top quarks have a charge of +, while down, strange and bottom quarks have a charge of -. Each quark has a matching antiquark. Antiquarks have a charge opposite to that of their quarks; meaning that up, charm and top antiquarks have a charge of - and that down, strange and bottom antiquarks have a charge of +.

Only up and down quarks are found inside atoms of the normal matter. Two up quarks and one down make a proton ( + - = +1 charge) while two down quarks and one up make a neutron ( - - = 0 charge). The other four flavours are not seen naturally on Earth, but they can be made in particle accelerators. Some of them may also exist inside of stars.

When two or more quarks are held together by the strong nuclear force, the particle formed is called a hadron. Quarks that make the quantum number of hadrons are named 'valence quarks'. The two families of hadrons are baryons (made of three valence quarks) and mesons (which are made from a quark and an antiquark).

When quarks are stretched farther and farther, the force that holds them together becomes bigger. When it comes to the point when quarks are separated, they form two sets of quarks.

The idea (or model) for quarks was proposed by physicists Murray Gell-Mann and George Zweig in 1964. Other scientists began searching for evidence of quarks, and succeeded in 1968.

The superparticle of a quark is called a "squark."



</doc>
<doc id="6829" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6829" title="Northern Hemisphere">
Northern Hemisphere

The Northern Hemisphere is the part of the Earth that is north of the equator. It has about 90 percent of world's population and most of the world's land. All of North America and Europe are in the Northern Hemisphere. Most of Asia, two-thirds of Africa and 10 percent of South America are also in this hemisphere. The three largest countries by population; China, India, and the United States, are in the Northern Hemisphere. 



</doc>
<doc id="6830" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6830" title="Yesterday">
Yesterday

Yesterday is the name of different things:



</doc>
<doc id="6832" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6832" title="Messiah">
Messiah

Messiah or the Anointed One is the figure promised by God to the Jews for the salvation of the world. The Jews think that the Messiah will be a human being that will save Israel and lead the whole world into the End Of Days and eternal peace. 

Other people in real life or fiction are called messianic if they have the qualities of a messiah, or people think they will bring about a better world.


Christianity, which began in Israel with Jewish followers of Jesus (Hebrew: Yeshua), holds that the Messiah foretold by the Jewish Scriptures is Jesus, and that in fulfillment of prophecy Jesus died for the sins of the world, rose from the dead and lives today, seated at the right hand of God until His return. Most Jews do not hold these beliefs; those who do are sometimes called Messianic Jews. Some Messianic Jews and other Christians see the fact that a majority of Jews do not hold these beliefs as a fulfillment of prophecy. 

Muslims believe that Jesus was the son of Mary, the Messiah, and as a mighty prophet of God. They believe that he will come again one day in his second coming to fight besides the Mahdi against the ("Dajjal", "false messiah").


</doc>
<doc id="6982" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6982" title="MediaWiki:Sitesupport-url">
MediaWiki:Sitesupport-url

http://wikimediafoundation.org/wiki/Special:Landingcheck?landing_page=WMFJA085&language=en&utm_source=donate&utm_medium=sidebar&utm_campaign=20101204SB002

</doc>
<doc id="7071" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7071" title="César Chávez">
César Chávez

César Estrada Chávez (March 31, 1927 - April 23, 1993) was the leader of a labor union. He wanted equal rights for Mexicans working in the United States. Chávez started the National Farm Workers Association (NFWA). This union became the United Farm Workers. He led a boycott against grape companies to gain rights for workers. Chávez used nonviolence to make these changes. Chavez is thought of as one of the leaders in the movement for Chicanos to gain more rights in the late-20th century.

In 1965, Chávez and the NFWA started a strike for grape-pickers in California. At the same time, he asked Americans to boycott grapes from California. In 1970, the migrant workers won their fight for better pay.

He kept working against unfair labor rules. He stopped eating in protest three times because of low pay and bad working conditions. When he died, he was leading another grape boycott to stop the use of pesticides.

Chávez was born near Yuma, Arizona and went to over 65 schools, but he did not graduate. He did most of his organizing in California, especially near Bakersfield. Fred Ross taught him to lead unions. Fred Ross was a student of Saul Alinsky.
Chávez is respected in California and other states. In 2000, California's state legislature started a holiday to honor him. The holiday is on March 31, Chávez's birthday. This is the first time that a US public holiday honored a Mexican American or a union leader. Many cities have streets named for him. These cities include San Francisco, Los Angeles, Albuquerque, New Mexico, Austin, Texas, Milwaukee, and Salt Lake City.


</doc>
<doc id="7073" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7073" title="Hamilton, Ontario">
Hamilton, Ontario

Hamilton is a big city in the Canadian province of Ontario. 

Hamilton is on the west end of the Niagara Peninsula. To the north of Hamilton are the waters of Lake Ontario and Burlington Bay, also called Hamilton Harbour. In the middle of Hamilton is the Niagara Escarpment, also called Hamilton Mountain because it is 198 meters high. Many small rivers or creek flow over the Mountain and into the Bay or Lake.

There are three different ways to count the number of people in Hamilton. The old city of Hamilton, before it was created from six other cities and towns, has 331,000 people living in it. The new city of Hamilton, after it joined with other towns, has 502,000 people. The Greater Hamilton area, including Burlington and Grimsby, has 684,000 people.

The people of Hamilton are from many different countries and speak many different languages. They belong to many different races and religions, too. Among its people are: British, German, Dutch, Italian, Irish, Hungarians, Portuguese, Mohawk Natives, Vietnamese, Czechs and Slovaks, Caribbean blacks, Poles, Romanians, Serbians and Ukrainians.

Although people think of Hamilton just as a place for dirty factories, there are many educational and historical places there too.

Historical places 

Cultural places

Natural places

Educational places

For over 150 years, Hamilton has had factories. For over 100 years, most of them have been steel factories like Stelco and Dofasco. Since the strike of 1946, the workers at Stelco have had a trade union. The workers at Dofasco do not have a trade union. There was also a Studebaker car factory in Hamilton until 1966.

Since the 1980s, industries in Hamilton have had trouble making money and keeping people working. In 2004, Stelco filed for bankruptcy. This means Stelco asked the courts if it could stop paying money it borrowed back to banks. The future for industry does not look good for Hamiltonians.

However, other businesses look much better. People might not think of schools like McMaster University and Mohawk College as businesses, but they are. Students and teachers come to Hamilton and spend their money here. Doctors, teachers, nurses and other professionals train here. Even Tim Hortons doughnut stores started in Hamilton in 1965.

CH has been a local TV station in Hamilton since 1954. Steve Smith, known for starring in "The Red Green Show", started working at CH. "Tiny Talent Time" is another popular show on CHCH which features many children.

Some movies were filmed in and around Hamilton, such as "Anne of Green Gables","5ive Girls" and "Rocky V", because it looks like other places.

Folksinger Stan Rogers was born in Dundas, which became part of Hamilton in 2001. The Appleton sisters, now famous in Britain, were born in Hamilton. Daniel Lanois is an important singer himself and helped the band U2 with its music. He lived in Hamilton and recorded at Grant Avenue Studios.

"The Hamilton Spectator" newspaper has been around since the 1840s. It offers tours showing its giant printing press and writers' offices. It also has school projects which include a classroom subscription to the newspaper for every student.

Government is how people organize themselves to be directed by politics. Hamilton was part of Wentworth County until 1974. Wentworth County included the townships of: Ancaster, Barton, Beverly, Binbrook, East Flamborough, West Flamborough, Glanford and Saltfleet. Here is how the government of Hamilton changed over the years:



Politics is the way people choose the leaders of their communities and the things they decide are important enough to do. Hamiltonians like choosing socially minded people to governm themselves, especially women and minorities. Many people who were mayors, members of Provincial Parliament (MPPs) or members of Parliament (MPs) have things named for them in the city, such as:


Netural and Mohawk Native Canadians of the Six Nations were the first people to live in this area. In 1616, Étienne Brûlé probably became the first European to visit what is now Hamilton. United Empire Loyalists moved into the Hamilton area during and after the American Revolution. The Battle of Stoney Creek was fought during the War of 1812 in what is now Hamilton.

In the mid- to late 1800s, Hamilton became an industrial city with lots of factories. It was close to limestone from the Niagara Escarpment, coal from the United States, iron ore mined from northern Ontario. But factories demanded that people work hard jobs for long hours. In 1872, Hamilton workers marched for a work day of no more than nine hours! The two large steel factories were Stelco (the Steel Company of Canada), created in 1910 and the Dofasco (Dominion Steel Casting Company) in 1912. Dominion is an old word often heard to describe Canada when it was part of the British Empire.

Many schools were built between 1910 and 1930, including Adelaide Hoodless School, Memorial School (for the First World War, Viscount Allenby School (WWI general) and Earl Kitchener School (WWI general). The First World War is often shortened to WWI. 

In the 1930s, the Great Depression hit Hamilton. People were unemployed and poor. Factories stoped running. Times were hard. Then the Second World War started and people got jobs again in the army and building guns for the army. August 19, 1942, hundreds of young men from Hamilton were killed by the German army when they tried to attack Dieppe in France.

There are a few professional sports in Hamilton. The Tiger-Cats of the Canadian Football League play at Ivor Wynne Stadium. Hamilton would like a National Hockey League team but it does not have one. The Hamilton Bulldogs of the American Hockey League play at Copps Coliseum.

There are many amateur sports in Hamilton. People of all ages can run in the Around the Bay Race. It takes 30 km to go around the edge of Hamilton Harbour or Burlington Bay. "The Hamilton Spectator" also hosts amateur indoor games. Every year, children from Hamilton and Flint, Michigan compete in the Canusa Games. 

The Commonwealth Games are like the Olympics for people who used to be ruled by Britain. In 1930, Hamilton became the first ever host for what ere then called the Empire Games. The city also tried to host the 2010 Commonwealth Games.

McMaster University and Mohawk College have produced national championship teams in a number of sports. McMaster University is a perennial powerhouse in Mens Basketball and Football.

Here in Hamilton we also have recreational leagues for kids to enjoy their childhood by playing many recreational sports such as Hockey(Stoney Creek Minor Hockey), Soccer(Stoney Creek Soccer Club), and Football with (Steelcity Ironmen). In addition, there are a number of other community sport clubs like the Mt Hamilton Youth Soccer Club which has provided an avenue for children to play soccer since 1964.

There are many buses, apart from the school buses operated by the Hamilton-Wentworth District School Board. For $2.55, the Hamilton Street Railway or HSR takes people inside and across the city. 

Travellers can also get to places like Niagara Falls, Dunnville, Buffalo, Kitchener, and London. These buses are run by companies called Greyhound, Trentway Wagar and McCoy. GO Transit has buses and trains that go to Toronto. Using GO however is not a part of the HSR.

The city streets in the old city of Hamilton follow a pattern. The big streets going north and south are in straight lines. When they are on the Mountain, they have "Upper" in front the their names, except for Garth Street which should be Upper Dundurn Street. 

Streets are called "North," such as "James Street North," if they are north of King Street or Queenston Road. Streets are called "South" if they are south of King or Queenston. Streets are called "East," such as "East 5th Street" or "Main Street East," if they are east of James Street or Upper James Street. Streets are called "West" if they are west of James or Upper James. 

King and Main Streets are major roads that are almost parallel or side by side one another. They cross at the Delta in east Hamilton. For most of King and Main, cars could only travel one way. So instead of thinking of them as two streets, think of them as one street with a very wide boulevard between them. This changed in the early 2000s, and most of the streets in Downtown Hamilton are now two-way.

Throughout the city there are some neighbourhoods with weird or strange street names. For example, Birdland has streets named after birds like Cardinal, Blue Jay and Swallow. Another neighbourhood on the Mountain has streets named after people from the French Revolution, such as Napoleon, Josephine, and Robespierre. Riverdale West, in the Lower City, has streets named after types of berries.



</doc>
<doc id="7075" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7075" title="Shape">
Shape

A shape is a geometric figure that can be described with mathematics. One way to classify shapes is to describe a bigger shape that the shape fits inside of. For example, two-dimensional shapes like circles will fit inside of a flat plane. Three-dimensional objects like cubes will not fit inside of a plane, because they are not flat.

Two shapes are said to be equal, if one can be changed into the other by spinning, moving, growing bigger, shrinking, or more than one of these in a combination.

These are two-dimensional shapes or flat plane geometry shapes. Their sides are made of straight or curved lines. They can have any number of sides. Plane figures made of lines are called polygons. Triangles and squares are examples of polygons.

These are three-dimensional shapes. Their sides are made of flat or curved surfaces.

Some shapes are special. These special shapes either cannot be made in real space, or they look unusual.


</doc>
<doc id="7079" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7079" title="Quechua">
Quechua

Quechua, sometimes written Quichua or Ketchua, is a language spoken by people in the South American nations of Peru, Bolivia, Ecuador, Argentina, Colombia, and Chile. It was also the language of the ancient Inca empire. 
There are about 8 million people who speak Quechua. 

It is the most spoken Native American language in South America. It is the most widely spoken Amerindian language. A quarter of the people in Peru speak Quechua. People that speak Quechua as their first language are called Quechua Indians by the Spanish speaking cultures. The Quechua refer to themselves as Runa, "the people". They call the language "Runa Simi". 

Quechua is known for only having 3 vowel sounds: "a", "i", and "u".

The Quechua language has given names to many places in Peru, including the Ancash Region. "Anqash" is the Quechua word for "blue", and it is thought that the name refers to the blue skies of Ancash.



</doc>
<doc id="7085" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7085" title="Pen">
Pen

A pen (Latin: "pinna", feather) is a tool used for writing or drawing. The ink of the pen is pressed onto paper and dries very fast.

"Quill pens" are one of the oldest type of pens. A quill pen is the feather of a bird, usually a goose. The end of the feather (the quill) was kept very sharp and had to be dipped into ink after every few words.

"Dip pens" are an old type of pen. Like the quill pen, they have to be dipped in ink many times during writing or drawing. The writing end, called the "nib", is made of metal.

"Fountain pens" are like dip pens, but can hold enough ink inside to write several pages before being refilled. 

A "ballpoint pen" is GENERALLY a cylindrical plastic shaft with a smaller shaft that holds ink. It has a very small metal ball on the writing end that rolls the ink onto the paper.

A "stylus" is a pen that cannot write on paper and is usually made out of plastic. They are usually used with touchscreens.



</doc>
<doc id="7090" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7090" title="Template:InterWiki">
Template:InterWiki


</doc>
<doc id="7091" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7091" title="Leet">
Leet

Leet (or "1337"), also known as eleet or leetspeak, is another alphabet for the English language that is used mostly on the internet. It uses various combinations of ASCII characters to replace Latinate letters. For example, leet spellings of the word "leet" include "1337" and "l33t"; "eleet" may be spelled "31337" or "3l33t". It is used a lot on the internet in forums, chat rooms and online games.

It comes from the word "elite" which means "better than everyone else". Leet is mostly used for English, but can also be used with other languages including French, Spanish and German.

Leetspeak is a mixture of words (mostly computer-related) spelled incorrectly intentionally, usually coming from typographical errors (e.g. "the" becomes "t3h"). The words of leetspeak are usually put together to create a dialect (small language). This dialect is used in some places for funniness. l33tspeak uses numbers, ASCII symbols, and diacritics together to make symbols that look like Latin letters. For example, in the name "David" would translate in 13375|>34|< as |)/-\\/1|).

Note: Most of the time it is only the vowels that are changed and then usually only they are replaced by numbers; therefore, it is unusual to see someone use the leet alphabet to spell out a whole word (although there are common exceptions, namely "1337").
Please note as these are only examples; these are not mandatory for leetspeak, which is not officially defined anywhere, like most slangs.


When people write in leet, they spell some words wrong all the time. They might do this to laugh at new people who do not write words with their keyboards well, or might just be making fun of English's pronunciation or spelling.


When a person writes in English the person must follow English rules, but most of the time people who write in leet do not use these rules. When they write in leet they try to write it in a special way, so that it is very different from English.

"l33t is teh suck!" (meaning: 'leet sucks') shows that in leet people can use their own rules, and not use the English rules. A lot of times adjectives (describing words) are turned into nouns. The leet word "teh" (the) is also often placed in front of verbs, as in "I teh pwnd j00" (meaning I the owned you, meaning: I beat you badly). another example might be I 4m t3h pwnage!!!!11!!11 (meaning I am the best!)

Leet speakers may also speak normally but without the vowels. Fr xmpl nmbr 1 u cn tll it wrks.= For example number one you can tell it works.

Because some words are too long for use in games they have been written how they sound.. Here's a quick guide:



</doc>
<doc id="7095" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7095" title="Waterfall">
Waterfall

A waterfall is where there is a sharp fall of water found on a river or stream. The water flows from higher land, then it falls down a big step of rock to lower land where it will continue on its journey. Waterfalls are usually made when a river is young.

Many people choose them as sacred spots. The roar from the falling water is very loud and the sound makes beautiful music. Many people think they are one of the most beautiful things in nature.

The highest waterfall in the world is "Angel Falls" in Venezuela where the water falls .


</doc>
<doc id="7102" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7102" title="Garden">
Garden

A Garden is usually a piece of land that is used for growing flowers, trees, shrubs, and other plants. The act of caring for a garden by watering the flowers and plants and removing the weeds is called gardening.

There are many types of gardens. People have small private gardens in the backyard outside their house. Some gardens are built indoors in malls, public buildings, or greenhouses. Greenhouses are special buildings where plants are grown. A greenhouse has a transparent glass or plastic roof and walls that let sunlight in.

Water gardens are plants that are grown in ornamental (decorative) pools and ponds. People doing water gardening plant water lilies and other aquatic (water) plants.

Gardening can be done outside of the home, as well. There are in city gardens, botanical gardens (places where plants are grown), zoos which have gardens, and theme parks which have gardens. These types of gardens are cared for by people called gardeners or groundskeepers.

Gardens are related to farms (agriculture); both gardens and farms are used for growing plants. But farms are much larger than gardens. A farm may have hundreds of square kilometers of plants and crops. A garden in a person's backyard is usually only measures a few square meters. 

Farms are businesses which sell the crops, fruit, and vegetables that are produced. Some gardens are businesses, which charge a fee to enter the garden. However, private gardens in people's backyards are used as a hobby or as a recreation, not as a business.

In addition to plants, many gardens also have landscaping features such as pathways, seats, rock gardens, ponds, fountains, a small stream with or without a waterfall. Some incorporate gazebos and structural designs to accommodate for places to sit or to place a hammock for a siesta. Roman gardens will have its own columns, fountains and statures placed at strategic places depending on its sizes and uses. Japanese gardens also have its own unique designs based on what the owner want to feature.

Some gardens are created in people's backyards, outside their home (note that in Britain the whole area is called a "garden", not a "yard"). People with gardens in their backyards use gardens as a place to do gardening. Gardening is a type of physical activity which can use enough energy and increase your heart rate that it can be rated as a form of exercise for to relax and exercise certain muscles depending on whether on the activity you do that day such as planting, pruning, weeding, or simply just walk around your garden continuously for 15 minutes or more. 

Many people find gardens relaxing especially if the garden is full flowers with strong scents. Some flowers like roses, bougainvilleas, orchids and many others are just beautiful to look at. Many people think that gardens are very beautiful and a place to relax and /or entertain. A garden can have a place to barbecue, to sit and to read.

In many countries and cultures, designing pretty gardens is considered to be an art. In Japan, for instance, Zen monks build decorative gardens with stone and waterfall features using natural materials such as bamboo , rock and BONSAI trees like spruce, pine, and other trees with they trained into miniature forms. In Europe in the 1700s, kings and queens had formal gardens built (for example, the gardens at Versailles, France). In China they also feature Chinese forms of gardens. Now some enterprising people start to have herbal gardens to feature useful herbs used in alternative, traditional, and homeopathic medicine



</doc>
<doc id="7106" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7106" title="Great Zimbabwe">
Great Zimbabwe

Great Zimbabwe is an important place in Africa. Hundreds of years ago it was a big city. It was the capital of the Kingdom of Zimbabwe. This kingdom included the River Zambezi in the north, the Transvaal in the south and Botswana in the east.

The people who lived at Great Zimbabwe were rich merchants who controlled trade between the coast and inland Africa. The modern country of Zimbabwe is named after Great Zimbabwe. In English the city's name means 'the great city built of stones'.

Between 12,000 and 20,000 people lived at Great Zimbabwe. About 1000 years ago they began to build their town in stone. Archaeologists have found goods from as far as China that were used by the people. This shows they bought and sold things over great distances. The city covered 720 hectares but had stopped growing when traders from Portugal came to southern Africa 500 years ago. Nobody is sure why Great Zimbabwe was stopped. It could have been due to drought or sickness.

Europeans at first thought that Great Zimbabwe had been built by foreigners. Now we know it was built by the local people. People who have studied the site have learned much about old Africa.

Great Zimbabwe has been made a World Heritage Site because it is so big and important. The walls of the city are the biggest stone structure made by man, after the Pyramids at Giza.


</doc>
<doc id="7108" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7108" title="Machu Picchu">
Machu Picchu

Machu Picchu is a is a pre-Columbian 15th-century Inca site in Peru in South America, by which lies an ancient Inca city whose name is unknown.

The Inca built the city on a mountain ridge, 2340m above sea level. They lived there between 1200 and 1450 AD. Other people lived there before around 650 AD. 

The Incas built houses, fields and temples by cutting the rock on the mountain so it was flat. They built an observatory to look at the stars.

When the Spanish invaded Peru, the Incas left Machu Picchu. Nobody knows why they did that, but some think it was because they were scared of the Spanish. The city was left unfinished, most likely due to the civil war between the rival Inca brothers who ruled, named Huascar and Atahualpa and due to the Spanish invasion. The Spanish never found Machu Picchu or the lost city during their occupation.

Today, Machu Picchu is very difficult to get to because it is so high in the mountains. It has only one way in and a stone wall to protect it. The world at large did not know it was there until a Yale graduate named Hiram Bingham rediscovered it in 1911. He heard rumors of a hidden city which was already known to the native Peruvians, who guided him there. He led a restoration project partly funded by the National Geographic Society. Bingham made a deal with the government to take artifacts to the Peabody Museum for study. Peru is still trying to have those artifacts returned to them.

Machu Picchu was declared a Peruvian Historical Sanctuary in 1981 and a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1983. In 2007, Machu Picchu was voted one of the New Seven Wonders of the World in a worldwide Internet poll.

Today, there is a new road so that tourists can visit. People can also walk along the Inca Trail, or take a train from Cusco.



</doc>
<doc id="7109" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7109" title="Journal">
Journal

A journal or a diary is a book written by a person about their life. A journal could also be a daily record of events or business. It is a nonfiction form of writing. Personal journals are also called diaries. A famous diarist was Anne Frank.


</doc>
<doc id="7110" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7110" title="Mac OS X">
Mac OS X

Mac OS X is the name of an operating system, for computers made by Apple Inc. These are called Macintosh computers, or Macs. It is different from other operating systems, because Mac OS X is supposed to run only on Macs and not on other computers. However, people have made the OS run on computers that are not Macs. These are called Hackintosh.

The "X" in Mac OS X, which is read aloud as "Mac Oh Ess Ten", comes from roman numerals. Mac OS X first came out in 2001, and is completely different than the Mac OS that it replaced. Mac OS X is a UNIX OS that is based on NEXTSTEP, an older OS that Apple bought and turned into Mac OS X. Mac OS X and NEXTSTEP have a background in a kind of UNIX called BSD (more specifically FreeBSD and NetBSD). The core of Mac OS X is an open source OS called Darwin, but Darwin cannot run Mac OS X software.

Mac OS X releases are named after kinds of big cats and have a version number that starts with 10. The newest version of Mac OS X is called "Lion" and is version 10.7. The version before that was called "Snow Leopard."



</doc>
<doc id="7111" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7111" title="Apple Inc.">
Apple Inc.

Apple is an American company that makes computer hardware, computer software, and portable devices like mobile telephones and music players. Apple calls its computers "Macintoshes" or "Macs and Macbooks". Their popular line of mobile music players are called "iPods" and a smartphone they have released is called the "iPhone". Apple sells their products all around the world. 
Apple Inc. used to be called Apple Computer, Inc.

Apple was started in 1976 by Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak. Before they made the company, they sold "blue boxes", which had telephone buttons on them. People could use them to make telephone calls from pay phones without paying any money. The company's first product is now called the Apple I computer. They were almost ready to sell it, but a problem happened. Steve Wozniak was working for the computer company Hewlett-Packard, and the papers that said he could work there said he had to give everything he invented to the company before he could do what he wanted to do with it. He showed the first Apple I to the boss at Hewlett-Packard, but they did not want his computer. Wozniak was then free to do what he wanted to do with the Apple I. It was sold in 1976. In 1977, they made their second computer, called the Apple II.

One of the most popular products made by Apple is the iPod. It was first sold in 2001, and Apple sold over 100 million in six years. All iPods can play music. The most recent iPod Touch, which has a high quality LED screen, can take and show quality pictures, record, view and edit high definition videos, use the Internet for features such as e-mail, gaming, and blogging, record word and voice memos, and even get office work done. 

There are several different types of iPods:





The red iPod shuffle and iPod nano models are part of the "(PRODUCT) RED" program. This means that some of the profits from these iPods goes to the Global Fund to fight AIDS in Africa.

Apple is most well known for computers. Computers by Apple run the Mac OS X operating system, which is included with every new Mac.



Apple also makes software for their computers. Some of the software that Apple makes is:


Most computer users in the world use Microsoft Windows, the rival to Mac OS X. About 8% of computer users use Apple's Macintosh computers. It is not legal to run Apple's Mac OS X on a Windows computer. However, it is allowed to run Windows on modern Macintosh computers. Even though Apple makes their computers to run Mac OS X, they also make software that allows you to install Windows. This software is called Boot Camp.

The Apple TV is a box that plugs into a TV. It can connect wirelessly to any computer that has the Apple program "iTunes" on it. The Apple TV can play music, and show photos or videos from iTunes on your TV. Apple recently released a newer version of the Apple TV. It is about a quarter of the size of the older version and instead of using a hard drive to store movies and TV shows, they are rented and streamed over the internet.

The iPhone is a phone, iPod, and more with a touch screen. The newest iPhone released uses 3G (which is quicker than normal mobile phone connections) to surf the web. The current version, the iPhone 4s, boasts Apple's faster A5 processor and a front facing camera for video chat, among other features. The iPhones come in 8GB, 16GB, and 32GB types. The iPhone 4s currently comes in black, and white. The iPhone 4s comes in a 16GB and a 32GB version. Apple also released an 8GB version of the iPhone 3GS.

The iPad is the first tablet computer by Apple Inc. It was introduced on January 27, 2010 and is similar to an iPod touch with a larger display.

Following several campaigns (for example, Green my Apple), Apple has made their products greener. Recently, the new notebook line removed many toxins and improved the products battery life and recharge cycles.





Since formation of the Apple Computer Company in 1977, Apple has employed over 75,000 people worldwide. The majority of Apple's employees have been located in the United States but Apple has substantial manufacturing, sales, marketing, and support organizations worldwide, with some engineering operations in Paris and Tokyo.

Apple employees include employees of companies Apple owns, and less important, but still relevant companies such as FileMaker Inc. and Braeburn Capital.

Apple Corps has repeatedly sued Apple Inc. for trademark infringement. In the first case, Apple Inc. agreed not to go into the music industry. Apple Corps believes this agreement was broken when Apple Inc. launched iTunes, the music store.



</doc>
<doc id="7112" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7112" title="Template:India">
Template:India


</doc>
<doc id="7117" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7117" title="Soil">
Soil

Soil (sometimes called dirt) is the combination of rock, mineral fragments (pieces) made by weathering (wind, rain, sun, snow, etc.), and organic matter (living things), water, and air.
It is mostly made up of grains of weathered rock and varying amounts of humus. The type of soil depends on the mix of humus and on the size of the grains of the rock. The grains can be very small and smooth, such as clay, or they can be larger, like grains of sand or even a piece of gravel. 
Soils are important to our ecosystem for six main reasons: first, soils are a place for plants to grow; second, soils control the speed and the purity of water that moves through them; third, soils recycle nutrients from dead animals and plants; fourth, soils change the air that surrounds the earth, called the atmosphere; fifth, soils are a place to live for animals, insects and very small living things called microorganisms; sixth, soils are the oldest and the most used building materials. The climate is very important when soil is made. Soil from different climates can have very different qualities.



</doc>
<doc id="7119" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7119" title="Organic">
Organic

The word organic is used for different things:

Organic chemistry is based on carbon, which is the basis for all living things.

Organic matter in soil is material that is, or once was, a plant or animal.

Organic: adjective: of, or relating to, an organism.

Organic farming - agriculture conducted according to certain standards, especially the use of only naturally produced fertilizers and non-chemical means of pest control.


</doc>
<doc id="7126" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7126" title="3D">
3D

3D (or 3-D) means three-dimensional, or having three dimensions. For example, a box is three-dimensional; it is solid, and not thin like a piece of paper. It has volume, a top and bottom, left and right (sides), as well as a front and back. You can turn the box around to view it from another side (called a face, surface or simply side).

A dimension is measurable in inches, centimeters, miles, kilometers, or any other unit of length.

The three dimensions are called length (or depth), width (or breadth), and height.

3D graphics are used to make video games or animated movies. A lot of calculations are needed to make pictures seem three-dimensional on a screen.

In mathematics (maths), length, width, and height are given letters (variables) to make them easier to write, or if a value is not known. X is width, Y is height, and Z is length. Another common 3D coordinate system is the spherical coordinate system.

The mathematical study of shapes and dimensions is called geometry. Geometry can be used to measure how tall a mountain is.

Some people see time as a fourth dimension. It is also measured. It is measured in units of time such as seconds, hours, years, or any other measurement of time.


</doc>
<doc id="7127" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7127" title="Humidity">
Humidity

Humidity (adjective: humid) refers to water vapor in the air, but not to liquid droplets in fog, clouds, or rain. Deserts usually have low humidity, and tropical regions have high humidity.

The word "humid" often means that the humidity is high, feeling very damp (wet air), stuffy, or even sweltering when the temperature is also high. When the humidity is low, the air can be said to be "not humid".

The term "relative humidity" is used to note the amount of humidity as a percent, from 0-100%. Meteorologists have special devices to measure the humidity, such as hygrometers.

Humidity affects the rate of evaporation. With a higher humidity, the rate of evaporation is increased.



</doc>
<doc id="7133" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7133" title="Calabi-Yau manifold">
Calabi-Yau manifold

A Calabi-Yau space is a mathematical construction used by physicists to describe parts of nature that are too small to see with the human eye. 

Most people know that there are three space directions and one time direction in the universe – these directions are called dimensions. Physicists use Calabi-Yau spaces in studying high energy physics of which string theory is a part, to add 6 or 7 or other numbers to build up more dimensions to the universe.

The study of Calabi-Yau spaces is part of a mathematical theory known as "manifold theory".

What we know by observation of very small distances where Calabi-Yau takes place is pieced together by scientists. 

We believe that matter is composed of atoms, and the distances of the pieces of the atoms exist at 10 meters. That is 0.000000000000001 meters. The height of a human being 8 to 12 years old is near 1 meter. A meter, for our purposes we will also just say just about a yard here (1 meter is 39.37 inches) – a half a meter is 0.5 meters. And a tenth of a meter is 0.1 meters – this is about the size we all are about 3 months before we are born, about 3 to 4 inches (these distances like we said are all good guesses). Now we move down to the size of a human hair. Starting at the size of a human hair – and smaller – this is where we observe the tiny parts of our world. We cannot actually see them – except for rare experiments like what Bill Phillips did by making a lot of them stop moving.

But wait. These tiny parts are also interesting. Why? Although they are small, they are also very high in energy. It is like they are compressed like a spring, or like a very long rubber band wrapped around a golf ball.

Now it might seem logical to think that that the smaller we go, the less tight – that is, less energy. 

But scientists find that the smaller we go "the more energy the tiny particles contain". 

So now recall the size of the human hair. Scientists believe that is the size where these small but high energies begin to wrap themselves together much like the rubber band around the golf ball we talked about.

An experiment is going on in Geneva, Switzerland, by a group called CERN (http://public.web.cern.ch/Public/Welcome.html ). One of CERN's experiments will move groups of these particles extremely fast and let them smash together. Then they will watch the pieces of them as they fly apart.

When we collect pictures of the smash, we study them to see what happened. This process takes place in the world's largest "atom smasher", or as it is referred to today, a collider, and this one is called the LHC. 

The experiments are exciting because scientists hope to find something never produced in experiments before called the Higgs particle ( http://www.exploratorium.edu/origins/cern/ideas/higgs.html), and some people think that little black holes may be made inside the LHC (http://public.web.cern.ch/PUBLIC/en/LHC/Safety-en.html).

But it is also believed we stand a chance at finding pieces of atoms and pieces called particles unwrapping into Calabi-Yau manifolds – or perhaps they will take other forms. Imagine if the golf ball were unwound really fast. The long rubber band would wobble and spin as it unraveled. This is exactly what it looks like when we look at the atomic particles in our collectors: http://cdsweb.cern.ch/record/39451.

Now this distance of 0.000000000000001 meters or 1/100,000,000,000,000 of a meter – is in wide consideration in physics. For example the legendary physicist John Wheeler (1911–2008) can be seen working on maths with this distance where Calabi-Yau takes place here.(http://asymptotia.com/2008/04/14/john-wheeler-1911-2008/ ).

For the scales are tremendous and could be said to almost defy human perception. How small this is can be presented in this example. If we take a person to be on the average 1 and a half to 2 and a half meters tall – we consider the Calabi-Yau distances to be about 2 million million million times smaller than a human.

And for the hyper example where the universe as we know it completely breaks up into pure quantum ( 10^−33 centimetres or 10 ^ −35 metres in scientific notation),we need to go another 18 orders of magnitude smaller! What is this number? It is another TWENTY decimal places even smaller than the Calabi-Yau distance 
thresholds: 

Calabi-Yau is theorized as beginning to occur at perhaps 1/1000000000000000 of a meter, as discussed above. 

and

Quantum takes place completely at 

1/100000000000000000000 meters distance BEYOND the atomic and Calabi-Yau scales of 

1/1000000000000000 meters.

That IS small.

Now let us consider what space may look like at these Calabi-Yau distances. The model we learn at school for the most part is that it is all straight and 3 + 1 dimensional. ( http://www.javaview.de/molecule/figures/dna_sqr200.jpg )What we have studied about molecules for example fits 3 + 1 extremely well. (http://www.javaview.de/ ) Yet the data we often get in high energy experiments in colliders seem to suggest that under the presence of high energies space and time are bent around each other ( http://www.bathsheba.com/math/schwartzd/ ). 

Now in order to get a better handle on manifolds, of which Calabi-Yau are an important set to high energy physics, let us begin with a Moebius strip. Here is a formal presentation of the Moebius strip: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/M%C3%B6bius_strip as well as a very practical one here which is fun to do in classes introducing maths and physics: http://mathforum.org/sum95/math_and/moebius/moebius.html .

A Moebius strip has a half a dimension. Consider the paradox in our 3 space dimensions with one time dimension. Space as we recognize it here in our everyday life has "three dimensions", time has one dimension, but there are no "half" dimensions. 

But what happens if Moebius strip is cut right down the middle with a pair of scissors? The strip will form into one piece. Here in the world of half dimensions or boundaries, we find that when we cut something apparently in half, we come up with one. 

This set of paradoxical behaviour was not unobserved by the great Dutch artist of the 20th century Mauritz Cornelius Escher: http://www.worldofescher.com/store/jpgs/P17L.jpg who portrayed in mastery and detail the shape of surfaces with the dimensions – or boundaries – cut, missing, overlapping and so forth in the most interesting unexpected and entertaining ways. 

Now when we consider great energies and small distances it is not difficult to imagine how we find that things really curve up onto each other. Escher himself imagined this perhaps in the picture: http://www.facade.com/celebrity/photo/M_C_Escher.jpg .

Do we find curvatures such as this in nature? Absolutely. For example we notice that a magnetic field looks like so many circles when we place iron shavings on a piece of paper around a magnet: http://www.gutenberg.org/files/16593/16593-h/images/image_224.jpg . And as if that were not enough we notice the same effect with respect to electricity: http://www.gutenberg.org/files/16593/16593-h/images/image_227.jpg .

And we also note that planets and planetary objects such as the Moon rotate about each other. Of course this is called the effect or force of gravity.

So we could say that the distance of 10^−15 meters, that is, 0.000000000000001 meters, is extremely important because it is the distance where the forces of nature in our classical or everyday world become less effective. This is the Calabi-Yau area or distance. At the same time more of the world at the small level, perhaps the level of say, dust, becomes much more important. The number of dimensions at Calabi-Yau is a subject of great interest to high energy physics. It could be called the nexus of high energy physics and classical physics. For example at the cutting edge of the work where complex mathematics such as branes and supersymmetry emerge, one can read the papers of theoretical physicists such as Ed Witten and others at this excellent reference site:http://insti.physics.sunysb.edu/ITP/conf/simonswork3/talks.html.


</doc>
<doc id="7136" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7136" title="Quantum mechanics">
Quantum mechanics

To learn Quantum mechanics (QM) is to learn about matter and energy. The main things to learn are subatomic particles (things smaller than atoms) and electromagnetic waves (waves that are made of electric and magnetic parts). Quantum mechanics explains how these things behave with each other. The ideas of quantum mechanics are very difficult to understand. Hard mathematics is used to study subatomic particles and electromagnetic waves because they act in very strange ways. Quantum mechanics is important to physics and chemistry.

"Quantum" is a Latin word that means 'how much'. So a quantum of energy is a specific amount of energy. Light emitters such as candles or lasers shoot out (or "emit") light in units called photons. Photons are particles, much smaller than the smallest speck of dust. The more photons that a lamp shoots off every second, the brighter, or more intense, the light. Light is a form of energy that behaves like waves in solids, liquids, or gasses. Waves have wavelengths, and photons have wavelike characteristics (including wavelength) that are similar to those of the waves we know from everyday experience. The distance between the top of one wave and the top of the wave nearest it is called a "wavelength," and photons have wavelengths that can be measured. A light's color depends on what its wavelength is. The color violet (the bottom or innermost color of the rainbow) has a wavelength of about 400 nm ("nanometer," which is 0.00004 centimeter or 0.000016 inch). Photons with wavelengths of 10-400 nm are called ultraviolet (or UV) light. Such light cannot be seen by the human eye. On the other end of the spectrum, red light is about 700 nm. Infrared light is about 700 nm to 300,000 nm. Human eyes are not sensitive to infrared light either. Wavelengths aren't always so small. Some longer wavelength photons are used for radio signals. The wavelengths for your FM radio can be several meters in length (for example, stations transmitting on 99.5 FM are emitting radio energy with a wavelength of about 3 meters, which is about 10 feet). Each photon has a definite amount of energy related to its wavelength. The shorter the wavelength of a photon, the greater is its energy. For example, an ultraviolet photon has more energy than an infrared photon. 

Wavelength and frequency (the number of times the wave crests per second) are inversely proportional. This means a longer wavelength will have a lower frequency, and vice versa. If the color of the light is infrared (lower in frequency than red light), each photon can heat up what it hits. So, if a strong infrared lamp (a heat lamp) is pointed at a person, that person will feel warm, or even hot. The surface of the infrared lamp may get hot enough to burn someone who may touch it. However, the person cannot get a sunburn from the photons emitted by the lamp, because those photons do not have enough energy to kill living cells. Humans cannot see infrared light, but we can feel the radiation in the form of heat. For example, a person walking by a brick building that has been heated by the sun will feel heat from the building without having to touch it. 

If the color of the light is ultraviolet (higher in frequency than violet light), then each photon has a lot of energy, enough to hurt skin cells and cause a sunburn. In fact, most forms of sunburn aren't caused by heat, they're caused by the high energy of the sun's UV rays damaging your skin cells. Even higher frequencies of light (or electromagnetic radiation) can penetrate deeper into the body and cause even more damage. X-rays have so much energy that they can go deep into the human body and kill cells. Humans cannot see or feel ultraviolet light or x-rays. They may only know they have been under such high frequency light when they get a radiation burn. Areas where it is important to kill germs often use ultraviolet lamps to destroy bacteria, fungi, etc. X-rays are sometimes used to kill cancer cells.

Quantum mechanics started when it was discovered that a certain frequency means a certain amount of energy. The higher the frequency, the more energy a photon has, and the more damage it can do. Quantum mechanics later grew to explain the internal structure of atoms. Quantum mechanics also explains the way that a photon can interfere with itself, and many other things never imagined in classical physics.

Planck discovered the relationship between frequency and energy. Nobody before had ever guessed that frequency would be directly proportional to energy (this means that as one doubles, the other does too). If we choose to use what are called natural units, then the number representing the frequency of a photon would also represent its energy. The equation would then be:
meaning energy equals frequency.

But the way physics grew, there was no natural connection between the units then used to measure energy and the units commonly used to measure time (and therefore frequency). So the formula that Planck worked out to make the numbers all come out right was:
or, energy equals h times frequency. This h is a number called Planck's constant after its discoverer. 

Quantum mechanics is based on the knowledge that a photon of a certain frequency means a photon of a certain amount of energy. Besides that relationship, a specific kind of atom can only give off certain frequencies of radiation, so it can also only give off photons that have certain amounts of energy.

Isaac Newton thought that light was made of very small things that we would now call particles (he referred to them as "Corpuscles"). Christiaan Huygens thought that light was made of waves. Scientists thought that a thing cannot be a particle and a wave at the same time. 
Scientists did experiments to find out whether light was made of particles or waves. They found out that both ideas were right — light was somehow both waves and particles. The Double-slit experiment performed by Thomas Young showed that light must act like a wave. The Photoelectric effect proved that light had to act like particles that carried specific amounts of energy, and that the energies were linked to their frequencies. This experimental result is called the "wave-particle duality" in quantum mechanics. Later, physicists found out that everything behaves both like a wave and like a particle, not just light.
Here are some of the people who discovered the basic parts of quantum mechanics: Max Planck, Albert Einstein, Satyendra Nath Bose, Niels Bohr, Louis de Broglie, Max Born, Paul Dirac, Werner Heisenberg, Wolfgang Pauli, Erwin Schrödinger, John von Neumann, and Richard Feynman. They did their work in the first half of the 20th century.

Visible light given off by glowing hydrogen. (Wavelengths in nanometers.)

Quantum Mechanics formulas and ideas were made to explain the light that comes from glowing hydrogen. The quantum theory of the atom also had to explain why the electron stays in its orbit, which other ideas were not able to explain. It followed from the older ideas that the electron would have to fall in to the center of the atom because it starts out being kept in orbit by its own energy, but it would quickly lose its energy as it revolves in its orbit. (This is because electrons and other charged particles were known to emit light and lose energy when they changed speed or turned.)

Hydrogen lamps work like neon lights, but neon lights have their own unique group of colors (and frequencies) of light. Scientists learned that they could identify all elements by the light colors they produce. They just could not figure out how the frequencies were determined.

Then a Swiss mathematician named Johann Balmer figured out an equation that told what λ (lambda, for wave length) would be:

where "B" is a number that Balmer determined to be equal to 364.56 nm.

This equation only worked for the visible light from a hydrogen lamp. But later the equation was made more general:

where "R" is the Rydberg constant, equal to 0.0110 nm, and "n" must be greater than "m".

Putting in different numbers for m and n, it is easy to predict frequencies for many types of light (ultraviolet, visible, and infared). To see how this works, go to Hyperphysics and go down past the middle of the page. (Use H = 1 for hydrogen.)

In 1908, Walter Ritz made the Ritz combination principle that shows how certain gaps between
frequencies keep repeating themselves. This turned out to be important to Werner Heisenberg several years later.

In 1905, Albert Einstein used Planck's idea to show that a beam of light is made up of a stream of particles called photons. The energy of each photon depends on its frequency. Einstein's idea is the beginning of the idea in quantum mechanics that all subatomic particles like electrons, protons, neutrons, and others are both waves and particles at the same time. (See picture of atom with the electron as waves at atom.) This led to a theory about subatomic particles and electromagnetic waves called "wave-particle duality". This is where particles and waves were neither one nor the other, but had certain properties of both.

In 1913 Niels Bohr had a new idea. Maybe electrons could only take up certain orbits around the nucleus of an atom. The numbers called m and n in the equation above could represent orbits. An electron could begin in some orbit m and end up in some orbit n, or an electron could begin in some orbit n and end up in some orbit m. So if a photon hits an electron its energy will be absorbed and the electron will move to a higher orbit because of that extra energy. And if an electron falls from a higher orbit to a lower orbit then it will have to give up energy in the form of a photon. The energy of the photon will equal the energy difference between the two orbits, and the energy of a photon makes it have a certain frequency and color. Everything worked out very well that way, but there was one big question left: Each of the colors of light produced by glowing hydrogen (and by glowing neon or any other element) has a brightness of its own, and the brightness differences are always the same for each element. Why?

At this point, most things about the light produced by a hydrogen lamp were known. One big problem remained: How can we explain the brightness of each of the lines produced by glowing hydrogen?

Werner Heisenberg took on the job of explaining the brightness or "intensity" of each line. He could not use any simple rule like the one Balmer had come up with. He had to use the very difficult math of classical physics that figures everything out in terms of things like the mass (weight) of an electron, the charge (static electric strength) of an electron, and other tiny quantities. Classical physics already had answers for the brightness of the bands of color that a hydrogen lamp produces, but the classical theory said that there should be a continuous rainbow, and not four separate color bands. Heisenberg's explanation is:

There is some law that says what frequencies of light glowing hydrogen will produce. It has to predict spaced-out frequencies when the electrons involved are moving between orbits close to the nucleus (center) of the atom, but it also has to predict that the frequencies will get closer and closer together as we look at what the electron does in moving between orbits farther and farther out. It will also predict that the intensity differences between frequencies get closer and closer together as we go out. Where classical physics already gives the right answers by one set of equations the new physics has to give the same answers but by different equations. 

Classical physics uses the methods of the French mathematician Fourier to make a math picture of the physical world, and it uses collections of smooth curves that go together to make one smooth curve that gives, in this case, intensities for light of all frequencies form some light. But it is not right because that smooth curve only appears at higher frequencies. At lower frequencies there are always isolated points and nothing connects the dots. So, to make a map of the real world, Heisenberg had to make a big change. He had to do something to pick out only the numbers that would match what was seen in nature. Sometimes people say he "guessed" these equations, but he was not making blind guesses. He found what he needed. The numbers that he calculated would put dots on a graph, but there would be no line drawn between the dots. And making one "graph" just of dots for every set of calculations would have wasted lots of paper and not have gotten anything done. Heisenberg found a way to efficiently predict the intensities for different frequencies and to organize that information in a helpful way.

Just using the empirical rule given above, the one that Balmer got started and Rydberg improved, we can see how to get one set of numbers that would help Heisenberg get the kind of picture that he wanted:

The rule says that when the electron moves from one orbit to another it either gains or loses energy, depending on whether it is getting farther from the center or nearer to it. So we can put these orbits or energy levels in as headings along the top and the side of a grid. For historical reasons the lowest orbit is called n, and the next orbit out is called n - a, then comes n - b, and so forth. It is confusing that they used negative numbers when the electrons were actually gaining energy, but that is just the way it is. 

Since the Rydberg rule gives us frequencies, we can use that rule to put in numbers depending on where the electron goes. If the electron starts at n and ends up at n, then it has not really gone anywhere, so it did not gain energy and it did not lose energy. So the frequency is 0. If the electron starts at n-a and ends up at n, then it has fallen from a higher orbit to a lower orbit. If it does so then it loses energy, and the energy it loses shows up as a photon. The photon has a certain amount of energy, e, and that is related to a certain frequency f by the equation e = h f. So we know that a certain change of orbit is going to produce a certain frequency of light, f. If the electron starts at n and ends up at n - a, that means it has gone from a lower orbit to a higher orbit. That only happens when a photon of a certain frequency and energy comes in from the outside, is absorbed by the electron and give it its energy, and that is what makes the electron go out to a higher orbit. So, to keep everything making sense, we write that frequency as a negative number. There was a photon with a certain frequency and now it has been taken away.

So we can make a grid like this, where f(a←b) means the frequency involved when an electron goes from energy state (orbit) b to energy state a (Again, sequences look backwards, but that is the way they were originally written.):

Grid of f

Heisenberg did not make the grids like this. He just did the math that would let him get the intensities he was looking for. But to do that he had to multiply two amplitudes (how high a wave measures) to work out the intensity. (In classical physics, intensity equals amplitude squared.) He made an odd-looking equation to handle this problem, wrote out the rest of his paper, handed it to his boss, and went on vacation. Dr. Born looked at his funny equation and it seemed a little crazy. He must have wondered, "Why did Heisenberg give me this strange thing? Why does he have to do it this way?" Then he realized that he was looking at a blueprint for something he already knew very well. He was used to calling the grid or table that we could write by doing, for instance, all the math for frequencies, a matrix. And Heisenberg's weird equation was a rule for multiplying two of them together. Max Born was a very, very good mathematician. He knew that since when the two matrices (grids) being multiplied represented different things (like position (x,y,z) and momentum (mv), for instance), then when you multiply the first matrix by the second you get one answer and when you multiply the second matrix by the first matrix you get another answer. Even though he did not know about matrix math, Heisenberg already saw this "different answers" problem and it had bothered him. But Dr. Born was such a good mathematician that he saw that the difference between the first matrix multiplication and the second matrix multiplication was always going to involve Planck's constant, h, multiplied by the square root of negative one, i. So within a few days of Heisenberg's discovery they already had the basic math for what Heisenberg liked to call the "indeterminacy principle." By "indeterminate" Heisenberg meant that something like an electron is just not pinned down until it gets pinned down. It is a little like a jellyfish that is always squishing around and cannot be "in one place" unless you kill it. Later, people got in the habit of calling it "Heisenberg's uncertainty principle," which made many people make the mistake of thinking that electrons and things like that are really "somewhere" but we are just uncertain about it in our own minds. That idea is wrong. It is not what Heisenberg was talking about. Having trouble measuring something is a problem, but it is not the problem Heisenberg was talking about.

Heisenberg's idea is very hard to grasp, but we can make it clearer with an example. First, we will start calling these grids "matrices," because we will soon need to talk about matrix multiplication.

Suppose that we start with two kinds of measurements, position (q) and momentum (p). In 1925, Heisenberg wrote an equation like this one:

He did not know it, but this equation gives a blueprint for writing out two matrices (grids) and for multiplying them. The rules for multiplying one matrix by another are a little messy, but here are the two matrices according to the blueprint, and then their product:

Matrix of p

Matrix of q

The matrix for the product of the above two matrices as specified by the relevant equation in Heisenberg's 1925 paper is:

Where:
A=p(n←n-a)*q(n-a←n-b)+p(n←n-b)*q(n-b←n-b)+p(n←n-c)*q(n-c←n-b)+...

B=p(n-a←n-a)*q(n-a←n-c)+p(n-a←n-b)*q(n-b←n-c)+p(n-a←n-c)*q(n-c←n-c)+...

C=p(n-b←n-a)*q(n-a←n-d)+p(n-b←n-b)*q(n-b←n-d)+p(n-b←n-c)*q(n-d←n-d)+...

and so forth.

If the matrices were reversed, the following values would result:

A=q(n←n-a)*p(n-a←n-b)+q(n←n-b)*p(n-b←n-b)+q(n←n-c)*p(n-c←n-b)+...
B=q(n-a←n-a)*p(n-a←n-c)+q(n-a←n-b)*p(n-b←n-c)+q(n-a←n-c)*p(n-c←n-c)+...
C=q(n-b←n-a)*p(n-a←n-d)+q(n-b←n-b)*p(n-b←n-d)+q(n-b←n-c)*p(n-d←n-d)+...

and so forth.

Note how changing the order of multiplication changes the numbers, step by step, that are actually multiplied.

The work of Werner Heisenberg seemed to break a log jam. Very soon many different other ways of explaining things came from people such as Louis de Broglie, Max Born, Paul Dirac, Wolfgang Pauli, and Erwin Schrödinger. The work of each of these physicists is its own story. The math used by Heisenberg and earlier people is not very hard to understand, but the equations quickly grew very complicated as physicists looked more deeply into the atomic world.

In the early days of quantum mechanics, Albert Einstein suggested that if it were right then quantum mechanics would mean that there would be "spooky action at a distance." It turned out that quantum mechanics was right, and that what Einstein had used as a reason to reject quantum mechanics actually happened. This kind of "spooky connection" between certain quantum events is now called "quantum entanglement".

In 1925, Werner Heisenberg described the Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle, which says that the more we know about where a particle is, the less we can know about how fast it is going and in which direction; in other words, the more we know about the speed and direction of something small, the less we can know about its position. Physicists usually talk about the momentum in such discussions instead of talking about speed. Momentum is just the speed of something in a certain direction times its mass. 

The principle also says that there are many pairs of things for which we cannot know both of them about any particle (a very small thing), no matter how hard we try. The more we learn about one of such a pair, the less we can know about the other.

There is a special case which relates the knowledge of position and momentum and puts a limit on the product (what you get when you multiply together) of those two values. The ground state (state with the least energy) of the Quantum Simple Harmonic Oscillator is indeed in a minimum uncertainty state and behaves such that the inequality is an equality. In other words, that's when we can know the most about it, because we got to the limit of how much the universe will let us know.

Even Albert Einstein had trouble accepting such a bizarre concept, and in a well-known debate said, "God does not play dice."
To this, Danish physicist Niels Bohr famously responded, "Einstein, don't tell God what to do."

Electrons surround every atom's nucleus. Chemical bonds link atoms to form molecules. A chemical bond links two atoms when electrons are shared between those atoms. Thus QM is the physics of the chemical bond and of chemistry. QM helps us understand how molecules are made, and what their properties are.

QM can also help us understand big things, such as stars and even the whole universe. QM is a very important part of the theory of how the universe began called the Big Bang.

Everything made of matter is attracted to other matter because of a fundamental force called gravity. The theory of gravity is called the theory of general relativity. A problem in modern physics is that some conclusions of QM do not seem to agree with the theory of general relativity.

QM is the part of physics that explains why all electronic technology works as it does. Thus QM explains how computers work, because computers are electronic machines. But the designers of the early computer hardware of around 1950 or 1960 did not need to think about QM. The designers of radios and televisions at that time did not think about QM either. However, the design of the more powerful integrated circuits and computer memory technologies of recent years does require QM.
QM has also made possible technologies such as:

QM is a challenging subject for several reasons:

QM describes nature in a way that is different from how we usually think about science. It tells us how likely to happen some things are, rather than telling us that they certainly will happen.

One example is Young's double-slit experiment. If we shoot single photons (single units of light) from a laser at a sheet of photographic film, we will see a single spot of light on the developed film. If we put a sheet of metal in between, and make two very narrow slits in the screen, when we fire many photons at the screen, and they have to go through the holes in the middle, then we will see something remarkable. All the way across the sheet of developed film we will see a series of bright and dark bands. Physics lets us use mathematics to tell exactly where the bright bands will be and how bright was the light that made them, that is, we can tell ahead of time how many photons will fall on each band. But if we slow the process down and see where each photon lands on the screen we can never tell ahead of time where the next one will show up. We can know for sure that it is most likely that a photon will hit the center bright band, and that it gets less and less likely that a photon will show up at bands farther and farther from the center. So we know for sure that the bands will be brightest at the center and get dimmer and dimmer farther away. But we never know for sure which photon will go into which band.

One of the strange conclusions of QM theory is the "Schrödinger's cat" effect. Certain properties of a particle, such as their position, speed of motion, direction of motion, and "spin", cannot be talked about until something measures them (a photon bouncing off of an electron would count as a measurement of its position, for example). Before the measurement, the particle is in a "superposition of states," in which its properties have many values at the same time.

People often used the symbol formula_4, which is called "h-bar." formula_4 = h/2π. H-bar is a unit of momentum. When this new unit is used to describe the orbits of electrons in atoms, the momentum of any electron in orbit is always a whole number.

The particle in a 1-dimensional well is the most simple example showing that the energy of a particle can only have specific values. The energy is said to be "quantized."
The well has zero potential energy inside a range and has infinite potential energy everywhere outside that range. For the 1-dimensional case in the formula_6 direction, the time-independent Schrödinger equation can be written as:

Using differential equations, we can see that formula_8 must be
or

The walls of the box mean that the wavefunction must have a special form. The wavefunction of the particle must be zero anytime the walls are infinitely tall. At each wall:

Consider "x" = 0

Now consider: formula_13

We can see that formula_17 must be an integer. This means that the particle can only have special energy values and cannot have the energy values in between. This is an example of energy "quantization."




</doc>
<doc id="7146" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7146" title="Template:Commons">
Template:Commons


</doc>
<doc id="7147" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7147" title="Category:India">
Category:India


</doc>
<doc id="7151" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7151" title="Duisburg">
Duisburg

Duisburg is a German city in the state of North Rhine-Westphalia. It is located where the Rhine and the Ruhr rivers meet. About 500,000 people live in Duisburg.


</doc>
<doc id="7152" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7152" title="Kuopio">
Kuopio

Kuopio is a Finnish city. It is the biggest city and cultural center of Eastern Finland. The population of Kuopio is 90,000, and it is the 8th biggest city in Finland. The city is very wide and has a lot of lakes inside it; several parts of it are built on islands. 

The traffic connections of the city are good with trains and aeroplanes. There is a university of Kuopio, too. Kuopio is known as a strong center of welfare and health profession, as the university is particularly oriented to those areas.

In Finland the people of Kuopio have a special reputation: they are known as happy and funny people.


</doc>
<doc id="7156" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7156" title="Hammer">
Hammer

A hammer is a tool for putting nails into objects such as wood. It has a long handle, and a tip with a flat end for hitting nails. The most common type of hammer (sometimes called a "claw hammer") has a curved end (on the other side of the hitting end) for pulling nails out.

A sledgehammer is a hammer that has a longer shaft, and a more massive head. That way more force can be applied. Sledgehammers are often used to

Hammers were sometimes used as weapons. 


</doc>
<doc id="7158" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7158" title="Feces">
Feces

Feces (also spelled faeces) is the body's solid waste left over from eating food. Feces leave the intestinal tract and are removed from the body through the anus. Feces can be used to create fertilizers for plant crops. Some feces are also used as a fuel for cookery. Feces are known for their unpleasant odor and brown color. Feces are used by some scientists to follow tiger populations.

In informal language, there are many words for feces. These are often offensive or even vulgar. Examples include poop, crap and shit.



</doc>
<doc id="7160" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7160" title="Catholicism">
Catholicism

Catholicism often means the Roman Catholic Church. Sometimes it also refers to the Eastern Orthodox Churches, or other Churches that believe in the great lists of Christian beliefs called "creeds" (from the Latin word "credo", meaning "I believe"), such as the Anglican Church. The word "catholic" means "everywhere or universal" (belief that the Church is one big family). 

The Great Church Orthodox and Catholic was started by Jesus of Nazareth, a Jew who descended from the line of King David who was crucified by the Romans, at the Jewish feast of Passover, in accordance with and fulfillment of the Hebrew scriptures - especially Isaiah and the Psalms ca. 33 AD. The followers of Jesus reported in the scriptures as they witnessed it - that he was resurrected by God the Father and appeared to over 500 people for forty daysmen before he ascended into heaven. It's believed that he later sent the holy spirit onto his disciples at Pentecost when they spoke in tongues and understood each others different languages. 

One of his followers, Saint Peter, was appointed leader by Jesus and later became recognized as the first Pope, or Bishop of Rome, soon after that - he was captured and died in Rome. He was given the keys of the kingdom of heaven and was the first to recognize Jesus as Messiah when questioned by Jesus as to "Who do you say that I am?" Today, the pope is Benedict XVI, who is the leader of the Church (like the male head of a family, or father). This is where the word "pope" comes from. That is why the pope is also called the "Holy Father" - he is the Catholic spiritual father here on earth.

In 325, the First Council of Nicaea agreed on how to organize the church. The council agree the Church had five patriarchs (patriarch was the highest type of church leader). They were the archbishops of Rome, Alexandria, Antioch, Constantinople, and Jerusalem. The Patriarch of Rome, was honored as "first among equals."

In time, the Church split apart with fights over who is right; these fights caused breaks in the Church called schisms. Most schisms happen because people have different beliefs about what is true, but politics is often a big reason for these fights too.

In 451, a church division happened when all the church leaders meeting at the Church Council in the city of Chalcedon excommunicated (cut off) three leaders, because they would not accept the view that Jesus had two natures (fully divine and fully human). These three were the bishops of Egypt, Syria, and Armenian. Of course, these three bishops did not accept being excommunicated either, so the churches under them are still known today as Oriental Orthodox Churches.

In 1054, the Great Church Orthodox and Catholic split into the Western (Roman) Church and the Eastern Orthodox Church . The Eastern Orthodox Church was divided into national churches, making the Greek Orthodox, Russian Orthodox, Ukrainian Orthodox, Serbian Orthodox, Romanian Orthodox, and so on. The Roman Catholic Church developed the idea of one united church leader with the pope. Some Eastern Orthodox Churches believe the emperor or king is the head of the Church as well as the country. In England, the Anglican Church is like this.

The next big schism was the Protestant Reformation, which protested against the central authority of the Church in Rome and against what it thought were wrong ways of doing and believing things about God in the Catholic Church. It started in Germany, where Martin Luther sent his demands for change to the Church. Because of politics in Europe, many nations supported Luther. The Lutheran Church was started. Later the Calvinist or Presbyterian Church started.

One of the most famous people in this period is King Henry VIII of England, who started the Anglican church because he wanted to divorce his first wife and the Pope said he was not allowed to do that. First his Church, the Church of England, was like the Catholic Church, but with the king as leader instead of the pope. Later, under his son, Edward VI, and his daughter, Elizabeth I, the Anglican Church became more reformed or Protestant, but Anglicans still believe they are reformed Catholics, as well as Protestants.

In the Reformation, other Churches also split off from the Catholic Church and became Protestant. Even inside Protestant churches, disagreements over beliefs resulted in more splits. This is why there are so many Protestant churches. Some of these Protestant or Reformed churches are: Lutheran, Anglican, Presbyterian, Calvinist, Methodist, Baptist, to name just a few. Later on, some people split again to make new kinds of churches which most Protestants do not believe are Christian at all, like Mormons, Jehovah's Witnesses, Unitarian Universalist, and many others.

If a child refuses to obey his/her father, the father punishes his child; in church-talk this is called excommunication. In the Roman Catholic Church, if believers disobey the pope, they can also be punished or excommunicated. There is only one way of belief for Catholics who want to be with the pope. This is why Roman Catholics believe there is only one Catholic Church.





</doc>
<doc id="7161" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7161" title="Nail">
Nail

A nail is a metal object with a flat head and a long sharp tip. A hammer is used to put it into another object. It is often used to join two objects together.



</doc>
<doc id="7162" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7162" title="Dictatorship">
Dictatorship

A dictatorship is a country where one person or political party has the power to do whatever he or she wants. The ruler is called a dictator. In a dictatorship, people usually do not have many rights or much freedom. 

A dictatorship that is ruled by soldiers is called a military dictatorship or junta. An absolute monarchy (the system where there are Kings and Queens who have full power over their country) can be considered to be a dictatorship, but are usually not called dictators. A dictatorship is usually not liked by the people, because most don't like to be dictated around. Most dictators are selfish and rule over the people just for power. 

Some dictators have included:


</doc>
<doc id="7163" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7163" title="Electricity">
Electricity

Electricity is a type of energy found in nature.

Scientists have also found we can make electricity if we pass a magnet close to a metal wire or if we put the right chemicals in a jar with two different kinds of metal rod.

Scientists have observed that electricity seems to flow like water from one place to another, either as a spark or as a current in a metal. They now know that all matter has electric charge but this is mostly cancelled out by the presence of matter with an opposite charge. We only see an effect when there is too much or too little electric charge in one place so that it is not cancelled out.

Since the nineteenth century, electricity has been made into a useful creation that affects every part of our lives. Until then it was just a curiosity or a force of nature seen in a thunderstorm.

To be useful electricity has to be made from different sources of energy such as by burning coal or oil or from wind or flowing water in a power station.

Electricity arrives at our homes through wires from the places where it is made. It is used by Electric Lamps for producing light, Electric Heaters to produce heat etc. It is also used by many devices like washing machines, Electric Cookers, etc. for doing work. In factories, electricity is used for running machines and computers. 

The people who deal with electricity and electrical devices in our homes and factories are called "Electricians".

Electricity works because electric charges push and pull on each other. There are two types of electric charge, positive charge and negative charge. Two positive charges repel each other. This means that if you put two positive charges close together and let them go, they would fly apart. Two negative charges also repel. But a negative charge and a positive charge attract each other. This means that if you put a positive charge and a negative charge close together, they would smack together. A short way to remember this is the phrase opposites attract, likes repel.

Electric charges can push or pull on each other even though they are not touching. This is possible because each charge makes an electric field around itself. An electric field is an area that surrounds a charge. At each point near a charge, the electric field points in a certain direction. If a positive charge is put at that point, it will be pushed in that direction. If a negative charge is put at that point, it will be pushed in the exact opposite direction.

All the matter in the world is made of tiny positive and negative charges. The positive charges are called protons, and the negative charges are called electrons. Protons are much bigger and heavier than electrons, but they both have the same amount of electric charge, except that protons are positive and electrons are negative. Because "opposites attract," protons and electrons stick together. A few protons and electrons can form bigger particles called atoms and molecules. Atoms and molecules are still very tiny. It is impossible to see them without a very powerful microscope. Any big object, like your body, has more atoms and molecules in it than anyone could count.

Because negative electrons and positive protons stick together to make big objects, all big objects that we can see and feel are electrically neutral. "Electrically" is a word meaning "describing electricity" and "neutral" is a word meaning, "balanced." That is why we do not feel objects pushing and pulling on us from a distance, like they would if everything was electrically charged. All big objects are electrically neutral because there is exactly the same amount of positive and negative charge in the world. We could say that the world is exactly balanced, or neutral. This seems very surprising and lucky. Scientists still do not know why this is so, even though they have been studying electricity for a long time.

In some materials, electrons are stuck tightly in place, while in other materials, electrons can move all around the material. Protons never move around a solid object because they are so heavy, at least compared to the electrons. A material that lets electrons move around is called a conductor. A material that keeps each electron tightly in place is called an insulator. Examples of conductors are copper, aluminum, silver, and gold. Examples of insulators are rubber, plastic, and wood. Copper is used very often as a conductor because it is a very good conductor and there is so much of it in the world. But sometimes other materials are used.

Inside a conductor, electrons bounce around, but they do not keep going in one direction for long. But if an electric field is set up inside the conductor, the electrons will all start to move in the direction opposite to the direction the field is pointing (because electrons are negatively charged). A battery can make an electric field inside a conductor. If both ends of a piece of wire are connected to the two ends of a battery (called the "electrodes") the loop that was made is called a circuit. Electrons will flow around and around the circuit as long as the battery is making an electric field inside the wire. This flow of electrons around the circuit is called electric current.

A conducting wire used to carry electric current is often wrapped in an insulator like rubber. This is because wires that carry current are very dangerous. If a person or an animal touched a bare wire carrying current, they could get hurt or even die depending on how strong the current was. You should be careful around electrical sockets and bare wires that might be carrying current.

It is possible to connect an electrical device to a circuit so that electrical current will flow through a device. This current will make the device do something that we want it to do. Electrical devices can be very simple. For example, in a light bulb, current flows through a special wire called a filament, which makes it glow. Electrical devices can also be very complicated. Electricity can be used to drive a motor inside a tool like a drill or a pencil sharpener. Electricity is also used to power modern electronic devices, including telephones, computers, and televisions.






Electricity is mostly generated in places called power stations. Power stations use heat to turn water into steam. The force of the steam pressure turns giant fan-like structures called turbines, which are linked to machines called 'generators'. Generators pass wires through strong magnetic fields to generate electricity. 

Sometimes a natural flow such as wind or water can be used to directly turn a generator so no heat is needed.

There are many sources of heat which can be used to generate electricity. Heat sources can be classified into two types: renewable energy resources in which the supply of heat energy never runs out and non-renewable energy resources in which the supply will be eventually used up.

Renewable energy resources

Non-renewable energy resources
These all use heat as a source of energy.


</doc>
<doc id="7164" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7164" title="Sailor Moon">
Sailor Moon

Pretty Soldier Sailor Moon or Sailor Moon is a shojo manga by Naoko Takeuchi. It was adapted to an anime series by Toei Animation CO., LTD. Sailor Moon was one the most popular anime/manga series during the 1990s, spanning five seasons, four movies, and multiple video games. It continues to hold a strong fanbase with many fansites devoted to it. 

Usagi (Serena in English) is an eighth grader who is clumsy, a crybaby and gets bad grades. One day, she meets a talking cat named Luna, who tells her that she is Sailor Moon, a superhero. Now, she has to fight monsters to save people from getting their energy stolen. Usagi also has some friends who fight evil. They are named Sailor Mercury, Sailor Venus, Sailor Mars, and Sailor Jupiter. They make up a team called the Sailor Senshi ("Senshi" means "soldier" or "guardian"). The Sailor Senshi are named after different planets in the solar system. Each of the Sailor Senshi uses magic powers to become a Sailor Senshi. They are also young Japanese girls. Their real names are not Sailor Mercury, Sailor Venus, Sailor Mars, and Sailor Jupiter. For example, when Sailor Mercury is not fighting evil, her name is Ami Mizuno (Amy in English). The name of Sailor Venus is Minako Aino (Mina in English). The name of Sailor Mars is Rei Hino (Raye in English). The name of Sailor Jupiter is Makoto Kino (Lita in English). Each of them has a transformation sequence where they turn into their Sailor Senshi form.

Mamoru Chiba (called Darien Chiba in the English manga and Darien Shields in the English anime) is Usagi's boyfriend. He uses magic powers to transform into a man named Tuxedo Mask, who fights evil along with the Sailor Senshi. In the future, Usagi and Mamoru get married and become the king and queen of the earth. Their daughter, named Chibiusa (Rini in the English version), travels through time to help them and the Sailor Senshi.

Usagi has a cat named Luna. The cat is named Luna because "luna" is the Latin word for moon. Minako has a cat named Artemis after the Greek goddess of the moon (although Artemis is a male cat). Luna and Artemis are not ordinary cats. They can talk, and they have moon symbols on their foreheads. They can also turn into humans in the manga, and Luna turns into a human in one of the anime movies. In the future, they have a kitten named Diana (Diana is the name of the Roman moon goddess). 

Later there are some other Sailor Senshi. They are named after the planets Saturn, Uranus, Neptune, and Pluto (now a dwarf planet). Sailor Saturn's real name is Hotaru Tomoe . Sailor Uranus' real name is Haruka Tenoh (Amara in English). Sailor Neptune's real name is Michiru Kaioh (Michelle in English). Sailor Pluto's real name is Setsuna Meioh (Trista in English). In the manga and the Japanese anime, Haruka and Michiru are lesbians, but in the English anime they were changed to cousins. This is because the English anime was made for younger children than the Japanese anime.

Each Sailor Senshi has different powers. Sailor Moon has powers of love and healing. Sailor Mercury has powers of water. Sailor Mars has fire powers, Sailor Jupiter has electricity and plant powers, and Sailor Venus has light and energy powers. Sailor Chibi Moon, (called Sailor Mini Moon in the English version) has love and sugar powers. Sailor Saturn is death and rebirth, Sailor Neptune is water, Sailor Uranus is earthquakes, and Sailor Pluto has time and death powers. Tuxedo Mask can throw sharp rose darts at the enemies.

In the manga there are five series:"Bishoujo Senshi Sailor Moon", "Bishoujo Senshi Sailor Moon R(eturn/omance)", "Bishoujo Senshi Sailor Moon Super" "Bishoujo Senshi Sailor Moon SuperS" "Bishoujo Senshi Sailor Moon Stars". Sailor Moon was originally serialized in the Japanese manga magazine by Kodansha. Afterwards Kodansha published the completed series in volumes. There are eighteen volumes total.

The anime stayed close to the story from the manga. However due to its popularity, Toei made more seasons and produced movies. Sailor moon was licensed to be aired in the United States by DIC Entertainment (a company that makes tv and film). DIC cut out some scenes and changed some of the dialogue to make it more acceptable for children. Many anime fans in the US did not like the changes. Due to their complaints, ADV Films and later Pioneer Inc. made uncut versions.

The following tv series and movies were made:


</doc>
<doc id="7167" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7167" title="Anesthetic">
Anesthetic

An anesthetic is a substance that doctors use on people. It makes them either stop hurting, or go completely to sleep during surgery. Anesthetic can be given as rubbed onto the skin, as an injection ("shot"), or as a gas to breathe. Anaesthetic (anaesthesia), blocks the pain during operations. This lets patients undergo surgery and other procedures without the distress and pain they would normally feel. It comes from Greek roots an-, "without" and aesthetos, "perceptible, able to feel".

The modern anesthetic was created by Joseph Lister. Before it, people sometimes used cocaine, alcohol, and other drugs.


</doc>
<doc id="7168" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7168" title="Category:Cuban people">
Category:Cuban people

In this category are famous people from the Carribean country of Cuba.


</doc>
<doc id="7169" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7169" title="Fidel Castro">
Fidel Castro

Fidel Alejandro Castro Ruz (born August 13, 1926), was the "Prime Minister of Cuba" from 1959 until 1976, when his title was changed to "President of Cuba". He temporarily gave power to his brother Raúl Castro while recovering from surgery in summer of 2006. On February 19, 2008, he announced that he would not return to power. He was in power for 49 years.

Fidel Castro has a doctorate of law from the University of Havana. He was trained as a military lawyer. He came to power after he and his guerrilla soldiers overthrew the dictatorship of General Fulgencio Batista.

Castro is a communist, and he made Cuba the first socialist country of the Americas. During the Cold War he was a friend of the Soviet Union, and he depended on their help until the USSR collapsed. An important moment of the Cold War was the Cuban Missile Crisis of 1962. In 1961 the United States of America discovered that the Soviet Union was placing missiles on Cuba, close to the United States. After very tense talking, a big nuclear war was avoided between the Soviet Union and the USA.

Some people call Castro a dictator. They criticize him, because they think he has ignored some human rights, for example, torture, murder and oppression of freedom of speech, both at home and in African countries where he sent Cuban soldiers to spread Communism. Other people do not think this is true. For example, Nelson Mandela has spoken in support of Castro and has thanked him for aid to Africa. Amnesty International criticized Cuba's human rights record but noted slow progress in July of 2002. Supporters of Castro say he gave Cuba the best health care and education of Latin America and created equality between the poor and the rich.



</doc>
<doc id="7170" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7170" title="Latin America">
Latin America

Latin America is a region of the Americas. People do not completely agree which countries are in Latin America, but normally, it is the parts where Spanish and Portuguese are spoken (South America, Central America, and Mexico). Sometimes the Caribbean Islands are also inclued. Other people call all American countries where people speak Spanish, Portuguese, and French Latin America.

The words "Latin America" come from the use of languages that came from Latin. The Spanish, Portuguese, and French languages, spoken by many people in Latin America, are Romance languages. Romance languages are derived from Latin. Not all people in Latin America speak Romance languages, some Latin American people speak Native American languages.

Most Latin Americans are Roman Catholic.




</doc>
<doc id="7172" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7172" title="Washington, D.C.">
Washington, D.C.

Washington, D.C. is the capital city of the United States. It is not a state. The President of the United States and many major national government offices are located in the city. 

Washington was named after the first U.S. President, George Washington. The "D.C." stands for "District of Columbia", a special area created that is not a state. At first, it was made up of a piece from Virginia south of the Potomac River and a piece from Maryland north of the Potomac River. In 1849, Virginia's piece was returned to it, and is now Arlington County and part of the city of Alexandria. Since 1849, all of Washington D.C. is on the north side of the Potomac River. Washington, D.C. used to have other small towns that used "D.C.". These include Georgetown, D.C. and Alexandria, D.C.

Since 1800, Washington D.C. is the home of all three branches of the U.S. government: Congress, the President, and the Supreme Court. It is also the home of the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund (IMF), and the Organization of American States (OAS). Because it is the home of the President and is important to American politics, many groups hold large demonstrations and protests. These are often on the National Mall, a large open park that has many monuments and museums. Washington D.C.'s many museums and monuments make it a popular place for tourists to visit.

Washington D.C. is called many things by many different people. It can be called D.C., The District of Columbia, The District, or sometimes just Washington. This can be confusing because there is also a U.S. state called Washington. To help with the confusion, sometimes the state of Washington is called "Washington State". In 2005, the United States Census Bureau said that about 582,049 people live in the District of Columbia.

When English people first came to the area, there was a Native American village on the spot called "Nakochtank". This name survives in the name of the Anacostia River. This river was known for the healing properties of its pure water, and it is recorded that the Emperor Powhatan, who lived in what is now Richmond, Virginia, made the trip all the way to Nakochtank once for this reason. Today this river is one of the most polluted in the world.

The 1789 United States Constitution said that a capital city would be created in a district, but did not say where it should be. James Madison and others thought it should be far away from other states and cities. This way, it would be independent and not controlled by any state. In 1790, a was reached and capital was placed between Virginia and Maryland. It was a square, ten miles (16 km) long on each side, and split by the Potomac River, which separated the two states. Half of the district was in Maryland and the other half was in Virginia, and the two states gave this land to the government. In 1791, it was named "Washington, the District of Columbia" to honor George Washington. "Columbia" was another name for North America.

Washington, D.C. was planned before it was built. Pierre L'Enfant drew a plan for the city that said where all the streets, parks, and important buildings would be. Unlike most U.S. cities, D.C. has many roundabouts or traffic circles. The city was supposed to have long and wide avenues, and many open spaces for monuments and parks. The National Mall, a large park that connected the US Capitol to the Washington Monument, was one of the most important parts of L'Enfant's plan.

Washington, D.C. is not a state, and its citizens have less control over their city than most Americans. While D.C. has an elected mayor and a city council since 1973, the U.S. Congress controls the local government and can overturn or get rid of any local laws. Congress and the people of D.C. often do not agree on what is best.

The current mayor of Washington, D.C. is Vincent C. Gray, a Democrat.

The license plates on the cars in Washington D.C. say "Taxation Without Representation." This is a protest from people who live in Washington, D.C. about having to pay taxes to the United States without having a vote in the United States House of Representatives. It resembles the protest made by colonists before the American Revolution about having to pay taxes to England. Some people are against letting Washington, D.C. have a Congressman or Congresswoman because the Constitution only allows states to have Congressman or Congresswomen. Other people are against it because Washington, D.C. government is almost completely Democratic Party controlled.

Washington, D.C. is the center of the nation for its arts. The National Symphony Orchestra, the Washington National Opera, and the Washington Ballet are all inside the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. The Kennedy Center Honors are given every year to the people who have greatly helped the cultural life of the United States. The President and First Lady usually go to the Honors ceremony.
According to a 2010 study, Washington-area commuters spent 70 hours a year in traffic delays, which tied with Chicago for having the nation's worst road congestion. However, 37% of Washington-area commuters take public transportation to work, the second-highest rate in the country. An additional 12% of D.C. commuters walked to work, 6% carpooled, and 3% traveled by bicycle in 2010.

Washington has very few freeways. The funds that had been dedicated for freeway construction were instead redirected to the region's public transportation infrastructure. The interstate highways that do continue into Washington, including Interstate 66 and Interstate 395, both terminate shortly upon entering the city.

The Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority (WMATA) operates the Washington Metro, the city's rapid transit system, as well as Metrobus. Both systems serve the District and its suburbs. Metro opened on March 27, 1976 and presently consists of 86 stations and of track. With an average of about one million trips each weekday, Metro is the second-busiest rapid transit system in the country, after the New York City Subway. Metrobus serves over 400,000 riders each weekday, making it the nation's sixth-largest bus system. The city also operates its own DC Circulator bus system, which connects commercial areas within central Washington.

Union Station is the main train station in Washington, D.C., and handles approximately 70,000 people each day. It is Amtrak's second-busiest station with 4.6 million passengers annually and serves as the southern terminus for the Northeast Corridor and Acela Express routes. Maryland's MARC and Virginia's VRE commuter trains and the Metrorail Red Line also provide service into Union Station. Expansion plans announced in 2011 will make Union Station the city's primary intercity bus transit center.

Three major airports serve the District. Washington National Airport is located across from downtown Washington in Arlington, Virginia and has its own Metrorail station. Major international flights arrive and depart from Washington Dulles International Airport, located west of the District in Fairfax and Loudoun counties in Virginia. Dulles will have a Metrorail station in 2016. Baltimore-Washington International Thurgood Marshall Airport is located northeast of the District in Anne Arundel County, Maryland.



</doc>
<doc id="7174" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7174" title="President of the United States">
President of the United States

The President of the United States of America is the head of state, and head of government of the United States. The office of President was created in the United States Constitution in 1788. The first President took office in 1789. The President serves as chief executive and is in charge of the executive branch of the United States government. The United States Constitution makes the President the Commander-in-Chief of the armed forces. It also lists powers given to the President. These powers include:

With the agreement of the United States Senate he or she can:

Presidents may be replaced by the Acting President, usually his or her Vice President.


</doc>
<doc id="7177" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7177" title="1948">
1948

1948 is a year in the 20th century. It was a leap year.








</doc>
<doc id="7183" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7183" title="1949">
1949

1949 is a year in the 20th century. It was a common year.








</doc>
<doc id="7184" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7184" title="1950">
1950

1950 (MCML) was a common year starting on Sunday in the Gregorian calendar.








</doc>
<doc id="7192" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7192" title="J. R. R. Tolkien">
J. R. R. Tolkien

John Ronald Reuel Tolkien (January 3, 1892 – September 2, 1973) was a philologist, university professor, and writer. Tolkien is best known for his most famous works, "The Hobbit" and "The Lord of the Rings".

He was born in Bloemfontein, South Africa but his parents were both from England. He fought in World War I, and after the war he found a job helping to produce the Oxford English Dictionary. Tolkien was very interested in languages, and he had studied at Oxford University. Soon he became a professor of English Language at the University of Leeds. He was then a professor at the University of Oxford until 1959, when he retired. He also was good friends with many other writers and scholars, most notably C. S. Lewis, who wrote the "Narnia" books, "The Screwtape Letters", and many essays on Christian theology. Tolkien himself was a devout Catholic. 

Tolkien married Edith Mary Bratt on March 22, 1916 in England at the age of 24. They had four children, three sons and a girl: John, Michael, Christopher, and Priscilla.

He created and worked on the fictional fantasy world of Middle-earth for most of his life, and his most famous books are set in that world. Because of his Middle-earth books he is often considered the "father of high fantasy" which made the fantasy genre very popular.

Tolkien wrote other books, for example "Farmer Giles Of Ham", and also illustrated (drew the pictures and maps for) "The Lord of the Rings". "The Lord of the Rings" was published in three parts and has been made into several motion pictures. "The Lord of the Rings" took 12 years to write.





</doc>
<doc id="7199" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7199" title="Adolescence">
Adolescence

Adolescence is the time between being a child and full adult, that is the period of time during which a person is biologically (physically) adult but emotionally (feelings) not at full maturity. The ages which are considered to be part of adolescence vary by culture, but in the United States, adolescence is usually considered to begin around age 13, and end around 18. In the English language, adolescents (people going through adolescence) are frequently called "teenagers" or "teens", which comes from the end the English words "thirteen" to "nineteen". "Adolescence" is cultural and so does not refer to a fixed time period. The word comes from the Latin verb "adolescere" meaning "to grow up." During this time, a person's body, emotions and academic standing change a lot. When adolescence happens, in America, children usually finish elementary school and enter secondary education, such as middle school or high school.

During this period of life, most children go through the physical stages of puberty, which often begin before a person has reached the age of 13. Most cultures think of people as becoming adults at various ages of the teenage years. For example, Jewish tradition thinks that people are adults at age 13, and this change is celebrated in the Bar Mitzvah (for boys) and the Bat Mitzvah (for girls) ceremony. Usually, there is a formal age of majority when adolescents formally (under the law) become adults.


</doc>
<doc id="7205" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7205" title="KDE">
KDE

KDE (short for K Desktop Environment) is a desktop environment for operating systems based on Linux or UNIX. This replaces the console, which is simply a black screen with text on it. It is known for how good it can look, and it is a very popular piece of software for users of Linux and UNIX.

KDE runs on top of the X Window System, which runs on top of any UNIX-like operating systems like Linux and Mac OS X, Since KDE 4.0, KDE also runs on Microsoft Windows.

Besides the desktop environment the KDE project also includes a large amount of software created using the same technologies as the KDE desktop.

The following table lists when each version of KDE was released.

There are several major applications for KDE. These include:




</doc>
<doc id="7207" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7207" title="United Kingdom Independence Party">
United Kingdom Independence Party

The United Kingdom Independence Party (often called UKIP, said "yoo-kip") is a political party in the United Kingdom. It's policies are considered to be right-wing and they promote populism, conservatism, classical liberalism, libertarianism, national conservatism and Euroscepticism. Their main policy is said to be that they want the UK to leave the European Union.

The party was founded in 1993, and they first won seats in the European Parliament in 1999. They won 3 seats in 1999, which was increased to 12 in 2004 and 13 in 2009. The party does not do well under Britain's 'First-past-the-post' system of elections and has never won a seat in the British House of Commons, although they received 920,334 votes (3.1% of the total vote) at the 2010 UK General Election.

Supporters of UKIP mostly believe in the following things:


There are currently about 15,000 people who are members of the UKIP. Of these, some are politicians. Thirteen of them are members of the European Parliament.



</doc>
<doc id="7209" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7209" title="Space Oddity">
Space Oddity

David Bowie's first big hit record was the single "Space Oddity" in 1969. This album though only really sold well when he became more famous in 1973. Many of the songs are very melodic, with good tunes, and are unusual.

The songs on this album are:


</doc>
<doc id="7210" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7210" title="Saxophone">
Saxophone

A saxophone is a musical instrument that is made of brass and often just called a "sax".
Due to the fact it is made from brass it is often involved in what is referred to as a brass section alongside true brass instruments like the trumpet or trombone. However, it is not a true brass instrument but a member of the woodwind family of instruments because it has a reed. It was developed from the clarinet and shares many similarities to the clarinet. The player blows into a reed fitted into the mouthpiece of the instrument. 

There are several different kinds of saxophone. In order from low to high pitch they are: tubax, contrabass, bass, baritone, tenor, alto, soprano, sopranino, and soprillo. However, only the baritone, tenor, alto, and soprano are commonly used.

It was invented in 1842 by Adolphe Sax and is very popular with modern rock and pop musicians, and often used in jazz music. The big bands of the 1940s and 1950s always used it too. Famous saxophone players were Marcel Mule (classical music) and Charlie Parker (jazz music). The instrument is rarely used in a classical orchestra.

The saxophone family is known as a transpositional family of instruments due to the fact that you do not have to alter the fingering when playing different ones.


</doc>
<doc id="7211" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7211" title="Bryophyte">
Bryophyte

Bryophytes are simple plants; they are the simplest known. There are three types of bryophyte. These are mosses, liverworts and hornworts. 

Bryophyta is the traditional term for this division of non-vascular plants. In some modern classifications the term is restricted to the mosses. However, as the groups shares some key features (such as an alternation of generations with the haploid plant body dominating) the term is still useful. The non-vascular plants are, in any event, related.

It is thought that liverworts evolved from green algae. Then other plants, including moss and hornworts, evolved from them.

A person who studies bryophytes is called a bryologist. The study of bryophytes is named bryology.



</doc>
<doc id="7212" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7212" title="Kent">
Kent

Kent is a county in England. It is just to the south-east of London and is on the coast. The sea to the East of Kent is the North Sea. The sea south of Kent is called The English Channel by the British. France is opposite Kent on the other side of The Channel. At the most narrow point, between Dover, Calais and Cape Gris-Nez, The Channel is only 21 miles (34 km) wide. Dover is one of the main ports in Kent. From here many ferries sail to and from France.

Other main ports in Kent include Sheerness and Ramsgate. The Channel Tunnel goes from Folkestone in Kent to France. It was built in the late 1980s and early 1990s. 

Kent is a very ancient county. In the 6th and 7th centuries it was ruled by its own kings, It is often called 'the garden of England' because its countryside is very green and because it produces much fruit. A lot of fruit such as strawberries are grown in Kent, and the county is famous for growing hops which are used to make beer. Maidstone is called the county town because the local government for Kent is based there.

Another important town is the city of Canterbury. The Archbishop of Canterbury is the head of the Church of England. Hundreds of years ago many Christian people would travel to the Cathedral at Canterbury from their homes in other parts of Britain. This was called making a pilgrimage. 


</doc>
<doc id="7215" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7215" title="Gavrilo Princip">
Gavrilo Princip

Gavrilo Princip (25 July 1894 – 28 April 1918) was the Serbian man who shot Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria and the wife of the Archduke, Archduchess Sophie Chotek. These deaths are considered the main cause of First World War (World War I).

Princip was born in Obljaj a poor area of Bosnia. As a young man he joined a small group who wanted the Slavs in the south of Austria-Hungary to join with Serbia in a new country. They called themselves "Young Bosnia". A group of powerful people in Serbia decided to help them. Those powerful people were called the Black Hand. They gave 'Young Bosnia' guns and small bombs. 

When they heard that Franz Ferdinand was coming to Sarajevo, six of them took the bombs and guns and waited for Ferdinand to drive past. They were going to kill Ferdinand when he drove past. Every one of them failed. Gavrilo Princip went to a cafe to buy a sandwich.

When Princip came out of the cafe he saw in front of him Ferdinand in his car. The driver of the car had driven his car the wrong way and he stalled the car while trying to turn. Princip walked up and shot Ferdinand. He wanted to shoot the general who was also sitting in the car, but Ferdinand's wife Sophie threw her arms around Ferdinand. She was in the way, and Princip shot her instead of the general.

At his trial, Princip said he did it because he loved his people. The Austrians thought it was a very bad crime, but they could not kill him because he was only 19 years old. The law in Austria-Hungary said only people older than 20 could be killed, even when the crime was as bad as killing royalty like Ferdinand. They said Princip must stay in prison for 20 years. They put him in a very bad prison. During his time in the prison, one of his arms was amputated. He died in prison of tuberculosis and blood loss in the year 1918. 

Because this crime happened, Austria-Hungary gave Serbia a list of things that Serbia had to do, called an "ultimatum", to stop things like this from happening any more. But it was just about impossible for Serbia to do all the things on the list fast enough, because the Austrians really wanted war with Serbia. Their German allies also wanted a big war. This led to many of the European countries to start fighting.


</doc>
<doc id="7220" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7220" title="Formula">
Formula

A formula is a shortened way of writing an idea with variables. They are often found in mathematics and science. Formulae (the plural of formula) use letters instead of words. The simplest formula is y = x. Here, if x is, for example, 1, then y = x so y = 1. Possibly the most famous formula is E = m × c . Albert Einstein created this. In it, E is energy, m is mass and c is the speed of light. Thus, energy = mass × (multiplied by) the speed of light (squared).

Usually the formula is used the same way at all times. For example, the formula to find the area of a rectangle is the length times its width. 


</doc>
<doc id="7223" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7223" title="Independence and Democracy">
Independence and Democracy

Independence and Democracy is a group in the European Parliament. It used to be called the Group of Europe of Democracies and Diversities. It has about 37 members in it. The members of this group either want their country to leave the European Union, or want to change it.



</doc>
<doc id="7224" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7224" title="Musician">
Musician

A musician is a person who plays a musical instrument like a guitar or a piano or a person that sings.

A musician is also someone who writes music, even if they write it for other people to play. People who write music are called composers. Usually that part is left out if they also play or sing the music they write, but they are still composers because they wrote the music.

Musicians can also make a group together to play songs. If the group has many people playing instruments together, like Beethoven's music, it is called an orchestra. If it is just many people singing, like in a church, it is called a choir. If it is only a few people together it is usually just called a band. Sometimes a band has the same name as the singer.








</doc>
<doc id="7231" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7231" title="Carrot">
Carrot

Carrots are a type of plant. Many different kinds exist. The Latin name of the plant is usually given as "Daucus carota". Many people use it as a vegetable. The plant has an edible, orange root, and usually white flowers. Wild carrots grow naturally in Eurasia. Domesticated carrots are grown for food in many parts of the world.

In Portugal, carrot jam is a speciality.


</doc>
<doc id="7235" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7235" title="Conservatism">
Conservatism

Conservatism is opposition to rapid changes, disorder and extremes in society. It began as a reaction to the Age of Enlightenment, the neglect of the poor caused by leisurely interest in science and philosophy resulting in the extremely violent French Revolution. Conservatism called for a return to faith, love, and peace. It began in 1790 with the publication of English author Edmund Burke’s book "Reflections on the Revolution in France". In his book, he advocated for being satisfied and for caring government.

Some conservatives seek to keep things as they are, while others want a return to the way things were at an earlier time. A conservative party in England formed which wanted better cooperation between rich and poor, democracy, and somewhat of a welfare state favoured by conservatives in France and other parts of Europe. In the United States, conservatives were suspicious of the welfare state and considered businessmen trustworthy on wages and prices.



</doc>
<doc id="7240" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7240" title="Machine">
Machine

A machine is a thing that is created by people to make work easier.

Some machines have many parts that move. Examples are bicycles and clocks.

Some machines do not have parts that move. Examples are computers and telephones.

People have used machines since before there was history.

Often a machine will convert one form of energy to another form of energy. Simple machines increase or change the direction of a force.

The are six special machines that are called "Simple Machines". They are:

Compound machines are made up of two or more simple machines.



</doc>
<doc id="7246" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7246" title="Wario Land 4">
Wario Land 4

Wario Land 4 is a video game for the Game Boy Advance.

The main idea of this video game is to save a princess that has been turned into a cat and needs to be saved. Wario arrives and has to defeat a golden diva that has turned the princess in to a cat.


</doc>
<doc id="7248" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7248" title="Mrs. Doubtfire">
Mrs. Doubtfire

Mrs. Doubtfire is a movie from 1993. The film stars Robin Williams as a divorced father who desperately wants to be with his children. So, he dresses as a woman and poses as a nanny.

Daniel Hillard (Robin's role) is an actor who quits over a smoking issue in a cartoon. Then, he goes to his son's birthday party, where his wife, Miranda Hillard (played by Sally Field), asks for a divorce.

Daniel has 90 days to get a job and a place to live. He later discovers that his wife wants a nanny. So, he makes several calls to his wife, using fake names, to get the job. Eventually, he gets the job.

Daniel Hillard goes to his gay brother to get a makeover. The makeover makes him look like a woman, which is exactly what Daniel had hoped for. 

He then babysits his three children. People figure out that he is Mrs. Doubtfire when he is at a place called "Bridges," where he must switch between Mrs. Doubtfire and Daniel Hillard over and over. He ends up mixing up the two outfits while drunk. Later, his face mask comes off, and it is revealed that Daniel and Mrs. Doubtfire are the same person.


</doc>
<doc id="7249" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7249" title="Super Mario 64 DS">
Super Mario 64 DS

Super Mario 64 DS is a platform game by Nintendo, and a remake of the 1996 video game Super Mario 64. It was first shown at the E3 in 2004 and released for the Nintendo DS in Japan and in the United States in 2004, and in the PAL region in early 2005. The game received positive reviews and was the fifth best-selling video game on the weekly sales chart of the week of December 2004.

The game begins with a letter from Princess Peach inviting Mario to come to her castle for a cake she has baked for him. Mario travels to her castle, and is followed by his brother Luigi and greedy counterpart Wario. After entering the castle, the three disappear, and Lakitu, the game's camera operator, finds Yoshi to inform him of the disappearance. 

Yoshi begins to explore the castle and its courses to find his friends. Scattered throughout the castle are paintings and secret walls, which act as portals to other worlds where Bowser's minions guard Power Stars. By recovering the stars and defeating bosses, Yoshi acquires keys to other areas of the castle and rooms holding his friends captive. He first defeats Goomboss to free Mario who assists him as the two continue searching the castle and collecting Power Stars. They then defeat King Boo to free Luigi who uses his invisibility power to get to Wario's key by defeating Chief Chilly. During the course of the adventure, they tackle three obstacle courses leading to a battle with Bowser. 

Defeating him the first two times earns them a key that opens other levels of the castle. After collecting enough stars, Mario accesses the top room of the castle to defeat Bowser. Once he is defeated, Peach is freed and appears in front of the castle. To thank the four protagonists, she kisses Mario and bakes them the cake that she had originally promised. The game finishes with Mario, Peach, Luigi, Yoshi and Wario standing at the front of the castle waving goodbye to the player as Lakitu films and then flies away.


</doc>
<doc id="7253" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7253" title="Epistemology">
Epistemology

Epistemology is the philosophy of knowledge. It seeks to answer the questions "What is knowledge?" and "How is knowledge acquired?"

Epistemologists are philosophers who are interested in questions such as whether it is possible to have knowledge, what kind of knowledge there is, and how people come to know things.

One of the first philosophers to make a clear statement on these questions was Xenophanes (570–470 BC). The following saying was, and still is, famous:
This is an early kind of skepticism.


There are other debates of this kind. 



</doc>
<doc id="7262" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7262" title="Ford Focus">
Ford Focus

The Ford Focus is a small car made by the Ford Motor Company, and sold all over the world. It is a popular car in Europe and North America. There are four basic types:

The Vauxhall Astra and Toyota Auris are cars like the Focus. Introduced in Europe , since 2000, the Focus has been sold in the United States and Canada. It replaced a car called the Ford Escort. Other Ford Motor products which came from the Focus include the Volvo V40 and Mazda 3.

The Third Generation Focus will go on sale in 2009. It will be sold as the same model everywhere in the world.


</doc>
<doc id="7264" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7264" title="Friends">
Friends

Friends was an American comedy television series. It was on television from September 22, 1994 to May 6, 2004. It was about 6 friends who lived in Manhattan, New York City. They were in their 20s and 30s. The names of the "friends" were: Monica, Chandler, Rachel, Ross, Phoebe and Joey. 

"Friends" got positive reviews through most of its run. It is one of the most popular sitcoms of all time. The series won many awards and was nominated for 63 Primetime Emmy Awards. TV Guide ranked it #21 on their list of the 50 greatest TV shows of all time.

The series was produced by Bright/Kauffman/Crane Productions, in association with Warner Bros. Television. At first, the executive producers were Crane, Kauffman and Kevin Bright. Other producers were brought in during later seasons. In all, there were 236 episodes. There is a sequel to this show named "Joey".




</doc>
<doc id="7266" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7266" title="Seinfeld">
Seinfeld

Seinfeld was an American television series. The series is thought by many people to be a great situation comedy. It was created by Jerry Seinfeld and Larry David and ran from 1989 to 1998. Jerry Seinfeld plays as himself.


Here are some things first said on "Seinfeld" that people say all the time now:

>2011
<br>
>putting your ketchup in the fridge




</doc>
<doc id="7268" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7268" title="Joey (TV series)">
Joey (TV series)

Joey was a 2004 American television series. It was a sitcom on the NBC network. The series was a spin-off of the series "Friends". It starred Matt LeBlanc as Joey Tribbiani, his character from "Friends". It consists of Joey, his sister, and his nephew.


"Joey" stopped production during the epsode "Joey and the Snowball fight" because fewer than 4 million viewers tuned in. Compared to 18 million who tuned into see the pilot episode. "Joey" Season 2 on DVD rocketed to over £35 in some cases because so few were made, and they were only released in Canada.



</doc>
<doc id="7270" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7270" title="Eastern Orthodox Church">
Eastern Orthodox Church

The Eastern Orthodox Church is a Christian church. Their type of Christianity is also called Eastern Orthodoxy. Their members are called Eastern Orthodox, although there is another group of Churches called Oriental Orthodox that is not Eastern Orthodox. There are about 250 million Eastern Orthodox in the world. Most Eastern Orthodox are found in Russia, Greece, Eastern Europe, and the Middle East, but there are Eastern Orthodox everywhere in the world.

Eastern Orthodox believe in everything in the Nicene Creed:

The many churches of the Orthodox Church are distinct in terms of administration and local culture, but for the most part exist in full communion with one another, with exceptions such as lack of relations between the Russian Orthodox Church Outside Russia (ROCOR) and the Moscow Patriarchate (the Orthodox Church of Russia) dating from the 1920s and due to the subjection of the latter to the hostile Soviet regime. However, attempts at reconciliation are being made between the ROCOR and the Moscow Patriarchate with the ultimate purpose of reunification.

Nowadays, there are 14 (15 by some) independent orthodox churches, in communion with each other, with the precise order of seniority of their heads as listed below. Some of them contain autonomous (marked below) and/or semi-autonomous dioceses (listed within the mother churches). The first 9 of the autocephalous churches are led by patriarchs.










</doc>
<doc id="7272" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7272" title="Lisgar Collegiate Institute">
Lisgar Collegiate Institute

Lisgar Collegiate Institute is located in the capital of Ottawa, Canada. It is the oldest Secondary School in Ottawa and possibly Ontario. It was named after a former Governor General of Canada. It was established in 1874 and has been formerly known as the Ottawa Collegiate Institute and the Dalhousie District Grammar School. It celebrated its 160th anniversary in 2004. 
Lisgar houses approximately 1000 students and has a gifted program.


</doc>
<doc id="7273" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7273" title="Aberdeen">
Aberdeen

Aberdeen is a city on the north east coast of Scotland where the rivers Dee and Don flow into the North Sea. It was the capital of the Grampian region of Scotland, but it is now one of Scotland's Unitary Authorities. Aberdeen is the third largest city in Scotland. The city's motto is "Bon Accord".

Aberdeen is famous for its buildings made from granite. Because of the silver-grey colour of the stone, Aberdeen is called the "Silver City by the Golden Sands". Aberdeen has two universities, the University of Aberdeen which was founded on 10 February 1495 by Bishop William Elphinstone and Robert Gordon University which was founded in 1910 but has a history dating back to the 1800's.

The local people sometimes speak in a dialect called Doric. They are called Aberdonians.

Aberdeen has its own football team, Aberdeen F.C.. The team plays in the Scottish Premier League. 

Each year in August, Aberdeen hosts the Aberdeen International Youth Festival. This is one of the most important annual events in Scotland. Hundred of groups of young performing artists come to Aberdeen each year for the festival. 

Aberdeen shares its name with Aberdeen, Idaho, in the United States of America.


</doc>
<doc id="7274" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7274" title="Psoriasis">
Psoriasis

Psoriasis is a skin condition where cells grow at a faster rate than they can be shed, causing excess skin to build up and form scaly patches on the body. 


</doc>
<doc id="7275" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7275" title="Jurassic Park">
Jurassic Park

Jurassic Park is a 1991 book by Michael Crichton. It was made into a movie in 1993 directed by Steven Spielberg.
The plot of this story is of a theme park that is filled with dinosaurs. The park seems like a great idea to the people building the park. John Hammond, the man who built the park, invites several people, including his grandchildren and the paleontologist Dr. Alan Grant, to visit the park. During a tour, Nedry (a computer worker for the park) shuts down the entire park to try to steal some dinosaur embryos, in order to earn a fortune from another company. Now the guests must try to restart power for the park. Complications arise since the dinosaurs have escaped because of the power failure.




</doc>
<doc id="7277" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7277" title="H. G. Wells">
H. G. Wells

Herbert George Wells (September 21, 1866 – August 13, 1946) was the author of many books in the late 1800s. He wrote many books such as "The Invisible Man", "The Time Machine", "The Island of Dr. Moreau", and "The War of the Worlds". He also explained how the things he wrote about could actually happen. Some of his books have been made into movies.



</doc>
<doc id="7280" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7280" title="Landseer (Continental-European type)">
Landseer (Continental-European type)

The Landseer (Continental-European type) is a dog breed.
Landseer CRT main paged


</doc>
<doc id="7282" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7282" title="Glasgow">
Glasgow

Glasgow (Scottish: "Glaschu", Lowland Scots: "Glesga") is the biggest and busiest city in Scotland, and is on the banks of the River Clyde. People from Glasgow are known as "Glaswegians" ("glas-wee-jans"), which is a name also used for words that are used only in Glasgow - also known as "The Glasgow Patter".

The number of people living inside and around Glasgow is thought to be around 2,300,000 which, although a very big number, is nowhere near the number of people living in Glasgow during the famous times of the shipyards on the River Clyde. It was the second biggest city in the world after London at one point in the 1800s. Many people from other countries visit Glasgow for holidays and trips; most of these people are from Europe France, America (the US and Canada) for weekend and week trips.

Two airports serve the city, Glasgow International Airport and Prestwick Airport. The main railway stations in the city are Glasgow Central and Queen Street stations. They provide rail links to the rest of Scotland, and to the rest of the U.K and Europe..

There are a number of theatres and concert halls in the city. Namely is the SECC, The Scottish Exhibition & Conference Centre, the Royal concert hall, The Kings theartre, The pavilion theartre, The Theartre royal and many more. 

Glasgow has several football teams - the best-known are Rangers F.C. and Celtic F.C.. Partick Thistle, Clydebank, and Queens Park F.C. also play in the city.

The weather in Glasgow is almost always changing, and it is hard to say what the entire day's weather is like. Very often, the weather is worst in the morning when it is mostly damp and sometimes misty or even foggy; the Glasgow Patter also refers to "dreich" weather - damp and drizzly. However, the weather mostly improves through the afternoon and more often than not the weather stays dry and at an average temperature.

In summer it is popular as a base for tourists. They can stay in Glasgow and then travel to see Loch Lomond and the Western Isles. One of the oldest paddle-steamer boats is in Glasgow, and in the summer one can travel down the Clyde to visit other towns and islands.



</doc>
<doc id="7283" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7283" title="Grampian">
Grampian

Grampian was a government region in north east Scotland. It was named after the Grampian mountains which start in this region.

The capital city of the region was Aberdeen.

The region was created in 1974. It was removed in 1995 because local government in Scotland was made simpler.


</doc>
<doc id="7284" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7284" title="Scottish Borders">
Scottish Borders

Scottish Borders is a council area (region) in south Scotland. Its name is because it is on the border with England.

The capital city of the region is Newtown St. Boswells.


</doc>
<doc id="7285" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7285" title="Central Region, Scotland">
Central Region, Scotland

Central was a government region in central Scotland between 1974 and 1995. After local government in Scotland was made simpler, it was replaced with smaller areas.


</doc>
<doc id="7286" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7286" title="Dumfries and Galloway">
Dumfries and Galloway

Dumfries and Galloway is a council area in south west Scotland. In takes in three counties:


The capital city of the region is Dumfries. Dumfries is 60 miles south of Edinburgh,the capital of Scotland.


</doc>
<doc id="7287" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7287" title="Fife">
Fife

Fife is a county on the north coast of the Firth of Forth, Scotland. The county town is Glenrothes.

For local government, the county is a council area too.

The towns in Fife are:



</doc>
<doc id="7288" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7288" title="Highland">
Highland

The Highland Council Area is a local government region in north Scotland. It covers most of the area which people call the Scottish Highlands.


</doc>
<doc id="7289" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7289" title="Lothian">
Lothian

Lothian was a region on the east coast of Scotland.


</doc>
<doc id="7292" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7292" title="Strathclyde">
Strathclyde

Strathclyde was a region in west Scotland. It is named after the River Clyde. The capital city of the region was Glasgow. 

A long time ago, Strathclyde was also the name of one of the kingdoms which united to form Scotland.


</doc>
<doc id="7293" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7293" title="Tayside">
Tayside

Tayside was a government region on the east coast of Scotland. It was named after the River Tay.

The capital city of the region was Dundee.

The region was created in 1974. It was removed in 1995 because local government in Scotland was made simpler.


</doc>
<doc id="7295" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7295" title="Dundee">
Dundee

Dundee is a city on the east coast of Scotland where the River Tay flows into the North Sea. It is the fourth largest city in Scotland. Dundee has a population of 143,090 people. It was famous as the city of "Jute, jam, and journalism", because jute and jam were made there, and several newspapers were printed in the city.

There are two universities in Dundee. They are called the "University of Dundee" and the "University of Abertay Dundee".

It also is home to two professional football teams. Dundee F.C., who play in the Scottish First Division and Dundee United F.C., who play in the Scottish Premier League. Unusually, their stadiums (Dens Park and Tannadice) are very close together, in the same street.


</doc>
<doc id="7296" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7296" title="Oxford">
Oxford

Oxford is a city in England on the River Thames. It is a very old city - some of its buildings were built before the 12th century. It is famous for its university, which is the oldest university in the English-speaking world.

Almost 165,000 people live in Oxford. Two rivers run through the city, the Cherwell and the Thames. These two rivers meet south of the city centre.

Besides its university, there is a number of buildings famous for their architecture (the style in which they were built), like the Radcliffe Camera. There are also lots of museums and other places to visit for tourists.


</doc>
<doc id="7297" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7297" title="George VI of the United Kingdom">
George VI of the United Kingdom

George VI (York Cottage, Sandringham House, 14 December 1895 – 6 February 1952), born Albert Frederick Arthur George, was the King of the United Kingdom from 11 December 1936 until he died. He became king when his elder brother, Edward VIII abdicated (resigned) in 1936 so that he could marry Wallis Simpson. George VI was married to Elizabeth Bowes-Lyon from 1923 until his death.

He was succeeded as monarch by his elder daughter Elizabeth II.

George VI had a speech problem, called a stutter. This made it very difficult for him to carry out many of the public duties of a king which required him to make speeches. He was cured by an Australian speech and language therapist called Lionel Logue. The story of this part of George VI's life was made into a movie in 2010 called "The King's Speech". Colin Firth played the role of George VI and Geoffrey Rush played the role of Logue.

George VI died of lung cancer.


</doc>
<doc id="7303" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7303" title="Asia Minor">
Asia Minor

Asia Minor is a peninsula. It is also called Anatolia. A large part of the Asian part of Turkey is Asia Minor. The people there speak Turkish. The seas surrounding Asia Minor are the Black Sea, the Aegean Sea and the Mediterranean Sea. Because Asia Minor is between Christian Europe and Asia, many different cultures have lived there. Remnants (small parts) of these cultures are there today. 
Many great historical people, like the Hittites, Greeks, Persians, Armenians, Romans, Goths, Byzantines and Turks, have lived in or occupied Asia Minor.The Roman Empire had a province called Asia, which was in Asia Minor. Later people started to call the entire continent Asia, so the peninsula Asia was called Asia Minor (little Asia).


</doc>
<doc id="7305" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7305" title="Zoroastrianism">
Zoroastrianism

Zoroastrianism is a religion. The founder of Zoroastrianism was Zoroaster, who lived in eastern ancient Iran around 1000 BC. Other names for Zoroastrianism are Mazdaism and Parsiism. 

Zoroastrianism is a monotheistic religion. The Zoroastrian god is called Ahura Mazda. It was not always a monotheistic religion. Long ago, Zoroastrians believed there were more gods. The holy book of Zoroastrianism is the Zend Avesta.

Zoroastrianism is also dualist. Zoroastrians believe Ahura Mazda created two spirits, a good one (Spenta Mainyu) and a bad one (Angra Mainyu). Zoroastrians believe people are free to choose between good and bad, but that choosing good will lead to happiness, and that choosing bad will lead to unhappiness. So it is the best to choose good. Therefore, the motto of the religion is "Good Thoughts, Good Words, Good Deeds".

Zoroastrianism was the state religion of the Sassanid dynasty of Persia. In the 7th century, Persia was conquered by Islamic Arabs, and most Persians became Muslims too. Nowadays, there are about 250,000 Zoroastrians in the world. Most of them live in Iran, Pakistan or India (in Pakistan and India, they are called Parsis); however, many Zoroastrians also live in the United States.

There is one god, called Ahura Mazda in their beliefs, the one Uncreated Creator. All worship is directed to him.

Ahura Mazda created everything. There is a conflict between order (that he created) and chaos (or disorder). All the universe is part of this conflict, humans are too. 

To help fight the chaos, it is necessary to lead an active life, to do good deeds, and have good words and good thoughts for others. This is also needed to get happiness. This "active life" is the basis of what Zoroastrians call free will. They are against people living on their own to find god, like in monasteries. 

The conflict will not last forever. Ahura Mazda will win it in the end. When this happens all the creation will be reunited with Ahura Mazda, even the souls of those who died or who were banished.

All the bad things are represented as Angra Mainyu, the "Destructive Principle". All the good things are represented by Ahura Mazda's Spenta Mainyu, the instrument or "Bounteous Principle" of the act of creation. Through Spenta Maniu, Ahura Mazda is in all humans. Through this principle, the Creator interacts with the world. 

When Ahura Mazda created everything, he made seven "sparks", called Amesha Spentas ("Bounteous Immortals"). Each of them represents an aspect of the creation. These seven sparks are helped by many "lesser principles", the Yazatas. Each Yazata is "worthy of worship" and also stands for an aspect of the creation.

Some historians believe that the Three Wise Men or Magi who visited Jesus after he was born were Zoroastrian priests.




</doc>
<doc id="7306" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7306" title="Science Olympiad">
Science Olympiad

The Science Olympiad is a nation-wide event in the United States that tests students' knowledge in science and technology. It started in 1982, and takes place every year.


</doc>
<doc id="7311" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7311" title="Template:Anon">
Template:Anon

, the free encyclopedia! Thank you for your changes. I hope you like changing pages here. Here are some pages that can help you make better changes:

You do not need to to read or change articles on the Simple English Wikipedia. However, making an account is quick, easy and free. It also gives you many benefits such as:


You can click to make an account.

I hope you enjoy your time here. Please sign your comments on talk pages by using four tildes (<nowiki>~~~~</nowiki>). This will make your IP address and the date show up on the page. If you decide to log in, your username and the date will show up instead. Again, welcome, and I hope you decide to stay!

</doc>
<doc id="7313" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7313" title="Bookstore">
Bookstore

A bookstore is a store that sells books, and where people can buy them. A used bookstore or second-hand bookshop sells and often buys used books.


</doc>
<doc id="7315" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7315" title="Lemonade">
Lemonade

Lemonade is a drink made with water, lemons or lemon juice, and sugar. Lemonade was invented on August 20, 1630, in Paris, France.

To make 8 cups of lemonade, mix the juice of 8 freshly squeezed lemons with 1/2 a cup of sugar and 5 cups of water and serve over ice cubes. A diced (cut up) lemon or lime can also be added to mixture. The sugar is sometimes replaced by maple syrup. 

Pink Lemonade usually means lemonade that is pink. This can be made by adding some grenadine or another red juice, or using pink lemons. Some pink lemonades are lightly carbonated, including French brand Lorina Lemonade.

In the United Kingdom, Australia, Switzerland, and New Zealand, the term lemonade mainly refers to a clear, carbonated, sweet lemon-flavored soft drink. In India it is commonly referred to as ""Nimbu Paani"" meaning "Lemon Water" or "Shikanji" and is sold by many street vendors, especially in North India.


</doc>
<doc id="7316" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7316" title="Melting">
Melting

Melting is the process of changing something from a solid into a liquid (like ice into liquid water). It is the opposite of freezing. The temperature at which something begins to melt is called its melting point. When an object is heated, the object's particles begin to move faster and faster until the structured particles are freed. Now it is a liquid.
A solid that is turning into a liquid.
Melting is a process of changing something from a solid into a liquid( Like Ice into Water)



</doc>
<doc id="7317" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7317" title="Onomatopoeia">
Onomatopoeia

Onomatopoeia (or onomatopœia) is when a word imitates (sounds like) a natural sound. Words similar to "woof", "click", "buzz", "boom", "moo", "crash" and "shh" are examples of onomatopoeia. 

"Cuckoo" is a good example of an onomatopoeic name.


</doc>
<doc id="7321" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7321" title="September 11">
September 11

The terms "September 11" and "9/11" have been used by the media to refer to the September 11, 2001 attacks on the World Trade Center and The Pentagon in the United States of America.






</doc>
<doc id="7322" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7322" title="Essex">
Essex

Essex is a county in the east of England. It has a population of around 1,500,000 people. It is part of the East of England region. The county town of Essex is Chelmsford. Essex has London and Kent on its southern border and the whole of the east of the county is coast-line. The Dartford Tunnel can be used to drive under the River Thames between Essex and Kent.

Other famous towns in Essex are Colchester, the oldest town in England, and in the south-eastern corner of the county Southend, one of Britain's biggest sea-side resorts.


</doc>
<doc id="7323" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7323" title="County town">
County town

A county town is the most important town of any county in Britain and Ireland. In the United States the town is called the county seat. 

It can be the place where the headquarters of the county council is based, or the place where the courts are. It has usually been the county town for hundreds of years. It could also be the biggest or most important town in the county. There is often a university in or near the county town. Cities can also be county towns, such as Hereford, or Durham City.

Some examples of county towns today in England:




</doc>
<doc id="7324" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7324" title="Southend-on-Sea">
Southend-on-Sea

Southend-on-Sea is town in England. It is a seaside resort in the south-eastern corner of the county of Essex. Southend is famous in the United Kingdom. Many tourists from Great Britain and other countries visit Southend. It has a famous pier which is one of the longest in the world. The pier was 2,158 meters (1.34 miles) long. It was so long that a railway line was built along it. The pier has been badly damaged by fires four times in fifty years, in 1959, 1976, 1993 and 2005. Nearby the pier there are Arcades and <nowiki>Adventure Island</nowiki> (theme park).



</doc>
<doc id="7325" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7325" title="Cumbria">
Cumbria

Cumbria is a county in England. It is in the very north-western part of England on the border with Scotland. The most important and biggest town is Carlisle, in the north of the county. This is the county town and there is an ancient (very old) castle in the centre of the town.

In 1974, Cumberland, Westmorland and bits of Yorkshire and Lancashire were put into the new county of Cumbria. The world famous Lake District national park is in Cumbria. Millions of tourists visit the Lake District to enjoy sailing on the lakes and the impressive mountains that are here. The highest mountain in England is in the Lake District, it is called Sca Fell.

Cumbria is very popular with people who enjoy walking although the weather is very poor here. It often rains and is cold. Many tourists from Japan visit Cumbria. Popular places for them and other tourists to see are the poet William Wordsworth's two houses, the home of the famous children's writer Beatrix Potter and the island and lake where the writer Arthur Ransome based his books about the 'Swallows And Amazons'.



</doc>
<doc id="7326" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7326" title="Bob Dylan">
Bob Dylan

Bob Dylan is one of the most famous and successful popular singers of the last 50 years. His birth name was Robert Zimmerman, but he legally changed his last name to Dylan.

He was born in 1941 in Minnesota. As a youth he was a big fan of rock and roll, and formed several bands in high school. However, Dylan first became famous as a folk musician. In 1962, he released his first album, simply called "Bob Dylan". The next year, he released the folk song "Blowin' in the Wind", which became very popular. In 1965, he began playing rock and roll. That year, Dylan released "Like a Rolling Stone", which has been called the greatest popular music song of all time. He put these two types of music together in a new way, which became very popular.

The next year, Dylan was in a motorcycle crash which broke his neck. His recovery took many months, and he released no new music or records during this time. Dylan re-examined his life while he recovered, saw what other musicians were doing, and made changes to his own style. His comeback album, "John Wesley Harding", was different from his earlier work. While he made many tours to perform during the mid-1960s, he made very few public appearances until the mid-1970s.

Dylan later became a Christian, then drifted away from Christianity, even re-exploring Judaism, which his family followed. Now, he does not want to talk about his religion. Since the 1980s, he has concentrated on touring.

Also, Dylan is one of the famous people who appear on the cover of The Beatles's "Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band".

In 1960, Dylan dropped out of college and moved to New York where his idol, the legendary folk singer Woody Guthrie was hospitalized with a rare hereditary disease of the nervous system. Dylan visited with Guthrie regularly in his hospital room; he also became a regular in the folk clubs and coffeehouses of Greenwich Village; met a host of other musicians; and began writing songs at an astonishing pace, including "Song to Woody," a tribute to his ailing hero. In the fall of 1961, after one of his performances received a rave review in The New York Times, Dylan signed a recording contract with Columbia Records. Released early in 1962, Bob Dylan contained only two original songs, but showcased Dylan's gravelly-voiced singing style in a number of traditional folk songs and covers of blues songs.

The 1963 release of The Freewheelin' Bob Dylan marked Dylan's emergence as one of the most original and poetic voices in the history of American popular music. The album included two of the most memorable 1960s folk songs, "Blowin' in the Wind" (which later became a huge hit for the folk trio Peter, Paul, and Mary) and "A Hard Rain's A-Gonna Fall." His next album, The Times They Are A-Changin', firmly established Dylan as the definitive songwriter of the 60s protest movement, a reputation that only increased after he became involved with one of the movement's established icons, Joan Baez, in 1963. While his romantic relationship with Baez lasted only two years, it benefited both performers immensely in terms of their music careers—Dylan wrote some of Baez's best-known material, and Baez introduced him to thousands of fans through her concerts. By 1964 Dylan was playing 200 concerts annually, but had become tired of his role as "the" folk singer-songwriter of the protest movement. Another Side of Bob Dylan, recorded in 1964, was a much more personal, introspective collection of songs, far less politically charged than Dylan's previous efforts.

In 1965, Dylan scandalized many of his folkie fans by recording the half-acoustic, half-electric album Bringing It All Back Home, backed by a nine-piece band. On July 25, 1965, he was famously booed at the Newport Folk Festival when he performed electrically for the first time. The albums that followed, Highway 61 Revisited (1965)—which included the seminal rock song "Like a Rolling Stone"—and the two-record set Blonde on Blonde (1966) represented Dylan at his most innovative. With his unmistakable voice and unforgettable lyrics, Dylan brought the worlds of music and literature together as no one else had.

Over the course of the next three decades, Dylan continued to reinvent himself. Following a near-fatal motorcycle accident in July 1966, Dylan spent almost a year recovering in seclusion. His next two albums, John Wesley Harding (1968)—including "All Along the Watchtower," later recorded by guitar great Jimi Hendrix—and the unabashedly countryish Nashville Skyline (1969) were far more mellow than his earlier works. Critics blasted the two-record set Self-Portrait (1970) and Tarantula, a long-awaited collection of writings Dylan published in 1971, also met with a poor reception. In 1973, Dylan appeared in Pat Garrett and Billy the Kid, a feature film directed by Sam Peckinpah. He also wrote the film's soundtrack, which became a hit and included the now-classic song, "Knockin' on Heaven's Door." 

In 1974, Dylan began his first full-scale tour since his accident, embarking on a sold-out nationwide tour with his longtime backup band, the Band. An album he recorded with the Band, Planet Waves, became his first No. 1 album ever. He followed these successes with the celebrated 1975 album Blood on the Tracks and Desire (1976), each of which hit No. 1 as well. Desire included the song "Hurricane," written by Dylan about the boxer Rubin "Hurricane" Carter, then serving life in prison after what many felt was an wrongful conviction of triple homicide in 1967. Dylan was one of many prominent public figures who helped popularize Carter's cause, leading to a retrial in 1976, when he was again convicted.

After a painful split with his wife, Sara Lowndes—the song "Sara" on Desire was Dylan's plaintive but unsuccessful attempt to win Lowndes back—Dylan again reinvented himself, declaring in 1979 that he was a born-again Christian. The evangelical Slow Train Coming was a commercial hit, and won Dylan his first Grammy Award. The tour and albums that followed were less successful, however, and Dylan's religious leanings soon became less overt in his music.

Beginning in the 1980s, Dylan began touring full time, sometimes with fellow legends Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers and the Grateful Dead. Notable albums during this period included Infidels (1983); the five-disc retrospective Biograph (1985); Knocked Out Loaded (1986); and Oh Mercy (1989), which became his best-received album in years. He recorded two albums with the all-star band the Traveling Wilburys, also featuring George Harrison, the late Roy Orbison, Tom Petty and Jeff Lynne. In 1994, Dylan returned to his folk roots, winning the Grammy Award for Best Traditional Folk Album for World Gone Wrong.

In 1989, when Dylan was inducted into the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame, Bruce Springsteen spoke at the ceremony, declaring that "Bob freed the mind the way Elvis freed the body ... He invented a new way a pop singer could sound, broke through the limitations of what a recording artist could achieve, and changed the face of rock and roll forever." In 1997, Dylan became the first rock star ever to receive Kennedy Center Honors, considered the nation's highest award for artistic excellence.

Dylan's 1997 album Time Out of Mind re-established this one-time folk icon as one of the preeminent of rock's wise men, winning three Grammy Awards. He continued his vigorous touring schedule, including a memorable performance in 1997 for Pope John Paul II in which he played "Knockin' on Heaven's Door," and a 1999 tour with Paul Simon. In 2000, he recorded the single "Things Have Changed" for the soundtrack of the film Wonder Boys, starring Michael Douglas. The song won Dylan a Golden Globe and an Academy Award for Best Original Song.
As of june 2011, Dylan recorded 34 studio albums.



</doc>
<doc id="7327" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7327" title="Diana Ross">
Diana Ross

Diana Ross is a famous American soul and pop singer. She was born in 1944 in Detroit, Michigan. Ross worked as a secretary for Motown Records in Detroit. She first became successful with a Motown group as The Supremes. The Supremes were the most successful act on Motown in the 1960s. They sold millions of albums and made it possible for other African American musical acts to become famous with international audiences.

Diana Ross had a successful solo career from the 1970s on. She is a high-paid concert performer. She also starred in three movies: "Lady Sings The Blues", the story of the blues singer Billie Holiday; "Mahogany", a story about a fashion designer; and "The Wiz", an African-American version of the book "The Wonderful Wizard of Oz".


</doc>
<doc id="7328" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7328" title="Enid Blyton">
Enid Blyton

Enid Blyton (August 11 1897 – November 28 1968) was an English writer. She was born in London, England. She was one of the world's most famous children's writers. She is also one of the most prolific authors of all time. (This means that she wrote a great number of books.) Her most famous stories are the Famous Five stories, about a group of four children (Dick, Julian, Anne, and Georgina, who wanted to be called George) and their dog (Timmy) who have many adventures, and her Noddy books for small children.

Her parents wanted her to become a concert pianist (someone who plays the piano), but Enid wanted to be a teacher. Her parents agreed to let her train as a teacher. She began teaching in 1919 in Kent, not far from where she grew up in Beckenham.

As a child and teenager her main interest had been writing poems, stories and other items. She had sent many of them to magazines but had never had any published. As she worked as a teacher she began to have her articles, about children and education printed in a magazine called "Teachers' World". Her first book, called "Child Whispers" came out in 1922. It was a book of her poems with illustrations (drawings).

She was married soon after. She left teaching and began to have more success with her books. She wrote in and was the editor of magazine for children called "Sunny Stories". The stories she wrote for this magazine were so popular that the magazine was then called "Enid Blyton's Sunny Stories". The magazine came out every two weeks. Many of Enid's most famous books were first printed in this magazine in parts.

Enid Blyton has been in The Guiness Book Of Records as one of the world's biggest selling writers. She is also included because she wrote more books than almost any other writer. (About 700 books.) Her books were published in many different languages. She said that she found writing them easy. In the last few years of her life she had a disease which damaged her mind, called "presenile dementia". Her books still sell in large numbers, and used to be owned by her family. A few years ago her family sold them, and now her works belong to a private company.

Enid Blyton did a lot of work for charity and had a club for children which helped them to give money to charity. She was married twice and had two daughters.

Books: "Enid Blyton: a biography" (1997). The official biography, telling the story of Enid Blyton's life.

 


</doc>
<doc id="7332" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7332" title="Category:European Parliament party groups">
Category:European Parliament party groups


</doc>
<doc id="7333" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7333" title="Category:European Parliament">
Category:European Parliament


</doc>
<doc id="7334" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7334" title="Saint Denis">
Saint Denis

Saint Denis is the patron saint of France. 

Saint Denis was the first bishop of Paris. He supposedly went there between 250 and 270. He was executed in 272. According to legend, he was beheaded. After his beheading, he walked away, his head under his arms, along what is today the Rue des Martyrs in Paris. After about , he gave his head to a pious woman, who had a basilica erected in the spot. 


</doc>
<doc id="7335" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7335" title="Dragon">
Dragon

The dragon is a legendary creature belonging to the world of mythology, story telling and fantasy. We find stories about dragons in the Chinese culture, the European culture, South American culture, and many others. 

Because dragons can look like dinosaurs and other extinct (not living any more) animals of millions of years ago, it is easy to think that those animals might have been an example for dragons as they were thought of in the history of humankind. 

There are many kinds of dragons in the different cultures. In general:

Some stories of dragons are considered dangerous and eat humans, but many other stories have majestic dragons who are looking for help, giving help, or interact with the main character(s) in a peaceful way.



</doc>
<doc id="7337" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7337" title="Inertia">
Inertia

Inertia is the quality of an object to keep the same velocity (speed) unless it is acted upon by an outside force. Inertia is also called Sir Isaac Newton's First Law of Motion. The First Law of Motion says that:
"Every body perseveres in its state of being at rest or of moving uniformly straight ahead, except insofar as it is compelled to change its state by forces impressed." [Cohen & Whitman 1999 translation]

This basically means:
"Every object stays at rest or stays moving at the same speed unless something makes it change."



</doc>
<doc id="7341" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7341" title="Sherlock Holmes">
Sherlock Holmes

Sherlock Holmes is a character from books written by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. His most famous story was The Hound of the Baskervilles. Many of the stories were made into movies and television dramas. He is a detective (He tries to find out who did a crime). He is famous for his detective skills and for solving mysteries. There is a monument in London dedicated to him. He has a sharp mind and is able to solve even the most hard and strange cases. He works with his companion Dr Watson, a retired army officer. Holmes plays the violin and smokes a pipe. Sometimes when he has not got any cases to solve, he uses drugs. He is very smart. He first appeared in 1887 and is known for his detective skills. People sometimes get surprised because he takes cocaine and morphine. He was the best detective in the world and it will always stay that way. It says Sherlock Holmes was born on 6th January 1861, and for more than 100 years his name has been known in every country of the world; and not only his name, but his appearance too. The hawk-like features and piercing eyes; the dressing-gown and pipe; the funny cap and magnifying glass - these details are so familiar that if he were to appear amongst us today we should know him at once. 

He is still however a mysterious figure, as wrapped in mystery as the crimes he tried to solve, and as in most legends, it is often difficult to tell truth from lies.

In the story "The Sign of Four", the first part is titled "The Science of Deduction". Dr. Watson admires Sherlock Holmes attention to detail and Holmes explains the importance of details that appear unimportant but can be crucial in solving a mystery.

In the second part of the story "A Study in Scarlet", Sherlock Holmes's method is explained in detail. He is the only Consultant Detective in the world and his Science of Detection is based on Analysis and Deduction, figuring things out based on things he already knows.

Sherlock Holmes does not know a lot about literature, philosophy, astronomy and politics but his knowledge of chemistry is great and he seems to know every detail of every horror ever committed by a criminal mind.

Mycroft Holmes is Sherlock Holmes' brother. He works in the government and according to Sherlock, his brother Mycroft's powers of deduction are even better than his own so that again and again Mycroft's word has decided national policy. Sometimes, Sherlock goes to his brother to ask for advice on some little problem. In Sherlock's own words, Mycroft is the British government.

Professor James Moriarty is Sherlock Holmes' archenemy (chief enemy). He is good at doing bad things (crimes). He is a mathematical genius and occupied the mathematical chair (office) of a small English university (school) but he quit and moved to London where he became the center of organized English crime (the mob) and the object of Sherlock Holmes's investigative power who considered the professor his intellectual equal. Sherlock Holmes vs (against) Moriarty represents one of the greatest battles of wits (shrewdness, intelligence, smartness) in the history of the world. Holmes spoke often of Moriarty's genius in admiration in spite of (not considering) the horror of the crimes. He spoke well of Moriarty without taking into consideration the evil side of his nature.

His landlady Mrs. Hudson who was genuinely fond of him.

Mary Morstan who married Dr. Watson in 1888.

He showed his attentiveness to Violet Hunter. (He was courteous and considerate).(He showed good manners).

He posed as a plumber in his wooing (seeking the affection or love) of Charles Augustus Milverton's housemaid (someone hired to do chores).

He was never really involved emotionally with a woman. In his own words, "...I have never loved." 

In "A Scandal in Bohemia", the only case in which he fails, appears the only woman he considered his equal intellectually and the only woman who ever defeated him. Her name is Irene Adler. She was born in New Jersey and was an opera singer. She had a love affair (romance) with the king of Bohemia.

Movie: Sherlock Holmes and the Secret Weapon (1943)


</doc>
<doc id="7342" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7342" title="York">
York

York is a city in the United Kingdom, which has existed since Roman times. The Romans called it Eboracum. The Vikings called it Jorvik. Around 130,000 people live in York. It was the traditional county town of Yorkshire but it is no longer. It is now a unitary authority. The centre of York is medieval, and contains famous old streets and a wonderful cathedral called York Minster. 

To the west of York is Leeds, Wetherby and Harrogate. To the south of York is Selby to the north of York is Easingwold and to the east of York is Scarborough.

York is home to the Archbishop of York, a high-ranking cleric in the Church of England who is second only to the Archbishop of Canterbury. The current Archbishop of York is John Sentamu, who has held the post since October 5 2005.



</doc>
<doc id="7343" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7343" title="North Yorkshire">
North Yorkshire

North Yorkshire is a large county in the region called Yorkshire and the Humber in the north of England.

North Yorkshire was part of one bigger county called Yorkshire. The three parts of Yorkshire used to be called the West Riding, the East Riding, and the North Riding. in 1974, the boundaries and names changed. The "North Riding" changed to "North Yorkshire". The other main parts of Yorkshire are now South Yorkshire, West Yorkshire, and the East Riding of Yorkshire.

The main city of North Yorkshire is York. York is now (since 1996) a unitary authority, it is not officially part of North Yorkshire.

Yorkshire has many towns. It also has many open green areas and hills, so two of the 11 UK national parks (the North York Moors and most of the Yorkshire Dales) are in North Yorkshire.


</doc>
<doc id="7346" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7346" title="Pig Latin">
Pig Latin

Pig Latin is a language code or game and is most often used by children who speak English. 

The usual rules are:

Pig Latin that you write is sometimes written with dashes, between the first part and the "c-ay" letters, and sometimes it is not. A sentence can be "Is-thay is-ay an-ay example-ay of-ay Ig-pay Atin-lay ith-way ashes-day", or "Isthay isay anay exampleay ofay Igpay Atinlay ithoutway ashesday."

In Pig Latin, this sentence :

comes to mean:

The British name for Pig Latin is "backslang".



</doc>
<doc id="7347" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7347" title="Binary numeral system">
Binary numeral system

The binary numeral system is a way to write numbers using only two digits: 0 and 1. These are used in computers as a series of "off" and "on" switches. In binary, each digit's place value is twice as much as that of the next digit to the right. The place value of the rightmost digit is 1.

Example – 10110011


Here is a list of some numbers that can be made from these digits (zero is represented by a single "0"):

Binary is a numbering system that is a series of 1s and 0s meaning (to the computers) on and off. It is base 2 and our number system (decimal) is base 10.
Binary was invented by many people but is credited to Gottfried Leibniz, a German mathematician. The idea of binary was created in the 1600s. Binary has been used in nearly everything electronic; from calculators to supercomputers. Machine code is binary digits. 


</doc>
<doc id="7350" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7350" title="Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door">
Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door

Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door (or, as it is nicknamed, Paper Mario 2) is a Nintendo GameCube RPG (role-playing game) game developed by Nintendo. It won the IGN.com award for best RPG game of the year. It uses the setting of Nintendo's Mario games.

This game is about Princess Peach (Princess of the Mushroom Kingdom) who finds a map in an old town that is filled with crime. She mails the map she finds to Mario with a letter. Luigi reads it to Mario. He then sets off to this town called Rogueport. Mario then has to find the "Crystal Stars" (powerful star shaped stones; when all seven are collected the Thousand Year Door opens). There is a door deep in the sewers of Rogueport (the Thousand-Year Door) which will open if all the crystal stars are collected. It is said that a demon's spirit rests behind the door. The "X-Nauts" (a group of robot-like people that are trying to collect the crystal stars in order to awaken a demon to destroy the world) try to steal the crystal stars in order to awaken the evil demon and wipe out the planet so that they can become dictators of the world.


</doc>
<doc id="7353" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7353" title="Nickname">
Nickname

A nickname is a special name that a person may be called that is different from their real name or from the name they were given by their parents. It is not a legal thing; it is a social thing. The name may be given to them by their friends. It may be like the person's real name or completely different. Nicknames often come from how a person looks, or from something they are especially known for doing. They can also be a shortened version of the given name.

Nicknames can also be unkind and rude, and are used by people who dislike the person given the nickname. Often famous people are given nicknames by the writers of newspapers or other people in the media, such as TV.


</doc>
<doc id="7354" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7354" title="Martin Luther King, Jr.">
Martin Luther King, Jr.

Martin Luther King, Jr. (January 15, 1929 – April 4, 1968) was a famous American. He fought for civil rights. He was born in Atlanta, Georgia, USA. He was the son of Martin Luther King, Sr. His father was also a civil rights leader. 

He became a Baptist minister. He worked hard to make people understand that black people should always be treated equally to white people. He gave speeches and led rallies to encourage African Americans to protest without the need for violence. One peaceful strategy was for African Americans to have sit-ins. This is where they would sit in a restaurant seat that was supposed to be only for white people. They would politely ask for some food and refuse to leave until someone gave them food. Another strategy that King used was leading boycotts. This is where people would refuse to buy goods or services from people who did not treat white people and black people the same.

Dr. King was born in the Atlanta area on January 15, 1929. Although the name "Michael" appeared on his birth certificate, his name was later changed to Martin. King was active from the start of the Montgomery Bus Boycott of 1955 to 1956 until his murder in April 1968.
He first began to be well-known in 1955 when he led a protest against the way black people were segregated on buses. At that time they had to sit at the back of the bus, separate from white people. He soon became world famous when he told his supporters, and the people who were against equal rights, that only peaceful ways should be used to solve the problem.

After graduating from college in 1948, he decided he was not exactly the type of person to join the Baptist Church. So, he was not sure what kind of career he wanted. He considered a career in medicine and law. He rejected both and joined the Baptist Church. He studied at a theological seminary in Pennsylvania. While studying there, King learned about the non-violent methods used by Mahatma Gandhi against the British in India. King was convinced that such methods would help the civil rights movement. 
He was made the president of the Montgomery Improvement Association. This association was created during the boycott. He became an important leader of the boycott. King was arrested for starting a boycott. He was fined $500 with $500 more in court costs. His house was fire-bombed. Others involved with MIA were also intimidated. However, by the end of 1956, segregation had been removed in Montgomery and bus integration had been introduced. 
Another result of the boycott was the starting of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC). This organization was committed to the use of non-violence. Its motto was "Not one hair of one head of one person should be harmed." Martin Luther King was elected its president. 

In 1963, a civil right march in Washington, DC happened that made King even more famous. The march was a major success. It was officially called the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom. It was held on August 28, 1963. The final speaker was Martin Luther King, Jr. He made his legendary 'I have a Dream' speech which was heard throughout the world. It told people about the civil rights movement in America. In 1964, King was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. The year 1964 was also when the Civil Rights Act was passed. This act banned many kinds of discrimination against black people. King then moved on to a bill that would make sure that black Americans would be allowed to vote. This led to the 1965 Voting Rights Act. It made it against the law to stop somebody from voting because of their race.

After this, he continued to work with many others to fight against poverty and the Vietnam War.

King had clearly made enemies in his rise to fame. The Ku Klux Klan did what they could to hurt his reputation, This was especially in the South. Even the FBI kept a close eye on him. On the evening of April 4, 1968, while standing on the balcony of his motel room in Memphis, Tennessee, where he was preparing to lead a protest march in sympathy with striking garbage workers of that city, a shot rang out, The bullet entered through his right cheek, and travelled down his neck, severing the jugular vein and major arteries in the process before lodging in his shoulder. King lay on the floor unconscious. The unconscious King was rushed to St. Joseph's Hospital, where doctors opened his chest and performed manual heart massage. He never regained consciousness and died at 7:05 p.m. According to Taylor Branch, King's autopsy revealed that though he was only 39 years old, he had the heart of a 60 year old man. His death led to riots in many cities. In March 1969, James Earl Ray was found guilty of killing King. He was sentenced to 99 years in prison. Ray died in 1998, his brother having disconnected life support he was attached to since February 11.

In 1986, America created a national holiday. It is commonly known as "Martin Luther King, Jr. Day", in his honor. It is celebrated on the third Monday of the month of January. This is around the time of his birthday. The holiday was created because people had campaigned for this to happen, including singer Stevie Wonder. He wrote a song for the campaign.



</doc>
<doc id="7356" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7356" title="Jumanji">
Jumanji

Jumanji is a 1995 movie starring Robin Williams, which was based loosely on a 1982 children's book of the same name by Chris Van Allsburg. It is about a boy who gets trapped in a game for 30 years, and must finish playing the game when he gets out. Other stars include Kirsten Dunst.

The game in the movie (titled Jumanji) has been made into a real game.


</doc>
<doc id="7358" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7358" title="Neopets">
Neopets

Neopets is a website that lets its users create virtual pets, and take care of them. The site was created on November 15 1999, and has hundreds of millions of users. The website is owned by Viacom. Most of the pets that the user can create are not real animals, but are based upon real animals. Neopets has story plots, chat boards, and different things that users can do with their neopets. Many people of many different ages join Neopets. The site has many games that the user can play. Neopets has a help section to find answers to many of the questions that users may have. The games length varies from a minute or less to saveable games like neoquest that take more than 10 hours total to complete.

A person can make a pet and then feed it by playing games and getting money, or by visiting places to get free food once they have less than 3000 np (Neopoints). They can get items and clothes for their pets. They can get special items called paint brushes which change the color of the pet to a different special color

once you turn thirteen, you may Customize your web page... and get new stuff
Default avatars are the easiest type of avatar to get. Once a person creates an account on Neopets, they get to use the default avatars without having to do anything. Default avatars are mainly the different pets that can be used on the site and certain faeries.

Clickable avatars are the second easiest avatar to get. To earn a Clickable, the user must go to a certain place on the site. Once the user has gone to that page, they get a message that says they can use that avatar.

Many avatars have to be earned. These are the avatars that people want most. These avatars are the hardest to get. These avatars may be gotten in many different ways. For example, getting a certain score in a game, buying a specific item, looking up a pet, refreshing, or getting a set amount of "Neopoints (money) used on the site).

There are many websites created by Neopet users to help other players. These sites help with information about how to play games and how to get avatars. There are also many sites for users to find ways to change the look of the pages that tell about themselves and their pets.



</doc>
<doc id="7359" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7359" title="Victoria of the United Kingdom">
Victoria of the United Kingdom

Queen Victoria (24 May 1819 – 22 January 1901) was the queen of Great Britain and Ireland from 1837 until 1901. She was on the throne longer than any other king or queen in the history of the United Kingdom. She was born in 1819, and became queen at the age of 18. on the death of her uncle William IV.

She was educated by her governess, Louise Lehzen, and the Reverend George Davys.

In 1840, she married her cousin Prince Albert, who encouraged science, trade and art. They had nine children, and made it clear they believed that a good family life and Christianity were very important. In general, English people followed their example.

In 1851, the Great Exhibition at Crystal Palace was opened by the Queen. It happened partly because of Albert's hard work, and the exhibition featured the achievements of British people.

In 1861, Prince Albert died and Victoria began to keep away from public life; this made her less popular. During the years that followed, Britain became more powerful and in 1887 Victoria was given the title "Empress of India". She became more popular with her people. In 1897, she had her Diamond Jubilee, to celebrate 60 years as queen.

Many of Victoria's children became monarchs or princes and princesses of other countries. Queen Victoria was always very interested in India, although she never went there. She was also very fond of Scotland and painting, which she did herself, photography, singing and kept a regular diary throughout her life.

She died in 1901.


</doc>
<doc id="7364" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7364" title="Freak the Mighty">
Freak the Mighty

Freak the Mighty is a young adult fiction novel by Rodman Philbrick. Published in 1993, it was followed by the novel "Max the Mighty" in 1998. The primary characters are friends Maxwell Kane, a large, very slow, but kind-hearted kid and his friend Kevin Avery, nicknamed “Freak,” who is physically crippled but very intelligent. (In the Book, Kevin's last name is Avery. However, in the movie, his last name was changed to Dillon. Kevin is diagnosed with Morquio syndrome.)

The novel was adapted for the screen by Charles Leavitt; the movie was shot in Toronto, Canada and Cincinnati, Ohio, and directed by Peter Chelsom, and released in 1998. 

In the beginning of the book, Maxwell "Max" Kane is a boy with low self-esteem or kinda like his father in the way that he is "slow". He lives with his grandparents Grim and Gram. Max thinks of himself as stupid pie eating fool and is in learning disabled classes, and people are afraid of him because he looks like his father, "Killer Kane," a convicted murderer. Max sets the stage for the story by reminiscing about his time in daycare, when he was known as Kicker and Kevin, the other major character, was known as Freak. Kevin was always different because he was small and needed crutches and then leg braces to walk. But Max respected him even back then for his death glare and thought the crutches and leg braces were cool. Many years later when Max is in middle school, the real story begins. 
Max finds out that people are moving into the house next door. The new neighbors turn out to be Freak and his mother Gwen, who Freak calls "The Fair Gwen" after King Arthur's wife. The boys make friends. They go to the Fourth of July fireworks together, and puts Freak on his shoulders so he can see. The local tough guy, Tony D. "Blade", chases the two with his gang because Freak called him a cretin. With Max's size and speed and Freak's directions and master plan of running into the pond, they keep themselves safe until they are rescued by the police. After this incident, Freak starts riding on Max's shoulders. They call their combined form "Freak the Mighty". The friendship is good for them both; they stick up for each other and Kevin even teaches Max to read and learn properly. They go on adventures such as going to the hospital which Freak claims has a secret department called the "Bionics Department" which has had his brain cat scanned to be fitted into an artificial body. On one adventure they find a woman's purse in the sewer. They return it to the woman who is named Loretta Lee. She is the wife of Iggy Lee, boss of the Panheads, a motorcycle gang who "striked fear in everyone, even the cops", as Max puts it. Iggy says that the two of them once knew Max's father. They consider "having some fun" with the boys but do not because they are afraid that Max's father will get parole even though he's serving a life sentence. They also reveal that Kevin's father left once he heard his son had a birth defect.

At school, Freak nearly dies when he chokes after eating American chop suey. Max alerts the nurse. Freak is taken to the hospital. Later, Grim reveals to Max that his father has been let out on parole. Throughout the story, it has been slowly revealed that Max's father killed his mother by strangling her, and that Grim and Gram hate him and are afraid of Max ending up like him. Max is shocked and scared by the news of his father's parole. Freak returns from the hospital and the two celebrate Christmas Eve together. After Christmas Eve, Max is woken up by his father, Killer Kane, who has come to kidnap him. After Max is kidnapped by his father, the two drive to Iggy Lee's apartment in the "New Testaments" (really tenements). Killer Kane is even bigger than Max and acts in a very threatening, intimidating manner towards everyone, including his son, who he keeps tied up. Killer Kane swears on the Bible that he did not murder Max's mother. He also reveals that he plans to head to "warmer weather" and be a con man. At night he leaves Max alone, tied up in a room in the apartment of an old lady on vacation. Loretta, shocked that Kane would do something like that to his own child, tries to help him escape. Killer Kane catches her and starts to strangle her. Max attempts to stop him and reveals that he witnessed his father kill his mother in the same fashion. Kane gives up on training Max to be his obedient assistant and tries to kill him, but Freak arrives just in time and saves Max by squirting Kane with a squirt gun he claims is filled with sulfuric acid when in fact, it is filled with soap, vinegar, and curry powder. The police are waiting outside, and Killer Kane goes back to prison, this time until he's an old man. 

In the spring after the attack, Kevin celebrates his birthday and the birthday of Freak the Mighty. Soon after, Freak dies in the hospital after telling Max to record all of their adventures. Max goes crazy when he hears the news and is furious at the doctors for promising Kevin a robotic body to save him. The doctor explains that that was just a story Kevin told himself, and he always knew he was going to die young. He looked up his condition in a medical dictionary (Freak loved words and carried a dictionary around all the time). Max mourns Freak for weeks. With Loretta Lee's encouragement, Max eventually starts to heal and writes a book about the adventures of Freak the Mighty, in accordance with Freak's final wishes.


</doc>
<doc id="7365" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7365" title="Daniel Handler">
Daniel Handler

Daniel Handler (born February 28, 1970) is the real name of Lemony Snicket, author of the popular "A Series of Unfortunate Events" books. He graduated from Lowell High School and from Wesleyan University in 1992. He is a native of San Francisco and went to the San Francisco Boys Chorus. He calls himself the fake name of Lemony Snicket in the books, as well as in Lemony's autobiography. The autobiography is listed as fiction. After several years of writing the books, Daniel let the public know that he was behind the name of Lemony Snicket.

He is married to Lisa Brown and had their first child, Otto, in October of 2003. He finished 13 books to complete the Series of Unfortunate Events.

It is also believed by some people that his wife, author and illustrator Lisa Brown could possibly be the "Beatrice" that Handler writes his books for.


</doc>
<doc id="7368" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7368" title="Global warming">
Global warming

Global warming is a slow but rise in Earth's surface temperature. Temperatures today are 0.74 °C (1.33 °F) higher than 150 years ago. Some people think that the warming is because of people burning fossil fuels like coal and oil. Some also think that humans are cutting down too many trees. Most scientists believe that the sun actually became colder and is not to blame. If this is so, the Earth should be a small amount colder. Many scientists say that the temperature will rise about 3.7 °C (6.7 °F) more in 100 years. Most major governments and science groups agree with these ideas.

If the earth's temperature becomes hotter, the sea level will also become higher because the temperature rise will make ice glaciers melt. The sea level rise may cause coastal areas to flood. Weather patterns, including where and how much precipitation there is, will change. Deserts will increase in size in some areas and decrease in others. Colder areas will become warmer faster than warm areas. Strong storms may become more likely and farming may not make as much food (but the changing weather may also mean that storms may become rare and farms may produce more food more easily). These effects will not be the same over the entire Earth. The changes from one area to another are not well known.

People in government have talked about global warming. They do not agree on what to do about it. Humans can burn less fossil fuels, adapt to any temperature changes, or try to change the Earth to reduce warming. The Kyoto Protocol tries to reduce pollution from the burning of fossil fuels. Most governments have agreed to it. Some people in government think nothing should change.

Since the 1800s, people have recorded the daily temperature. In about 1850, the number of temperature measurements worldwide was enough to allow scientists to estimate the global average temperature. From 1920 to 1940, the temperature got warmer. From 1940 to 1970, the temperature got slightly cooler. From 1970 to today, the global (world) temperature has increased by about 0.6 ± 0.2 °C. Starting in 1979, satellites started measuring the temperature of the Earth.

Before 1800, we have no records that show how warm or cold it was. There have been many scientific studies trying to figure out past temperatures before people used thermometers using proxy measurements. This means measuring one thing, and using it to explain another thing. One way is to cut into a tree and measure how it is between tree rings. Trees that live a long time can give us an idea of how temperature and rain have changed while it was alive. Many scientists agree that over the past 2000 years the temperature has been quite stable, but there have been some times where the temperatures have increased such as the Medieval Warm Period, or decreased such as the Little Ice Age. Other proxy measurements such as bore holes show the same pattern as tree rings. Tree rings and bore holes can only help scientists work out the temperature until about 1000 years ago. Ice cores are also used to find out the temperature back to about half a million years ago. Ice cores show that the Earth goes through cycles of ice ages about every 100,000 years, and that it is not a stable temperature. 

Coal-burning power plants, car exhausts, factory smokestacks, and other man-made waste gas vents give off about 23 billion tons of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases into the Earth's atmosphere each year. The atmospheric concentration of CO has increased by 31% above pre-industrial levels since 1750. This is a lot higher than at any time during the last 425,000 years, the information for which has been collected from ice cores. From less direct geological evidence, people believe that CO values this high were last reached 40 million years ago. About three-quarters of the anthropogenic (human-made) emissions of CO to the atmosphere during the past 20 years are due to fossil fuel burning. The rest is mostly because changes in how land is used, especially deforestation.

The sun becomes hotter and colder every 11 years. This is called the 11-year sunspot cycle. The temperature of the sun does not change much during this cycle. On Earth, the change in temperature is very small. Scientists can barely detect it. If the sun was causing the Earth to warm up, scientists would be able to measure the temperature rise both at the surface and high up in the air. However, the higher air is actually getting colder.

People also make a lot of dust and dirt. Some of this dirt is large, so it falls out within a few hours. Some is so small that it could stay in the air for years. This big dirt is still very small. It's about the width of a human hair. The big dirt does not stay in the air for years though because rain hits it and brings it to the surface. It actually only stays in the air for about 7 days. But this is still a long time, and can cause changes in the temperature of the Earth.

There are two main ways that people think global warming can be stopped. The first is to stop putting greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. Many people have tried to get countries to stop emitting greenhouse gases. The Kyoto Protocol was signed in 1997. It was supposed to reduce the amount of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere to below their levels in 1990. As of 2010, the Kyoto Protocol has not worked in reducing greenhouse gas levels. Carbon dioxide levels today are the highest they have been since the start of the Industrial Revolution.

The second is for people to change how they live because of any changes that global warming will bring. The amount of money a country has will affect how easily it adapts. Rich countries like the United States will be able to change more easily, while poor countries such as Bangladesh may not be able to change.

The term global warming was probably first used in its modern sense on 8 August 1975 in a science paper by Wally Broecker in the journal Science called "Are we on the brink of a pronounced global warming?". Broecker's choice of words was new and represented a significant recognition that the climate was warming; previously the phrasing used by scientists was "inadvertent climate modification," because while it was recognized humans could change the climate, no one was sure which direction it was going. The National Academy of Sciences first used global warming in a 1979 paper called the Charney Report, it said: "if carbon dioxide continues to increase, we find no reason to doubt that climate changes will result and no reason to believe that these changes will be negligible." The report made a distinction between referring to surface temperature changes as global warming, while referring to other changes caused by increased CO as climate change.
Global warming became more widely popular after 1988 when NASA climate scientist James Hansen used the term in a testimony to Congress. He said: "global warming has reached a level such that we can ascribe with a high degree of confidence a cause and effect relationship between the greenhouse effect and the observed warming." His testimony was widely reported and afterward global warming was commonly used by the press and in public discourse.




</doc>
<doc id="7369" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7369" title="House music">
House music

House is a form of dance music that began during the early 1980s from disco and the black American soul-music tradition. It takes its name from the Warehouse, a Chicago club where DJs such as Frankie Bones first played their (often self-produced) records to a mass audience. ("Garage" house, a more laid-back, "deep" variation of house, evolved around the same time and takes its name from Larry Levan's Paradise Garage in New York City.) The original "House" sound is characterized by "four on the floor" beats at 120-130 BPM, forward-driven bass lines, an emphasis on the second and fourth beats of each measure, handclaps, and hi-hat cymbals. Over the years, house has spawned a number of variations, including:



</doc>
<doc id="7372" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7372" title="Ammonia">
Ammonia

Ammonia is a chemical. Its formula is NH (not to be confused with "Ammonium" that has a formula of NH). It is made from nitrogen and hydrogen atoms.




If a goldfish tank is dirty from their waste they can suffer from ammonia burns which cause black spots or patches to come up on their body. Make sure the tank is big enough and filtered.
N2 +3 H2 ---2NH3


</doc>
<doc id="7373" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7373" title="Template:Sci-stub">
Template:Sci-stub

<div class="boilerplate metadata" id="stub"> "This about can be made longer. You can help Wikipedia by [ adding to it]".</div ><includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="7374" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7374" title="Alkali">
Alkali

In chemistry, an alkali is an aqueous (from water) solution with a pH value of more than seven.
The word 'Alkali' comes from the Arabic 'qali' meaning 'from the ashes' since ashes mixed with water were used as cleaning products, and feel soapy.

An alkali is where a base is dissolved in water. Often it is the salt of an Alkali metal
An alkali is the opposite to an acid and can be neutralised (brought down to pH 7) by adding acid.


Someone can find out how strong or weak an alkali is by adding universal indicator to it. Some universal indicators can be poured into alkalis and some are soaked into paper, and the paper is touched to the alkali. 

For example, soap and toothpaste are minor-strength alkalis. Lye is a strong alkali. 





</doc>
<doc id="7375" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7375" title="The White Stripes">
The White Stripes

The White Stripes were a rock band. They came from Detroit in the USA. There were two people in the band: 

The garage rock duo were known for their trademark red, white, and black colors and clothing, their frequent use of the number three, and their peppermint motif.

Their debut album was titled "The White Stripes". It was released in 1999. Their second album was "De Stijl". It was released in 2000. They became very famous in 2001 when they released their third album "White Blood Cells". Their fourth album, "Elephant", won a Grammy Award. It was released in 2003. Their fifth album, released in 2005, was titled "Get Behind Me Satan". Their most recent album, "Icky Thump", was released in June 2007.

Jack and Meg White were married when they started the band, but have since divorced. Jack has remarried and has two children, Scarlett and Henry Lee.

After a long break, the White Stripes officially announced the end of the band on February 2, 2011.



</doc>
<doc id="7379" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7379" title="Millennium Dome">
Millennium Dome

The Millennium Dome is a large dome-shaped building in Greenwich in South East London, UK. It was built in 1997/2000 to celebrate the beginning of the third millennium. The name was officially changed to The O when Telefónica O Europe plc bought the naming rights from the developers, Anschutz Entertainment Group.

From 31 December 1999 until 31 December 2000 the Dome and some surrounding buildings were the home of the Millennium Exhibition which was meant to show the best of Britain to the world. The most successful part of the Exhibition was the stage show that was held two or three times each day in the middle of the dome. The show had dozens of dancers and acrobats, music by Peter Gabriel, and a tower that rose out of the dome's floor.

The rest of the Exhibition was not as successful as the Dome's owners had hoped. About 6 and a half million people visited the Exhibition, which was only half the number its owners hoped for.

The dome was sold to US Anschutz Entertainment Group (AEG) and reopened in July 2007 as the O, an entertainment complex including a 22,000 seat concert and sports venue, cinema, music club and exhibition spaces. Among the first artists to perform there were Bon Jovi and Prince. The Rolling Stones performed there in August 2007, Led Zeppelin played a reunion show there in December 2007, and the Spice Girls took residence in the arena from December 2007 to January 2008.


</doc>
<doc id="7380" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7380" title="Millennium">
Millennium

A millennium (plural: "millennia") is a time period of one thousand (1000) years. The word "millennium" is derived from two Latin words "mille" (that means in English "thousand") and annum ("year").


</doc>
<doc id="7382" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7382" title="Hotmail">
Hotmail

Hotmail is a free e-mail service provided by Microsoft. It was established in 1995.

Each user that signs up for a hotmail account will get 5GB worth of storage space and 25GB of space on Windows Live Skydrive.

Business and organisations can also get Hotmail for their own domain name.



</doc>
<doc id="7385" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7385" title="J. K. Rowling">
J. K. Rowling

Joanne Kathleen Rowling (born July 31, 1965) is a British author, who wrote the "Harry Potter" books.
She only uses the name J. K. Rowling for her books: the "K" stands for "Kathleen" which was the first name of her grandmother. She is the richest author in the world.

Rowling was born 31 July 1965 in Chipping Sodbury, near Bristol, England. She grew up in Tutshill, Gloucestershire, and went to school at Wyedean Comprehensive. She earned a degree in French and Classics at the University of Exeter. She worked at Amnesty International in London. The original idea for Harry Potter came to her on a train in 1990. She moved to Portugal to teach English in 1990. She married Jorge Arantes in October 1992. They had her first child, Jessica in 1993. The marriage ended in divorce and Rowling moved to Edinburgh, Scotland. "Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone" (British version (American version: "Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone")) was first published in the United Kingdom in 1998. She married Dr. Neil Murray in 2001. She had a second child, David, in 2003, and a third, Mackenzie, in January 2005.

Rowling has won awards for the Harry Potter series of books and has made over $1 billion. The last book of the Harry Potter series - "Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows" was released on 21 July 2007. Because the books are so popular, she has become very rich; she is said to be the richest woman in the United Kingdom, even counting the Queen. However, her books are not limited to the seven major Harry Potter novels. She has written many books about the magic in Harry's world, like Quiddich Through the Ages and Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them.

Rowling's novels feature a teenage boy named Harry who grows up in a normal world. When he is eleven years old, he discovers that he is a wizard and attends a magical academy called Hogwarts, where Albus Dumbledore is headmaster. Harry discovers his past about a dark wizard and attempts to destroy him once and for all.






</doc>
<doc id="7386" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7386" title="Charmed">
Charmed

Charmed is an American television series. It is the story of three sister witches known as the Charmed Ones who fight demons and warlocks. "Charmed" was on The WB television network for 8 seasons from 1998 until 2006. "Charmed" ended production April 2006. Its last episode "Forever Charmed" was shown on 21 May, 2006.

The story begins when Phoebe finds the Book of Shadows after seeing the word "ATTIC" spelled out on the spirit board. She reads out an incantation which gives them their powers. They remained a threesome until their sister, Prudence (Prue), dies fighting the demon Shax. Shortly after Prue dies, Piper casts a "To Find A Lost Soul" spell and finds that they have a younger half-sister, Paige Matthews. The triad or Power of Three is once again complete. This continues until the seventh season. After vanquishing the demon Zankou and an astral projection form of themselves everyone believes that they are died. They give up magic to have normal lives. But the magic is still alive. They are sought out to help a young new witch named Billie who is a college student wanting to fight demons. Paige is first drawn to her because she is Billie's Whitelighter.

Prue Halliwell: Prue was the oldest sister of the Charmed Ones. She had the powers to move objects with her mind (Telekinesis) and Astral Projection. Prue was in love with a police officer named Andy. He died at the end of season 1. She died at the end of season 3. Prue's power to move objects with her mind is connected with her emotions. It is affected by anger. He power is stronger when she feels the need to protect herself and her sisters, or protect the innocents or the other good creatures.

Piper Halliwell: Piper was the middle child before Prue died, but now she is the oldest. She has a husband, Leo. Leo used to be the Charmed Ones' Whitelighter. Piper also has three children: Wyatt and Christopher and a daughter that the sisters (Prue Piper and Pheobe) saw on a trip to the future. Piper has the power to blow things up and to freeze things. Piper's powers are connected with her emotions. When she panics, she has the urge to freeze people and when she gets angry she usually blows things up. 

Phoebe Halliwell: Phoebe was the youngest before Prue died, but now she is the middle child. Phoebe was married to a demon. His human name is Cole Turner and his demon name is Belthazor. 
She is now married to coop a cupid and has three children. Phoebe has the power to see the past and the future, the ability to levitate, and is able to read others feelings/thoughts.

Paige Mathews: Paige is the half-sister to the Halliwell sisters. She is the youngest of the sisters. She is the daughter of Patricia "Patty" Halliwell (Mother of the Halliwell sisters) and Sam Wilder (Patty's Whitelighter). She came into the series when Prue died. She has Prue's power of telekinesis but with a twist because she is half whitlighter. She has the power to orb things to her. Prue only had to think about something to move it, Paige must reach out to it and call for it, this is known as 'tele-orbing'. She also has the Whitelighter abilities of Orbing and Glamouring (to shapeshift into a different human appearance). She finally receives the power to heal in the middle of season 8.

Leo Wyatt: Piper's husband. 
Leo started out on the show as the Charmed Ones' Whitelighter.Then he became and elder Leo died during World War II. Then he was reborn as a whitelighter. He was a medic in the military. After being the Whitelighter for the Charmed Ones for several years, Leo was elevated to the position of Elder. He later joined a group of beings called The Avatars. By the end of the series, he had fallen from grace and was made mortal again. He has killed two Elders and many demons to protect Prue, Piper, Phoebe, Paige, Wyatt and Chris. 

Cole Turner: Phoebe's ex-husband also known as the demon Belthazor.
He was half human/half demon. His demon side was strongest until he met and fell in love with Phoebe. As a demon, he could not help hurting the sisters. He asked Phoebe to strip (remove) his powers. After he helped vanquish the Source of All Evil, he became the new Source. In spite of Phoebe's love for Cole, she and her two sisters vanquish him, or so they thought. Cole came back and helped the sisters many times. Cole was eventually vanquished for good. Cole loved Phoebe very much. He would stop at nothing to win her back but he never succeeded.

Coop: Phoebe's husband
Coop is a Cupid. He was sent to Phoebe by the Elders to help her find love. He realizes that he loves her and he wants to be with her. Phoebe does not feel the same way until the series finale. 

Henry: Paige's husband. 
He is a human. He worked as a parole officer. He is one of the only people who understood Paige's powers—well, not understood but accepted. Their love is very strong.

Demons are evil creatures with powers that try to kill the Charmed Ones. They do not have souls so therefore can kill innocent people with contious. Most demons work for "The Source" but some hate him. The Source of all Evil is a very powerful demon who rules the Underworld. The Charmed ones have killed The Source three times. There are different ranks of demons and the Charmed ones have faced them all. In some situation demons actually helped the Charmed ones. Demons try to kill the Charmed ones to impress the Source and all of the Underworld.

The Book of Shadows is the Charmed One's magical book. It contains spells, potions and information of various magical creatures such as demons and warlocks. The Book of Shadows has been around since beginning of the family line. The book has its own defensive power. Whenever evil tries to touch the book, it jumps away. Each generation has added to the Book of Shadows making it more and more powerful. For example, in the final episode, each of the sisters adds all that they have learned so that future generations of Halliwell witches can learn from their experiences.



</doc>
<doc id="7388" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7388" title="Train (disambiguation)">
Train (disambiguation)

Train can mean more than one thing:




</doc>
<doc id="7390" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7390" title="Media">
Media

Media is a tool used to store and deliver information or data.



</doc>
<doc id="7392" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7392" title="Seaman">
Seaman

A seaman is a man that works at sea on boats, ships, or submarines.

The term is only used when the person is working professionally (earning money or make a living).


</doc>
<doc id="7394" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7394" title="Falkland Islands">
Falkland Islands

The Falkland Islands (or Islas Malvinas in Spanish) are a group of islands in the South Atlantic ocean, off the coast of South America. They are an overseas territory of the United Kingdom, but Argentina has claimed them since 1833. A war (the Falklands War) was fought over their possession during Margaret Thatcher`s time as British Prime Minister. There are many islands in the group but the two biggest are East Falkland and West Falkland. About 3,000 people live on them. The people of the islands are British and speak English. The main income for the people is from fishing and sheep farming.

The Falkland Islands are about 300 miles (480 km) east of Argentina. Argentina and the UK had a short war in 1982 because Argentina claims to own the islands. The war lasted 6 weeks and about 1,000 soldiers were killed. The UK defeated Argentina and after this the governments of the two countries would not negotiate (talk) with each other. In 1990 they began to have talks again. Oil and gas has been found below the sea around the islands. Argentina and the UK have agreed to share the oil and gas. There is also oil and gas outside the sea area that belongs to the UK. This is owned by Argentina.





</doc>
<doc id="7395" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7395" title="Neil Armstrong">
Neil Armstrong

Professor Neil Alden Armstrong was born on August 5th 1930 in Ohio and grew up on a farm with his grandparents in the United States. He was an American astronaut, an American aviator and a former astronaut, test pilot, aerospace engineer, university professor, and United States Naval Aviator and the first person to set foot on the Earth's moon. On July 20, 1969, Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin landed on the moon in a small spacecraft that had been sent to the moon using the Saturn V rocket. The rocket was called Apollo 11. They both walked on the moon, and millions of people watched and heard this event on live television. He earned a bachelor of science degree in aeronautical engineering from the Purdue University and a master of science degree in aerospace engineering from the University of Southern California. In 1970 he received an Honorary Doctorate of Engineering from the Purdue University. From 1971 to 1979 he became professor for aerospace engineering at the University of Cincinnati.

His most famous quote is: "That's one small step for (a) man, one giant leap for mankind. "

He spoke those words when he set his foot on the moon. He wanted to say "That's one small step for "a" man…", but for some reason the "a" was never spoken. Armstrong thought he had said it. He admits that he often forgot syllables when speaking. Listening to the audio shows that the "for" runs on smoothly, giving no time for "a" to be spoken. Armstrong prefers written quotations to include the "a" in parentheses.

In 2005 he received the Honorary Doctorate of letters from the University of Southern California. The "Houston Chronicle" newspaper reported on October 1, 2006, that Australian computer programmer Peter Shann Ford found the missing "a" from Armstrong's famous first words on the Moon. Ford reported that he downloaded the audio recording from a NASA web site and analyzed it using editing software originally intended for use with hearing disabled people. Armstrong is said to have been pleased with Ford's finding of the missing "a".

Neil Armstrong discovered his passion for flying when he was 2 years old. His father used to take him to the Cleveland National Air Races. When he was young he would help his parents around the house like weeding the garden and hanging the laundry, he would do this with his sister June and brother Dean. Neil Armstrong also loved reading books. In the first grade, he read 90 books. Because of this, he skipped the second grade.

Prior to being an astronaut, Armstrong was called to Pensacola Naval Air Station in Florida in 1949 before he could complete his degree. There he earned his pilots wings at 20 years of age, making him the youngest flyer in his squadron. While studying for his aeronautical engineering degree, the Korean War broke out in 1950, in which flew 78 combat missions. His plane was shot down once and he was also awarded 3 Air Medals. Later, he became a skilful test pilot, flying right to the atmosphere’s edge, at , in the experimental rocket powered aircraft the X-15. 

Armstrong went on his first mission into space on the 16th of March 1966, in the spacecraft Gemini 8, as the command pilot. He docked the Gemini 8 successfully with an Agena target craft that was in orbit already. Although the docking was smooth enough, while the spacecrafts orbited together, they started to roll and pitch. Armstrong then managed to undock the Gemini, and regained control of the spacecraft by using the retro rockets. However, this resulted in the astronauts having to make an emergency landing into the Pacific Ocean.



</doc>
<doc id="7396" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7396" title="Caretaker">
Caretaker

A caretaker is someone who has the job of looking after a building. For example, the building could be a school or shop.


</doc>
<doc id="7397" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7397" title="Samuel Beckett">
Samuel Beckett

Samuel Beckett (13 April 1906–22 December 1989) was born in Dublin in Ireland. He was a writer of books, plays, and poetry. He also translated other famous works of literature. He was given the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1969.

His most famous play is "Waiting For Godot". It has often been acted on stage and has been on TV.

Many writers of plays (playwrights) and others think he is one of the most important writers of the 20th century. There have been many books written about him.


</doc>
<doc id="7398" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7398" title="Vegetarianism">
Vegetarianism

Vegetarianism is the practice of not eating meat or fish. People who follow vegetarianism are called vegetarians. Vegetarians eat foods like vegetables, fruits, nuts, beans and grains. Some vegetarians eat or drink animal products, like milk and eggs. They are called lacto-ovo vegetarians. Vegetarian people usually like tofu, falafel and other meat substitutes.

There are many reasons for not eating meat. Some think that it is wrong to kill animals; others think that eating meat is bad for their health or the world. This is because land used for animals can be used to grow food. Some people may become vegetarians because their religion says not to eat animals.

Vegetarians who do not eat milk and eggs are called vegans. Vegans also often will not use animal products like leather, but many vegetarians do use animal products.

Some people who call themselves vegetarians and eat fish or sea food are not vegetarians, because fish and sea creatures are also animals. Such people are sometimes called "pescetarians". There are also many people who are not vegetarians, but do not eat too much animal food. Some eat only very little meat (so-called "flexitarians" or "semi-vegetarians"), some eat only fowl ("pollotarians"). There is also a philosophy called freeganism, it means eating animal products only if otherwise they will be thrown away to garbage - such as food thrown away by restaurants.

 Most vegetarians in the world are Hindu. Hinduism and Jainism in general teach vegetarianism, while Buddhism may or may not. Without any specific religion, some people in the Western world also follow a vegetarian diet because it may deepen inner spiritual connections (for example, James Redfield). Mahatma Gandhi said that spiritual experiences are greatly enhanced on a vegetarian diet. 

Hindus teach vegetarianism as a way to live with a minimum of hurt to other beings. In today’s world, about twenty percent of all Hindus are vegetarians. There are approximately 200 million vegetarians in India, which has more people that do not eat meat than any other country. More vegetarians live in the South of India than in the North, possibly because the North is colder. For yoga and meditation, it is wise to be vegetarian. 

The Hindu who believes in non-injury or nonviolence (ahimsa) naturally adopts a vegetarian diet. It is a matter of conscience more than anything else. The Vedic and Puranic scriptures of Hinduism explain that animals have souls and the act of killing animals brings bad karma because the killer will suffer the pain of the animal he has killed in this life or the next. Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami adds that when we eat meat, fish, fowl and eggs, we absorb the vibration of the creatures into our nerves. This promotes fear, anger, jealousy, confusion, resentment and the like. The Manu Dharma Shastras state, “When the diet is pure, the mind and heart are pure.” Generally there is the belief, based on scriptures such as Bhagavad Gita, that one's food shapes the personality, mood and mind. 



</doc>
<doc id="7399" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7399" title="British">
British

A British person or object comes from the United Kingdom of Great Britain (England, Scotland, Wales) and Northern Ireland. It is sometimes used by the Isle of Man or the Channel Islands (near France). It can also be used for some overseas places like Gibraltar (near Spain) or the Falkland Islands (near South America).

The term "British" is often used to describe something unique to the UK, for example 'the British way of life' or 'the British weather'. Sometimes it is accidentally used to describe some English, though it is usually over looked because English is British. Britain is not England, though.

A British person can also be called a Briton. A unique symbol of the "British" is the Union Jack flag which is recognised globally as a symbol of the United Kingdom. 

Although being British is a collective identity, the countries of England, Scotland Northern Ireland and Wales have separate identities and flags which make them unique.


</doc>
<doc id="7402" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7402" title="Jurassic Park: Operation Genesis">
Jurassic Park: Operation Genesis

Jurassic Park: Operation Genesis is a video game for the PC and PlayStation 2. The goal of the game is to create a theme park and keep the park guests safe. The player can choose the island they build on and what dinosaurs to place in their park. They can choose up to 25 dinosaurs to add to the park. After the park is created, they can play 12 missions. After winning all missions, a game option called Site B is unlocked. With Site B, the player can create an island without any fences or people, just like the 3rd "Jurassic Park" movie.


</doc>
<doc id="7404" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7404" title="Think Quest">
Think Quest

ThinkQuest is a contest that is participated in by students of schools in the United States and other countries. The goal of ThinkQuest is to create an educational website that can benefit other students. It is run by the Oracle Education Foundation.



</doc>
<doc id="7405" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7405" title="Terry Gilliam">
Terry Gilliam

Terry Gilliam (born November 22, 1940) is an American-born cartoonist and filmmaker. He was born in Minnesota and grew up in California, but he now lives in England and is a British citizen.

He was a member of the British comedy team Monty Python. He designed animated sequences and acted in both their TV show and movies. He also directed the movies "Jabberwocky" (1976), "Time Bandits" (1981), "Brazil" (1985), "Baron Münchhausen" (1989), "Fisher King" (1991), "12 Monkeys" (1996), "Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas" (1998), and "The Brothers Grimm" (2005).


</doc>
<doc id="7407" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7407" title="John Cleese">
John Cleese

John Cleese (born 27 October 1939) is an English actor, comedian, writer and producer. He was born in Weston-super-Mare. He was a member of the comedy team, Monty Python. He starred on the television programme, "Fawlty Towers" that he co-wrote with his first wife, Connie Booth, who played the role of Polly Sherman on the show. He plays Q in some of the James Bond movies.


</doc>
<doc id="7408" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7408" title="Arthur Conan Doyle">
Arthur Conan Doyle

Sir Arthur Ignatius Conan Doyle (22 May 1859–7 July 1930) was a Scottish doctor and author. He is well known because he wrote short stories about the detective Sherlock Holmes. He also wrote science fiction and historical stories. 

He was born on 22 May 1859 in Edinburgh. His mother was named Mary Foley and she was Irish. His father was named Charles Altamont Doyle and he was English. He went to Stonyhurst College. He became an agnostic by the time he left. He studied medicine at Edinburgh University in 1876 to 1881. He wrote short stories in his spare time. In 1882, he started working as a doctor in Southsea. He carried on writing short stories while he waited for patients. His first Sherlock Holmes story that was published was A Study in Scarlet. He died on 7 July 1930 at the age of 71.

Some of his most famous books include The Hound of the Baskervilles, The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes and The Lost World.



</doc>
<doc id="7411" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7411" title="Ray Charles">
Ray Charles

Ray Charles (born Ray Charles Robinson) (September 23, 1930 – June 10, 2004) was an American musician.

Ray Charles was 6 when he started going blind and was completely blind by age 7.
He went to the St. Augustine School for Deaf and Blind. He played jazz, soul, and country music.

Charles never knew exactly why he lost his sight, though there are sources which suggest Ray's blindness was due to glaucoma. He attended school at the St. Augustine School for the Deaf and the Blind in St. Augustine, Florida. He also learned how to write music and play various musical instruments. While he was there, his mother died. His father died two years later.



</doc>
<doc id="7413" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7413" title="Jalisco">
Jalisco

Jalisco is a state of Mexico. The capital of Jalisco is called Guadalajara. It is next to the Pacific Ocean and the states of Nayarit, Zacatecas, Aguascalientes, San Luis Potosi, Guanajuato, and Michoacan. It also has half of the Chapala Lake. Jalisco is also a Mexican restaurant in Vero Beach Florida


</doc>
<doc id="7414" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7414" title="Ferrari">
Ferrari

Ferrari is an Italian car company that makes fast cars. They are made in Italy and are very expensive. They usually cost $100,000 - $1,500,000.

Ferrari has a rich racing history and are a well known premium car brand. The fastest street Ferrari is the F50 GT1, which can go over 370 kph (about 222 mph).
The most powerful Ferrari is the FXX, which has about 800 horsepower. The FXX is a lighter, improved version of the F60 Enzo; it is Ferrari's most exclusive model, which you have to be chosen to own. It is basically a race car which you can buy from Ferrari. The car is so extreme (completely flat tires, low ride height, and no roadcar saftey features such as Airbags) that it cannot be driven on roads legally. Ferrari will keep it for you at their Factory in Maranello in Italy. You can go to Italy and drive it on their private race track, or have it transported to another race track around the world, the same as if you were driving for a race team. 30 have been built and all but two were sold to customers for $2,500,000 each. Ferrari gave one to 7-time Formula 1 World Champion Michael Schumacer, who had driven for Ferrari for 10 years when he retired in 2006, having brought Ferrari a lot of success. Ferrari made his FXX different by painting it black. The other 29 are either red or white, with stripes painted in the other colour.


</doc>
<doc id="7415" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7415" title="Fiat">
Fiat

Fiat is a car company in Italy. Some of their cars by year:





</doc>
<doc id="7416" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7416" title="Daihatsu">
Daihatsu

The Daihatsu Motor Company Ltd. makes small cars and trucks. The company is part of the same manufacturing group that includes Toyota Motor Ltd. The company was set up in 1907. Examples of their cars are the Daihatsu Charade, the Rocky Four Wheel Drive SUV and the Daihatsu Copen. Daihatsu cars and trucks are notable for their rugged construction and high level of finish. After a brief, unsuccessful attempt at the U.S. market toward the end of the 20th century, the company withdrew from the U.S. in 1999.


</doc>
<doc id="7418" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7418" title="Hydrocarbon">
Hydrocarbon

A hydrocarbon is a type of chemical compound. It is made of only hydrogen and carbon atoms.
They can be found in crude oil and are separated by fractional distillation (which means they are separated into different groups). The hydrogen and carbon are bonded with non-polar covalent bonds. Because of its lack of polar covalent bonds, hydrocarbons cannot create hydrogen bonds with water and are hydrophobic. 

Hydrocarbons are grouped into "families" or "homologous series". There are five main families. The hydrocarbons in each family have a general formula and similar physical and chemical properties.

Alkanes are the simplest hydrocarbons. Their general formula is CH.

Alkenes are similar to alkanes. The main difference between them is that alkenes have a carbon to carbon double bond. The general formula for the alkenes is CH.
Note that there is no "Methene". Methene is not possible as alkenes require a carbon-carbon double bond and methane only has one carbon atom.

Alkynes have a carbon to carbon triple bond. CH is their general formula.
"Methyne" does not exist because of methane's one carbon atom.

Cycloalkanes are isomers of alkenes. They have the same general formula (CH), the only difference is that they do not have a carbon to carbon double bond.

Note that the alkane Methane and the alkene Ethene do not have a cycloalkane because they can only form a straight line.

Alkadienes have two carbon to carbon double bonds. Their general formula is CH. They are isomers of Alkynes.

Aromatic hydrocarbons are aromatic organic molecules that form flat ring-shaped bonds. The most simplest of aromatic hydrocarbons are benzene and indole. They can have one ring, "heterocyclic", like benzene or 2 rings, "bicyclic" like napthalene (primary ingredient in mothballs) or many rings, "polycyclic" like anthracene (red dye colourant).


</doc>
<doc id="7420" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7420" title="Shanghai">
Shanghai

Shanghai is the biggest city in China.
It is on the banks of the Yangtze River (Chang Jiang River). The inlet by which Shanghai is located is called the Huangpu River (Huang Pu Jiang)

Shanghai was not a major city until the 1800s, when it became a major trading port with Western countries. It is the biggest port in the world.

Today, Shanghai is one of China's most important cites. Lots of foreign tourists go to Shanghai. Because Shanghai is so big and important and makes so much money, it is both a city and a province in China. 

During the Chinese New Year, the Shanghainese celebrate a lot.
Buddhism has a large and important role in Shanghai.



</doc>
<doc id="7422" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7422" title="Hunter S. Thompson">
Hunter S. Thompson

Hunter S. Thompson (July 18, 1937 – February 20, 2005) was an American writer.

He was known for a unique style of writing which he called Gonzo Journalism, where the writer writes about himself trying to write about what was happening around him. He was born and raised in Louisville, Kentucky and spent most of his adult life on his ranch in Colorado. His main topic was the health of the American Dream.

His books include:



</doc>
<doc id="7423" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7423" title="Johnny Depp">
Johnny Depp

Johnny Depp (born June 9, 1963 in Owensboro, Kentucky) is an American actor. His full name is John Christopher Depp II.

He is the son of an engineer and a waitress. He grew up with his brother and his sister and spent a lot of time with his grandfather. When his grandfather died, Depp was seven years old. His family went to Florida and in the next years, they had to change homes often. Johnny became worse at school and had his first experiences with drugs at the age of 15. He was thrown out of school and started to make music in a band called "The Flame", and later on "The Kids". His ex-wife is Lori Anne Allison (Lori A. Depp). She introduced him to actor Nicolas Cage. He has a daughter, Lily-Rose and son Jack with his partner, French singer Vanessa Paradis.

His first movie was "Nightmare on Elm Street" in 1984, which was quite a success. Afterwards, he decided to go to an acting school in Los Angeles. He got a small part in the movie "Platoon" and shortly after this, he was offered a part in the TV series "21 Jump Street" which he first turned down but finally accepted.

Since then he has been a star. Young people loved him, but this was not what he liked, so he took drugs and was in the news because of this. But his career went on and he played in lots of movies.

Depp is one of Hollywood's most popular actors who can play in a huge range of roles. Normally he plays rather odd characters, for example in "Finding Neverland". He is not only liked for his look but also for his talent to act and his incomparable gestures.

Depp lives in France but also has a home in the States. Depp has been getting used to the fact of living around French people, but his French is truthfully not completely accurate. Depp has also bought a nice, relaxing island that helps him calm his nerves.
Throughout his lifetime, Depp has been through several occupations. He owned a club; The Viper Room. 


</doc>
<doc id="7424" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7424" title="Uncle John's Bathroom Reader">
Uncle John's Bathroom Reader

Uncle John's Bathroom Readers is the name of a series of books aimed at people who like to read while using the restroom. The books are full of trivia.

The books were first published in 1988. 



There are several other books in the series, aside from the "Classics" and the "For Kids Only." Over 3 million of the books have been sold in total.



</doc>
<doc id="7426" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7426" title="Catalonia">
Catalonia

Catalonia (Catalan: Catalunya; Spanish: Cataluña; Occitan: Catalonha) is a Spanish region in South-West Europe, to the southeastern of the Pyrenees, and that has a northern border with France. Catalonia is politically an 'Autonomous Community', as regions are known in Spain, which is made up of four provinces: Barcelona, Tarragona, Girona ("Spanish: Gerona") and Lleida ("Spanish: Lérida"). It has a population of over 7 million of people. In Catalonia, a significant percentage of the people can speak Catalonia's own language, Catalan, while everybody, or nearly everybody according to recent surveys, is also able to speak Spanish, the latter being the most spoken language in Catalonia. There also exists a small autonomous territory within Catalonia which borders with France on the North known in Occitan language as Val d'Aran where some people also can speak a third language: occitan. All three of these languages are official and recognised by the Spanish Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia.

The capital city of Catalonia is the city of Barcelona, which was home of the Olympic Games in 1992. This city is on the Mediterranean Coast, widely known as Costa Brava, being very popular amongst tourists in summer, be foreign or national. The Catalan people have autonomy within Spain. This means they have their own local government, their own police and some control over their own community. In September 2005, the Catalan Parliament decided to call Catalonia a 'nation' in the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia approved in 2006, according to the Spanish Constitution which says that Spain is a group of historical nationalities and regions. But this declaration has no judicial status whatsoever though, as it only appears in the preamble to the law.

Catalonia is one of Spain's most prosperous regions, mostly because industrialization began there earlier and took place faster than in other Spanish territories, above all the textile industry. The region is also greener than Southern Spain as it gets more rain, and also different kinds of crops are grown there. Temperature wise, Catalonia and specifically the North of the territory is much less hot than the rest of Spain.



</doc>
<doc id="7427" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7427" title="Civil engineering">
Civil engineering

Civil engineering is the term for the work of designing and building infrastructure. It usually means large structures, like bridges, dams, buildings, and tunnels. It also covers complicated networks such as water, irrigation and sewerage networks. Civil engineers can be involved in all stages in the life of infrastructure, from planning and construction to maintenance and demolition. 

Civil engineering is made up of many different areas or disciplines. Some important areas are geotechnical, structures, environmental, construction management, hydrology, transportation, and materials. It is important for civil engineers to have an understanding of all these disciplines as projects often involve many of them at the same time.

Civil engineers are responsible for lots of the things that are required for a society to function properly. Safe water supplies, sewage treatment, roads, railways and buildings are all part of civil engineering.

To work in civil engineering requires training. Construction workers will train at a center and 'on the job' (training while doing the job). 

To be a professional in civil engineering requires study at a university or college. Civil engineers often study subjects like structures, materials, physics and calculus.

The profession of civil engineering is represented by professional bodies in various countries. In the UK the Institution of Civil Engineers promotes civil engineering as a discipline and supports engineers throughout their careers. The American Society of Civil Engineers performs a similar task in the USA. 

Professional engineers often choose to become Chartered Engineers. Chartership shows employers and clients that they are both qualified and experienced in their jobs. Civil engineers usually have to write a big essay and take an interview with a panel of experienced engineers to gain chartership.




</doc>
<doc id="7428" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7428" title="Comparison">
Comparison

A comparison is an evaluation of similarities and differences. See:






</doc>
<doc id="7429" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7429" title="Golden Gate Bridge">
Golden Gate Bridge

The Golden Gate Bridge is a bridge that crosses over the San Francisco Bay. It goes from San Francisco to Marin County, in the U.S. state of California. It was opened for use in 1937. It is 9,266 ft (2824 m) long. When the bridge was finished, it was the longest bridge in the world. Now there are eight bridges that are longer. For many people, it is still one of the most beautiful bridges in the world.

Before the bridge, the only way to go north from San Francisco to Marin County was by ferry. The trip by ferry took 20 minutes to complete. Before the bridge was built, San Francisco was the biggest American city still served mostly by ferries. Some experts did not think that people could build a bridge because the water currents between Marin and San Francisco were very strong. Also the water was very deep in the middle - 102 m - and there was a lot of wind and fog that could make the construction difficult.

In 1916 San Francisco's city engineer asked other engineers to propose ideas for a bridge. One man, Joseph Strauss, designed a very cheap bridge - only $17 million, but many thought it was ugly. Local authorities asked him to change the design and to work with other experts. He accepted. He and other experts, especially Irving Morrow, an architect designed the bridge again, this time as a suspension bridge. A suspension bridge has tall towers that hold long cables, and the cables hold up or "suspend" the bridge.

The bridge is called the Golden Gate Bridge because it crosses the Golden Gate Strait, the area of water between the San Francisco peninsula and the Marin County peninsula.

In 1930 people in San Francisco and Marin County agreed that the local governments could sell bonds to raise money for the bridge. The new bridge was going to cost $30.1 million. But it was difficult for the governments to sell the bonds at the time because of the Wall Street Crash of 1929. Finally the Bank of America, which was based in San Francisco, agreed to buy all the bonds to help the local economy.

Construction began on January 5, 1933 and was finished in April 1937. During the construction eleven men died and the builders put a net under the bridge for the safety of the builders. Nineteen men were saved by the net.

When they finished the bridge, they painted it with a reddish-orange sealant, a type of paint that protects the bridge from water and humidity. People liked the color because it looked good with the bridge's surroundings and it was easy to see in the fog, so the bridge was officially painted with the color, called International Orange.

People can cross the bridge in cars or motorcycles any time. During daylight hours, they can cross by bicycle or on foot. They can not cross the bridge on roller skates, skateboards or mopeds.

When the bridge opened, drivers had to pay 50 cents to cross the bridge in either direction. Today, when drivers go north on the bridge (leaving San Francisco) they do not have to pay, but starting on September 2, 2008, when they go south (entering San Francisco), they have to pay $6 if they pay cash or $5 if they buy a Fastrak pass.

People often jump off the bridge to commit suicide (kill themselves). They fall 75 meters and most of them die when they hit the water. Nobody knows how many people have committed suicide by jumping off the bridge.


</doc>
<doc id="7430" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7430" title="Kitchen">
Kitchen

The kitchen is the room in the house where food is cooked. Sometimes, people eat in their kitchens, too. Hotels, schools, and places where people work often have kitchens as well. A person who works in a kitchen in one of these places may be a kitchen worker or a chef (depending on where he/she cooks).


</doc>
<doc id="7432" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7432" title="Software engineering">
Software engineering

Software engineering is a field of Computer science, concerned with designing and writing programs for computers. A software engineer tries to change software so that it is of a better quality. Better quality software is easier to understand, to maintain, or to extend. Becoming a software engineer is a higher education, done at the university level, usually. Software engineering can be very difficult work. Today it is mostly done in a team. Software engineering can broadly be split into the following:



</doc>
<doc id="7433" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7433" title="Student">
Student

A student is a person who is learning something. Students can be children or teenagers who are going to school, but it may also be other people who are learning, such as in college.


</doc>
<doc id="7434" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7434" title="Suburb">
Suburb

A suburb is an area of a town or city, a little away from the main part, where there are fewer big buildings and mainly houses, schools and shops. These are called suburbs or 'the suburbs'. Sometimes, cities have suburbs that are over a very large area. The suburbs are still part of the city but may have a different name from the main city or town.

Since the beginning of the twentieth century, cities have spread very quickly and spread farther. Transport in the form of trams, buses and cars mean that people can live farther away from their place of work. This led to the growth of the suburbs. Housing commonly includes detached and semi-detached houses, bungalows and flats. Less houses are built than in the inner city and there is often space for gardens and parks.

As cities grow outwards, they begin to take over the surrounding countryside. Green belts have been created on the undeveloped land around a city to prevent urban sprawl and to prevent the towns and cities merging into one. It also encourages development within the town, while also protecting the countryside. Today, the enormous need for new houses, particularly large detached and semi-detached houses in pleasant surroundings, means that some areas of green belt land have been built on and others are threatened. The reason is that it is cheaper to build on green belt land than to redevelop brownfield sites in older parts of the town or city. 


</doc>
<doc id="7435" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7435" title="Skyscraper">
Skyscraper

A skyscraper is a very tall building, usually more than 152 metres (500 feet) in height. A highrise is another name that people call skyscrapers. Skyscrapers are almost always found in cities. Many large cities have many skyscrapers. For example, New York, a large city in the USA, has a famous skyscraper called the Empire State Building. In the last 20 years, people have been building skyscrapers in cities like London, England that did not have many tall buildings in the past.

At the start, the word skyscraper meant a tall sail on a sailing ship. The word's meaning has changed, and today it means a tall building. Until the nineteenth century, buildings taller than six stories tall were not common. Tall buildings made out of weak metals would fall down. People also did not like walking up many steps. Also, running water could only be brought up to fifty feet high.

Better technology helped make skyscrapers more common. Stronger building materials such as steel and reinforced concrete were developed, so stronger skyscrapers could be built. Water pumps brought water up to heights above fifty feet.

The first skyscraper, "The Home Insurance Building", was built in Chicago, Illinois, USA. William LeBaron Jenney designed it. The building, ten stories high, was built in 1884 and 1885. It was destroyed in 1931 because they wanted to build another building in its previous place.


</doc>
<doc id="7436" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7436" title="Integer">
Integer

Integers are the whole numbers and their negatives. 

These are some of the integers: 

formula_1

Integers consist of all of the numbers that have no decimal expansion. In other words, they have only zeros after their decimal, which we normally choose not to write. 0 is also an integer, even though it has no positive nor negative signs. Integers are a countable subset of the rational numbers and real numbers.

Consecutive Integers are integers that come after each other, like formula_2

In some programming languages, like C, there are types called "int" or "integer."


</doc>
<doc id="7437" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7437" title="Natural number">
Natural number

Natural numbers , also called counting numbers, are the numbers used for counting things. They are whole numbers (called integers), and never less than zero (i.e. positive numbers). The special number zero is sometimes considered a natural number. Examples of natural numbers can be seen in the box on the right. Whole numbers are the natural numbers, but whole numbers always include zero.

The next possible natural number can be found by adding 1 to the current natural number, producing a set of numbers that could continue "for ever".
The following types of number are not natural numbers:

formula_4 or formula_5 is the way to write the set of all natural numbers. Because some people say 0 is a natural number, and some people say it is not, people use the following symbols to talk about the natural numbers:
<br clear="all">



</doc>
<doc id="7438" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7438" title="Golden Rule">
Golden Rule

The Golden Rule is a moral that says to "treat others how you would like them to treat you." This moral is used as a basis in the human rights. It is called the "golden" rule because there is value in having this kind of respect and caring attitude for one another.

People of many religions see the value of this mandate and have similar expressions. In Christianity, Jesus Christ taught this idea to his disciples and others when he gave his Sermon on the Mount. It is recorded in the Holy Bible in the book of Matthew, Chapter 7 and verse 12. Jesus explained to his listeners that all the things that were recorded in the Jewish law and that the prophets had taught about concerning morality was summed up in this one rule. The context of this statement (Matthew 7) is in regard to God's mercy and kindness. The principle that was shared is to not always treat others as they might deserve to be treated, as we may judge some as undeserving, but instead to always be merciful and charitable, not withholding good. 

Some philosophers consider the idea that this statement can be interpreted according to one's personal ethics, which may include wishing harm to one's self, so that it instead becomes permissive to harm others. What Jesus said was to not be judgemental, as we all make mistakes, do not focus on the behavior of others, but instead focus on your own behavior and attitude and let it be good. In other religions and belief systems there is a similar concept of "the ethic of reciprocity", also called the Golden Rule. However, there is an important distinguishing trait about the Golden Rule of Christianity. The "gold" in the "Golden Rule" is given "without" expectation of the act or attitude being recipricated. If every one gave freely of themselves in this way we would become rich indeed and perhaps begin to see the goodness of God in effect as He intended it to be.

The golden rule is one of the two main pillars of Christianity (the other is Dual Commandment of Love), but it is not restricted to Christianity only. Almost all ethical religions (that is: those religion which have some kind of moral code) of the world know it. It can be written either in active form (do to others what you would have them do to you) or in passive form (do to others what you would have them do to you). 


</doc>
<doc id="7439" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7439" title="Leicester">
Leicester

Leicester () is a city in the East Midlands region of England and it is the county town of Leicestershire. In 2006 the population of the city was estimated to be 289,700 making it the largest city in the East Midlands. In 2010 the population was estimated to be 306,600 making it smaller than Nottingham by 100 people. These numbers are not exact, so it is not clear which city is the biggest in the region.

Leicester is about 2,000 years old and was called Ratae Corieltauvorum when it was founded by the Romans who ruled what is now England for about 400 years. After the Romans had gone and the Anglo-Saxons settled there the town of Leicester was founded and named after the River Soar (then called Leire) and "cester" meaning the Roman ruins. Much later, after the invasion by the Danes, Leicester was within the area under Danish rule and one of the fortified "Five Burghs". In early modern times it became a centre of the manufacture of boots, shoes and knitted clothes such as socks. 

Since 1926 there has been a Church of England diocese of Leicester and in 1927 the Church of St Martin became Leicester Cathedral. As well as different forms of Christianity many other religions have followers in the city including Islam and Hinduism. The UK census in 2001 showed that 17.4% of people in Leicester said that they had no religion.

Leicester has a wide variety of people from other countries, including many from Pakistan, Bangladesh and India. Leicester also has communities of people from the Caribbean, Somalia, Afghanistan, Kurdistan, Iran, Poland and many other countries. Many of these communities have their own community organisations. As well as English about 70 other languages are spoken in the city.

Leicester is well known for having residents from many different cultural backgrounds. People who believe that they are having problems because of racism can get help from The Race Equality Centre.

Leicester has three MPs: Jon Ashworth (Leicester South), Liz Kendall (Leicester West) and Keith Vaz (Leicester East). All three are members of the Labour Party. 

On 5 May 2011, Sir Peter Soulsby became the first directly elected Mayor of Leicester. He is called the City Mayor. Leicester also has a Lord Mayor for ceremonies.

Leicester City Council has 54 councillors. At the moment there are 52 from the Labour party and one each from the Conservatives and Liberal Democrats. Leicester is divided into 22 wards for local government which include the city centre and many Suburban areas such as Aylestone, Braunstone, Belgrave, Evington, Highfields,Thurnby Lodge,St Matthews, Rushey Mead and Humberstone.

Leicester has a very large covered outdoor market. The market has been in the same place for 700 years. The city also has two shopping centres: Haymarket and the much larger Highcross.

Leicester has several museums. The biggest and best known is the New Walk Museum.

The city has many parks, including Abbey Park and Victoria Park. There is also a botanical garden in Oadby, which is a town to the south of Leicester.

There are two hospitals in the city (Leicester General Hospital and Leicester Royal Infirmary) and one just outside the city (Glenfield Hospital).

The city is the home of Leicester City F.C. and the Leicester Football Club (usually called the Tigers) rugby club. It also has a cricket team for adults and juniors called Leicestershire CCC (county cricket club). 

Leicester has two universities: the University of Leicester and De Montfort University. It also has several further education colleges, the largest of these is Leicester College.

There are two bus stations: Haymarket and St. Margaret's (which is also a coach station). The train station is on London Road. Leicester is about 75 minutes from London by train. Trains from Leicester arrive at St Pancras station in London. At St Pancras station it is possible to catch another train which travels through the Channel Tunnel to Europe.

Many trade union branches in the city and county are members of Leicester and District Trades Union Council.

The local newspaper is called "The Leicester Mercury".



</doc>
<doc id="7441" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7441" title="Hollywood">
Hollywood

Hollywood is a district in Los Angeles, California. It is famous around the world as a place where movies and television shows are made. It has many different attractions such as the Hollywood Walk of Fame, Universal Studios and the famous Hollywood Sign. The word Hollywood can also mean the movie industry that is in Hollywood. Many tourists come to the area. 

Many historic Hollywood theaters are used as venues and concert stages to premiere major theatrical releases and host the Academy Awards. It is a popular destination for nightlife and tourism and home to the Hollywood Walk of Fame.

The Hollywood Walk of Fame was created in 1958 and the first star was placed in 1960. It is a sidewalk along the Hollywood Boulevard and the USA. There are more than 2000 five-points stars on the walk featuring the names of artists working in the entertainment industry.


</doc>
<doc id="7442" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7442" title="Saturday Night Live">
Saturday Night Live

Saturday Night Live (SNL) is a popular American television program. It has been broadcast on Saturday nights since October 11, 1975. It is one of the longest-running television programs in American television. It is broadcast from NBC studios in New York City. The name comes from the fact that the program is aired live on Saturday nights at 11:30 PM EST. This is a rarity in the age of filming and videotape. "SNL" is shown in re-runs in the summer and on cable TV. The program usually consists of the following:


"SNL" was created and is executive-produced by Lorne Michaels and started in 1975 as "NBC's Saturday Night". Many famous comic actors got their starts being cast members on the program. The show has led to several feature films, books, DVDs, and has been the inspiration for a couple of other TV shows.

""Live from New York, it's Saturday night!"" is said near the beginning of every episode. 

Many actors have come and gone in the history of Saturday Night Live. Here is a list of some of those actors and how long they lasted on the show.



</doc>
<doc id="7443" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7443" title="Elvis Presley">
Elvis Presley

Elvis Aaron Presley (January 8, 1935 - August 16, 1977) was one of first and most famous American rock and roll's superstars. His fame lasted long after his death. He was also an actor who starred in many movies. He had blue leather shoes which were a favorite of the crowd.

He was so popular that some people know him as only "Elvis". He is also referred to as "The King of Rock and Roll", or just "The King". 

Presley was born in Tupelo, Mississippi on January 8, 1935. He moved to Memphis, Tennessee with his family when he was 13 years old. Presley was one of the first musicians to play a type of music called rockabilly, which combined country music with rhythm and blues. His first single, "Heartbreak Hotel", was a hit, and was one of the first popular rock and roll songs.

Presley entered the military in 1958, and was stationed in Germany. He was honorably discharged from the military, and returned to the United States in 1960. In Germany, he met Priscilla Beaulieu, whom he married in 1967. They had a daughter, Lisa Marie Presley, who later married the pop singer Michael Jackson.

In 1973, Priscilla Presley and Elvis divorced. By this point, he had become addicted to many drugs. He died on August 16, 1977 in what has been ruled to be a heart attack. He was discovered dead in his bathroom.



</doc>
<doc id="7446" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7446" title="Sherwood Forest">
Sherwood Forest

Sherwood Forest is a forest in the United Kingdom near Nottingham, England. It is partly famous as reportedly being the home of the mythical outlaw, Robin Hood and his men (and maid marian) . Legend claims that they lived in, or near, the Major Oak which today has to be held up by stilts, to prevent it losing its branches. 


</doc>
<doc id="7447" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7447" title="Mount Everest">
Mount Everest

The Mount Everest is the largest and highest mountain in the world. Mount Everest is in the Himalayas. It is about high.

Its peak is on the border between Nepal and Tibet. It is above the Death Zone where the air is too thin for a human being, so usually supplemental, or extra, oxygen is used when climbing. The Death Zone refers to the parts of Mount Everest that are above 25,000 ft above sea level.

Two other mountains also can be named as "highest" mountains - the volcano Mauna Kea on Hawaii island is the highest mountain counted from the base underwater to the summit - more than 11 kilometres, and the summit of the Chimborazo is the fixed point on Earth which has the utmost distance from the center - because of the modified ball shape of the planet Earth which is "thicker" around the Equator than measured around the poles. 

A survey of India in 1856 recorded Everest. It was called Peak XV. This first published height was . Everest was given its official English name in 1865 by the Royal Geographical Society.

On June 8th, 1924, George Leigh Mallory and climbing partner Andrew Irvine made an attempt on the summit of Mount Everest. They disappeared into the fog and were never seen again until Mallory's body was found by Conrad Anker in 1999. To this day, no one is sure whether or not Mallory and Irvine made it to the summit before dying, 29 years before the next climbers would reach the summit.

Mount Everest was climbed first in May 1953 by the Sherpa Tenzing Norgay and the New Zealander Sir Edmund Hillary after 31 years of British trials to get a man on top - the exploration of the Everest region started 1921 and first realistic try to go on top was 1922.


</doc>
<doc id="7448" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7448" title="Luanda">
Luanda

Luanda is the capital and the largest city of Angola. Its former name was Loanda. It is a main seaport of the country located on the Atlantic Ocean. About 3 million (1995) people are living in there.

It is a center of manufacturing, but very destroyed because of a long civil war.

It was found by Portuguese in 1575 as São Paulo de Luanda and has been the administrative center of Angola since 1627 (except for 1640–1648). When Angola got independence in 1975, it became the capital of Angola.


</doc>
<doc id="7449" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7449" title="Pepsi">
Pepsi

Pepsi is a carbonated cola soft drink. The drink is made by PepsiCo.

They often sponsor (help fund/advertise on a event) sports events and music events, like the Super Bowl. Pepsi also has huge sponsorships for the MGM Mirage hotels in Las Vegas, Nevada. They only serve Pepsi products at the hotels.

Pepsi comes in many different flavors, and forms. A few of the different Pepsi types include Diet Pepsi, Pepsi Max, Pepsi ONE, Pepsi Wild Cherry, etc.

It was first introduced as "Brad's Drink" in New Bern, North Carolina in 1898 by Caleb Bradham, who made it at his pharmacy where the drink was sold. It was later named Pepsi Cola, possibly due to the digestive enzyme pepsin and kola nuts used in the recipe. Bradham sought to create a fountain drink that was delicious and would aid in digestion and boost energy.

In 1903, Bradham moved the bottling of Pepsi-Cola from his drugstore to a rented warehouse. That year, Bradham sold 7,968 gallons of syrup. The next year, Pepsi was sold in six-ounce bottles, and sales increased to 19,848 gallons. In 1909, automobile race pioneer Barney Oldfield was the first celebrity to endorse Pepsi-Cola, describing it as "A bully drink...refreshing, invigorating, a fine bracer before a race".

During the Great Depression, Pepsi gained popularity following the introduction in 1936 of a 12-ounce bottle. Initially priced at 10 cents, sales were slow, but when the price was slashed to five cents, sales increased substantially. With a radio advertising campaign featuring the jingle "Pepsi-Cola hits the spot / Twelve full ounces, that's a lot / Twice as much for a nickel, too / Pepsi-Cola is the drink for you," arranged in such a way that the jingle never ends. Pepsi encouraged price-watching consumers to switch, obliquely referring to the Coca-Cola standard of six ounces per bottle for the price of five cents (a nickel), instead of the 12 ounces Pepsi sold at the same price. Coming at a time of economic crisis, the campaign succeeded in boosting Pepsi's status. In 1937 500,000,000 bottles of Pepsi were consumed. From 1936 to 1938, Pepsi-Cola's profits doubled.

Pepsi's success under Guth came while the Loft Candy business was faltering. Since he had initially used Loft's finances and facilities to establish the new Pepsi success, the near-bankrupt Loft Company sued Guth for possession of the Pepsi-Cola company. A long legal battle, "Guth v. Loft", then ensued, with the case reaching the Delaware Supreme Court and ultimately ending in a loss for Guth.

In 1975, Pepsi introduced the Pepsi Challenge marketing campaign where PepsiCo set up a blind tasting between Pepsi-Cola and rival Coca-Cola. During these blind taste tests the majority of participants picked Pepsi as the better tasting of the two soft drinks. PepsiCo took great advantage of the campaign with television commercials reporting the results to the public..

In 1976 Pepsi, RKO Bottlers in Toledo, Ohio hired the first female Pepsi salesperson, Denise Muck, to coincide with the United States bicentennial celebration.

In 1996, PepsiCo launched the highly successful Pepsi Stuff marketing strategy. By 2002, the strategy was cited by Promo Magazine as one of 16 "Ageless Wonders" that "helped redefine promotion marketing."

In 2007, PepsiCo redesigned their cans for the fourteenth time, and for the first time, included more than thirty different backgrounds on each can, introducing a new background every three weeks.
One of their background designs includes a string of repetitive numbers 73774. This is a numerical expression from a telephone keypad of the word "Pepsi."

In late 2008, Pepsi overhauled their entire brand, simultaneously introducing a new logo and a minimalist label design. The redesign was comparable to Coca-Cola's earlier simplification of their can and bottle designs. Also in 4th quarter of 2008 Pepsi teamed up with Google/Youtube to produce the first daily entertainment show on Youtube, Poptub. This daily show deals with pop culture, internet viral videos, and celebrity gossip. Poptub is updated daily from Pepsi.

Since 2007, Pepsi, Lay's, and Gatorade have had a "Bring Home the Cup," contest for Canada's biggest hockey fans. Hockey fans were asked to submit content (videos, pictures or essays) for a chance at winning a party in their hometown with the Stanley Cup and Mark Messier. 

In 2009, "Bring Home the Cup," changed to "Team Up and Bring Home the Cup." The new installment of the campaign asks for team involvement and an advocate to submit content on behalf of their team for the chance to have the Stanley Cup delivered to the team's hometown by Mark Messier.

Pepsi has official sponsorship deals with three of the four major North American professional sports leagues: the National Football League, National Hockey League and Major League Baseball. Pepsi also sponsors Major League Soccer.

Pepsi also has sponsorship deals in international cricket teams. The Pakistan cricket team is just one of the teams that the brand sponsors. The team wears the Pepsi logo on the front of their test and ODI test match clothing. 

On July 6, 2009, Pepsi announced it would make a $1 billion investment in Russia over three years, bringing the total Pepsi investment in the country to $4 billion. 

In July 2009, Pepsi started marketing itself as Pecsi in Argentina in response to its name being mispronounced by 25% of the population and as a way to connect more with all of the population. 

In October 2008, Pepsi announced that it would be redesigning its logo and re-branding many of its products by early 2009. In 2009, Pepsi, Diet Pepsi and Pepsi Max began using all lower-case fonts for name brands, and Diet Pepsi Max was re-branded as Pepsi Max. The brand's blue and red globe trademark became a series of "smiles," with the central white band arcing at different angles depending on the product. Pepsi released this logo in U.S. in late 2008, and later it was released in 2009 in Canada, Brazil, Bolivia, Guatemala, Nicaragua, Honduras, El Salvador, Colombia, Argentina, Puerto Rico, Costa Rica, Panama, Chile and Australia; in the rest of the world the new logo was released in 2010.



</doc>
<doc id="7451" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7451" title="Penguin">
Penguin

Penguins are sea-birds. They form the family Spheniscidae, the only family of the order Sphenisciformes.

Penguins live on the southern half of the world: Antarctica, New Zealand, southern Australia, South Africa and South America.

All penguins have a white belly and a dark (mostly black) back. Penguins cannot fly, but they can swim very well. They have good hearing and can see underwater. The white and black colors are for camouflage (to help them hide) when they swim. So, when a predator looking from underwater sees the white belly and wings of the penguin, they can not see it well with the light coming from above. Also, from above, the penguin's black backs can not be seen well in the dark water. The biggest penguins may stand nearly 4 feet tall and can weigh almost 100 pounds. The smallest kinds are only about one foot tall. Penguins also have a thick layer of blubber that helps them be warm, and their feathers are very tightly packed to make another cover. They also have a layer of woolly down under the feathers, that are coated with a type of oil that makes them waterproof.

Penguins eat krill or fish and are at home in the ocean. They come up on the land or ice to lay their eggs and raise the chicks. The animals all nest together in a huge group, called a . They usually make nests on the ground with rocks or mud.

After the penguins mate, the mother lays her egg on the ice before winter. She lets the father take care of it by putting it on his foot and covering it up with his warm belly. The mother then goes for two months to live in the ocean, eating and eating, and getting fat. The fathers all huddle together in a group to help protect each others' eggs. They do not eat anything, but live off the fat on their bodies.

When the baby penguin comes out of the egg, the father gives it a milk-like liquid that he makes inside his throat. Soon, the mother joins them and gives the baby some food. The hungry father will go out to the ocean and find some food. He will return after weeks and then the two of the parents will take turns going out, finding food, and coming back to take care of their chick.
penguins eat krill, fish, squid, and other small animals from the ocean, which they catch.

There are 16-19 living species (types) of penguins. The White-flippered Penguin is today generally considered a subspecies of the Little Penguin. It is still unclear if the Royal Penguin is a subspecies of the Macaroni Penguin. It is also possible that northern and southern Rockhopper Penguins are separate species. It is a common misconception that some species of penguins withhold pouches, however this is not true.




</doc>
<doc id="7453" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7453" title="March 6">
March 6

March 6 is the 65th day of the year in the Gregorian calendar (66th in leap years). There are 300 days until the end of the year.






</doc>
<doc id="7455" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7455" title="1953">
1953





</doc>
<doc id="7456" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7456" title="1820">
1820




</doc>
<doc id="7458" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7458" title="Cannibalism">
Cannibalism

Cannibalism is where an animal eats its own species. If it refers to humans, some people call it anthropophagy. 

If it occurs in humans, scientists are unclear if it is widespread or not. There are certain diseases, like the sleeping disease, that are passed on by eating human nerve tissue, especially the brain. Sometimes, cannibalism was observed with people that have mental problems or some diseases of the mind.

An example of cannibalism by humans was the Donner Party in 1846 and 1847.

In non-human species, cannibalism is quite common, for example with spiders and scorpions. There, the male gets eaten by the female, after having sex.



</doc>
<doc id="7459" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7459" title="May 29">
May 29





</doc>
<doc id="7460" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7460" title="Halloween">
Halloween

Halloween is a holiday in many English speaking countries that is celebrated on the night of October 31st. Children wear costumes and they go to peoples' homes saying "Trick or treat!" to ask for candy, sweets in the United Kingdom, or lollies in Australia, and then people give it to them. This practice originally involved a "threat". A threat is when someone says that they will do something bad if they do not get what they want. In this case the threat could be explained as: "Give me a treat or I will play a trick on you." Children today usually do not play tricks if they do not get treats. However, some children still get up to mischief (pranks or things to make fun of people; like putting toilet paper in trees; writing on windows with soap or throwing eggs at peoples' houses). People sometimes dress up as ghosts, witches, goblins and other scary things for Halloween.

The Pagan holiday "Samhain", that the "All Saints" holy day replaced, was also known as the "Day of the Dead". Many Wiccans and modern Pagans celebrate the "Day of the Dead". This is a "happy" holiday (even though it celebrates 'Death'). It is the day that the souls of dead people come back to Earth. Therefore, in Pagan religions it is not about scary things. It is about remembering family or friends who have died.

Many Lutheran churches celebrate a holiday on October 31st called The Reformation. This holiday celebrates the day that Martin Luther put The Ninety-Five Theses on a church door.


</doc>
<doc id="7461" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7461" title="Category:Lists of people by nationality">
Category:Lists of people by nationality


</doc>
<doc id="7462" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7462" title="Frida Kahlo">
Frida Kahlo

Magdalena Carmen Frida Kahlo y Calderón (July 6, 1907 – July 13, 1954), usually known as Frida Kahlo, was a Mexican painter. She was known for her surreal and very personal works. She was married to Diego Rivera, also a well-known painter.

She was born in Coyoacán, Mexico. She had polio that left her disabled when she was 6 years old and some people think that she may have had spina bifida (a birth defect affecting the development of part of the spine) as well. She studied medicine and was going to become a doctor. Because of a traffic accident at age 18 which badly injured her, she had periods of severe pain for the rest of her life. After this accident, Kahlo no longer continued her medical studies but took up painting. She used ideas about things that had happened to her. Her paintings are often shocking in the way they show pain and the harsh lives of women, especially her feelings about not being able to have children. Fifty-five of her 143 paintings are of herself. She was also influenced by native Mexican culture, shown in bright colors, with a mixture of realism and symbolism. Her paintings attracted the attention of the artist Diego Rivera, whom she later married.

Kahlo's work is sometimes called "surrealist", and although she organized art shows several times with European surrealists, she herself did not like that label. Her attention to female themes, and the honesty in her painting them, made her something of a feminist cult figure in the last decades of the 20th century. Some of her work is seen at the Frida Kahlo Museum, found in her birthplace and home in suburban Mexico City.

For a complete biography, photos, paintings, chronology, books and films visit:


</doc>
<doc id="7463" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7463" title="1932">
1932




</doc>
<doc id="7464" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7464" title="Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas">
Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas

Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas: A Savage Journey to the Heart of the American Dream is a book written by Hunter S. Thompson. The book is based on an article Thompson wrote for "Rolling Stone" magazine. It was later made into a movie directed by Terry Gilliam and starring Johnny Depp and Benicio Del Toro.

The novel "Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas" accounts for two trips to Las Vegas, Nevada, that Hunter S. Thompson and attorney Oscar Zeta Acosta took in March and April 1971. The first trip spawned from an exposé Thompson was writing for "Rolling Stone" magazine about the Mexican-American television journalist Ruben Salazar, whom officers of the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Office had shot and killed with a tear gas grenade fired at close range during the National Chicano Moratorium March against the Vietnam War in 1970. Thompson was using Acosta — a prominent Mexican-American political activist and attorney — as a central source for the story, and the two found it difficult for a brown-skinned Mexican to talk openly with a white reporter in the racially tense atmosphere of Los Angeles, California. The two needed a more comfortable place to discuss the story and decided to take advantage of a "Sports Illustrated" magazine offer to write photograph captions for the annual Mint 400 desert race being held in Las Vegas.
The 1971 Thompson and Acosta personae, on which Raoul Duke and Dr. Gonzo were based. Thompson wrote that he concluded their March trip by spending some thirty-six hours alone in a hotel room "feverishly writing in my notebook" about his experiences. The genesis of "Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas: A Savage Journey to the Heart of the American Dream" is in that notebook.

What originally was a two-hundred-fifty-word photo-caption-job for "Sports Illustrated" grew to a novel-length feature story for "Rolling Stone". Thompson said publisher Jann Wenner had "liked the first 20 or so jangled pages enough to take it seriously on its own terms and tentatively scheduled it for publication — which gave me the push I needed to keep working on it". He had first submitted a 2,500 word manuscript to "Sports Illustrated" that was "aggressively rejected".

Weeks later, Thompson and Acosta returned to Las Vegas to report for "Rolling Stone" on the National District Attorneys Association's Conference on Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs being held from the 25 to 29 April 1971, and to add material to the larger "Fear and Loathing" narrative. Besides attending the attorneys' conference, Thompson and Acosta looked for ways in Vegas to explore the theme of the American Dream, which was the basis for the novel's second half, which Thompson referred at the time as "Vegas II". On 29 April 1971, he began writing the full manuscript in a hotel room in Arcadia, California, in his spare time while completing "Strange Rumblings in Aztlan", the article chronicling the slain Chicano journalist Rubén Salazar.
"Rolling Stone" magazine cover by Ralph Steadman. In November 1971, "Rolling Stone" published the combined texts of the trips as "Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas: A Savage Journey to the Heart of the American Dream" as a two-part article illustrated by Ralph Steadman, who, two years before, had worked with Thompson on a "Scanlan's Monthly" article titled "The Kentucky Derby is Decadent and Depraved". The next year, Random House quickly published the hardcover edition, with additional Steadman illustrations; The "New York Times" said it is "by far the best book yet on the decade of dope", with Tom Wolfe describing it as a "scorching epochal sensation".


</doc>
<doc id="7465" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7465" title="Graham Chapman">
Graham Chapman

Graham Chapman (8 January 1941 – 4 October 1989) was a British actor, comedian and writer. He was most famous as a member of Monty Python. He was openly gay and was in a long-term relationship with writer David Sherlock. He was born in Leicester and died of throat cancer in Maidstone, Kent.


</doc>
<doc id="7466" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7466" title="Michael Palin">
Michael Palin

Michael Palin (born 5 May 1943 in Sheffield, England) is an English actor, world traveller, and author.

Palin became famous as a member of Monty Python in the 1970s. Afterwards he had his own series, "Ripping Yarns", and also appeared in many movies, such as "A Fish Called Wanda."

Over the last 20 years, he has become very well known as a funny but sensitive television travel broadcaster ("Around The World in 80 days", etc.).


</doc>
<doc id="7467" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7467" title="Terry Jones">
Terry Jones

Terry Jones (born February 1, 1942) is a Welsh writer, actor, and historian. He was a member of Monty Python.


</doc>
<doc id="7469" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7469" title="New York">
New York

New York is one of the 50 states of the United States of America. It was one of the first thirteen states. It is well known for having the city of the same name, "New York City", in the southeastern part of the state.

New York is in the northeastern United States, bordered by Lake Ontario and Canada on the north, Lake Erie and Canada on the west, Pennsylvania on the west and south, Vermont, Massachusetts, and Connecticut on the east, and New Jersey on the south and west of New York City.

New York also has Long Island. Long Island is a large island in the Atlantic Ocean. Parts of New York City, Queens and Brooklyn, are on Long Island. The larger part of New York, north and northwest of New York City and Long Island, is called "Upstate New York". Some cities in Upstate include Buffalo, Binghamton, Rochester, Syracuse, and the state capital Albany.

New York City is the largest city in the state, but Albany is the capital. Between 1788 and 1797, the Legislature moved the state capital around between Albany, Kingston, Poughkeepsie, and New York City. Albany became the permanent capital from 1797.

The United States Census Bureau says that, as of 2005, New York had the third most people (population) in the United States, after California and Texas. New York's estimated population is 19,297,729.


</doc>
<doc id="7470" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7470" title="Rolling Stone">
Rolling Stone

Rolling Stone is a popular culture magazine. It mainly features articles about music, as well as sports, movies, and celebrities. It also features movie and album reviews, "greatest of all time" lists, and political editorials and commentary. 

Some of the magazine's famous staffers include Hunter S. Thompson, Ralph Steadman, PJ O'Rourke, Cameron Crowe (whose experience for the magazine lead him to create the movie, "Almost Famous"), and Annie Leibowitz.


</doc>
<doc id="7471" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7471" title="Ralph Steadman">
Ralph Steadman

Ralph Steadman is a British cartoonist and illustrator. He is best known for his artwork for the books and articles of Hunter S. Thompson.


</doc>
<doc id="7472" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7472" title="Tunisia">
Tunisia

Tunisia (or formally, the Republic of Tunisia) is a country in North Africa. Tunis is its capital.

Since history has been recorded, there were Berber tribes living in Tunisia. Most of them built little towns and ports along the coastline so they could trade with different travellers from everywhere in the Mediterranean Sea.
Most of the travellers that used to pass by Tunisia were Phoenicians who started to settle on the Tunisian coast during the 10th Century BC.
Later, in the 8th Century BC, Carthage was built by some settlers that came from Phoenicia and regions abroad.
After many wars against Greece in 6th Century BC, Carthage dominated the Mediterranean Sea.

During the Second Punic War, Carthage invaded Italy with an army led by Hannibal.
The series of wars between the Roman Empire and Carthage ended with the destruction of Carthage in the 2nd Century BC.
After the destruction of the Carthaginian civilization, the region became under the Roman Empire control.

When the Roman Empire became weak, the Vandals occupied that region. This was in the 5th Century AD, and one hundred years after that, it became under the control of the Byzantine emperor Justinian.

In the 7th Century, it was re-conquered by the Arab Muslims who built a city which they called Kairouan.
Kairouan was the first Arab Muslim city in Tunisia.
Many Muslim dynasties (monarchies) ruled Tunisia. One of the best known dynasties was the Zirids dynasty.
The Zirids was a Berber dynasty that followed the rules of the Fatimides, a bigger dynasty situated in Cairo.
When the Zirids angered the Fatimides, the Fatimides sent some tribes known as Banu Hilal who ravaged (destroyed and vandalized) Tunisia.

After a brief occupation of Tunisia by the Normans of Sicily in the 12th Century, the Almohad re-conquered it. After that came the Hafsids.
In the last years of their reign, the Hafsids became weak and Spain took control of many cities on the coast until they were finally occupied by the Ottoman Empire.

In 1705, Tunisia became virtually independent during the Hussein dynasty, but still had to follow orders from the Ottoman Empire.

Some controversial financial decisions (money-lending) taken by the Bey in mid-1800s in an attempt to repair the country led Tunisia to become under the control of France.

Tunisia became officially a French protectorate in on May 12, 1881.

Major operations during the second world war took place in Tunisia.

General Rommel, the German leader in Africa, wished to defeat the allies in Tunisia, as the Germans had done in the Battle of France.
As the allies were inexperienced before the Battle of Tunisia against the German Blitzkrieg and were a bit slow to recover after other attacks, this battle was to be a major test.

On February 19, 1943, General Rommel launched an attack against the U.S. Forces.
That was a disaster for the United States. The area where the attacks had been, in the western area of Tunisia, became the site of many US war graves .

After that, the Allies understood the importance of tank warfare, and they easily broke into the German lines in southern Tunisia on March 20, 1943.

Tunisia is a country situated in the northern part of Africa. The Mediterranean Sea adjoins Tunisia in the north and east; the coastline of Tunisia on the Mediterranean Sea is about 1300km.
Tunisia is also bordered by Algeria to the west and Libya to the south-east.
The Sahara Desert takes up 40% of Tunisia: the other 60% is a fertile area.

Even though Standard Arabic is the official language (as figured in the Tunisian constitution), Tunisian citizens speak Tunisian Arabic.
Tunisian Arabic is a mix of languages of people that live or lived in Tunisia speak, and it's called Darija or Tunsi.

A small number of people living in Tunisia in some areas still speak a Berber dialect, known as Shelha.

Most people now living Tunisian are Maghrebin Arab.
However, small groups of Berbers and Jews live in Tunisia.

Tunisia is subdivided into 24 governorates. They are:

Tunisia's economy has many sectors: agriculture (fruit, vegetable oil and vegetables), tourism (when people come from other countries to visit), mining (extracting goods from under the ground), and petroleum (fuel and gas oil).
The government used to control the economy, but now it has sold some public companies. This is called privatization.

Tunisia was also the first Mediterranean country to make an agreement with the European Union. This association agreement was signed on March 1, 1995.

Many scenes from Star Wars, the movie by George Lucas, were filmed in the southern part of Tunisia in a region called Matmata.




<noinclude>


</doc>
<doc id="7473" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7473" title="1972">
1972

1972 (MCMLXXII) was a leap year starting on Saturday of the Gregorian calendar.







</doc>
<doc id="7474" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7474" title="1979">
1979

1979 (MCMLXXIX) was a common year starting on Monday of the Gregorian calendar. It was also the last year of the 1970s.








</doc>
<doc id="7476" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7476" title="Malaysia">
Malaysia

Malaysia is a country in Southeast Asia. It is divided into two parts by the South China Sea. Its mainland is located on the Malay Peninsula and faces the Straits of Malacca on its West coast and on the South China Sea on its East coast. The other part of this country, sometimes known as East Malaysia, is located on the northern part of the island of Borneo on the South China Sea. Kuala Lumpur on the Malay Peninsula is its capital, however the federal capital was recently moved to Putrajaya, a newly created city exclusively designed for administration. It is a federal state made from 13 states.

There are various ethnic groups in Malaysia, such as Chinese, Malay and Indian. Its official language is Malay but English is often used in education and economic scenes. There are over 130 other languages spoken in Malaysia, with 94 in Malaysian Borneo and 40 on the peninsula. Although Islam is their official religion, the citizens have the freedom to practise other religions.

Between China and India, Malaysia was an ancient trading place. When Europeans came to this area, Malacca became an important trade port.

The states of Malaysia became a colony of the British Empire. The peninsular part became independent on August 31, 1957 as the Federation of Malaya. In 1963, Malaya, Singapore and the Borneo part joined together to become Malaysia. In 1965, Singapore broke off and declared independence.

Malaysia has 13 states, namely Johor, Kedah, Kelantan, Malacca, Negeri Sembilan, Pahang, Perak, Perlis, Penang, Sabah, Sarawak, Selangor and Terengganu, and three federal territories, Kuala Lumpur, Putrajaya and Labuan. The number of points of the star on the flag represents the number of states Malaysia has, but it has 14 because Singapore was one of the states in Malaysia during its merger. The head of state of Malaysia is known as the Yang di-Pertuan Agong, commonly called the "King of Malaysia". That title is currently held by Sultan Mizan Zainal Abidin. Malaysia's head of government is the Prime Minister. Its current prime minister is Dato' Seri Najib Tun Razak. It also has a parliament and a court system. It is a member of ASEAN. Its economy is steadily growing and it is a relatively rich country in Southeast Asia.

Major cities in Malaysia are Kuala Lumpur, Kuching, George Town, Ipoh and Johor Bahru.

Malaysia is a multi-religious society, and Islam is the country's official religion. The four main religions are Islam (55.4% of the population), Buddhism (29.2%), Christianity (6.1%, mostly in East Malaysia, i.e., Borneo), and Hinduism (7.8%), according to government census figures in 2009.

Malaysia is a multi-ethnic, multi-cultural and multilingual society, consisting of 65% Malays and other indigenous tribes, 25% Chinese, 7% Indians. The Malays, which form the largest community, are all Muslims since one has to be Muslim to be legally Malay under Malaysian law. The Malays play a dominant role politically and are included in a grouping identified as bumiputera. Their native language is Malay (Bahasa Melayu).

Malaysia's national sport's centre is the Bukit Jalil Sports Complex. Nicol David (squash) and Lee Chong Wei (badminton) are world number ones from Malaysia. Malaysia has won successful gold medals in the Commonwealth Games 2010 in India, which helps to add up more gold medals. Malaysia breaks their Commonwealth Games record as the most successful in 2010.

Malaysia's road network covers 98,721 kilometres (61,342 mi) and includes 1,821 kilometres (1,132 mi) of expressways. The longest highway of the country, the North-South Expressway, extends over 800 kilometres (497 mi) between the Thai border and Singapore. The road systems in Sabah and Sarawak are less developed and of lower quality in comparison to that of Peninsular Malaysia. Malaysia has 118 airports, of which 38 are paved. The official airline of Malaysia is Malaysia Airlines, providing international and domestic air service alongside two other carriers. The railway system is state-run, and covers a total of 1,849 kilometres (1,149 mi). There are also Light Rail Transit in Kuala Lumpur.



</doc>
<doc id="7479" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7479" title="Mickey Mouse">
Mickey Mouse

Mickey Mouse is a cartoon character created by Walt Disney and Ub Iwerks in 1928.

He is the Walt Disney company's mascot and is the main character in Fantasia. Mickey Mouse also has television shows with the whole gang including Donald Duck, Goofy, Minnie Mouse, and Pluto. Minnie Mouse is his girl friend. His birthday is on 18th Novenver 1928. This is a same day as Minnie Mouse. 

Mickey Mouse has a pet; a dog. The dog is called Pluto. Pluto has 5 puppies with Minnie's dog, Fifi.

Goofy, Donald Duck, Daisy Duck, Chip 'n Dale, Clarice, Max, Clarabelle Cow, Horace Horsecollar etc...



</doc>
<doc id="7480" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7480" title="HIV">
HIV

Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is a retrovirus that infects the human immune system. It may cause AIDS by eventually killing the white blood cells that a healthy body uses to fight off disease.

A person can get HIV if a body liquid with the virus goes into their body. The body liquids with HIV are blood, semen, liquid from the vagina, and breast milk. The liquids can go into the body through injured skin. Also, the liquids can enter through the mouth, eyes, nose, vagina, anus, or penis.

There are some common ways to get HIV. Sex with a person with HIV can give the other person HIV if they do not use a condom. All types of sex without a condom can pass on HIV. A person using the same needle as a person with HIV to inject drugs can get HIV. Babies can get it from their mothers when they are born or when they are breastfeeding.

A person cannot get HIV from non-sexual touching, for example a hug or handshake, or touching someone else's saliva. A person cannot get HIV from an insect bite, a cough, or a sneeze.


</doc>
<doc id="7481" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7481" title="Frank Zappa">
Frank Zappa

Frank Vincent Zappa (December 21, 1940 - December 4, 1993) was an American musician and composer. He was known for his strange style of music, which was often weird and funny. He made various types of music and many albums. Zappa worked with many other musicans, most notably his 1960s group The Mothers of Invention and his friend and blues singer Captain Beefheart. 

Zappa was born in Baltimore, Maryland, but spent most of his life in Southern California. He grew up in the desert town of Palmdale, California. Zappa wrote a song about his life there, called "Let's Make The Water Turn Black". It was a true story about two brothers who did some strange things. Zappa had four children with his wife Gail. They gave them all very unusual names: Moon Unit, Dweezil, Ahmet, and Diva.

His most popular song was probably a song he sang in the early 1980s with his daughter, Moon Unit, called "Valley Girl,". The song was based on Moon Unit making fun of some local girls at her school.

Zappa was openly against things like drugs, guns, and censoring music. He often tried to see what he could get away with.

Zappa died from prostate cancer in 1993.


</doc>
<doc id="7482" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7482" title="Tasmania">
Tasmania

Tasmania is a large island off the southern coast of mainland Australia. It is a state of Australia. Its capital and the largest city is Hobart. The island was joined to the mainland until the end of the most recent ice age approximately 10 000 years ago.

It is the home of rare animals like thylacines and tasmanian devils.

Tasmania is a state of Australia. Unlike the other states it is an island. The Bass Strait separates it from the Australian mainland. The first people to come to Tasmania were the Australian aboriginals. Aboriginals are the native people of Tasmania and have lived there for a very long time. Abel Janszoon Tasman was the first European to discover the island in 1642. He called it Van Diemen's Land. It was later called Tasmania. Much later people came from Europe, mostly from the British Empire to live on the island. 

Tasmania has four cities: capital city Hobart, Launceston, Devonport and Burnie.

Tasmania is the smallest state in Australia because it has such small land area. It also has the smallest population. The total population of Tasmania is just over 500, 000 (May 2008).

Tasmania has some of the most popular tourist attractions in the world. They range from old country towns to up to date cities. 
Some popular tourist places are:



</doc>
<doc id="7484" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7484" title="M*A*S*H">
M*A*S*H

M*A*S*H was a media franchise that had several novels, a movie, and several television series.

"M*A*S*H" started as a novel written by Richard Hooker. It was released in 1968, and was about a group of rebellious doctors at a MASH (Mobile Army Surgical Hospital) during the Korean War in the early 1950s. Several sequels were also written after the first book was successful. A movie and television series were based on the story.

"M*A*S*H" was made into a movie in 1970 that was liked by critics and audiences. It was directed by Robert Altman, and starred a large cast of talented actors that included Donald Sutherland, Elliott Gould, Tom Skerritt, Sally Kellerman, and Robert Duvall.

The movie won the Golden Palm award that year, which is the highest award at the Cannes Film Festival in Cannes, France. The movie was also a big hit with young people for its anti-establishment, wild feel. This was especially true because it was really seen to be about criticizing the Vietnam War that was going on at the time. That theme was only hidden somewhat by the setting of the movie during the earlier and less controversial Korean War.

It is also the #56 movie on AFI's 100 Years... 100 Movies list and #7 on AFI's 100 Years... 100 Laughs list.

The success of the books and movie inspired the very popular comedy television series, "M*A*S*H". The series ran from 1972 to 1983 on CBS and is one of the most popular American television shows ever. Reruns are still shown on cable and broadcast channels, and most of the show's seasons are sold on DVDs. Though it is not as popular as it was, it is still popular today.
The cast included Alan Alda, Wayne Rogers, Mike Farrell, McLean Stevenson, Harry Morgan, Loretta Swit, Larry Linville, David Ogden Stiers, Jamie Farr, William Christopher, and Gary Burghoff.

Burghoff played the naive, innocent, teenage, but gifted company clerk, "Radar" O'Reilly. His role was small but memorable in the "M*A*S*H" movie, and he was the only actor from that movie to also play his character on the television series.

The show's final episode which aired on February 28, 1983 was one of the most watched shows in TV history, 125 million people viewed the final episode. There have been several spin-off series in M*A*S*H. There have been two spin-offs of the TV series, the first called "AfterMASH", which was about a Veteran's Hospital soon after the war was over. It was about Colonel Potter (Harry Morgan), who got a job there, Maxwell Klinger (Jamie Farr), who became his assistant, and Father Mulcahy (William Christopher), who came there as a patient who abused alcohol after he lost his hearing in the TV series. All three of them were major characters on the original series. The second spin-off was "W*A*L*T*E*R*", which was about Walter "Radar" O'Reilly (Gary Burghoff). The series lasted only one episode. The most successful "M*A*S*H" spin-off was "Trapper John, M.D.", a spin-off of the movie. It starred Trapper John McIntyre (Pernell Roberts), but never talks about anything from the movie. It lasted 151 episodes across seven seasons.

Tim Kelly made a play about the novel, movie, and TV series in 1973.


</doc>
<doc id="7494" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7494" title="Donald Sutherland">
Donald Sutherland

Donald Sutherland (born July 17, 1935) is a Canadian actor. He has appeared in more than 100 films and television shows. His son Kiefer is also an actor.



</doc>
<doc id="7496" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7496" title="Paul Martin Jr.">
Paul Martin Jr.

Paul Martin Jr. (born August 28, 1938) was the 21st Prime Minister of Canada. He was also the leader Liberal Party of Canada. He became prime minister December 12, 2003, when Jean Chrétien stepped down. He won an election on June 28, 2004, because the Liberals won more seats than the other political parties; but they did not win a majority of the seats, so he led a minority government. There was another election on January 23, 2006; his party lost this election, so the next prime minister will be Stephen Harper.

Martin was greatly respected, as a Finance Minister, around the world for his fiscal management because, of the growth in the economy and taking the government out of deficit.
His tenure as Prime Minister is generally seen as a disaster by the majority of Canadians.

Martin was born in Windsor, Ontario. His father was for thirty-three years as a member the Canadian House of Commons and was a part of the cabinet. He graduated from the University of Toronto in 1961 with a B.A. in history and philosophy and from the University of Toronto Law School in 1965. He married Sheila Martin in 1965.

He was elected to parliament from the riding of LaSalle-Émard in Montreal, Quebec in 1988. He was finance minister from 1993 until 2002. He became known for balancing the budget (ending government borrowing of money). In 2003, he was elected leader of the Liberal party and was appointed one month later prime minister.

Mr. Martin's government made same-sex marriage legal. It also had problems with the Sponsorship scandal in 2004. In 2006, Parliament passed a vote of no confidence, which forced a national election to be held on January 23. The Liberals lost the election and Martin lost his position as prime minister. Soon afterwards, he resigned his position as leader of the Liberal Party.

After fourteen months in office, Paul Martin got the nickname "Mr. Dithers". He was called so by magazine "The Economist". They say this is because he changed his opinion too often.


</doc>
<doc id="7497" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7497" title="Machine gun">
Machine gun

A machine gun is a weapon that can fire one bullet after another as long as the trigger is pulled and there are bullets ready to fire. This is called automatic fire. Machine guns fire bullets delivered from a long chain called an ammunition ('ammo') "belt", or use spring-loaded boxes called "magazines". Machine guns are divided into heavy-duty machine guns, and sub-machine guns. 

Heavy machine guns (HMG) are placed on the ground and supported on a tripod, or on a vehicle. The vehicle would have a support for the gun with a rotating base or turret. Some heavy machine guns need two men to operate it, one to assist with loading ammunition, and one to aim and fire. It always takes two men to carry one.

Lighter weapons which fire less powerful bullets are called submachine guns (SMG). Submachine guns have handles (stocks), and are carried and used by individual soldiers or police officers. 

Many heavy machine guns, such as the Browning M2 .50 caliber machine gun, are exact enough to hit things that are very far away. During the Vietnam War, Carlos Hathcock shot at 7382 ft (2250 m) with a .50 caliber heavy machine gun to which he had connected a telescope.
Makes of machine guns include M2 Browning machine gun (HMG); the Uzi, the Heckler & Koch MP5, and the MP-40 (SMGs).


</doc>
<doc id="7498" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7498" title="Robin Hood">
Robin Hood

Robin Hood is a folk hero from the middle ages. He is a legendary person who people have told stories about for many years. Robin Hood is one who still remains popular. His story has been featured in books, plays, movies and cartoons as well.

There are many variations of his stories. Usually, Robin Hood is an outlaw who lives in Sherwood Forest near the town of Nottingham, England. His enemies are Prince John (who is temporarily on the throne because his brother, King Richard the Lionheart is away in the Middle East fighting in the Crusades), and the corrupt Sheriff of Nottingham, who abuse their powers and take money from the people who need it. Robin Hood uses his archery skills and his wits to steal the money back, and return it to the poor. Accompanying Robin are his faithful followers (The Merry Men). The most recognized of his merry band include Little John, Much the Millers son, Will Scarlet, Friar Tuck and Alan a Dale.

There have been many movies about Robin Hood. In the 1970s, Disney made a movie where the characters were shown to be animals. Robin and his lover (Marian) are foxes.


</doc>
<doc id="7500" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7500" title="Basketball">
Basketball

Basketball is a very popular sport worldwide, played with a round, orange ball that bounces. The ball is also called a basketball. The sport was invented in Springfield, Massachusetts, by a professor named Dr. James Naismith in the year 1891. 

Basketball is now the second most popular sport in the world. It has been played in the summer Olympic Games since 1936. Women's basketball is also a popular sport.

In early December 1891, James Naismith, a physical education teacher at Springfield College in Springfield, Massachusetts invented an indoor game to keep his students from becoming bored. After rejecting other ideas, he invented basketball. Naismith wrote the basic rules and then nailed a peach basket onto a 10-foot tall pole. Unlike modern basketball hoops, the bottom of the peach-basket was still there, so after a point was scored, somebody had to get the ball out of the basket with a long stick. Over time, people made a hole at the bottom of the basket so the ball could go through more easily.

The score of the first game of basketball ever played was 1 - 0. There is a sculpture in Springfield on the spot where the first game was played. The international Basketball Hall of Fame is also in Springfield, Massachusetts.

The aim of basketball is to score more points than your opponents.
Each goal is worth two points. You get points by shooting the ball into the opponents' basket. The team with the most points at the end of the game wins.

The court, where the game is played, is a rectangle shape, and at both endlines there is a goal called a "hoop" in the shape of a circular basket with the bottom cut out.

In each game of basketball these things are required:

Basketball is played with two teams, with 5 players from each team on the court at one time. The players that are not on the court can sit on the bench, with a maximum of 7 players on the bench. This allows for a total of 12 players. When a player wants to substitute for another player on the court they tell the score bench who will signal the substitute to the referee at the next available opportunity. The referees will then signal the player on to the court and the substitute will become a player and the player will become a substitute.

Each team is allowed to have a coach and, if they want one, an assistant coach. On the bench with the substitutes a team is allowed to have up to five team followers like: a manager, a doctor and an interpreter.

A game of basketball is made up of four quarters, each ten (or in the NBA, 12,) minutes long. At the start of every game there is a jump ball. At the start of each quarter the team who has the possession arrow pointing towards their hoop gets the ball. Then the arrow is switched, and the next team gets the ball next quarter.

After four quarters, the team who scores the most points wins. If the two teams score the same number of points, there is a five-minute "overtime" to see who can score more points. "Overtime" can be played again and again until one team finally scores more points.

While playing the game, players on one team try to stop players on the other team from "scoring." Each normal score is worth two points.

If you do something illegal in the game, it is called a "foul." If you "foul" someone on the other team while he is shooting the basketball, the player who was fouled gets to shoot "free throws" from the "foul line." A "free throw" is a shot that no one is allowed to try to block. Each successful free throw is worth one point. 

If you foul a player who is not shooting, the other team gets the ball, and can throw it "in bounds" from the "sideline." Players can do three things with the ball: "dribble" (bounce) the ball, "pass" the ball to a teammate, or "shoot" the ball at the hoop. The player with the ball tries to keep the ball and not let the other team get it.

A shot made from 3-point line gives the team three points.

In a game of basketball there are a number of people who are not from either team, that are there to help. They are called officials. Officials are very important because without them the game would not run as smoothly if the game did not have these people. Here is a list of some of these people: 

There are some basketball terms which players have to understand when playing the game. Here are some terms:

In professional basketball teams, each player has a position. A position is a job or role that a player has to take part in to play the game. If everyone is doing their job correctly, the team is usually successful.


Other positions, more usual in professional basketball teams, are used in basketball.

If a basketball player becomes extremely good at the sport and well-known for playing, coaching, or helping the game of basketball somehow, he or she is "elected" to be in the Basketball Hall of Fame in Springfield, Massachusetts. This is the goal for the greatest basketball players in the world, like Michael Jordan, Larry Bird, Hakeem Olajuwon, LeBron James, Yao Ming, Magic Johnson, and Manu Ginobili, and coaches like Phil Jackson. If you are "enshrined" in Springfield, it is the greatest honor a basketball player, coach, or contributor can have. It means you are the best of the best at basketball.

There are many types of basketball. Some are for people with disabilities, others are played more by a specific group. The most common type is able body basketball and is the one that has been described in this article.

In this variation the players are all seated in a wheelchair. This is often played by people who cannot walk or are unable to play able body basketball properly. The rules are altered slightly but the game follows the same general concepts.



</doc>
<doc id="7501" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7501" title="Folk hero">
Folk hero

A folk hero is a person, who may or may not have existed, and is famous and well liked by people, or people of a certain country. Usually it is someone who helped the common people or fought against the authorities, such as a bad king. People tells stories about folk heroes, most of their stories have been passed down orally, and changed to fit the situations.

Some famous folk heroes are:









</doc>
<doc id="7503" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7503" title="January 1">
January 1

January 1 is the first day of the calendar year in the Julian calendar and the Gregorian calendar. A "calendar year" means the order in which we list the months, January to December.
Starting in the 1200s, January 1 was called "New Year's Day". It is a holiday.

There are 364 days in the year after January 1 (365 in leap years).







</doc>
<doc id="7504" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7504" title="Seth Green">
Seth Green

Seth Benjamin Green (born February 8, 1974) is an American actor, comedian, and voice actor. He became famous in the late 1990s after appearing in many teen movies. His most notable roles include Scott Evil in the "Austin Powers" series of movies, Chris Griffin on the television series "Family Guy" and Daniel "Oz" Osborne on the series "Buffy the Vampire Slayer".


</doc>
<doc id="7506" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7506" title="Ashton Kutcher">
Ashton Kutcher

Ashton Kutcher (born February 7, 1978) is an American actor from Iowa. He became famous when he played Michael Kelso on "That '70s Show". In 2003, Kutcher started a relationship with older actress Demi Moore whom he later married. Ashton Kutcher has a twin brother.


</doc>
<doc id="7508" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7508" title="Linus Torvalds">
Linus Torvalds

Linus Benedict Torvalds is a computer scientist, born December 28, 1969, in Helsinki, Finland.

His parents named him after Linus Pauling. He studied at the University of Helsinki from 1988 to 1996. He became famous because of the success of his operating system, Linux. He started making this system as a student project in 1991. He based it on the popular UNIX operating system. Today, Linux has become the most popular free operating system.

Linus is the leader of the Linux project, which has many members around the world. He is the one person who can make decisions about changes or future development on the operating system. He also made the revision control system Git. He now lives with his family in the United States. 

Linus chose the penguin to be the logo of Linux. A picture of penguin appears on many desktop computers that run Linux.



</doc>
<doc id="7509" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7509" title="Thomas Jefferson">
Thomas Jefferson

Thomas Jefferson (April 13, 1743 – July 4, 1826) was the third President of the United States, and author of the Declaration of Independence.

Jefferson, the third of ten children, was born on April 13,1743 in Shadwell, Virginia into a planter family. At 9 years old Jefferson began studying Latin, Greek, and French; he also learned to ride horses, and began to study nature. 

At age 16, Jefferson entered the College of William & Mary in Williamsburg, and studied mathematics, metaphysics, and philosophy. He also improved his French, Greek, and violin, graduating in 1762 with highest honors. He went on to become a lawyer.

In 1772, Jefferson married Martha Wayles Skelton, with whom he had 6 children.

Jefferson wanted the Thirteen Colonies to be free from Great Britain. Jefferson quickly assumed a leadership rule among like-minded men of his generation. He was a member of the Second Continental Congress. He was chosen to be in the group of officials that wrote the Declaration of Independence and was its main writer.

Jefferson served as a lawmaker in Virginia and as Governor of Virginia.

Jefferson was minister to France from 1785–1789.

Jefferson was selected by George Washington as the first Secretary of State. Jefferson thought that the federal government should be small. He had the opposite view of Secretary of the Treasury Alexander Hamilton. He led the party that opposed Hamilton and the Federalist Party. This party was called the Anti-Federalist Party and would become the Democratic-Republican Party.

Jefferson ran for president against John Adams. He got the second highest number of votes and as was the law at the time, became vice-president.

Jefferson ran again as the Democratic-Republican candidate in 1800 and got a narrow victory over Aaron Burr. He was elected again in 1804. Jefferson made the Louisiana Purchase, which doubled the size of the United States. Jefferson sent the Lewis and Clark Expedition to explore the land the United States got by the Louisiana Purchase.

Jefferson had to deal with the threat of war during his second term. Great Britain and France were at war for almost all of Jefferson's time as president. Each side did things that could have made the United States enter the war. Jefferson worked to keep the United States out of the war and neutral.

Jefferson passed the Embargo Act Of 1807, which made it illegal for the United States to trade with other countries so it could remain neutral. It caused the economy to be bad. Even though the Embargo Act damaged his reputation, he is still remembered for his accomplishments.

Jefferson started the University of Virginia.

The British burned Washington D.C. (or the capital building, as it was known,) during the War of 1812. When they did, many books in the Library of Congress were burned. Jefferson sold his own personal library to replace the lost books. 

Jefferson died on July 4, 1826, on the 50th anniversary of the day the Declaration of Independence became valid. John Adams also died on the same day as Jefferson. Jefferson is considered one of the greatest United States Presidents.



</doc>
<doc id="7510" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7510" title="Tahiti">
Tahiti

Tahiti is an island in the southern Pacific Ocean. It is part of the French Polynesia. The largest city of Tahiti is Papeete. About 169 674 people live there (2002). The languages that are spoken in Tahiti are French and Tahitian which are both official. In Tahiti (in the Society group) – was claimed by the French in 1768.


</doc>
<doc id="7513" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7513" title="Geneva (canton)">
Geneva (canton)

Geneva is a canton in Switzerland. The capital of the canton is Geneva City

The French name is "Genève", The German name is "Genf", in Italian it is "Ginevra".

Geneva is the seat of many institutions of the United Nations. It has about 186.000 inhabitants and a very old university. About 960.000 people live in the urban area. Some of the urban area is in France. Only Zürich has more inhabitants in Switzerland.

In 1815, the city-state of Geneva became a part of Switzerland. It had at one time been the capital of the Kingdom of Burgundy.

The first traces of human civilization in Geneva, discovered on the shores of Lake Geneva , date from around 3000 BC. The hill of the Old City, however, was not inhabited until 1000 BC. Later, when Rome conquered Geneva, it was defended by a small Celtic tribe. In 58 BC, Julius Caesar drove off an attack by the Helvetii. At the height of the Roman Empire, around 400 AD, Geneva was granted its own bishop.

Geneva does not have any districts. There are 45 municipalities in the canton:


</doc>
<doc id="7514" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7514" title="H. John Heinz III">
H. John Heinz III

Henry John Heinz III (October 23, 1938 – April 4, 1991) was an American politician from Pennsylvania and the great-grandson of the founder of H. J. Heinz Company. He was a member of the United States House of Representatives from 1971 to 1977 and was a US senator from 1977-1991. He was killed in a plane crash in 1991.

Heinz married Teresa Simões-Ferreira on February 5, 1966 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The couple had three sons together: H. John Heinz IV, André, and Christopher.

A number of places are named after Heinz, including:


</doc>
<doc id="7515" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7515" title="The Tempest">
The Tempest

The Tempest is one of William Shakespeare's last comedies.

The story starts on an enchanted island where a magician called Prospero and his daughter live. They are on this deserted island because of his brother Antonio and The King of Naples Alonso. Prospero takes revenge and with all his magic he makes The King and his brother with other additional characters come to the island also. Many events take place on the island but everyone feels guilty and sorry for their actions in the end and they head back to Italy, Milan safely all thanks to Prospero's spirit, Ariel.


Prospero sets up Ferdinand and Miranda and they fall in love



</doc>
<doc id="7517" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7517" title="Calendar">
Calendar

A calendar is a tool used for writing history and for planning things that have not happened yet using days, called calendar dates. The "dates" are usually made based on how things in the sky seem to move, like the Sun or moon. By knowing what day something happened or will happen, people have an easier life.

The calendar most used today is the Gregorian Calendar.

A calendar is also something that shows the system in writing. These can be on paper or software.

The term is also used to mean a set of planned events (for example, "court calendar").




</doc>
<doc id="7518" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7518" title="Randall Cobb">
Randall Cobb

Randall "Tex" Cobb (born 1950) was an American boxer from Texas. He fought champion boxer Larry Holmes for the WBC World Heavyweight title at Houston's Astrodome on November 26, 1982. Holmes beat Cobb, winning all 15 rounds on two scorecards, and fourteen out of fifteen on the third (scores of 150-135 twice and 149-136). This fight surprised sportscaster Howard Cosell so much that he said that he would never cover another fight. After this many sportsfans all over the world wrote to Cobb and thanked him for trying. Cobb was a fighter who had hitting power, as shown by his eighth round knockout win over Earnie Shavers. He was never knocked out. Cobb briefly became a kickboxer and then a Hollywood actor. He has played "bad guys" in films like "The Naked Gun" and "Raising Arizona".

Cobb also fought Michael Dokes twice during his boxing career, losing both fights.


</doc>
<doc id="7519" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7519" title="Aquilino Pimentel, Jr.">
Aquilino Pimentel, Jr.

Aquilino Q. Pimentel, Jr. (born December 11, 1933), also known as Nene, is a politician in the Philippines. He was first elected as a delegate to the 1971 Constitutional Convention. He then went into exile when President Ferdinand Marcos declared martial law. He came back in 1980 and was elected as mayor of Cagayan de Oro City in Misamis Oriental. He was removed as mayor 1982. He returned as mayor again in 1984. He was elected as an Assemblyman in the Batasang Pambansa (National Assembly), serving from 1984 to 1986. After the EDSA Revolution, President Corazon Aquino appointed him as Minister of Local Government and Presidential adviser/chief negotiator with the Muslim insurgents in Mindanao. He then was elected Senator (1987–1992). As senator, he wrote the Local Government Code. He tried to become Vice President in 1992. He ran under the Liberal Party with Jovito Salonga running for President. He finished fifth among the vice presidential candidates with 9.9% of the vote. In 1995, He ran for another term as senator but lost. Cheating was suspected in that election. He took the case to the Supreme Court. He won the suit in 2004. In 1998, he ran again for another term in the Senate of the Philippines, from 1998 to 2004 and won. He was also elected as the 19th President of the Senate. He served as president from 2000 to 2001. He finally left the Senate on June 30, 2010.

As chair of the Blue Ribbon Committee, Pimentel recommended the prosecution of top government officials of previous administrations in relation to the Expo Pilipino centennial scam and the misuse of the funds of the Retirement and Separation Benefits Systems of the Armed Forces. He also recommended the prosecution of certain people working for the Land Registration Administration for involvement in making false land titles. His committee also conducted series of investigations into the jueteng scandal. As Chair of the Committee on Local Government, he has supported far-reaching amendments to strengthen the role of local government units (LGUs) in national development. He also got senate approval to return the police to the supervision of LGUs and has wrote a law to fix the date for elections of ARMM officials.

He is the president and founder of the PDP-Laban party.


</doc>
<doc id="7521" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7521" title="Pat Robertson">
Pat Robertson

Pat Robertson (born March 22, 1930) is an American evangelist and host of the 700 Club, a Christian news and talk show on television. He ran for President of the United States against George H.W. Bush, but did not win the primaries. He has said several times that natural disasters, such as Hurricane Katrina and the 2010 Haitian earthquake, were punishments from God.


</doc>
<doc id="7522" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7522" title="Full House">
Full House

Full House is an American comedy television series. It originally aired from 1987 to 1995. It told the story of Danny Tanner (Bob Saget), a man whose wife has died and is left alone with his three daughters, DJ (Candace Cameron), Stephanie (Jodie Sweetin), and Michelle (Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen). He recruits his best friend, Joey Gladstone (Dave Coulier), a child-like stand-up comedian, and his brother-in-law (and the girls' uncle) Jesse Katsopolis (John Stamos), a struggling musican, to move in and help look after the girls. 

The series is often criticised for its sickly sweet and unrealistic plotline and corny jokes, even though it ran for many years; some episodes dealt with real problems such as child abuse, drinking, and lying. Yet it has remained, in recent years, one of the very few adult comedy series that parents can watch with their kids.



</doc>
<doc id="7523" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7523" title="1888">
1888

This page lists things that happened in the year 1888.




</doc>
<doc id="7524" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7524" title="Hot Press">
Hot Press

Hot Press is a music and political magazine. It was founded in 1977. The magazine is based in Dublin, Republic of Ireland. It is different from other similar magazines by its anti-establishment opinion and the amount of focus on Irish music, most notably early U2. It is currently edited by Niall Stokes.



</doc>
<doc id="7525" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7525" title="Alabama Song">
Alabama Song

The "Alabama Song" comes from the 1930 operetta "Rise and Fall of the City of Mahagonny". The music is by Kurt Weill; officially the lyrics are by Bertolt Brecht, but were probably actually written by Elisabeth Hauptmann. The lyrics for the "Alabama Song" are in English (although a specific type of English) and are performed in that language even when the opera is performed in its original German.

The song has often been covered, perhaps most famously in 1967 by The Doors; unsurprisingly, Jim Morrison changed the lyric "Show us the way to the next pretty boy" to "Show me the way to the next little girl."


</doc>
<doc id="7526" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7526" title="The Doors">
The Doors

The Doors was an American rock band. They were one of the most popular rock groups of all time. Led by poet/drifter/failed film student, Jim Morrison, along with Ray Manzarek (keyboards), John Densmore (drums) and Robby Krieger (guitar), the group is thought of today as a major influence on rock music, and they are still just as popular as they ever were, if not more popular.

The group was widely known for its lead singer, Jim Morrison, who was famous for his love of alcohol and illegal drugs. Morrison often sang at concerts after using alcohol and drugs, sometimes so drunk that he could not remember the words to his own songs. Once, Morrison was said to have shown his private parts to the audience, and he was charged with a crime.

Morrison died in Paris, France, on July 3, 1971. His death is thought to have been caused by a heart attack broght on by a drug overdose.

There is a 1991 movie about them, also called "The Doors". It was directed by Oliver Stone and starred Val Kilmer as Jim Morrison.


</doc>
<doc id="7529" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7529" title="Mickey Gilley">
Mickey Gilley

Mickey Gilley (born March 9, 1936) is a country musician and singer. He is a cousin of Jerry Lee Lewis and Jimmy Swaggart. He is best known for his nightclub "Gilley's" which was featured in the movie "Urban Cowboy" and his hit song "Don't The Girls All Get Prettier At Closing Time".


</doc>
<doc id="7530" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7530" title="Jerry Lee Lewis">
Jerry Lee Lewis

Jerry Lee Lewis (born September 29, 1935) is an American musician. He was born in Ferriday, Louisiana and is a cousin of Mickey Gilley and Jimmy Swaggart. Like other music players who were known by many people around the same time as him Johnny Cash, Elvis Presley, Roy Orbison, and Carl Perkins, he sang gospel and country music before becoming well-known for rock and roll. He was known for his wild style of piano playing and songs like "Whole Lotta Shakin' Going On" and "Great Balls of Fire".

Lewis got a career boost, when he performed on "The Steve Allen Show". His first son was named Steve Allen Lewis, as a tribute.

At a time when Lewis was very popular, people found out that his third wife, Myra Gale Brown, was a thirteen-year-old distant cousin of his. People thought this was bad, and his career nearly came to an end. In the early 1960s, he made a comeback, but throughout the next two decades (groups of ten years) he suffered many personal problems, including health problems, and divorce. 

Even though he has had problems, he is still active and people think of him as an icon and pioneer of popular music.
A 1989 movie, "Great Balls of Fire", starring Dennis Quaid and Winona Ryder, is about his life.


</doc>
<doc id="7531" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7531" title="Jimmy Swaggart">
Jimmy Swaggart

Jimmy Swaggert (born March 15 1935) is a televangelist (a preacher who gives services on TV of his church in Baton Rouge La. Family Worship Center is a full Gospel Interdenominational Church. at 8919 World Ministry Ave. Reverend Jimmy Swaggart first started his television ministry in 1975 and it continues today, over 33 years later, airing nationally and internationally to a potential viewing audience of over 80 million. The weekly Jimmy Swaggart Telecast and A Study in the Word are seen nationwide and abroad on 78 channels in 104 countries and live over the Internet. 

Reverend Swaggart is married to Frances Swaggart and has one son, Donnie. He has three grandchildren, Jennifer, Gabriel and Matthew Swaggart, and has two great-grandchildren, Samantha and Ryder Swaggart. His beautiful wife, Frances, is a co-laborer with him and also hosts the popular SonLife Radio program, Frances and Friends. His son, Donnie Swaggart, a dynamic minister in his own right, serves with his father and also travels at home and abroad boldly preaching the unchanging Word of God. Donnie's son, Gabriel Swaggart, serves the ministry as pastor of Crossfire Youth Ministries. 

Television has enabled Jimmy Swaggart Ministries to carry the Good News to people in every part of the world and his messages have been translated into 11 different languages. From the vast slums in Manila to the mission fields of Russia, television is the primary tool this ministry is using to reach countless numbers of lost souls. Reverend Jimmy Swaggart is the President of the SonLife Radio Network which is heard nationwide on over 78 stations and around the world via the internet. Since its launching on June 26 1995, SonLife Radio has striven to be a willing vessel in the advancement of the Gospel.

The principal station, POWER PRAISE 88.5 FM, is located in Baton Rouge, Louisiana

He has also been a very controversial figure, too. He was caught with a prostitute in 1987, but later asked God (and the public) for forgiveness. He was caught again in 1991.


</doc>
<doc id="7532" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7532" title="Johnny Cash">
Johnny Cash

Johnny Cash (born J. R. Cash, February 26, 1932 – September 12, 2003) was a Grammy Award-winning American musician and actor. He was often called "The Man in Black" and was best known for his rough voice and powerful music. He sold over 90 million albums in his nearly fifty-year career.



</doc>
<doc id="7533" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7533" title="Pluto (mythology)">
Pluto (mythology)

Pluto is the god of the Underworld in Roman mythology. 

In Greece, there was a god who was just like Pluto called Hades. He had a three headed dog named Cerberus who guarded his kingdom. Pluto was also the god of wealth because diamonds and other jewels come from underground.

A myth about Pluto is that he took Proserpina, who was the daughter of Ceres, to the underworld to be his wife. Ceres cried and did not let plants grow on the Earth. People needed the plants so much that the god Jupiter made Pluto give her up. The deal they worked out was that for six months, Pluto got Proserpina. While Proserpina was in the underworld, no plants could grow on Earth and it was winter. When Proserpina could go back to her mother, it was summer. This was how the Greeks explained the seasons. 



</doc>
<doc id="7534" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7534" title="Maoism">
Maoism

Maoism is the communist (a plan about how countries should work) idea created by the Chinese man Mao Zedong. Mao believed that peasants, not factory workers, should lead the communist revolution (change in government). China followed Maoism when he became leader, in 1949. This created differences with communism in the USSR and Cuba. Maoism is still practiced in China today, but it has become different since Mao died in 1976. Today the Chinese economy is considered capitalist. (a plan about free markets). but some still call China communist.



</doc>
<doc id="7535" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7535" title="C++">
C++

C++ (pronounced "see plus plus") is a computer programming language. It has been created for writing programs for many different purposes. In the 1990s, C++ became one of the most used programming languages.

The C++ programming language was developed by Bjarne Stroustrup at Bell Labs in the 1980s. It was originally named "C with classes". The language was planned as a better version of the C programming language and it added features like object-oriented programming. Step by step, a lot of advanced features were added to the language, like operator overloading,
exception handling and templates.

The following text is C++ source code and it will write the words "Hello World!" to the screen when it has been compiled and is executed. This is the way Bjarne Stroustroup wrote it in his book, "The C++ Programming Language".


</doc>
<doc id="7537" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7537" title="Korean War">
Korean War

The Korean War(한국 전쟁) was a war fought in Korea between armies from North Korea and from South Korea. The war began on 4:30 AM on June 25, 1950 and fighting stopped July 27, 1953. More than two million Koreans died, most of them in the north.
Both sides blame each other for starting the war. The north, led by communist Kim Il-Sung, was helped mostly by People's Republic of China, and the USSR. The south, led by nationalist Syngman Rhee, was helped by many countries in the United Nations, and especially by the United States. The war ended with a truce. South Korea and North Korea are still officially at war, and the United States still keeps troops in South Korea, in case North Korea ever invades again. North and South Korea are divided by the 38th parallel.

There were many causes, the main ones were:

Different plans for Korea

Japan had ruled over Korea in 1910 and was still ruling Korea when World War Two ended. When Japan lost in the war, Korea had to be split into two parts and it was agreed by the USA and the USSR that the two countries would get a part each (USSR having North and USA having South). This was at first to be not for a long time and at the Council of Foreign Minister's Moscow Conference in December 1945, The United States and USSR agreed on Korea having a provisional government (a government set up quickly when a large country's government does not work anymore). This was difficult because of the growing Cold War (see next cause). 

The Cold War was an important cause in the Korean War. Relations between the USA and the USSR were bad and when China became Communist in October 1949, the President of the USA, Harry Truman, was very worried that other countries around China may also become Communist, such as Japan. 

"Reputation." 
Truman had just spent a lot of money to make the American Army much bigger and Americans wanted to see this new powerful Army in action. Joseph Stalin's people also wanted to see Stalin get better results. Stalin had recently lost the fight for the Berlin Wall and wanted another chance to prove that he could beat America, the Korean War was his chance. 

"Support."
The United Nations had just been created and a war would give it the chance to prove to people that the UN was strong and would not fail like the League of Nations had done earlier.
Syngman Rhee was also in trouble, he was a democrat surrounded by Communists. He could have made a Communist country attack him to get support from other democratic countries that would otherwise just ignore him.

25 June 1950
July 1950

October 1950
December 1950
February 1951
March 1951 - 27 July 1953





The popular television show "M*A*S*H" was about American doctors serving in the Korean War. The show lasted longer than the war did.




</doc>
<doc id="7538" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7538" title="John Landis">
John Landis

John Landis (born August 3, 1950) is an American movie director.

Some of his films are:


He has also done the music videos for Michael Jackson "Thriller" and "Black or White"


</doc>
<doc id="7541" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7541" title="Hamlet (disambiguation)">
Hamlet (disambiguation)

The word hamlet is used for different things:


</doc>
<doc id="7545" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7545" title="March 21">
March 21

March 21 is the 80th day of the year in the Gregorian calendar (81st in leap years). There are 285 days remaining.






</doc>
<doc id="7546" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7546" title="Edith Massey">
Edith Massey

Edith Massey (May 25, 1918 - October 24, 1984) was an American actress.

She acted in several of director John Waters' most well-known movies: "Multiple Maniacs", "Pink Flamingos", "Female Trouble", "Desperate Living", and "Polyester". Waters discovered Massey as a waitress in a Baltimore, Maryland, USA bar he and his friends frequented.

In the late 1970s-early 1980s, Massey capitalized on her Waters-infamy by touring as the lead singer of a punk band (Edie and the Eggs) and opening a thrift store in Baltimore called Edith's Shopping Bag.

Director Robert Maier made a documentary short about her in 1975 called "Love Letter to Edie".


</doc>
<doc id="7549" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7549" title="Statue of Liberty">
Statue of Liberty

The Statue of Liberty, officially named "Liberty Enlightening the World", is a monument symbolising the United States. The statue is placed near the entrance to New York City harbor.

The statue commemorates the signing of the United States Declaration of Independence. It was given to the United States by the people of France, to represent the friendship between the two countries established during the American Revolution. It represents a woman wearing a stola, a crown and sandals, trampling a broken chain, and with a torch in her raised right hand and a "tabula ansata", where the date of the Declaration of Independence "" is written, in her left hand. The statue is located at Liberty Island in New York Harbor, and it welcomes visitors, immigrants, and returning Americans traveling by ship.

Frédéric Auguste Bartholdi sculpted the statue and he obtained an U.S. patent for the structure. Maurice Koechlin, who was chief engineer of Gustave Eiffel's engineering company and designer of the Eiffel Tower, designed the internal structure. The pedestal was designed by the architect Richard Morris Hunt. Eugène Viollet-le-Duc choose copper in the construction of the statue, and for the adoption of the "repoussé" construction technique, where a malleable metal is hammered on the reverse side.

The statue is made of a covering of pure copper, put on a framework of steel (originally puddled iron) with the exception of the flame of the torch, which is coated in gold leaf (originally made of copper and later altered to hold glass panes). It stands over a rectangular stonework pedestal with a foundation in the shape of an irregular eleven-pointed star. The statue is tall, but with the pedestal and foundation, it is tall.

The Statue of Liberty is one of the most recognizable symbols in the world. For many years it was one of the first glances of the United States for millions of immigrants and visitors after ocean voyages from around the world.

The statue is the central part of the Statue of Liberty National Monument, administered by the National Park Service. The National Monument also includes Ellis Island.

There are several metal plaques on or near the Statue of Liberty. A plaque on the copper just under the figure's feet declares that it is a colossal statue representing Liberty, designed by Bartholdi and built by the Paris firm of Gaget, Gauthier et Cie ("Cie" is the French abbreviation analogous to "Co."). Another plaquedeclares the statue to be a gift from the people of the Republic of France that honors "the Alliance of the two Nations in achieving the Independence of the United States of America and attests their abiding friendship." The New York committee made a plaque that commemorates the fundraising done to build the pedestal. The Freemasons put another plaque on the cornerstone.

In 1903, a bronze tablet that bears the text of "The New Colossus" and commemorates Emma Lazarus was presented by friends of the poet. Until the 1986 renovation, it was mounted inside the pedestal; today it resides in the Statue of Liberty Museum in the base. It is accompanied by a tablet given by the Emma Lazarus Commemorative Committee in 1977, celebrating the poet's life.

A group of five statues stands at the western end of the island. They honor people involved in building the Statue of Liberty. The statues stand for two Americans—Pulitzer and Lazarus—and three Frenchmen—Bartholdi, Laboulaye, and Eiffel. The five statues were designed by Maryland sculptor Phillip Ratner.

In 1984, the Statue of Liberty was designated a UNESCO World Heritage Site. The UNESCO "Statement of Significance" describes the statue as a "masterpiece of the human spirit" that "endures as a highly potent symbol—inspiring contemplation, debate and protest—of ideals such as liberty, peace, human rights, abolition of slavery, democracy and opportunity."




</doc>
<doc id="7550" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7550" title="1875">
1875







</doc>
<doc id="7551" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7551" title="Ankst">
Ankst

Ankst is a Welsh independent record label formed in 1988 at Aberystwyth University. Ankst has been the launch-pad for several popular Welsh artists, including Super Furry Animals and Gorky's Zygotic Mynci. The label is now based in Pentraeth on Anglesey.



</doc>
<doc id="7552" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7552" title="1988">
1988

1988 (MCMLXXXVIII) was a leap year starting on Friday of the Gregorian calendar.








</doc>
<doc id="7553" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7553" title="April 1">
April 1






</doc>
<doc id="7554" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7554" title="January 8">
January 8





</doc>
<doc id="7555" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7555" title="October 4">
October 4

October 4 is the 277th day of the year (278th in leap years) in the Gregorian Calendar. There are 88 days until the end of the year.






</doc>
<doc id="7557" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7557" title="February 11">
February 11

February 11 is the 42nd day of the year in the Gregorian calendar. There are 323 days remaining, 324 in leap years.




February 10 – February 12 – January 11 – March 11 – listing of all days


</doc>
<doc id="7558" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7558" title="T. S. Eliot">
T. S. Eliot

Thomas Stearns Eliot OM, (September 26, 1888 - January 4, 1965), was an American poet. He was one of the most influential poets of the 20th century. He also wrote plays and some important essays about literature.

He was born in St. Louis, Missouri, then went to college in Harvard. He spent most of his adult life in London, England. He became a British citizen in 1928.

One famous book of his was written for children and is called "The Old Possum's Book of Practical Cats". The songs in the Andrew Lloyd Webber musical "Cats" are based on poems in it. He also wrote "The Waste Land", a very mysterious, complicated poem that helped start a new style called Modernism. His friend, Ezra Pound, another Modern poet, helped him finish it.

He was married two times. He worked at a bank in England and later as the head editor of a famous publishing company in London that is now called Faber and Faber. In 1948, he won the Nobel Prize in Literature.


</doc>
<doc id="7559" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7559" title="Andrew Lloyd Webber">
Andrew Lloyd Webber

Andrew Lloyd Webber, Baron Lloyd-Webber (born 22 March 1948) is an English composer/songwriter of musical theatre. During his career he has produced 15 musicals,(several have run at the West End and on Broadway for ten or more years). He wrote the scores to two films ("Gumshoe" and "The Odessa File") and a Latin requiem mass. He has accumulated a number of honors of which the following are most notable: seven Tony Awards, three Grammy Awards, an Oscar, an International Emmy, six Olivier Awards, and a Golden Globe Award. He was knighted in 1992 and entered the House of Lords in 1997.

His musical plays include:

Lloyd Webber's second marriage was to the actress and singer Sarah Brightman. They divorced in 1990. Lloyd Webber's third and current wife is Madeleine Gurdon, a former three-day event horsewoman. His younger brother is cellist Julian Lloyd Webber.

On 25 October 2009, it was reported that Webber had been diagnosed with the early stages of prostate cancer. He had an operation and has recovered.

Lloyd Webber's lyricists have included: Tim Rice, Don Black, Christopher Hampton, Richard Stilgoe and Ben Elton.


</doc>
<doc id="7560" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7560" title="October 24">
October 24




October 23 October 25 November 24 September 24 more historical anniversaries


</doc>
<doc id="7561" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7561" title="Bob Kane">
Bob Kane

Bob Kane (October 24, 1915 – November 3, 1998) was an American cartoonist. He is best known for creating the superhero Batman.


</doc>
<doc id="7563" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7563" title="Batman">
Batman

Batman is a fictional character created by DC Comics. He is one of the most well-known Superheroes. Batman began in comic books and was later used in several movies, TV programs, and books. There are also many toys and other merchandise dealing with Batman and other characters and items from the world he lives in. Batman lives in the fictional city of Gotham City. Batman is named Bruce Wayne when not in costume. Bruce Wayne is a very rich businessman. 

Batman first appeared in 1939 in "Detective Comics No. 27". As a young child, Bruce Wayne saw a robber murder his mother and father after the family left a theatre. Bruce decided that he did not want that kind of violence to happen to anyone else. He dedicated his life to protecting his city, Gotham City. Wayne learned many different ways to fight as he grew up. As an adult, Wayne chose to dress like a giant bat. He believed that this would help to scare criminals so that there would be less crime in Gotham. Bruce Wayne then became Batman. He used a costume and many different tools to fight criminals. Batman became his superhero identity. 
Batman uses many different tools to help fight crime. These include his car which he calls "the Batmobile", a special belt full of tools called a "utility belt" and bat-shaped boomerangs called "batarangs" . Batman is also helped from other people in Gotham. Some of these people also put on costumes and become superheroes when they help him. Some of the people who help him are his sidekick, Robin (Dick Grayson), his butler Alfred Pennyworth, police commissioner James Gordon and Gordon's daughter Barbara Gordon. Barbara Gordon became a superhero named Batgirl (and later used the name Oracle) Commissioner Gordon uses a spotlight that shines a light into the sky with a shadow in the shape of a bat on it to tell Batman that he needs help. This light is called the Bat signal. 

Some of the villains that Batman fights are the Joker, the Penguin, Catwoman, Mr. Freeze, the Riddler, Two-Face, and Clayface. Sometimes Batman helps other superheroes. He is good friends with Superman. He often teams up with other superheroes. He is a member of the Justice League of America, a team of superheroes who protect the entire world. 

Because of the way Batman deals with criminals, he is often seen as not being a hero by police.

In the 1960s, a live-action television series was made of Batman. In "Batman", Adam West was the actor who was Batman and Burt Ward was the actor who was Robin. There are also many of cartoons with Batman as a character. These include "Superfriends", "", "Batman Beyond", and "Justice League". There are other cartoons and programs where Batman is a character but he is not the most important part of the story, such as "Birds of Prey". This was a live-action series that is about Batman's daughter, the Huntress).



</doc>
<doc id="7564" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7564" title="Val Kilmer">
Val Kilmer

Val Kilmer (born December 31, 1959) is an American actor, best known for his roles in "Tombstone", "The Doors", Heat (film), and "Batman Forever".



</doc>
<doc id="7567" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7567" title="Eva Gabor">
Eva Gabor

Eva Gabor (February 11,1919 - July 4,1995) was a Hungarian born actress. She was best known for her role as Lisa Douglas on the television series, "Green Acres".


</doc>
<doc id="7568" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7568" title="Athlete">
Athlete

An athlete is a person who has above average physical skills (strength, agility, and endurance) and is able to perform physical activities, in particular, contests. An ancient Greek word for "contest" was "athlos", and those competing in the games were called athletes.

In more specific settings, an athlete is one who participates in athletics, Olympic games and other competitive events such as professional sports.

Athlete can also, although less often, refer to a mental, instead of physical, competitor or possessors of skills.

Athlete are a band from south London.


</doc>
<doc id="7569" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7569" title="Snoopy">
Snoopy

Snoopy is the name of Charlie Brown's pet beagle in the comic strip "Peanuts", by Charles M. Schulz. Born on the Daisy Hill Puppy Farm, Snoopy started out in the background, but eventually turned into a main character. He had seven siblings, Belle, Molly, Andy, Olaf, Spike, Rover and Marbles all shown at some point or another in either the strip or subsequent films. The character Snoopy was noted for his many alter egos, including The World War I Flying Ace, The Scout Leader and World Literary Ace. Snoopy also became "Joe Cool" as he put on sunglasses and leaned against the wall doing nothing. He often had wise things to say about the humans around him. His often shares witty sayings with his sidekick Woodstock, a small yellow bird of unspecified species.


</doc>
<doc id="7574" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7574" title="John Wilkes Booth">
John Wilkes Booth

John Wilkes Booth (May 10, 1838 – April 26, 1865) was an American actor who shot U.S. president Abraham Lincoln on April 14, 1865, in Washington, DC. Lincoln died the next morning. Booth was a very well-known stage actor who supported the Confederacy during the American Civil War. He was angry with Lincoln for supporting voting rights for former slaves, and he hoped to rally the remaining Confederate troops to keep fighting the war, which was coming to an end. Booth was chased by United States soldiers and killed at a farm in Virginia 12 days after the assassination.

Booth became politically active in the 1850s, joining the Know-Nothing Party, a group that wanted fewer immigrants to come to the United States. Booth strongly supported slavery. In 1859, he joined a Virginia company that helped with the capture of John Brown after his raid at Harpers Ferry. Booth watched Brown's execution. 

During the Civil War, Booth worked as a Confederate secret agent. He met frequently with the heads of the Secret Service, Jacob Thompson and Clement Clay, in Montreal.

In the summer of 1864, Booth began making plans to kidnap Abraham Lincoln. The plan called for Lincoln to be taken south to Richmond, where he would be held until traded for Confederate prisoners-of-war. Booth recruited friends and known southern-sympathizers for his mission, including the eight persons tried by the 1865 military commission. Some who resisted his persuasive efforts, such as actor Samuel Chester, became key government witnesses in the trial. 

On March 15, Booth and most of his fellow conspirators met at a restaurant three blocks from Ford's Theatre to plan the kidnapping. Soon thereafter, Booth heard that the President would be attending a matinee performance of "Still Waters Run Deep" on March 17 at the Campbell Hospital on the outskirts of Washington. This, he decided, would the perfect opportunity for a kidnapping and--according to John Surratt--Booth developed a plan to intercept Lincoln's carriage enroute to the play. Booth's plans were stopped, however, when the President changed his plans and decided instead to speak to the 140th Indiana Regiment and present a captured flag.

Booth's next plan was to kidnap the President at a future performance at Ford's Theatre (where the actor had several friends). This plan failed to win the support of some of his co-conspirators, who dismissed it as unworkable.

By April 14, 1865, after the fall of the Confederate capital at Richmond (April 4) and Lee's large-scale surrender of Confederate forces (April 9) , Booth had decided to assassinate Lincoln instead of kidnapping him. According to Booth's former friend, Louis Weichmann, Booth may have made the decision to kill the President after hearing Lincoln deliver a speech on April 11 urging Negro suffrage. Weichmann spoke of his viewing of the President's speech with Booth: 

Booth tried to convince several of his co-conspirators to participate in his plot to kill several high government officials (including the Vice President, the Secretary of State, and possibly General Grant). One conspirator attacked Secretary of State Seward with a knife that same night. Seward survived the attack. Another who planned to attack Vice-President Johnson did not follow through with the plot.



</doc>
<doc id="7577" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7577" title="Annapolis, Maryland">
Annapolis, Maryland

Annapolis is the capital city of the U.S. state of Maryland. As of the census held in the year 2010, its population was 38,394. It is home to the United States Naval Academy, where the United States Naval Officers get their training. It is also home to Saint John's College, originally King William's School founded in 1696. Annapolis is the oldest seat of government still in service in America.

Annapolis became the temporary capital of the United States after the signing of the Treaty of Paris in 1783. Congress was in session in the state house from November 26, 1783 to June 3, 1784, and it was in Annapolis on December 23, 1783, that General Washington resigned his commission as commander-in-chief of the Continental Army.

Annapolis is also well known as the Sailing Capital of the U.S., situated on the Chesapeake Bay, the largest inland tidal estuary in the world. The Chesapeake is Maryland's canary in the coal mine, troubled for the last 50 years by ever increasing degradation as an indicator of its citizens concern for economic or material value over that of their land. The Chesapeake Bay can not sustain the higher life that once proliferated these waters, and 3 of the main harvests need to be re-stocked by man in order to maintain 1/10th (or less) of the numbers - Oysters and Rockfish, and more recently as reported in the Capital, Blue Crab stocks are at an all-time and ever-decreasing low, with scientists from University of Maryland researching how to raise crabs for re-introduction.

Chesapeake Bay Native plants and animals are often crowded out by invasives which are more hardy to the now-polluted environment. Species such as Fragmites, the Chinese Mitten Crab, English Ivy, the Mute Swan are just a few examples of invasives thriving in this man-altered environment.

Annapolis is the only capital city in America east of the Mississippi River without any rail transportation. 


</doc>
<doc id="7579" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7579" title="Keanu Reeves">
Keanu Reeves

Keanu Charles Reeves (born September 2, 1964) is an Canadian-American actor. He was born in Beirut, Lebanon. His father, Samuel Reeves, a geologist, is of Hawaiian-Chinese descent, and his mother, Patricia Bond, a costume designer/performer, is British. Keanu is named after his uncle, and his first name is a Hawaiian word that means 'cool breeze over the mountains.'

Keanu is known for his roles in films like the "Bill and Ted" series, "The Matrix" series, and "Speed", etc. At age 9, he started his acting career by appearing onstage, and at age 14, he appeared in Canadian television series and commercials. He also appeared in short films and stage work in early 1980s.

Keanu acted his first considerable role in "River's Edge" (1987), and the next year (1988), he appeared in some movies such as "Dangerous Liaisons", "Permanent Record", etc. In 1989, he appeared in the successful comedy "Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure", which was one of the "Bill and Ted" series. 


</doc>
<doc id="7582" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7582" title="Kurt Cobain">
Kurt Cobain

Kurt Donald Cobain (February 20, 1967 - c. April 5, 1994) was an American musician. He was the lead singer and guitarist of the grunge band Nirvana, which also included bassist Krist Novoselic and drummer Dave Grohl. He was born in the city of Aberdeen, Washington.

Cobain was very influential in creating what came to be known as grunge music. Grunge musicians pushed back against music they saw commercial and shallow. Grunge was a reaction against 1980s stadium rock and metal bands that were more concerned with appearance than sound. Nirvana's best known song is "Smells Like Teen Spirit", which was often referred to by the media as an anthem for Generation X and grunge itself.

Cobain started using drugs when he was a teenager. He often used cocaine and heroin. Later in his career, he was admitted to special drug treatment hospitals several times. The last time, he escaped to his home. Cobain committed suicide by shooting himself with a gun in 1994.

In 2002, some of Cobain's private journal entries were published in a book called "Journals".
Kurt Cobain started Nirvana with fellow friend Krist Novecselic in 1987. They practiced hours a day with many different drummers until Scream drummer Dave Grohl joined in 1990. After the release of their hit album "Nevermind", Nirvana became mainstream. Often Cobain expressed frustration with his fame. They went on to release one more album "In Utero" with Steve Albini. Cobain said that this album was the one he was looking for, the sound he had in his head for their last two albums. The band broke up after Cobain's Suicide in 1994.



</doc>
<doc id="7583" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7583" title="Mikhail Gorbachev">
Mikhail Gorbachev

Mikhail Sergeyevich Gorbachov (Gorbachev) (Russian: Михаи́л Серге́евич Горбачёв; Pronunciation: mih-kha-ILL ser-GHE-ye-vich gor-bah-CHOFF) (born March 2, 1931), was the leader of the Soviet Union from 1985 until 1991. His attempts at reform led to the end of the Cold War, but although he was not trying to, this helped cause the end of the political power of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (CPSU), and the break-up of the Soviet Union into smaller countries. He was good friends with Ronald Reagan.

He was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1990.


</doc>
<doc id="7586" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7586" title="Tron">
Tron

Tron is a 1982 Walt Disney Productions science fiction movie starring Jeff Bridges as Kevin Flynn (and Clu), Bruce Boxleitner as Alan Bradley (and Tron) and Cindy Morgan as Lora (and Yori). David Warner plays the villain, Dillinger (and Sark, as well as the voice of the "Master Control Program"). It was directed by Steven Lisberger. One of the first movies to use computer graphics extensively, "Tron" has a distinctive visual style.

The music for the movie was written by Wendy Carlos, and there were also two songs from the band Journey.

Even though it got mixed success soon after its debut, "Tron" has gained a cult following thanks to its Computer Generated Imagery (CGI) and hero story. Several video games have been based on it.

A twentieth anniversary DVD edition came out in 2002. In early 2005, Disney revealed plans for a sequel. The sequel was called "Tron Legacy" and was released in 2010. It tells the story of Flynn's son Sam.


</doc>
<doc id="7587" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7587" title="Garfield">
Garfield

Garfield is a famous comic strip created by Jim Davis. It has the cat Garfield, the dog Odie, and their owner Jon Arbuckle. The cat is named after Davis's grandfather, James Garfield Davis (who was probably named after former U.S. President James Garfield). It first debuted in 1978 in 41 US newspapers. "Garfield at Large" was Garfield's first book that debuted in 1980 and was listed in New York Times bestseller lists at #1. By 1983 Garfield featured in 1400 newspapers, and was translated into seven different languages. 

Garfield finally got his own website in 1996. In 2002, Garfield was declared "Most widely syndicated comic strip in the world" by Guinness Book of World Records. Garfield's 1st cookbook featured in 2003. In 2004 "Garfield the Movie" was his first full-length feature film to hit the cinemas. Garfield is a fun loving cat who loves lasagna and is enjoyed by many people around the world.


</doc>
<doc id="7593" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7593" title="Michael Moore">
Michael Moore

"This page is about the American filmmaker. For the politician in the United Kingdom, please see Michael Moore (UK Politician)."
Michael Francis Moore (born April 23, 1954 in Davison, Michigan, USA) is an American writer and filmmaker. He is known for his strong liberal political views and often expresses them using humor and satire. He bZ made films such as "Roger & Me", "Fahrenheit 9/11", "Sicko", and "Bowling for Columbine" and his Satire show "TV Nation". He has also wrote books such as "Stupid White Men" and "Dude, Where's My Country?"

Michael Moore was born as the son of Frank and Veronica Moore and descendant of Irish immigrants. He has two sisters, Anne and Veronica. He has been married to Kathleen Glynn since 1990.

Until 1972, he went to Davison High School. When he was 18, he was elected as the Davison School Board. There he met his present wife Kathleen Glynn.

At the age of 22, Michael left school and started an alternative magazine called "The Flint Voice". Michael Moore was ten years the editor of this alternative magazine. After Moore was hired as managing editor of the Magazine Mother Jones in San Francisco. There he was there only five months before he left the editorial staff because of a dispute. After that he went back to Flint.



</doc>
<doc id="7594" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7594" title="Hawaiian Punch">
Hawaiian Punch

Hawaiian Punch is the name of a brand of sweetened fruit punch drinks owned by Dr Pepper/Seven Up, Inc. (DPSU). It was created in 1934 by A.W. Leo, Tom Yates, and Ralph Harrison as an ice cream topping, and customers later discovered that it was an appealing drink when mixed with water.

In 1962, the character of Punchy was introduced in a commercial for Hawaiian Punch, eventually becoming the product's mascot. His long-time saying is "Hey, how about a nice Hawaiian Punch!"

It currently comes in the following flavors:

The drink has its name because some of original recipe's main ingredients come from Hawaii.


</doc>
<doc id="7597" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7597" title="Whale">
Whale

Whales are large marine mammals which live in the ocean. Like other mammals, they breathe oxygen from the air, have a small amount of hair, and are warm blooded. 

There are two basic kinds of whale, baleen whales and toothed whales, and about 100 species.
People use the word "whale" in different ways. Some use it for all Cetaceans including dolphins and porpoises. These people say that dolphins and porpoises were also whales, because they are also Cetaceans. Others separate out the dolphins and porpoises: common English-speaking people have never called them or thought of them as whales unless they are very large. Actually, there is no clear line between whales and dolphins.

Whales have been killed for meat and oil by whalers. However, many countries havelaws saying not to kill whales anymore. Some countries, including Iceland and Japan do not have these laws. In other countries, such as the USA only Eskimos and some American Indians may legally kill whales.

Baleen whales eat plankton: clouds of very small things floating in the water. The whales' mouths are huge. They open their mouths very wide and hold a big mouthful of sea water. Their throats stretch very wide to make the space inside their mouth even bigger. Then they close their mouth and squeeze out the seawater. The food does not escape because, instead of teeth, these whales have filters called "baleen". This is very different from the way that toothed whales eat.

Toothed whales eat larger fish or meat and are like big dolphins. They have sharp teeth and usually have a big forehead. Inside the big forehead is a chamber to make and direct sounds. They make all kinds of sounds, including sounds so loud they can shock fish. Some of the sounds are so loud they can use echos to locate things that they can not see. Some toothed whales, for example the sperm whale, are almost never called dolphins. Some of them are always called dolphins. Others are like dolphins in some ways and like whales in others.

Cetaceans are divided into two suborders:

Both cetaceans and artiodactyl are now classified under the super-order Cetartiodactyla which includes both whales and hippopotamuses. Whales are the hippopotamus's closest living relatives.

All cetaceans, including whales, dolphins and porpoises, are descendants of land-living mammals of the Artiodactyl order (even-toed ungulates). Both are related to "Indohyus" (an extinct semi-aquatic deer-like ungulate) from which they split around 54 million years ago.
Primitive whales probably first took to the sea about 50 million years ago and became fully aquatic about 5-10 million years later. Pakicetus is an important transitional species.

Because of their environment (and unlike many animals), whales are conscious breathers: they decide when to breathe. Whales breathe through blowholes. Baleen whales have two and toothed whales have one. These are on the top of the head: the animal breathes while mostly submerged. Breathing first expells excess water from the blowhole, forming an upward spout, followed by inhaling air into the lungs. 

All mammals sleep, including whales, but they cannot stay in an unconscious state for too long, because they need to be conscious to breathe. It is thought that only one hemisphere (half) of their brains sleeps at a time, so that whales are never completely asleep, but still get the rest they need. Whales are thought to sleep around eight hours a day. 

A single calf is born every two or three years. Gestation takes up to a year. Nursing continues for more than a year in many species; there is a strong bond between mother and calf. Reproductive maturity occurs at seven to ten years. This mode of reproduction produces few offspring, but increases their chance of surviving. The effect of hunting is severe on these animals, who replace their numbers so slowly.

Whales are known to teach, learn, cooperate, scheme, and even grieve.

"Breaching" is what happens when a whale jumps into the air and then purposefully flops down on the water with a great splash. Sometimes it twirls in the air when it does this. Scientists are not sure whether breaching is done to play, to clean the whale's skin of things that are stuck to it, or to tell other whales something.

There are a number of other behaviours on the surface which are not well understood. 'Logging' is when a whale swims slowly at the surface of the ocean with very little movement. When a whale does this, it looks like a log in the water. Some scientists think this is a kind of rest or sleep for whales. 'Spyhopping' is when a whale sits straight up in the water with its head straight up and out of the water. It will sometimes turn around in circles as it spyhops. Some scientists think this might be because whales are trying to see what is happening above water. 'Lobtailing' is done when a whale faces downward in the water. It then slaps the water with a thunderous sound. Scientists think this might be done to warn other whales of danger, or as a method of feeding.



</doc>
<doc id="7598" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7598" title="Marker">
Marker

A marker is a writing device that allows a person to draw, write, or scribble. Ink comes out of the tip of the marker and onto the writing surface, commonly a piece of paper. Markers generally come in a variety of different colors. They are sometimes referred to as "magic markers", or magic pens.

The tip of the marker where ink comes out from is usually made of cloth. This allows the ink to go through easily. A lot of ink can come out from it at one time.



</doc>
<doc id="7599" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7599" title="Anchor">
Anchor

Anchors are used to stop boats from moving. Today, anchors are usually made of metal, and they are made to catch the ocean floor (the seabed).

There are two main types of anchors: temporary and permanent. A permanent anchor is called a "mooring block" and is not easily moved. A temporary anchor can be moved and is carried on the boat. When people talk about anchors, they are usually thinking about temporary anchors.

An anchor works by either weight (mass) or shape. Shape is more important to temporary anchors, and design is very important. Anchors must resist wind and tide, and also the up-and-down movement of waves.

The oldest anchors were just rocks, and many rock anchors have been found from a long time ago. Many modern moorings still use a large rock as the mooring block.

A simple anchor which uses two arms made of wood, and a rock weight, is an anchor which is still used today. The wood arms are sharp to enter the seabed, and the weight will hold normal movement.

The English language uses several special words to describe parts of anchors. This is because England has a rich marine and naval history, and so the language gives a large number of words to boat and ship terminology.

A modern temporary anchor usually has a middle bar called the "shank", attached to a flat surface (traditionally called "fluke") which holds the seabed. The place where the shank meets the fluke is called the "crown", and the shank is usually fitted with a ring or shackle to attach it to the "rode" (cable, chain, or rope joining the anchor to the boat). Some old anchors have attached to the shank a "stock", which is a bar that places the anchor in a certain way when it falls on the seabed. Old anchors are often named "stocked" or "stockless" anchors depending on whether they have this, or not.

There are many designs.




Over the last 20 years, many new anchor designs have appeared. These anchors are usually designed for small vessels, and are usually not for large ships. See modern designs.

The Fisherman has a traditional design that has not changed much over time. It is less useful than a good modern design, and its holding power for its weight is among the worst of all anchor types.

The most common brand of fluke anchors is the "Danforth". The Danforth style uses a stock at the crown (see above), to which two large flat flukes are attached. The stock can rotate, so the flukes can move toward the bottom. It can hold very well but has difficulty "setting" (entering the seabed) on its own. It is efficient for its weight.

Fluke anchors have difficulty penetrating kelp and weed seabeds, as well as very hard sand or clay seabeds. Once set, the anchor can come free and fail to "reset" on its own.

A traditional design, the grapnel style is simple to design and build. It is a simple hook that is good for rock or reefs. It is useless for most other seabeds.

The original "CQR" was invented in 1933 in the United Kingdom. Many copies of it now exist. Plows used to be popular with sailors and private boaters. They are good but not excellent in most seabeds. Another more recent design is the "Delta" which is better.

Plows use a special weight in the tip of the fluke (the "toe") for them to work properly. This makes them heavy.

The genuine CQR and Delta brands are now owned by Lewmar.

The genuine Bruce was invented in the 1970's and to try to solve some problems of the plow. Many copies are now made. This type of anchor is now called a "claw-type". Claw anchors can set quickly in some seabeds, but do not hold well for their weight, and can let go very suddenly.

Bruce Anchor Group no longer make the genuine Bruce. Most copies are lower quality than the genuine Bruce.

Modern anchors are designed to be better than the plow and claw types. Many are new, still under patent and owned by commercial companies or tied to certain brands.


Many modern designs are better than the older types. This chart shows tests done by West Marine (an American marine shop) in 2006 . The anchors were tested on three different sandy seabeds, at three different "scopes" (pull angles).

Six of the seven best anchors on this chart are "modern", but several modern anchors did very badly. This shows that 'newer' is not always better.
Permanent anchors are used when a floating thing must be kept in place for a long time. They are used to anchor Lightships, navigation buoys, and moorings. The anchor must hold in all weather, even the worst storm.

A deadweight anchors is a heavy weight. It can be used when the bottom is too hard for other types of anchors. It can be made of a large rock or a concrete block.

Mushroom and pyramid anchors are good where the seabed is soft. This type of anchor needs time to dig into the seabed. It can be smaller and lighter than a deadweight anchor. The mushroom anchor is shaped like a mushroom, and the pyramid anchor is shaped like a pyramid with the apex pointing down. 

The sand screw must be screwed into the seabed before it is used. It can be very light.




</doc>
<doc id="7601" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7601" title="Light pollution">
Light pollution

Light pollution is a type of pollution. It is defined as “any adverse (or bad) effect as a result of man-made lights.” Usually, this means too much light. Several species, including plants and humans, are badly affected by light pollution. Most people have never heard of light pollution, and those who have usually don’t care, or do anything about it. Light pollution costs Americans billions of dollars every year.

There are five kinds of light pollution:

Sky glow usually has more of an effect on the environment than light trespass and glare, but all of them are a major problem to people today.

Sky glow is the kind of light pollution that prevents people from seeing stars and other deep-space objects. This causes birds to not be able to migrate to the right place because they can not follow the moon and stars. Sky glow also prevents astronomers from seeing dim objects.

Light trespass is when light being used by a person goes into the property of another. Though light trespass is not an environmental issue, it is still light pollution.

The third kind of light pollution, glare, has different kinds. The first, disability glare, is the loss of visibility because of too many lights. Discomfort glare is when the lights cause pain.

Light pollution stops migrating birds of having any way of seeing the moon and stars,they use them to nagivate the direciton of their migration,therefore not being able to migrate to the correct place. Also, sea turtles do not come to shore and nest as often, because they are afraid of the lights.It also affects animals eyes as a flash of camera weakens the eyesight of animals.

Glare causes sleep problems in humans. Too much light in an apartment shining in from a nearby billboard will disturb their sleep. Also science is being affected by light pollution. Astronomers have no way of observing, or making discoveries with too much light to block the night sky.
It also causes headache as when light directly falls into our eyes and affects the sensory nerves.

There are now several groups that are trying to prevent light pollution. Light pollution first made news in 1964, when an observatory was specially placed just to avoid light pollution. However, it wasn’t brought to the attention of most people until June 6, 2002, when the Czech Republic passed the world’s first light pollution law. Since then, light pollution is slowly being recognized by the general public as a major problem.

You can lower the amount of light pollution by having lights off when they are not needed. You can also shield yourself from this pollution by putting curtains on a window facing the street or any other disturbing light source.


</doc>
<doc id="7604" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7604" title="Nintendo">
Nintendo

Nintendo (In Japanese: 任天堂) is a company that makes video games and video game consoles. At first, they began by creating playing cards and other toys and games. Their main office is in Kyoto, Japan. They also have offices in other continents — for example, North America and Europe. Their most famous video games are the "Mario" series.

Nintendo was formed on September 23, 1889. They originally were a company that made playing cards. In the 1960s, they started doing other things, such as owning hotels. They began making video games only in the 1970s. In 1980, they came out with a hand-held game called Game and Watch. Nintendo's first video game console was the Famicom. Famicom was first only released in Japan but it was later released in some other areas, such as North America. When they released it in there, its name was changed to "Nintendo Entertainment System", or NES for short. They also released some popular stand-alone video games, with names like the arcade game "Donkey Kong", and NES games "Super Mario Bros.", "Duck Hunt", and "The Legend of Zelda". Later, the company made hand-helds such as the Game Boy and DS, and consoles such as Nintendo 64, GameCube and Wii.


Today, Nintendo has many popular characters and series. "Mario", and "The Legend of Zelda" are examples of these. 

Nintendo currently sells the 3DS ,Wii and Nintendo DS video game consoles. The Wii plugs into a TV and is called a "home console", because it is used most of the time at home. The Nintendo DS is small and have their own screens. It is called "portable" and "handheld", because it is played on using hands, and can be taken anywhere.

In March 2011, Nintendo released their new handheld system, the Nintendo 3DS. It is the first system to have 3D without special 3D glasses.

Other video game companies:



</doc>
<doc id="7605" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7605" title="São Paulo">
São Paulo

São Paulo (Portuguese: Saint Paul) is the capital of the state of São Paulo, Brazil. It is the biggest city in the Southern Hemisphere. 

The city has an area of 1,523 km² and more than 11.0 million people live there.

In January 25, 1554, two priests, Manuel da Nóbrega and José de Anchieta, built a school - "Colégio de São Paulo de Piratininga" - to convert natives to Catholic religion. Today, this building is the Padre Anchieta Museum. 

The first people moved to the region in 1560, when São Paulo became a village. 

Because São Paulo was a poor village and was far away from the colony centre, the "bandeirantes" (explorers) chose it to start expeditions to enslave natives, recapture runaway slaves, and to find precious metals and stones (gold, diamonds, etc). 

In 1711, São Paulo became a city. In the end of the 18th century, people started growing sugarcane in the rural area of the province, and São Paulo was the way to the port of Santos.
In the 19th century, after the construction of São Paulo's Law School, São Paulo became the capital of the province, politicians and philosophers went there, and the first newspapers and books were printed. At this time, many European immigrants, especially Italians, moved to São Paulo to work at the big coffee plantations. 

At the end of the 19th century and the start of the 20th century, the city grew quickly. Some people who study Brazilian History says "the city was rebuilt".

In the 20th century, many factories were built, and more immigrants moved to work there.

Today, São Paulo is a centre of commerce, services and technology, and some people consider it the most important South American city.
The current mayor of São Paulo is Gilberto Kassab, and his party is "Democratas", (Democrat).

São Paulo is crossed by the Tropic of Capricorn. It is in a plateau (a high flat area), 760 metres above the sea level. 

Because of its altitude, its climate (subtropical) is not so warm as it is near the coast. São Paulo is 70 km far from the coast, 420 km far from Rio de Janeiro, and 1,020 km far from Brasília, the Brazilian capital city.

The metropolitan area formed by São Paulo and 39 surroundings cities is the biggest in the Latin America. More than 19 million people live in this metropolitan area, which is also called "Greater São Paulo" and is the fifth biggest of the world.

The city is divided into 31 boroughs, and each borough is divided into neighbourhoods. The boroughs form nine regions (or "zones"), with similar geographic location and history, but most people and companies prefer to use another division, with only five regions.

Descendants of many peoples live in São Paulo: Italian, Portuguese, Spanish, African, German, Lebanese, Japanese. There are also descendant of peoples from other South American countries, for example Argentina and Bolivia, and other places, for example Chineses, Jews, and Koreans.

Every day, people from other cities or states move to São Paulo. Many are people from the Northeast region of Brazil that try to find a job in the city.

São Paulo is the commercial and industrial center of Brazil. There are factories and shops of all sizes and kinds. For example, in São Paulo there are some of the more expensive shops of Brazil, but also there are commercial districts formed only by cheap shops, and people from many places (also from other cities) buy clothing, electronics and other products at these districts.

Football is the sport with the biggest number of fans in the city. The most important clubs from the city are Corinthians, Palmeiras, and São Paulo. They are all playing in the Brazilian Série A, the major football championship in Brazil.

There are also other big and medium teams from São Paulo, for example Portuguesa and Juventus, and many small teams. However, Santos FC, that is a club from Santos, a city in the coast, is the fourth team in number of supporters.

São Paulo also hosts the Formula One Brazilian Grand Prix, in Autódromo José Carlos Pace (known as Autódromo de Interlagos).

Other major sports are basketball and volleyball. Some people also play handball, tennis, and other sports.

Some people do not like São Paulo because of the big number of cars, trucks and motorcycles on streets and avenues. The public transport is also very important for the people who live there. There are many bus lanes in the city, and a big Metro (underground railway) and railway system.

São Paulo has three airports and is the second city in number of helicopters of the world (New York City is the first).

Below is a list of famous people born in São Paulo.



</doc>
<doc id="7607" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7607" title="Category:Brazil">
Category:Brazil


</doc>
<doc id="7608" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7608" title="Tim Burton">
Tim Burton

Tim Burton (born August 25, 1958) is an American artist and film maker. He got his start as an animator for Walt Disney, but soon moved on making his own kinds of films and projects. He has an individual style; the films that he makes are creative and often based on events that would not happen in real life. For example the main character in "Edward Scissorhands" is a young man who has scissors instead of hands. His films attract an audience usually that fits his unique tastes. His films include:



</doc>
<doc id="7613" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7613" title="DVD">
DVD

A DVD (which means Digital Versatile Disc or a Digital Video Disc) is an optical disc capable of storing up to 4.7 GB of data, more than six times what a CD can hold. DVDs are often used to store movies at better quality than a VHS. DVDs can also have interactive menus and bonus features such as deleted scenes and commentaries. Like CDs, DVDs are read with a laser.

The disc can have one or two sides, and one or two layers of data per side; the number of sides and layers determines how much it can hold. A 12 cm diameter disc may have one of the following storage capacities:


There are also 8 cm DVDs with a storage capacity of 1.5 GB.

The capacity of a DVD-ROM can be visually determined by noting the number of data sides, and looking at the data side(s) of the disc. Double-layered sides are usually gold-colored, while single-layered sides are usually silver-colored, like a CD. One additional way to tell if a DVD contains one or two layers is to look at the center ring on the underside of the disc. If there are two barcodes, it is a dual layer disc. If there is one barcode, there is only one layer.

Both CD and DVD discs have equal sizes (diameter, thickness etc.). However, the amount of information they can store is different. These discs are made of the same materials and have the same methods of production.

CDs and DVDs use the same way of keeping information. Both CDs and DVDs have pits and bumps on the data track (the data track represents a path which has certain information). The information is read by a laser.

A DVD disk has several layers, which are made of plastic. All layers have a thickness of 1.2 millimeters. An injection used on a polycarbonate plastic leads to the creation of microscopic bumps. Today's production uses this type of plastic to create different things because it can resist very high and low temperatures.

When layers are made, the bumps appear. Many bumps form one continuous spiral that can include information. After that a spray of a special reflective layer covers the bumps.

Aluminum is applied behind inner layers and semi-reflective gold covers the outer layers. This helps the laser to concentrate through the outer layers onto the inner ones. Then, after applying a protective liquid (lacquer) and pressing the layers, they are treated with infrared light.

Every track on a DVD disk circles from its center to the edge. The distance between the tracks on a DVD disk is 740 nanometers. Only a very precise mechanism can read the bumps on the disk, because they are very small (320×400×120 nanometers).
The aluminum side of the disk has pits, but the side which is read by the laser has bumps. Because the size of the bumps are very small, a DVD track is very long. A data track of a DVD layer is about 7.5 miles long. This is the length of an ordinary DVD disk. The track of a disc with two sides would be about 30 miles long.


</doc>
<doc id="7614" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7614" title="Submarine">
Submarine

A submarine is a vessel that goes under water. Submarines are often war vessels, but some are used for scientific or business purposes. People with a lot of money can even buy their own small submarine to explore under the sea and look at fish. A submarine is always called a boat, not a ship.

In early times, submarines were often powered by hand, as boat engines had not yet been invented. They were almost always designed for war purposes, and would attempt to sink enemy ships by crude methods like drilling screws into their wooden hulls. Some attempted to blow ships up, but this would often destroy the submarine as well.

Later, during the first and second world wars, more practical submarines were developed, mostly by Germany. They were powered by a diesel-electric system. A diesel motor would be used to turn a generator which would charge a large number of batteries while the submarine was above the water. This power was then used to power the submarine when it went underwater. These submarines were dangerous for enemies and hard to see while under water but it was easy to attack them when they were above the water and recharging. They were only used to attack ships.

Most modern military submarines are powered by nuclear reactors. These submarines often have a system which can get air from the surrounding seawater as well, this combination allows them to stay under water until their food runs out. Their most important functions are attacking ships or launching rockets like cruise missiles, or nuclear missiles. There are two kinds of these subs: attack subs, which are small and fast and attack other subs and surface ships with a special kind of underwater bomb called a torpedo, and missiles subs, which are larger and slower, and designed mainly to shoot missiles at far-away targets on land. Missile subs are usually big enough that they can transport commandos and launch them safely from their torpedo tubes.


</doc>
<doc id="7615" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7615" title="Lebanon">
Lebanon

Lebanon is a country in the Middle East (also called west Asia), on the Mediterranean Sea. It has a border with Israel to the south, and Syria to the east and north. Lebanon has been independent since 1943, and almost 4 million people live there. There are 16 million Lebanese people living in other countries. Its capital city is Beirut.
Lebanon has 2 chains of mountains. It is often called the ruby of the Middle East. It has a coastline stretching all the way up.The area of Lebanon is 10452 square kilometres. 59.70% of Lebanese people are Muslim and 39% are Christian. The remaining 1.3% is made up of other religions including Judaism, Buddhism, and Bahá'í followers.

The important symbol in Lebanon is the Cedar Tree because an abundance of them are found in the Lebanon Mountains.


</doc>
<doc id="7616" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7616" title="Rebellious">
Rebellious

Rebellious means:





</doc>
<doc id="7617" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7617" title="Alan Alda">
Alan Alda

Alan Alda (Real name: Alfonso Joseph D'Abruzzo) (born January 28, 1936) is an American actor. He has appeared in, as well as directed and wrote, many films. He is probably most famous for his role as "Hawkeye" Pierce, the central character on the comedy/drama TV series "M*A*S*H", as well as writing and directing several episodes of the show, and later becoming one of its producers. Alan also has been the host of "Scientific American Frontiers" on PBS since 1993. His father, Robert Alda, was another actor, and his mother, Joan, was once crowned Miss New York. Alan has been married to Arlene Weiss since 1957 and they have three daughters.



</doc>
<doc id="7618" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7618" title="Sally Kellerman">
Sally Kellerman

Sally Kellerman (June 2, 1937) is an American movie actress. Her acting performances include the pilot for the original "Star Trek" television series, and the movies "MASH" (1970) and "Back to School" (1986).


</doc>
<doc id="7619" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7619" title="Hagar the Horrible">
Hagar the Horrible

Hägar the Horrible is the title of a comic strip and the name of the main character. The comic strip is about a Viking and his life of plundering and his family life. It was started in 1973 by Dik Browne. Since Dik's retirement (he stopped working) in 1988, his son Chris has continued the comic.


</doc>
<doc id="7620" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7620" title="Baghdad">
Baghdad

Baghdad (Arabic: بغداد‎ translit: Baghdād) is the capital city and largest city in Iraq. It is the second-largest city in Southwest Asia after Tehran and the second-largest city in the Arab world after Cairo, with a population 5,772,000 (2003). Located on the Tigris River at 33°20′N 44°26′E, the city was once the center of Dar al-Islam, Muslim civilization.
It a city that used to be one of the largest learning centers in the world, during e post classical era.


</doc>
<doc id="7621" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7621" title="Mediterranean Sea">
Mediterranean Sea

The Mediterranean Sea is the body of water that separates Europe, Africa and Asia.

The Mediterranean Sea is connected to the Atlantic Ocean by a narrow passage called the Strait of Gibraltar. It is between the southern tip of Spain and northern Morroco. It is almost completely surrounded by land, on the north by Europe, on the south by North Africa, and on the east by the Middle East. It covers around 2.5 million km² (965 000 mi²). 

To the east it connects to the Sea of Marmara and the Black Sea, by the Dardanelles and the Bosporus. The Sea of Marmara is often thought to be a part of the Mediterranean Sea, whereas the Black Sea is generally not. 

The 163 km (101 mi) long man-made Suez Canal in the southeast connects the Mediterranean Sea to the Red Sea. The canal is between Egypt and the Sinai peninsula. It was built by the French "Compagnie Universelle du Canal Maritime de Suez" from 1859 to 1869 against the British government.As a sea around which some of the most ancient human civilizations were arranged

Some of the most ancient human civilisations were made around the Mediterranean Sea, so it has had a large influence on the history and ways of life of these cultures. It provided a way of trade, colonization and war, and was the basis of life (like fishing and catching other seafood) for many communities throughout the ages. The combination of similarly shared climate, geology and access to a common sea has led to lots of historical and cultural connections between the ancient and modern societies around the Mediterranean.

Above all, it was the superhighway of transport in ancient times. It allowed for trade and cultural exchange between peoples of the region — Phoenicians, Egyptians, Carthaginians, Greeks, Romans, and the Middle East (Arab/Persian/Semitic) cultures. 

The history of the Mediterranean is important in understanding the origin and development of Western civilization. In modern times, the Mediterranean was the location of many battles at sea during World War II and control over it was important for defeating the Axis Powers, Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy. Today the Mediterranean Sea still connects the economies of Europe, North Africa, and the Middle East as it did in ancient times.

Being nearly landlocked affects the Mediterranean Sea's properties. Tides are limited by the narrow connection with the Atlantic Ocean. The water is saltier, partly because of evaporation. The Mediterranean has a deep blue color.

Evaporation greatly exceeds precipitation and river runoff in the Mediterranean, a fact that is central to the water circulation within the basin. Evaporation is especially high in its eastern half, causing the water level to decrease and salinity to increase eastward. This pressure gradient pushes relatively cool, low-salinity water from the Atlantic across the basin; it warms and becomes saltier as it travels east, then sinks in the region of the Levant and circulates westward, to spill over the Strait of Gibraltar. Thus, seawater flow is eastward in the Strait's surface waters, and westward below; once in the Atlantic, this chemically distinct "Mediterranean Intermediate Water" can persist thousands of kilometers away from its source.


</doc>
<doc id="7622" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7622" title="Shirley Bassey">
Shirley Bassey

Dame Shirley Veronica Bassey (born January 8, 1937) is a Welsh singer, she is best known for singing the theme songs for the James Bond films, "Goldfinger", "Diamonds are Forever", and "Moonraker".



</doc>
<doc id="7623" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7623" title="Captain Beefheart">
Captain Beefheart

Captain Beefheart AKA Don Van Vliet born Don Glen Vliet (January 15, 1941 December 17, 2010) was an American singer. He was best known for his collaborations and (sometimes) rivalry, with long time friend, Frank Zappa. He is quite underrated, but remains an inspiration to many "alternative" singers. He is retired from music due to illness and spends his time painting, these days. He was born in Glendale, California. His stage name came from a film project Zappa was writing, but soon abandoned, ""Captain Beefheart battles the Grunt People"". His acknowledged masterpiece was recorded in 1969, its title: Trout Mask Replica.

He and his group "Magic Band" also produced albums in the early 1980's that received positive critical attention. 

Mr. Van Vliet is also a well known painter of abstract primitive art. His work has been shown in gallery presentations in New york U.S. and in Europe. 

He died on December 17, 2010 at the age of 69, twenty-nine days short of his 70th birthday. 


</doc>
<doc id="7625" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7625" title="December 30">
December 30





</doc>
<doc id="7628" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7628" title="C (programming language)">
C (programming language)

The C programming language is a computer programming language that was developed to do system programming for the operating system UNIX. C is an imperative programming language. C was developed in the early 1970s by Ken Thompson and Dennis Ritchie. It is a procedural language, which means that people can write their programs as a series of step-by-step instructions. C is a compiled language. 

Because the ideas behind C are kept close to the design of the computer, the compiler (program builder) can generate instructions for the computer that will run very fast. This makes C a good language for writing operating systems. Many operating systems, including Linux and UNIX, are programmed using this language. The language itself has very few keywords, and most things are done using libraries. 

C is available for many different types of computers. This is why C is called a "portable" language. A program that is written in C and that respects certain limitations can be compiled for many different platforms. 

The syntax of C has also influenced many other programming languages, such as C++, C#, and Java.

Here is an example of a program written in C. When built and run, it will show "Hello world!" on the computer screen.


int main(void)



</doc>
<doc id="7630" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7630" title="Drake &amp; Josh">
Drake &amp; Josh

Drake & Josh is a Nickelodeon television series. It started in January 2004. The stars of the series are Drake Bell and Josh Peck. The two appeared as friends on "The Amanda Show". In "Drake & Josh", they play brothers of separate parents. In the first episode, Drake's mother marries Josh's father. 
Other stars of the show include Nancy Cartwright, who also starred on "The Amanda Show".


Drake Parker's mother is Audrey Parker, and he lived with his single mother, along with Megan, his younger sister until she got married to a weatherman, Walter Nichols, who has a son named Josh Nichols.

Drake may be portrayed as lazy, mischievous, cool and smooth-with-the-ladies. He is said to be 15 in the first two seasons, and 16–17 in the last two seasons. Drake hates homework, and is often seen either playing a tone on his guitar (he is very talented when it comes to music!) or tuning it. Sometimes he rehearses for his concerts, which is a good excuse to not do homework! He sometimes plays pranks on Josh or does mischief, and lets Josh get the blame. Both brothers are fed up with Megan. She plays pranks on them all the time for just no reason at all, throughout the season. Drake is someone who always gets away from trouble. Josh on the other hand is the total opposite of Drake ... but they still get along!

Josh's father's name is Walter Nichols, a weatherman, and he lived with his dad alone, until his dad got married to a lady named Audrey Parker.
Audrey has two kids: Drake, and Megan, who go to his school.

Josh may be portrayed as smart, book-wormy, simple and kind-hearted. He is fed-up with Drake's stupidity and Megan's pranks, but still loves them.
Josh is said to be Drake's age, and has a talent in dancing and playing the mouth organ. He has an alter-ego named Miss Nancy, who gives advice to people in his school. Drake first finds that out in the first episode of the TV show, and takes advantage of it. Josh easily goofs things up, because of Drake, or Megan, and they both have to sort it out. His only girlfriend was Mindy Crenshaw, another bookworm, slightly smarter than him and Drake hates her.

The start of each episode uses a song called "I Found a Way". The song is written by Drake Bell and Michael Corcoran and performed by Bell. Bell can also be seen playing the song in a quick scene from an episode in the first season. The song can also be found on the series' official soundtrack, "", and on Drake Bell's albums, "Telegraph" and "It's Only Time".


</doc>
<doc id="7631" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7631" title="The Amanda Show">
The Amanda Show

The Amanda Show is a sketch comedy television series starring Amanda Bynes, formerly of "All That". The series starred Amanda as almost every major recurring character, including herself, Penelope, Courtney, and Judge Trudy (a parody of Judge Judy.) The series aired on Saturday nights on the Nickelodeon television network in the United States. It still shows the show in reruns. Three of the shows stars (Drake Bell, Josh Peck, and Nancy Cartwright) are now on the very popular "Drake and Josh".

Penelope Taynt is a fictional character played by Amanda Bynes "Number One Fan, Please" on the "The Amanda Show". She never once met Amanda, but often came very close. She is known for saying "please" and "actual" often. She does not know the names of any cast member that is not Amanda. On the show, she had a website called "www.amandaplease.com." Eventually, it was made into the show's official site.


</doc>
<doc id="7634" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7634" title="1983">
1983

1983 (MCMLXXXIII) was a common year starting on Saturday of the Gregorian calendar.










</doc>
<doc id="7635" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7635" title="Sally Ride">
Sally Ride

Dr. Sally Kristen Ride (born May 26 1951 in Los Angeles, California) is an American former astronaut and astrophysicist who in 1983 became the first American woman to reach outer space.

With a Ph.D. in physics from Stanford University, she joined NASA in 1978, where she was an astronaut (1979–1987) and helped design the robot arm for the space shuttle. In turn, she was the first person to use the robot arm in space. In 1983, she became the first American woman in space. She also served (1986, 2003) on the commissions that investigated the Space Shuttle Challenger and Columbia disasters. In 1989, she became professor of physics and director of the California Space Institute at the University of California, San Diego. Sally started playing tennis at age 10, and became an excellent tennis player. She even went to college for it. She did attend another college, but dropped out because she wanted to keep working for a professional tennis career. After 3 months of hard practice she decided she was not good enough to make it to a professional career and so she quit tennis and enrolled at Stanford University. That year, more than 8,000 men and women applied to the NASA space program. Only 35 women were accepted. One of those 35 was Sally. There she enjoyed flight traing so much that it became a favorite hobby. Her second flight was a 8 day trip in 1984, again on Challenger(STS 41-G). Her hours in space flight were more than 343. Sally was preparing for her 3rd journey when the Challenger disintegrated in 1986. When training was suspended, she was appointed to the Presidential Commission charged with investigating the situation. Dr.Ride retired from NASA in 1987 to become a Science Fellow at the Center of International Security and Arms Control at Stanford University.


</doc>
<doc id="7636" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7636" title="Court">
Court

A court, in law, is a part of the government that decides what laws mean when people disagree. Some disagreements a court may decide are whether a person is guilty of a crime, who is the legal owner of property, or who the children of two divorced parents should live with. A court is usually in a special building called a courthouse.

Most countries have many courts that deal with different issues. Some courts are higher and can change a decision made by a lower court.


</doc>
<doc id="7637" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7637" title="Birth">
Birth

Birth (to be born) means when a baby animal comes out of its egg, or out of its mother after pregnancy. It is sometimes thought of as the beginning of life. It is also known as calving in livestock or whelping in meat-eating mammals. 






</doc>
<doc id="7638" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7638" title="Pollution">
Pollution

Pollution is something that causes some sort of damage or problem to the environment or atmosphere.
Atmospheric pollution is due to harmful gases such ozone,carbon monoxide(CO),carbon dioxide(CO2), sulphur dioxide and nitrogen dioxide and very small particles of carbon.

Water pollution is the présence in water of harmful material, such as sewage, dissolved metals, waste from farms and factories and includes crude oil spilled from shipwrecked tankers. 

The three main substances that pollute water are nitrates from fertilisers, sewage and detergents.

Pollution causes harm to living things in water and can also harm to people's health, and can problems such as cancer.
The main sources of water pollution is from sewage, farms and factories.

The harmful noise in our environment, such as the sound of cars in a city, loud speakers ,etc. is called noise pollution. Noise pollution can cause ear problems or even permanent deafness, especially to older people.

Is too much artificial light at night which makes it difficult to see the stars and planets.
Light pollution is an effect of modern civilization. It is most severe in highly industrialized, densely populated areas of North America, Europe, and Japan and in major cities in the Middle East and North Africa, but even relatively small amounts of light can be noticed and create problems. 


</doc>
<doc id="7639" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7639" title="Immunity">
Immunity

Immunity is the ability of the body to defend itself from 'foreign bodies'. This means rejecting infections, clearing up dust which gets in the lungs, and killing cancer cells. Vaccination builds on the natural immune system to make a person resist certain diseases.

Immunity is of two types. Innate immunity protects the host against infection, but has no 'memory', and so gives no long-term immunity. 

The second type is adaptive immunity, which does have a kind of 'memory'. It does give long-term protection against specific pathogens.

All animals, plants and fungi have some innate immunity. Vertebrates also have adaptive immunity. 

People can be immunised from some diseases by having a vaccination 
(injection of some dead or weakened virus, or bacteria that causes the disease). By doing so, the body learns how the virus/bacteria harms the body, and will react more quickly to fight the virus/bacteria when it comes in contact with the virus/bacteria again. When your body has defended itself against the virus/bacteria it will trap the certain virus/bacteria in a "net" so when the virus/bacteria comes back it will be easier to trap those viruses/bacteria as well.

Immunology is a science that examines the structure and function of the immune system. It originates from medicine and early studies on the causes of immunity to disease. 

The earliest known mention of immunity was during the plague of Athens in 430 BC. Thucydides noted that people who had recovered from a previous bout of the disease could nurse the sick without contracting the illness a second time. 

In the 18th century, Pierre-Louis de Maupertuis made experiments with scorpion venom and observed that certain dogs and mice were immune to this venom. 

This and other observations of acquired immunity was later exploited by Louis Pasteur in his development of vaccination and his proposed germ theory of disease. Pasteur's theory was in direct opposition to contemporary theories of disease, such as the miasma theory. 

It was not until Robert Koch's 1891 proofs, for which he was awarded a Nobel Prize in 1905, that microorganisms were confirmed as the cause of infectious disease. Viruses were confirmed as human pathogens in 1901, with the discovery of the yellow fever virus by Walter Reed.

Immunology made a great advance towards the end of the 19th century, through rapid developments, in the study of humoral immunity (antibodies) and cellular immunity (T cells and dendritic cells). 

Particularly important was the work of Paul Ehrlich, who proposed the side-chain theory to explain the specificity of the antigen-antibody reaction; his contributions to the understanding of humoral immunity were recognized by the award of a Nobel Prize in 1908, which was jointly awarded to the founder of cellular immunology, Elie Mechnikov.


</doc>
<doc id="7640" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7640" title="Inca">
Inca

The Inca were a civilization (country) and an empire (kingdom) in western South America.
The word Inca can also mean the Emperor or Ruler of the Inca people.
The Inca are called a "pre-Columbian" empire.
This means that their country was here before Christopher Columbus. They ruled parts of South America around what is now Peru for a little over 100 years, until the Spanish invasion in the 16th century.

The Inca empire or Tawantinsuyo, that in quechua means: "four regions", only lasted for about 100 years as the arrival of the conquering Spaniards in 1532 marked the end of their 'reign'. Their main language was Quechua, but as the Incas were basically made up of many different groups there were probably many different languages as well.

Their capital was in the city of Cusco, or Qosqo, in what is now southern Peru. They were ruled by an Emperor known as a "Sapa Inca". Throughout their empire, they built many good roads to make travel easy. 


</doc>
<doc id="7641" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7641" title="Roman numeral">
Roman numeral

A Roman numeral is the name for a number when it is written in the way the Romans used to write numbers. Roman numerals are not used very often today in the west. They are used to write the names of kings and queens, or popes. For example: Queen Elizabeth II. They may be used to write the year a book or movie was made.

I - 1

V - 5

X - 10

L - 50

C - 100

D - 500

M - 1000

If a lower value symbol is before a higher value one, it is subtracted. Otherwise it is added.

So 'IV' is '4' and 'VI' is '6'.

For the numbers above X, only the symbol right before it may be subtracted:
so 99 is: "XCIX" (and not "IC").

Numbers are written as Roman numerals in this way:

I = 1 

II = 2 

III = 3 

IV = 4 

V =5 

VI = 6 

VII = 7 

VIII = 8 

IX = 9 

X = 10 

XI = 11 

XV = 15 

XVI = 16 

XIX = 19

XX = 20 

XXX = 30 

XL = 40

L = 50 

LX = 60 

LXI = 61 

XC = 90 

C = 100 

CD = 400 

D = 500

CM = 900 

CMXC = 990

CMXCIX = 999

M = 1,000

MCMXCIX = 1,999

MM = 2,000

MMVII = 2007

MMVIII = 2008

MMIX = 2009

MMX = 2010

MMXI = 2011

MMXII = 2012

The System that is in use today is: Whenever the same symbol is written four times, it is replaced by subtracting it from the next higher number (5,50,50,500). That way, "IV" is written instead of "IIII" (4), "XL" instead of "XXXX" (40), etc. 

Usually only one number is subtracted, not two. So 8 is always "VIII" and never "IIX"

Especially on clocks and watches, "IIII" can sometimes still be found. This is done partly because the "IIII" for the 4 o'clock position aesthetically balances the "VIII" for the 8 o'clock position.

Proper form is to subtract only a value with the next lower power of 10. Thus, 900 is written "CM", but 990 would not be "XM" - properly, it is "CM" for the 900 portion and "XC" for the 90 portion, or "CMXC". Similarly, 999 would not be "IM" but rather "CMXCIX" - "CM" for the 900 portion, "XC" for the 90 portion, and "IX" for the 9 portion. Only values with 1's are ever used to subtract; 45 is properly "XLV", not "VL".

Notations in Roman numerals for numbers higher than 3,001 are rarely seen. One system utilizes "V" and "X" with bars over them to signify 5,000 and 10,000, respectively.



</doc>
<doc id="7647" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7647" title="Map">
Map

A map is an image of an area, usually of the Earth or part of the Earth. A map is different from an aerial photograph because it includes interpretation. 

The word "map" can also be used to talk about a chart or drawing that shows relationships between ideas, people, events, or anything else you can think about. This is why web developers call a list of web pages on a web site a site map.

People who make the maps are cartographers.

Many maps today are made using GIS computer systems. These are database systems that organized by things on a map instead of named records.

If a map is on a piece of paper or a computer screen, it has to be projected. This is because the Earth is round and paper and screens are flat. There are a lot of ways that use mathematics to make projections. The only kind of map of the Earth that is not projected is one drawn on a sphere. This is called a globe.


</doc>
<doc id="7648" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7648" title="Globe">
Globe

A globe is a picture of a planet drawn on a sphere. It is like a scale model of the planet. The word "globe" comes from the Latin word "globus", meaning round mass or sphere.

Most globes are maps of the Earth. The most common types are political and physical. Political globes show countries. Physical globes show landscape like mountains and rivers.

Global as an adjective is used to mean the entire world rather than any special place. It is also used in fields like computers to mean across an entire hard drive, network, or any other operation.
The fact that the Earth is a sphere was established by Hellenistic astronomy in the 3rd century BCE. The earliest globe of the Earth appeared in that period. The earliest known example is the one made by Crates of Mallus in Cilicia (now Çukurova in modern-day Turkey), in the mid-2nd century BCE. 

No globes of the Earth from Antiquity or the Middle Ages have survived. An example of a surviving celestial globe is part of a Hellenistic sculpture, called the Farnese Atlas. It survives in a 2nd century AD Roman copy in the Naples Museum, Naples, Italy.

Early globes of the Earth that show all of the Old World were constructed in the Islamic Golden Age. One such example was made in the 9th century by Muslim geographers and cartographers working under the Abbasid caliph, Al-Ma'mun. Another example was the globe introduced to Beijing by the Persian astronomer, Jamal ad-Din, in 1267.

The oldest surviving globe of the Earth is credited to Martin Behaim in Nürnberg, Germany, in 1492. A copy of the globe showing America was made by Martin Waldseemueller in 1507. Another early globe, the Hunt-Lenox Globe, ca. 1507, is thought to be the source of the phrase "Here be dragons." Another "remarkably modern-looking" globe of the Earth was made by Taqi al-Din at the Istanbul observatory of Taqi al-Din during the 1570s.

Mass-produced globes are typically covered by a printed paper map. The most common type has long, thin gores (strips) of paper. These strips narrow to a point at the North Pole and the South Pole. Then a small disk is used to paper over the irregularities at the poles. The more gores there are, the less stretching and crumpling is needed to make the paper map fit the sphere. From a geometric point of view, all points on a sphere are the same. One could select any point on the Earth, and create a paper map that covers the Earth with strips that come together at that point and the antipodal point.

A globe is usually mounted at a 23.5° angle on bearings. This mounting represents the angle of the planet in relation to its sun and the spin of the planet. This makes it easy to visualize how days and seasons change.


</doc>
<doc id="7654" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7654" title="Noah">
Noah

Noah is a religious figure in Judeo-Christian and Islamic religious text. The story of Noah and his ark is a very popular biblical story. 

As described in the Book of Genesis, Noah and his family kept believing in God in a time when most people were not. Knowing this was true, God told Noah he was going to flood the world, so he could drown out evil. He told Noah to build a boat called an "Ark". As the story goes, Noah was to put himself, his family, and two (a male and a female) of every kind of animal on it. People laughed at Noah at first, but soon they were killed by the flood. The people on the ark stayed on the boat not only until the flood was over, but until they reached land. To find land Noah had sent out a dove, which returned with an olive branch. This showed that they were close to land. After the flood, God made a rainbow to say he would never do something like the flood again to Earth.

In actuality, Noah was to put six of each of the animals deemed "clean" (able to be consumed) by the bible and two of each of the "unclean" (unable to be beaten due to biblical law) The additional five of each animal were there so that Noah and his family would have food during the flood.


</doc>
<doc id="7655" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7655" title="1452">
1452





</doc>
<doc id="7659" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7659" title="Ned's Declassified School Survival Guide">
Ned's Declassified School Survival Guide

Ned's Declassified School Survival Guide is a children's TV show on Nickelodeon.

From "a middle school full of bullies, homework, and insane teachers" comes Ned's Declassified School Survival Guide, a show on Nickelodeon. The show stars Devon Werkheiser as Ned Bigby, a student at James K. Polk Middle School. Every episode is a group of tips to surviving a school based activity. The show is part of Nick's Sunday lineup. It first aired on September 12, 2004.

The show is very successful, it has had a promising start. The show also stars Lindsey Shaw as Ned's best friend, Jennifer Mozely.

It also comes on Family Channel


</doc>
<doc id="7661" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7661" title="VH1">
VH1

VH1 (Video Hits One) is an American television network. It is a sister station to the groundbreaking MTV.

VH1 shows more of the classic videos, alongside chart-toppers, whereas MTV's focus is on the current hits. VH1 also shows You're Cut Off! on Mondays for 3 weeks and Wednesdays for 5 weeks starting - present. Casting has been renewed for a 2nd season. 




</doc>
<doc id="7664" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7664" title="Cabinet">
Cabinet

A Cabinet is a group of important people in a government, who normally represent the head of government. It is also known as the Council of Ministers or the Executive Council. They are part of the executive branch of government.

In most countries with parliamentary systems, the cabinet decides the government's policy. In other countries, such as the United States, the cabinet has very little power and is an advisor to the Head of Government. In some countries, cabinets need to be given their job by those who are in the government. 

In most countries, people in the cabinet are called ministers, and they do different things, such as look after the environment. In some governments, the name "secretary" is used for people in the cabinet. 

Many years ago the cabinets were called Privy Councils. The cabinet of today came about during the time that George I and George II were Kings of England. They both used Cabinet, as they could not speak English.

In some European countries and in the European Union, the name cabinet is used to mean the assistants of an important politician.

The "Shadow Cabinet", in "Commonwealth English", are the most important people of an "opposition party", who do not like the ideas that the Cabinet shows to the government.


</doc>
<doc id="7665" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7665" title="Newspaper">
Newspaper

A newspaper is a publication printed on paper and issued regularly, usually once a day or once a week. It gives information and opinions about current events and news. One can buy a newspaper at a store or at a news stand. Also, newspapers can be delivered to one's home, if one subscribes to it.

Newspapers usually have a lot of topics in them. They usually include political events, crime, business, sports, and opinions. Many also include weather news. Newspapers use photographs to illustrate stories; and also often include comic strips and other entertainment, such as crosswords and horoscopes. They also often have opinion sections. The opinion sections print the opinions of people who work for the newspaper. These opinions, which are usually on stories in the news, are called "editorials". Opinion sections usually also print short letters from people who read the newspaper. After being read, it can be recycled, or used for other purposes, like wrapping fish or lining birdcages. Usually people like to read them to stay informed about their local city or state.




</doc>
<doc id="7670" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7670" title="1833">
1833



</doc>
<doc id="7673" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7673" title="July 4">
July 4

Aphelion, the point during its orbit, when the Earth is furthest from the Sun, occurs around this date.





</doc>
<doc id="7680" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7680" title="Public domain">
Public domain

Public domain is a phrase that describes something that belongs to all people in general: the public. It can mean that it is "public property". Public domain is only used to describe things such as photographs, drawings, written articles, books or plays, or similar things.

Another way to use the phrase is this: If a person has published something in a book or newspaper (and so it is no longer private), we say it is in the public domain. But in this usage it may still not belong to the public, it may be copyrighted.

A work can enter the public domain in many ways. Once the copyright expires, a work enters the public domain (as long as the copyright is not renewed), but it may still be needed to note who created the work. Some works are in the public domain upon creation because they cannot be copyrighted based on various copyright laws. Examples include governmental works in some countries.

Even if some works are in the public domain due to not being copyrighted, there may be still non-copyright usage restrictions. For examples, even though the design of some national currencies may be ineligible for copyright, copying them for fraud is widely a very serious crime.


</doc>
<doc id="7681" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7681" title="Child">
Child

A child (plural form is children) is someone who is not an adult yet, or a person who has not reached puberty. A person younger than 15 years old is usually called a child. A baby that is not yet born is often called a child, too. A person can be called his or her parent's child, no matter how old he or she is. Some synonyms for the word 'child' is "kid", "youngster", or "youth". 

In most countries, children go to school. Also, smaller children may enjoy going to play-time groups and also playing with small toys and using their imaginations to make their days more fun. But in other countries, children sometimes work in factories or in the fields with their parents or guardians.

When two people get married and one (or both) of them have children with someone else before they got married, that child is called a "step child" by the child's non-birth parent. If both people had children, the children of each parent are "step brothers" or "step sisters" of each other.



</doc>
<doc id="7682" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7682" title="Nickelodeon">
Nickelodeon

Nickelodeon is an Worldwide Cable television network. It is made for children. The network was started in 1977 as Pinwheel. During the late mornings and afternoons, Nickelodeon shows Nick Play Date. This is a group of learning programs and series for younger children. They are shown while the older children are in school. At night, the network shows Nick at Nite. Nick at Nite is a group of re-runs of older series that parents watched when they were younger.

"Rugrats" is the series which has been shown for the longest time on Nickelodeon. The series has been shown for thirteen years. It was the most popular show on the network until they started showing "SpongeBob SquarePants". "Rugrats" has led to two spin-offs, "All Grown Up!" and "Suzy and Angelica's Preschool Daze".

The network makes a magazine called "Nickelodeon Magazine", which was last released on December 2009. It also has events and special programs every year, for example, the "Kids Choice Awards".
Some of the programs that have been shown on Nickelodeon include:



</doc>
<doc id="7683" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7683" title="Jimmy Carter">
Jimmy Carter

James Earl "Jimmy" Carter, Jr. (born October 1, 1924) was the 39th President of the United States from 1977 to 1981. He was a member of the Democratic Party. Carter was born in Plains, Georgia. He was a state senator and later the governor of Georgia. At this time he worked to stop racial discrimination. He was famous for his peanut growing business which made his family rich. Because of this connection, the nickname used for Carter by the Secret Service was "Peanut One".

Carter tried to help with the problem between Israel and Palestine. He also tried to reach an agreement with the USSR about nuclear weapons. This did not work because he was not prepared to compromise. He did help Egypt and Israel sign a peacetreaty. He was followed as President by Ronald Reagan. Carter often visits foreign countries as an independent observer of elections.

While Carter was President, some people took over the U.S. Embassy in Iran. They kept Americans in the embassy as hostages. The hostages were not released until the last day Carter was president.

Carter also had to deal with many problems in the United States. During his presidency, the nation had an energy and economic crisis. The fact that he could not fix these problems led the way for Ronald Reagan to take the role of President.

Carter was beaten by Ronald Reagan in the 1980 election. When his presidency was over, Carter worked with groups such as Habitat for Humanity to build houses in poor areas. He also has worked for peace in the Middle East. He won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2002. He has written many books.



</doc>
<doc id="7684" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7684" title="Cannes">
Cannes

Cannes () is a city and commune of the French department of Alpes-Maritimes.

It is most famous for the Cannes Film Festival, which takes place every summer. Many famous people come to the film festival from around the world to promote their films and to see other peoples' movies too.


</doc>
<doc id="7685" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7685" title="Theodore Roosevelt">
Theodore Roosevelt

Theodore "Teddy" Roosevelt (1858–1919), was the 26th president of the United States. He was born in New York. He was a member of the Republican Party.

Theodore Roosevelt was born on October 27, 1858, in New York City. He was sickly as a child, so he took up studying animals. He also took up boxing. He went to college at Harvard. He married twice, first to Alice Hathaway Lee and later to Edith Kermit Carow. He had six kids: Alice, Theodore Jr., Kermit, Ethel, Archie and Quentin.

After spending time in North Dakota, Roosevelt was elected to the New York State Legislature and served as a Civil Service Commissioner and New York City police commissioner (a non-police officer who is in charge of making the police department run smoothly). In 1897, he was appointed Assistant Secretary of the Navy, but gave up on that to fight with the "Roughriders", a group of men on horses, in the Spanish-American War. He gained fame and became Governor of New York, then Vice-President, and, after William McKinley was shot and killed, he became President of the United States.

As President, Roosevelt worked to make the U.S. a world power, or one of the most powerful countries in the world. His foreign policy was described by an African proverb as "Walk softly but carry a big stick ". He increased the size of the United State's navy and sent all of the ships across the world to demonstrate to other countries that the United States is now a world power. 

He continued the Monroe Doctrine and used the country's military might to influence Latin American politics. He had the Panama Canal built (which allowed ships to travel in less time by taking a shortcut). As president, he was interested in what happened in other countries. In 1905, he helped end the war between the Russian and Japanese empires. He won a Nobel Peace Prize for it in 1906.

At home, he fought for all Americans having a "Square Deal", meaning an equal chance for all Americans to become successful. As part of his Square Deal, he regulated big businesses called trusts, supported labor laws for the working class, required meat and drugs to be inspected, and protected the environment. These ideas would influence later presidents to expand the government's role in the economy.

Roosevelt did not run for President in 1908, and wanted William Howard Taft to be President instead. Taft was chosen, and Roosevelt went to Africa to hunt big game. However, when he came back, he thought Taft was not doing a good job. He ran against Taft for President in 1912. While running for President, he was shot, but lived. Both Roosevelt and Taft lost to Woodrow Wilson. Roosevelt also thought Wilson was not doing a good job, either, and wanted the U.S. to enter World War I years before they did. Roosevelt died in 1919.

Besides being president, Roosevelt was an author and historian. He wrote 35 books about politics, ships, and hunting. He is thought to be one of America's presidents who read the most. He owned a large ranch in North Dakota. He also hunted large animals throughout the world and was active with the Boy Scouts of America. The popular stuffed animal doll, the "Teddy bear", was named after Roosevelt. He was so popular that his face was put on Mount Rushmore.

Roosevelt is one of four Presidents to be carved in stone on Mount Rushmore. He has a national park in North Dakota named after him, a type of elk (big deer), as well as river in Brazil. Historians consider him one of the best U.S. presidents.


</doc>
<doc id="7687" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7687" title="Composer">
Composer

A composer is someone who writes (composes) music. Some composers work by writing music down on paper; this is called 'written notation'. Classical music writers work this way. Writers for TV and movie music also usually write this way, so that an orchestra or other players can read the music and play it.

Some musicians are very good at improvisation. This means that they think up (invent) the music as they play it. Some church organists are good at improvising. During a service they may need to play some organ music to fill in the gaps while people are collecting money or taking communion. Jazz musicians are usually excellent at improvising. Improvisation is not written down, so each time it is different.

Popular and rock or soul music writers are often not able to read and write music down. Many pop and rock composers compose their songs on a guitar or piano. Cole Porter and Irving Berlin usually composed at the piano.

Many songs are written by two or more people. It is common for two people to work together to write songs. Sometimes, one person writes the music and one writes the words (the lyrics). Some songs such as folk songs were composed many years ago and no one knows who wrote them.



</doc>
<doc id="7688" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7688" title="Cannes Film Festival">
Cannes Film Festival

The Cannes Film Festival is an event held every year in France and features films from around the world. Famous people come to show up and support their films. The best films win prizes, including the top prize, the Palme d'Or. Past winners of the Palme d'Or (along with the year they were made and the country they are from) are:
"Feature Movies"

"Short Movies"

"Other"


</doc>
<doc id="7689" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7689" title="Henry VIII of England">
Henry VIII of England

Henry VIII (28 June 1491 – 28 January 1547) was the King of England from 1509 until his death. He is best remembered for splitting with the Pope and the Roman Catholic Church, and for having married six wives in succession.

Henry was born in Greenwich Palace on 28 June 1491 and was the second son of Henry VII of England and Elizabeth of York. He had one brother, who was called Arthur, Prince of Wales, and two sisters, who were called Margaret and Mary. Arthur should have been king after their father died, but Arthur died before his father, making Henry next in line for the throne. Henry ended up marrying Arthur's widow, Catherine of Aragon.

Henry VIII was born in 18 June 1491, in Greenwich. Henry VII and Elizabeth of York were loving parents, although they saw little of their children. Henry was their second son. He had his own servants and minstrels, and a fool named John Goose. He even had a whipping boy who was punished for Henry when he did something wrong. Prince Henry enjoyed music and was very good at it. At the age of 10 he could play many instruments, including the fife, harp, viola and drums. Henry VIII was also a scholar, linguist, musician and athlete at his early age. He could speak fluent Latin, French and Spanish. He got tutored by the best tutors and he also had to learn jousting, archery, hunting and other military arts. Young Henry was very religious. Henry's older brother was called Arthur. Arthur married a Spanish princess, Catalina de Aragon when he was fifteen. Prince Arthur died within a few months of his wedding of tuberculosis at the age of 15, but some say he died of plague or sweating sickness.

After his brother died, Henry VIII bonded closely with Catalina de Aragon (Catherine of Aragon). Later on they got married. The couple had a bit of trouble getting married because it states in the book of Leviticus 21, ‘If a brother is to marry the wife of a brother they will remain childless’. That meant that Catherine had to swear that her marriage with Arthur had not been perfect.
Young Henry VIII was now the heir to the throne. While his father was alive he was watched so closely, because the King feared for the safety of his only remaining male heir. Henry could go out only through a private door, and then he was under the supervision of specially appointed people. No one could speak to Henry. He spent most of his time in his room, which could only be entered through his father’s bedroom. Henry never spoke in public, unless it was to answer a question from his father. He kept his enthusiastic personality under control on public occasions because he feared his father's temper. He received little training for his future role as King by his father, and relied heavily on his counselors in the early years of his reign. In 1509 Henry VII died of tuberculosis as well and his son became King Henry VIII. He was 18 when he was crowned king and Catherine was crowened queen

The most important event that happened in England when Henry was the king was the country's change in religion. Because his first wife, Catherine of Aragon, had only had one daughter, and they did not have any sons to be his heirs, Henry asked the Pope to give them a divorce. The Pope would not do this. Catherine's nephew was Charles V, Emperor of the Holy Roman Empire, and he was very powerful. Also, Catherine's family ruled Spain, which was the largest Catholic country. Henry then chose a new Archbishop of Canterbury, a man called Thomas Cranmer. Henry knew that Cranmer would do what he wanted, and Cranmer agreed that Henry could have a divorce from Catherine. The Pope was so angry that he excommunicated Henry, meaning Henry was thrown out of the church. Henry fought back. In 1534, he passed the Act of Supremacy, which meant that the king, not the pope, was the head of the church in England. He then forced all priests and bishops to accept him as the new leader. Anyone who refused was punished.

Protestants thought that monasteries, in which Roman Catholic monks and nuns lived, had more money and land than the monks and nuns needed. Henry forced the monks and nuns to move out of the monasteries. Then Henry gave their money and land to men who supported him. Most of the men who received money and land from the closed monasteries were Protestants. This event was called the Dissolution of the monasteries.

After his divorce from Catherine of Aragon, Henry VIII married Anne Boleyn, who was younger than Catherine and still able to have children. When Anne, just like Catherine, only had a daughter and no sons, Henry blamed her for being a witch and had her beheaded by a French swordsman and started looking for another wife. Henry's most loyal official, Thomas Cromwell, helped him to find a way to get rid of Anne, by finding people who said that she had been the lover of several other men. Anne was put on trial and found guilty, and she was executed by having her head chopped off.

Henry's third wife was Jane Seymour. She soon gave birth to a son called Edward. This made Henry very happy, but, after a few days, Jane died. Henry had loved her very much and he never got over his sadness at her death. He lost interest in everything, and became very fat. He became angry with Thomas Cromwell when Cromwell suggested that he should get married again after Jane's death. 

After a while, Henry changed his mind. Because he still only had one son, he realised that it might be a good idea to marry again, and he agreed to marry Anne of Cleves, a German princess. When Anne arrived, Henry did not think she was as pretty as she looked in the pictures he had seen, and he was not satisfied with her. Anne was also unhappy, and agreed to be divorced from Henry after only a few months. In the meantime, Henry had noticed a young lady at court, called Catherine Howard, and thought that she might make a good wife. Catherine Howard was a cousin of Henry's second wife, Anne Boleyn. Henry and Catherine got married in 1540, but Catherine was much younger than Henry and she soon got tired of him and started to flirt with other men. After they had been married for just over a year, Henry found out that Catherine had been having an affair with someone else. She was found guilty of treason and was executed, just like Anne Boleyn had been a few years before.

Henry's sixth and last wife was called Catherine Parr. She was a woman in her thirties who had already been married twice. Her first two husbands had been much older than she was, and both had died. Henry thought that she would be more sensible and faithful than his other wives, and he turned out to be right. Catherine Parr stayed married to Henry for over three years, until he died, but they did not have any children.

After divorcing Catherine of Aragon, Henry began to suffer many different ailments, he never again regained health. He died on 28 January 1547 and was buried in Windsor Castle. Henry was the father of two queens and one king. They were Mary I of England, Elizabeth I of England and Edward VI of England. None of them had any children of their own.



</doc>
<doc id="7690" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7690" title="Orchestra">
Orchestra

An orchestra is a group of musicians playing instruments together. They usually play classical music. A large orchestra is sometimes called a "symphony orchestra" and a small orchestra is called a "chamber orchestra". A symphony orchestra may have about 100 players, while a chamber orchestra may have 30 or 40 players. The number of players will depend on what music they are playing and the size of the place where they are playing. The word "orchestra" originally meant the semi-circular space in front of a stage in a Greek theatre which is where the singers and instruments used to play. Gradually the word came to mean the musicians themselves.

The orchestra is directed by a conductor. He (or she) helps the players to play together, to get the right balance so that everything can be heard clearly, and to encourage the orchestra to play with the same kind of feeling. Some small chamber orchestras may play without a conductor. This was usual until the 19th century when the orchestras got very big and needed a conductor who made decisions and stood in front so that all the players could see him.

The instruments of the orchestra are divided into families: the strings, woodwind, brass and percussion. Each section (group of instruments) will have a player who is the "section principal". If the music says "solo" in their part it is the principal who will play the solo. The principals will make decisions about seating arrangements, and about technical ways of playing the music: for example the principal of the string sections will make sure all the players move their bows up and down in the same direction. The violins are divided into first and second violins. The first violins usually have the tune while the seconds, most of the time, are part of the accompaniment. The principal of the first violins is the leader (or concertmaster) of the orchestra. In a professional orchestra they will be the most highly paid member of the orchestra

The strings are the biggest section, although there are only four kinds of instruments: violin, viola, cello, and double bass. This is because they are playing most of the time and usually form the basis of the music. If they are not playing the tune they will probably be accompanying. The first and second violins play different notes: the firsts usually have the tune. The strings sit at the front of the stage in a fan-shape in front of the conductor. The first violins are on the conductor's left, then come the second violins, then the violas and then the cellos. The double basses are behind the cellos. Some conductors prefer to have the second violins on their right and the cellos between the first violins and violas (see image of the Dohnanyi Orchestra).

The woodwind sit in one or two rows (depending on the size of the orchestra) behind the strings. There are four main woodwind instruments: flute, oboe, clarinet, and bassoon. Each of these four instruments also come in different versions: 

The flute has a small version called the piccolo which plays an octave higher. It is the highest instrument in the orchestra. Occasionally there is an alto flute which is longer and plays a fifth (half an octave) lower than the flute. Most woodwind instruments need a reed, but the flute does not have a reed. 

The oboe has a larger version called the cor anglais (or "English horn") which sounds a fifth lower than the oboe. It has a reed which fits into a curved crook.

The clarinet has a larger version called the bass clarinet. There is a smaller version: the E flat clarinet. There is also a clarinet larger than a normal clarinet but smaller than a bass clarinet: the E flat alto clarinet. 

The bassoon has a larger version: the contrabassoon or double bassoon which sounds an octave lower. It is the lowest instrument in the orchestra.

A formal orchestra will always consist of two of the four main instruments. The variations of the instruments are used where the piece asks for it. Usually, the newer pieces written after 1850 will have more instruments. 

Sometimes a player will double on these extra instruments, for example: one of the flute players may also play the piccolo in the same piece. It depends on the piece of music. Obviously a player cannot play the flute and piccolo at the same time. If the two instruments do play at the same time an extra player will be needed for the piccolo.

The brass section has four sections: trumpet, trombone, French horn, and tuba. Some of these come in several sizes. The article on transposing instruments explains more about it. 
The trumpet may have several slightly different sizes. The lowest kind is a bass trumpet.
The trombone may be an alto, tenor, bass or contrabass trombone.
The French horn, like the other brass instruments, has changed over the years. Modern horns have at least three valves and are usually in F. They often sit in a different place to the other brass.
The tuba comes in different sizes and the player or conductor must decide which to use for the piece they are playing. There are large ones called contrabass tubas. A small tuba is commonly also seen and is called a euphonium or a baritone horn. 

The percussion section has the largest variety of instruments, but in an orchestra they will have the smallest number of players. This is because they are mostly loud and can be heard easily over the rest of the orchestra.
The timpani (or "kettle drums") can be tuned to particular notes. They are the most common percussion instrument. Composers such as Haydn and Mozart nearly always used them, even with their small orchestras. This is the most commonly used percussion instruments and is used in almost all pieces. 

The rest of the percussion section can include tuned percussion instruments like xylophone, glockenspiel, vibraphone, or marimba. Non-tuned percussion can be other kinds of drum like bass drum, snare drum, side drum, and a variety of others: tambourine, cymbal, castanets, triangle, woodblock, claves to name the most common ones. In an orchestral work, there can be many percussion instruments but a few players. The principal percussion player will have to decide which player will play which instrument(s). The percussionists have to work well together as a team so all parts can be covered. 

The piano is also used in an orchestra. 

It is difficult to say when the orchestra was invented because instruments have played together for many centuries. If we say that an orchestra is a group of string instruments with several players playing the same part, and that there may be wind instruments (i.e. woodwind and brass) or percussion playing as well, then the 17th century is the time that orchestras started. In Paris in 1626 King Louis XIII had an orchestra of 24 violins (called "24 Violons du Roi"). Later in the century the English king Charles II wanted to be like the French king and so he, too, had a string orchestra. Gradually the other instruments were added. At this time there was usually someone playing the harpsichord (the continuo part). It was often the composer himself, who would have conducted from the keyboard at important moments like the beginning and end of the piece.

Clarinets came into the orchestra at the end of the 18th century, and trombones at the beginning of the 19th century. Orchestras were still quite small, though. The saxophone was invented in the middle of the 19th century, but although they started to use it in orchestras, it soon became an instrument that was used in wind bands and later jazz bands. The opera composer Richard Wagner made the orchestra much bigger because he kept asking for extra instruments. He asked for a bass clarinet in his opera "Lohengrin", and for his cycle of four operas called "The Ring of the Nibelung" he asked for an exact number of players: 16 first violins, 16 second violins, 12 violas, 12 cellos, 8 double basses, 3 flutes and piccolo, 3 oboes and cor anglais, 3 clarinets and bass clarinet, 3 bassoons, 3 trumpets and bass trumpet, 3 tenor trombones and a double bass trombone, 8 horns with 4 of them playing a specially designed tuba, a bass tuba, percussion, and 6 harps.

Not all pieces written after that need quite such a large orchestra, but concert halls had become bigger and composers had got used to a bigger variety of sounds. Later composers sometimes added all sorts of unusual instruments: wind machine, sandpaper block, bottles, typewriter, anvils, iron chains, cuckoo, Swannee whistle etc. None of these are normal orchestral instruments. Sometimes a piano is used in the percussion section, e.g. Igor Stravinsky used one in "Petrouchka". Sometimes voices are also used.

Today orchestras can usually be heard in concert halls. They also play in opera houses for opera and ballet, or in a large stadium for huge open-air concerts. Orchestras may record in studios for making CDs or recording music for movies. Many of them can be heard easily and cheaply every summer in London at the BBC Proms.

Some of the greatest orchestras today include: the New York Philharmonic Orchestra, the Boston Symphony Orchestra, the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, the Cleveland Orchestra, the Los Angeles Philharmonic Orchestra, the London Symphony Orchestra, the London Philharmonic Orchestra, the BBC Symphony Orchestra, the Royal Concertgebouw Orchestra, the Balmacewen School Orchestra, the Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra, the Berlin Philharmonic Orchestra, the Leipzig Gewandhaus Orchestra, the St Petersburg Philharmonic Orchestra, the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra, and the NHK Symphony Orchestra (Tokyo). Opera houses usually have their own orchestra, e.g. the orchestras of the Metropolitan Opera House, La Scala, or the Royal Opera House.

In many countries there are opportunities for school-age children who play instruments well to play in youth orchestras in their areas. In Britain some of the very best are selected to play in the National Youth Orchestra of Great Britain. Other world-famous youth orchestras include the Orquesta Sinfónica Simón Bolívar, Gustav Mahler Youth Orchestra, the European Union Youth Orchestra and the West-Eastern Divan Orchestra.



</doc>
<doc id="7691" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7691" title="Category:Iran">
Category:Iran

These category is about Iran. Here you can find articles about different aspects of the country.


</doc>
<doc id="7692" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7692" title="Homosexuality">
Homosexuality

Homosexuality is a sexual orientation. A homosexual person is sexually and romantically attracted to people of their own gender. Men who are attracted to other men are called "gay." Women who are attracted to other women can be called "gay" as well, but are usually called "lesbians". People who are attracted to men "and" women are called bisexual. Together homosexual, bisexual, and transgender people make up the "LGBT community." It is difficult to say how many people are homosexual. Homosexuality is known to exist in all cultures and countries, though some governments deny that homosexuality exists in their countries. 

One may say that homosexuality is the term used for people that feel romantically attracted to their own sex, but other definitions also exist. When one views homosexuality as the term for people that feel attracted to their own sex, more people are gay than when one might view homosexuality as only a term for people who do "have" sexual relationships with their own sex. Usually, the term is used to view all the people who are attracted to their own sex, also the people who did not have a sexual relationship with their own sex (yet). 
Nonetheless, the most visible form of homosexuality is the actual relationship. Most 'evidence' of homosexuality in ancient cultures comes from drawings of the men in an intimate relationship or sex, because it's the most obvious. 

The word "homosexual" comes from the Ancient Greek word "homo", meaning "same", and the Latin word for "gender". People in the LGBT community usually say "gay" instead of "homosexual." Some people also use the term "homophile" (from Greek "όμος" ("homos";meaning "the same") and "φιλεῖν" ("philein"; meaning "to love"). This term emphasizes romantic interest in the same sex, rather than sexual attraction.

There are many different words to describe homosexual people. Some of these are used to insult homosexual people. However, the LGBT community sometimes uses these words to describe themselves because the word "homosexual" can sound too clinical. This is done to make the words less hurtful. Some words to describe homosexual men are "gay" and "queer". Words to describe homosexual women are "lesbian" and "dyke." "Lesbian" is used most often. "Dyke" is used less often and is sometimes used to describe lesbians who are more masculine (act or dress more like men.)

When homosexual people keep their sexual orientation a secret, they are said to be "in the closet". "Out" or "out of the closet" is a slang term that means a homosexual person is open about his or her sexual orientation. This means he or she does not hide the fact that he or she is homosexual. Some gay and lesbian people stay in the closet because of fear of what would happen or because they live in a place that is not safe for homosexuals.

Sometimes people who are 'out' also say they are 'proud'. "Out" means they are not hiding their sexual orientation. "Proud" means that they are not ashamed of it. "Proud" or "Pride" has a special meaning in the LGBT community. It means they are celebrating and being happy that they are homosexual. It is not 'pride' meaning that they have done something to be proud of, but 'pride' meaning the opposite of shame. Many cities have "Pride Parades". These used to be protest marches. Today, they are usually celebrations of the LGBT community. They usually occur in June, in memory of the 'Stonewall Riots' that happened in New York City in 1969. These riots happened because police harassed and arrested people for being homosexual. 'Stonewall' or the 'Stonewall Riots' are sometimes called the start of the LGBT rights movement.

The causes of homosexuality and bisexuality are controversial (people do not agree on them). Many religions see homosexual or bisexual behavior as sin. Some religious people also see homosexuality and bisexuality as a "choice" that a person makes. Though most religions see homosexual intercourse as the sin, not the person who is gay. Many religious people believe gays are equal, but the sexual aspect is not natural. Not all believe the "attraction," is sinful, just the actions in response to the desire.

However, many modern scientists have theorized that homosexuality is not a choice. The causes of homosexuality are not all understood, but genetics and the effects of prenatal hormones (when a baby is growing in its mother) and environment are sometimes thought to be causes. Scientists also show that homosexuality happens not only in humans. Most animals (like penguins, chimpanzees, and dolphins) often show homosexuality, some even for life-long periods as is the case with humans .

Many scientists and doctors also agree that no one can change their sexual orientation. Doctors used to treat gay people as if they had mental illnesses. However, homosexuality is no longer called a disease by doctors in many countries. There are some religious groups who still try to 'cure' homosexuality. This is called 'reparative therapy.' In therapies like this one, homosexual individuals have tried to change themselves to heterosexual and have even claimed they were changed, but most people do not believe it is possible.

Reparative Therapy is condemned by many medical and psychiatry groups like the American Psychological Association, American Psychiatric Association, Royal College of Psychiatrists, National Association of Social Workers, Royal College of Nursing, and the American Academy of Pediatrics. These scientific and educated groups agree that sexual orientation cannot change. They also agree that gay people can be badly hurt by reparative therapy.

Many people believe that it is unfortunate to discuss causes of homosexuality and bisexuality without discussing causes of heterosexuality, too. Although it is easy to understand why heterosexuality exists (heterosexual sex produces babies), that does not explain how the brain develops to produce heterosexual people. Heterosexuality, homosexuality, and bisexuality all have causes, and some people believe that to discuss only the causes of homosexuality and bisexuality suggests that there is something wrong with people who have those orientations.

Like all people, gay people can fall in love and have life-long relationships. In most countries, they cannot legally marry their partners. However, they still have relationships in the same way as heterosexual people. They often call each other 'partners' or 'life-partners' instead of 'spouse', 'husband', or 'wife.' Instead of having a marriage ceremony, they may have a 'commitment ceremony.'

Some homosexual people have marriage ceremonies even though governments do not recognize or accept them. They may call their partner a spouse, wife, or husband despite the law.

But to them, the important part about marriage is not just the name. Married people get many benefits from being married. Depending on the country, these benefits can include paying less taxes, getting their spouse's insurance, inheriting property, social security benefits, having or adopting children together, emigrating to a spouse's country, being able to make choices for a sick spouse, or even being allowed to visit a sick spouse who is in a hospital.

Today there are seven countries that allow homosexual people to marry: the Netherlands, Norway, Belgium, Spain, South Africa, Sweden, Portugal, Iceland, Argentina and Canada. The Netherlands was first in 2001. Iceland and Argentina were the most recent in 2010. Sometimes these are called 'Same-sex Marriages' or 'Gay marriages'. The United States has limited same-sex marriage: it is legal in Connecticut, Iowa, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New York, Vermont, and the capital, Washington, DC,

Instead of marriage, some countries or states offer homosexuals 'civil unions' or 'domestic partnerships.' This offers some of the protections and benefits of marriage, but not all. Civil unions and domestic partnerships are sometimes seen by the LGBT community as being 'second class' (not as good as 'first class'). They do offer "some" benefits for gay and lesbian couples, but they also suggest that these couples are not as important or valid as heterosexual couples. Some people even say this is like the "separate but equal" rules that were used to segregate people by race in the United States. They believe that separate is "never" equal and homosexuals should not accept being second class citizens.

Homosexual sex, or gay sex is when people of the same sex have sexual relations with each other, whether they are two or more males, or two or more females.

Many religions say homosexual sex is a sin, including Islam, Christianity and Judaism. However, some denominations (different parts) of these religions, especially Christianity, Judaism and some eastern religions now accept homosexuality. Some religions have always accepted homosexuality, such as Wicca.

In modern times, homosexuality is more accepted in "western" countries. Most western countries have laws that protect homosexuals from violence and discrimination.

In many other countries, however, homosexuals are not safe from discrimination. A homosexual person can be fired from a job because he is gay, even if he is a good worker. Homosexuals can be denied renting a home or being able to eat in a restaurant because of their sexual orientation. In these countries, homosexuals can experience discrimination and violence. For example, Islamic law is used in some places to kill homosexuals or place them in jail. In Iran, since 1979, some groups believe over 4,000 homosexuals have been killed because of their sexual orientation. In 2005, after fourteen months of prison and torture, two teenage boys were hung in Iran .

In the United Kingdom, homosexuality used to be a crime. Oscar Wilde, the famous Irish writer was imprisoned for it, and as a result, it destroyed his reputation and career as a wit and playwright. Alan Turing, the man who helped the Allies in World War II by breaking the Enigma Code used by the Germans, was convicted of this crime and ultimately killed himself over the effects of the attempt to cure his homosexuality.

Today in the United Kingdom, homosexuals are safer. Homosexual sex between adults is not a crime. Gay and lesbian couples cannot marry, but they can have "civil partnerships" that have some of the rights and benefits of marriage. Gay people can be in the military. So although the United Kingdom has changed many things, homosexuals still do not have full equal rights there.

In most of the world, homosexuals still do not have the same rights and freedoms that heterosexuals have.

Homosexual behaviour has also been seen in animals. Homosexual, transgender and bisexual behaviour includes sex, courtship, affection, pair bonding, and parenting. Homosexual behaviour is widespread among animals. Bruce Bagemihl did research in 1999. It shows that homosexual behaviour has been observed in close to 1500 species, from primates to gut worms, and is well documented for 500 of them. The sexual behaviour of animals takes many different forms, even within the same species. The motivations for these behaviours are only partly known, mainly because the respecive species has not been fully studied yet. According to Bagemihl, "the animal kingdom [does] it with much greater sexual diversity—including homosexual, bisexual and nonreproductive sex—than the scientific community and society at large have previously been willing to accept."



There are national and international groups or organizations for the LGBT community. These organizations are often political. They fight for the rights and safety of homosexuals.

Some of the more important political organizations are:


</doc>
<doc id="7693" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7693" title="Dwight D. Eisenhower">
Dwight D. Eisenhower

Dwight David "Ike" Eisenhower (October 14, 1890–March 28, 1969) (born in Denison, Texas) was an American soldier and politician. He was known across the world for his help leading the Allied invasions in World War II, and he later became the 34th President of the United States (from 1953 to 1961).

Eisenhower was born into a family which did not have a lot of money. He joined the military and he moved up the ranks. During World War II, he rose his way up the ranks to become a 5-star general. He became the Supreme Allied Commander who led Operation Overlord (an Allied attack on Germany which was one of the most important battles of the war).

After World War II ended, he was considered a war hero. In the 1952 U.S. presidential election, the American public begged Eisenhower to run for President. Eisenhower (whose political views were unknown at the time) joined the Republican Party. He chose Richard Nixon as his vice-presidential candidate and won the election by beating Adlai Stevenson.

He served two terms from 1953-1961.

During the beginning of his first term, he oversaw a ceasefire (which stopped the fighting) during the Korean War. He created NASA (the United States' space program) which began a space race against the Soviet Union. Eisenhower believed that the United States should not try to fight wars overseas, but instead that United States' amount of nuclear weapons should be increased by a lot so it can have an advantage in the Cold War. That way the United States was able to keep the Soviet Union in check without spending a lot of money. For this reason, the U.S. government had balanced budgets during his presidency and did not have to borrow money. 

He intimidated the Soviet Union by making them believe that the United States would respond to any act of aggression with the usage of nuclear weapons. That policy is called brinkmanship, new look, and massive retaliation. He also authorized planes to spy on the Soviet Union, but when a U.S. spy plane accidentally crashed into the Soviet Union near the end of Eisenhower's term, it hurt relations between the United States and the Soviet Union.

McCarthyism (when Senator Joseph McCarthy was accusing hundreds of people of being communist spies without evidence) was also an issue during his presidency. Eisenhower disliked Joseph McCarthy and tried to bring him down behind the scenes, but Eisenhower did not like to make enemies, so he did not talk about McCarthy much.

Domestically (in the country), the economy was doing very well and the nation was prosperous. Eisenhower supervised the creation of the interstate highway system and created the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare. Eisenhower was a moderate conservative (near the center of the political spectrum). He wanted to continue some New Deal programs such as Social Security, but at the same time, he wanted the government to be limited. At first, many criticized him for not doing enough to give civil rights to African Americans, but later during his presidency, he signed two civil rights acts and sent federal troops to Topeka, Kansas to make sure schools were desegregated. 

When Eisenhower's presidency ended he was not very popular. Over time his reputation slowly improved and historians now generally consider him to be a good president.



</doc>
<doc id="7696" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7696" title="Factor">
Factor

A factor can be:



</doc>
<doc id="7697" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7697" title="Ball">
Ball

A ball may be:

Balls were used thousands of years ago by the early Egyptians, the ancient Greeks and Romans, and the Aztecs and earlier Mesoamerican peoples.

Games that use balls include:



</doc>
<doc id="7698" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7698" title="Ferrocement">
Ferrocement

Ferrocement is both a method and a material used in building or sculpting with cement, sand, water and wire or mesh material. It is often called the thin shell. Thin shell ferrocement offers strength and economy and can be used in many ways including: building homes, creating sculptures, or building boats and ships. 



</doc>
<doc id="7706" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7706" title="Camera lens">
Camera lens

A camera lens is the part of a camera which is usually made from glass. A lens is needed if someone wants to take a picture. The lens makes an image by focusing the light on the film. In a digital camera the film is replaced with a computer chip.

Many cheap cameras only have one lens that people cannot change or take out. This is called a "fixed lens" design. More expensive cameras usually have lenses that come off, so anyone can take out one lens and put in another. Depending on what a person wishes to photograph, he or she can use different lenses (objectives) to make a different kind of picture. For example, to take a picture of something far away a person might use a telephoto lens. There are many kinds of lenses.

The study of lenses and how they work is called optics.

For camera lens, it is most difficult to understand the lens design for large format. There is over hundred year effort to provide various ways to get good pictures. These lenses, some used even before World War II, are still usable today. Computers now let engineers make better lenses, though, because they can calculate the way that light goes through the lens and find the best design for each task.


</doc>
<doc id="7707" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7707" title="Boy">
Boy

A boy is a young male child or male adolescent). Little boys still have the body of a child. It is not until they reach puberty (adolescence) (perhaps around age 12 to 14) that their bodies start to mature and they become a man.

The word “boy” was used a long time ago by some people called Anglo Saxons. 

The opposite of “boy” is a girl. A girl is a female child who will grow into a woman.

The way boys are brought up will be vary a lot between different cultures. Boys are supposed to be tougher than girls. It is their job to do work which is physically hard, including fighting in the army when they are grown up. However, people’s attitudes are changing and nowadays many girls like to do the same things as boys. In Western cultures boys traditionally wear trousers (pants) while girls wear dresses or skirts. However, many girls also wear trousers these days, like boys, especially when dressed informally. Boys often have shorter hair than girls, although this can vary a lot according to quickly changing fashions.

Traditionally boys like rough games (such as soccer or rugby) and enjoy playing with mechanical things such as toy cars and trains. People today have long discussions about whether this is because they are born like that, or because that is the way society expects them to behave.

The traditional colour for a boy is blue. For girls it is pink. When a baby is born in a hospital it usually gets a blue or pink tag on its wrist or ankle, according to whether it is a boy or a girl.

Some names are boys’ names, others are girls’ names. There are some names which can be for boys and girls (although they may be spelt differently, e.g. “Leslie” for a boy and “Lesley” for a girl).

In some countries such as Britain an “old boy” means a grown up who used to be a pupil at a particular school (e.g. “He is an old boy of Cransbury High School”). The expression can also be used in a very informal, friendly way, e.g. “Nice to see you, old boy!”.




</doc>
<doc id="7708" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7708" title="Company clerk">
Company clerk

A company clerk is a person who keeps files, does secretarial work, etc., at an office or military camp or base.


</doc>
<doc id="7709" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7709" title="Paul McCartney">
Paul McCartney

Sir James Paul McCartney (born 18 June 1942 in Liverpool, England) is Britain's most successful musician and composer, and one of the most successful musicians in the world. He was a member of the rock band The Beatles, and with John Lennon wrote most of the group's songs.

McCartney began writing songs before he was sixteen, and has written well over two hundred. His most famous song is "Yesterday", recorded by the Beatles in 1965. Since then around 2000 artists have recorded the song. Other songs written by McCartney for The Beatles include "Can't Buy Me Love", "Hey Jude", "Penny Lane", "Eleanor Rigby" and "Let It Be".

Often, Beatles songs would have "Lennon/McCartney" written on the record, and it would look like that they had written it together. In fact, most Lennon/McCartney songs were written by only one of them, or with one adding only small parts to the other's work. Each counted on the other to help make their songs better, so they agreed to share the credit equally.

Since the Beatles had stopped working together in 1971, McCartney started a new band called Wings with his wife Linda. Wings also had many hit records, including "Band On The Run" and "Mull Of Kintyre". McCartney wrote "Live and Let Die", which became the theme song to a James Bond film with the same title. Wings disbanded in 1981.

Later McCartney recorded "Ebony and Ivory" with Stevie Wonder, then "The Girl is Mine" and "Say, Say, Say" with Michael Jackson. He and Jackson became friends, but this ended after Jackson outbid McCartney for ownership of the publishing company which owned most of the Beatles's music.

McCartney had other hit songs, and also wrote and starred in the movie, "Give My Regards to Broad Street", with Linda. The theme song from the movie, "No More Lonely Nights", was also a hit, but the movie did poorly, and McCartney's popularity suffered. He had to work hard to prove his talent was still strong. He co-wrote new songs with Elvis Costello, and began touring more often than he had in years.

Along with popular music, McCartney also began composing classical music, including an about Liverpool. McCartney was for his contributions to music and to British culture, and for his charity work. He bought John Lennon's former school, Quarry Bank, which he then turned into a school.

McCartney married Linda Eastman, a photographer, in 1969. She had a daughter, Heather, whom he adopted. McCartney and Linda had three more children together, named Mary, Stella and James. Stella became a popular fashion designer after she grew up.

Linda died in 1998 of breast cancer (McCartney's mother also died from the same disease in 1956). He married model Heather Mills in 2002; the couple's daughter Beatrice was born in 2003. McCartney and Mills separated in 2006, and, after a long battle over a settlement, McCartney and Mills divorced in March 2008.


</doc>
<doc id="7710" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7710" title="Afrikaner people">
Afrikaner people

Afrikaners are white South Africans who speak Afrikaans as mother tongue and follow the Afrikaans culture. Most of them have Dutch, German, French Huguenot, ancestors. Also known as Boere, Voortrekkers and Burgers, although under slightly different contexts. In South Africa there are about 3 million white people with Afrikaans as mother tongue, that can be assumed to be Afrikaners if they chose to follow the Afrikaans culture.


</doc>
<doc id="7711" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7711" title="John Lennon">
John Lennon

John Winston Ono Lennon (October 9, 1940 – December 8, 1980) was a member of the rock band The Beatles. After the Beatles stopped making records in 1970, he lived in the United States with his wife Yoko Ono, and continued his music career.

Lennon started the Beatles in his of Liverpool, with Paul McCartney and George Harrison. After Ringo Starr joined the band, they started to be very successful. People were excited by their music, and their live performances always pleased audiences. Manager Brian Epstein and record producer George Martin helped the Beatles become the most popular act in entertainment.

Lennon played the guitar, and later learned to play the piano. Most of the songs the Beatles recorded were written by Lennon and McCartney. Their songs were always credited as by "Lennon/McCartney" on Beatle records, but in fact they usually wrote their songs on their own. The two men often helped to make each other's songs better, so they liked to share writing credit. Famous songs written by Lennon for the Beatles are "A Hard Day's Night", "Help!", "Strawberry Fields Forever", "A Day In The Life" and many others. 

The Beatles grew apart as the members got older. Lennon divorced his first wife, Cynthia Powell, and married Yoko Ono, while McCartney married Linda Eastman. Each wife had different ideas, and encouraged their husbands to depend less on each other. Later, some fans blamed Yoko and Linda for breaking the Beatles up.

Lennon loved his wife so much that he added her surname Ono to his own name, since she became Yoko Ono Lennon when she married him. He had never liked his Winston (given him by his mother after Winston Churchill) and wanted to simply change it, but British law did not allow this. He could add a new name though, so he did that. He never used the name Winston again, unless he had to for legal reasons (such as his "" in America). Otherwise he gave his "full name" as John Ono Lennon.

Lennon and Ono moved to the United States in 1971, and settled in New York City. Ono had a daughter, Kyoko, from an earlier husband, Anthony Cox, who took her and disappeared. It was easier to look for Kyoko, and get the law's help to look, if they stayed in America. Ono and Lennon were also hurt emotionally by the way Ono was treated by many people in England. Some insulted Ono, and asked Lennon why he was with her. On the other hand, most of the people they met in America accepted them together.

Lennon recorded several albums and singles after the Beatles disbanded. The best-known one was "Imagine". He made many records with Yoko Ono. On some records they called themselves the Plastic Ono Band. Lennon and Ono worked with different musician friends, including Ringo Starr, Jim Keltner, Klaus Voormann, Harry Nilsson, Eric Clapton and Elton John. Lennon's solo music was different from his Beatles songs. He spoke more directly about his own feelings, and sometimes used harsh language or loud sounds. This upset a few fans, who wished for more Beatles music from him.

Lennon and Ono were also campaigners for peace in the world. They used Lennon's famous name to talk to the media (television, radio and newspapers) about their beliefs. Lennon and Ono were sometimes in trouble with people like politicians, who did not like the things they said. President Richard Nixon's administration even tried to Lennon, because of his political views. 

The two things Lennon and Ono wanted most were to live permanently in the United States, and to have a child together. Their lives were stressful in the early 1970s for several reasons. There were the problems with immigrating to the United States, and with the search for Kyoko. The public were also sometimes negative toward Ono, her music, and her ideas. The couple had several miscarriages, caused partly by the stress.

Lennon also had business problems, because leaving the Beatles was not as simple as quitting an ordinary job. The Beatles had signed many contracts. They promised to do things in a certain way, meet deadlines, and work together, to be paid as musicians and songwriters. Many business deals had to be finished or changed, and new deals had to be made, to continue their music careers apart. This took time, and meant making many hard decisions. The four former Beatles could not always agree on what to do with the things they owned together. It took years to work out what to still own in common, what to divide up, and what to let go. The choices they had to make sometimes hurt their friendship.

Lennon and Ono separated for over a year, from late 1973 until early 1975, because of the stress in their lives, and their relationship. Each of them dated another person (Lennon pairing off with May Pang, his and Ono's , and Ono with guitarist David Spinozza), and they were nearly divorced. They spoke nearly every day by telephone, however, and tried to work things out. They decided that they wanted to be together more than anyone else could want them apart, and they reunited.

When Richard Nixon faced the Watergate crisis in 1974, it became more important than pushing Lennon out of the country. The deportation case against him was dropped. Lennon won the right to stay in America in 1975. Lennon and Ono also finally had a son, Sean Lennon, that October. Father and son shared the same birthday.

Lennon and Ono stopped making music for five years, to be able to spend more time together, and give Sean as much attention as he needed. They lived on Lennon's income from the music he already made. Ono became Lennon's business manager, and invested his money in real estate and organic farming. Her office was downstairs in the Dakota, the apartment building where they lived, so they were never far apart. Lennon became a full-time father to Sean, and he was proud to call himself a "househusband". They also visited Ono's family in Japan several times, and made other trips.

In 1980 Lennon and Ono began to write new music, as Sean got old enough to begin school. They recorded a new album titled "Double Fantasy" that year. A single from the album, "(Just Like) Starting Over", was a hit, and people welcomed Lennon back. Even people who had not liked Ono earlier now respected her, and more of them began to like her music. Lennon and Ono planned to start fresh, do a world tour, and record more albums.
there

On December 8th 1980, Lennon was shot dead as he was going into his home, by a man named Mark David Chapman who was mentally ill. Even though he was ill, Chapman was still for murder, because he killed Lennon. Chapman pled guilty to the murder the next year, and is still in prison. He admitted later he was jealous of Lennon's fame and success, while his own life disappointed him. Chapman thought that killing Lennon would give his own life more meaning. He is always refused for parole, and is (hated by many people).

Fans all over the world Lennon's death. It made them feel that a special part of their lives was gone. Many met in New York's Central Park, near where Lennon and Ono lived, to say their goodbyes. Some played recordings of Lennon's music. Politicians and celebrities everywhere were sorry Lennon had died, even if they disliked him, because his music meant so much to so many people. Radio stations in the Soviet Union, where rock music was rarely allowed to be played, gave an hour over to Beatles recordings.

There was no funeral for Lennon, but Yoko Ono asked people everywhere to observe ten minutes of silence and prayer for him on Sunday, December 14, 1980, at 2:00 PM. At two o'clock, the music playing in Central Park stopped, and people all over the world fell silent for ten minutes. Other tributes came later, including songs by George Harrison ("All Those Years Ago"), Paul McCartney ("Here Today"), Elton John ("Empty Garden (Hey Hey Johnny)") and Queen ("Life Is Real (Song for Lennon)").

Lennon's music (with and after his Beatles years) is still played everywhere, and people are still touched by it. A series of radio programs was devoted to playing demoes of his songs. Young musicians play Lennon's records, and learn his music. Yoko Ono released an album of acoustic versions of many Lennon songs, to help musicians understand them better.

There is now a garden in Central Park in Lennon's memory called "Strawberry Fields" after one of Lennon's most popular songs, which in turn was named after a Salvation Army orphanage near his childhood home. On October 9, 1990, on what would have been Lennon's fiftieth birthday, "Imagine" was on radio and television stations all over the world, uniting people everywhere to remember Lennon and his music.

BRIT Awards:




</doc>
<doc id="7714" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7714" title="Invention">
Invention

An invention is a new thing that someone has made. The computer was an invention when it was first made. We say when it was "invented". New things that are made or created are called inventions. The car is an invention that everyone knows.

Ideas are also called inventions. Writers can invent characters, and then invent a story about them. Inventions are made by inventors.

Over time, humans have invented objects which make life easier for themselves. Because of this, a quote "necessity is the mother of invention", was written. The quote means that a lack of something should inspire someone to create something to fill that empty space. However, not all people believe that this is true. They think that too much of something can lead to an invention.



</doc>
<doc id="7715" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7715" title="Genocide">
Genocide

Genocide is the crime of killing many people who are all part of one ethnic group, religious group, or some sort of similar group, and trying to destroy that group. Genocide is done usually by a group, such as a government, or military group, not by one person or a small number of people. Usually, the motivation for genocide is based on political reasons.

The word genocide was made up by Raphael Lemkin, a Polish Jew, in 1944, from the words "genos" (Greek for family, tribe or race) and "-cide" (from the Latin "occidere", to kill). It was first used to the Nazi Holocaust, when many groups, including Jews and others, were killed.

Ustashe of Croatia are another example of genocidial horror. About a million of Serbs were killed in WWII in Ustashe concentration camps. Methods used were disgusting even to German Nazis. 
Another example of genocide was when about a million of the Tutsi group of people of Rwanda were killed along with Hutus who were against the genocide in 1994.

In 1933 Lemkin made a speech to the Legal Council of the League of Nations conference on international criminal law in Madrid, for which he prepared an essay on the "Crime of Barbarity" as a crime against international law. The purpose of the crime, which later evolved into the idea of genocide, was based mostly on the experience of Assyrians massacred in Iraq on 11 August 1933. The event in Iraq reminded him of earlier similar events of the Armenian Genocide during World War I.

Today, any genocide is prohibited by the Genocide Convention and actor or inciter of genocide is judged by the International Criminal Court.



</doc>
<doc id="7716" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7716" title="Yoko Ono">
Yoko Ono

Yoko Ono (born February 18, 1933) is a Japanese-born musician and artist. She is the widow of John Lennon. Before she married Lennon she was married to Toshi Ichiyanagi from 1956 to 1963, and Anthony Cox from 1963 to 1969. She has two children, Kyoko Chan Cox (with Cox) and Sean Lennon (with Lennon).

Both of her parents came from wealthy families. Her father, who was a descendant of a former emperor of Japan, had been a concert pianist, but gave up music to become a banker. Ono was tutored privately, then sent to exclusive private schools, studying classical music and art, and also learning English. She visited the United States before World War II with her family. Her father was on a business trip to America when the war began, and was with many other Japanese in the country. He was not able to communicate with his family for many years. Ono's mother took her, her brother and sister away from Tokyo, and they stayed in a rural area.

After the war ended, the family was reunited, and moved to New York for her father's job. Ono enrolled in Sarah Lawrence College, but quit during her third year. She became interested in art and music, and began writing poetry. Many of her poems were instructions, for creating pieces of art. She later published some of these in a book, titled "Grapefruit". Her parents were not happy that Ono chose to make her own way, rather than following her family's wishes for her life. When she married Toshi Ichiyanagi, a young pianist, her parents her.

The marriage did not work out, and Ono rented a loft apartment of her own. She became friends with local artists in New York, including Andy Warhol and a group called Fluxus. She hosted small parties and "happenings" for her artist friends, and began to do artwork of her own. This brought her some notoriety in time, but not fame. She remarried, to Tony (Anthony) Cox, and they had a daughter, named Kyoko.

Ono went to London with Cox and Kyoko during 1966, to promote her career as an artist. John Lennon, who was a member of The Beatles, went to one of her art shows. He enjoyed the (fantasy-like) quality of her work. Ono and Lennon became friends, and later lovers, as each lost interest in their spouses. Lennon wanted them to be together as much as possible. He broke a rule the Beatles had never to bring a wife or girlfriend to their recording sessions. He brought her along anytime he could. They were married in March 1969, after they were both divorced.

Many Beatles fans blamed Ono for "breaking up" the band through her influence on Lennon. He seemed to many people to have "gone crazy" since meeting her. The truth was, Ono simply encouraged Lennon to do things he'd already wanted to do, but let himself be talked out of doing in the past – including quitting the Beatles. Ono and Lennon started a new, part-time group they called the Plastic Ono Band. They also tried to have a baby together. Ono miscarried several times, until their son Sean Lennon was born in 1975, on Lennon's 35th birthday. Ono was also able to with her family, during the 1970s.

Ono was Lennon's "muse", inspiring his music and his creative side, for the rest of his life. The two worked together on both his post-Beatles records, and Ono's wish to also have a music career. She was more interested in "experimental" music than in classical or popular music. Ono's songs and unique style sounded strange to most listeners. It was offensive to many people, who thought Lennon should have either stayed with the Beatles, or made more music in their style. Ono changed her style, and began to write and record more pop songs, but her music never became popular. Years later, some younger musicians (such as The B-52's) admitted they had liked Ono's music. They were inspired by it, as Lennon had been.

After Lennon's death in 1980, Ono recorded several solo albums. The first was titled "Season of Glass". Her later records were praised by some music critics. They were even enjoyed by some Lennon fans, but the albums never sold well. Ono gave up her own musical career, and became the "caretaker" of Lennon's estate (the things he left when he died) and his non-Beatles work.

When Sean Lennon grew up, he also became a musician. He helped Ono to compile (collect and put in order) her old recordings, and make some new ones. She also revived some of her earlier artwork, and gave the money made from sales and exhibits to charities. Ono recently (2006) appeared at the opening of "Love", a Cirque du Soleil show featuring Beatles music, to help promote it.


</doc>
<doc id="7717" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7717" title="Coast">
Coast

The coast is where land meets the sea. 

The coast also means the land next to the sea, which can also be called the shore, or sea-shore. However, coast is not used to describe where rivers or lakes meet the land - it is only used to describe the sea meeting the land. 

If a house is near to the coast we say it is "on the coast". When we talk about a long part of the coast we call it "the coast-line". 
Sometimes, 'coast' can be part of a place name or the description of a large area. For instance, the East Coast of the United States describes the all of the Eastern side of the United States that is next to the Atlantic Ocean. 

In some countries like England or Australia the people sometimes use the word sea-side for the coast.

Coasts often have many living things living there and provide habitat for many animals and plants.



</doc>
<doc id="7718" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7718" title="George Harrison">
George Harrison

George Harrison (25 February 1943 – 29 November 2001) was an English musician. He was born and grew up in Liverpool, England, and was first famous as a member of The Beatles. After the group broke up in 1970, he had a solo career. He made many albums and worked with other musicians including Eric Clapton, Bob Dylan, Phil Spector, Roy Orbison, Tom Petty, and Ravi Shankar. He was also interested in Eastern mysticism and charitable causes.

George's best-known album was "All Things Must Pass," which he made just after the Beatles broke up. Harrison owned a in England called Friar Park, where he lived from 1970 until he died. He built his own inside the mansion, which for a time was better than Abbey Road Studios, where the Beatles had made their records. Having a private studio meant Harrison could work on songs and recordings anytime he wanted.

Ravi Shankar came to Harrison during 1971 with news about a war in Bangladesh, where thousands of people had died and millions more were refugees and starving. Shankar asked for Harrison's help to give a benefit show to buy food for them. Harrison called on many of his musician friends, who put together an charity concert to help the refugees. The "Concert for Bangla Desh", a live recording, became a best-selling album, raised money for the refugees, and brought worldwide attention to the problems in their country. It also inspired later benefits, including Live Aid in the 1980s.

Harrison found a new musical partner in the 1980s, when Jeff Lynne of Electric Light Orchestra began to write and record songs with him. The two men worked well together and became close friends. Harrison and Lynne formed another band, the Traveling Wilburys, with fellow musicians Bob Dylan, Tom Petty, and Roy Orbison. The Traveling Wilburys recorded two albums, which became hits.

Harrison married a , Pattie Boyd, in 1966, but they were divorced in 1971, and had no children. Boyd left Harrison to be with his friend, guitarist Eric Clapton, but all three remained friends. Harrison married again in 1978, to American-born Olivia Trinidad Arias, who had worked for his record company. Arias became the mother of Harrison's son Dhani, whose name is comprised of the names of two notes in the Indian music scale. Dhani grew up to be a musician like his father, fronting the band thenewno2. He went to Brown University in the United States.

In the late 1970s Harrison formed a film production company, Handmade Films, which produced movies including Monty Python's "Life of Brian" and Terry Gilliam's "Time Bandits".

The grounds of Harrison's home, Friar Park, had been more or less open to the public, until the murder of his former bandmate John Lennon late in 1980. Harrison was very hurt and shocked by Lennon's death, and was afraid someone might try to harm him or his family. Afterwards, the gates were locked, and no-entry notices were posted. In December, 1999, an intruder did indeed break into his home, stabbing Harrison with a knife, but he and his wife Olivia stopped the intruder and called the police. Harrison recovered and the man who attacked him, who was mentally ill, was sent to a mental hospital.

In the 1990s, decades of smoking cigarettes caused Harrison to develop throat cancer. He later developed lung cancer, which caused his death in 2001. His family issued a last statement from him: "Everything else can wait, but the search for God cannot wait, and love one another." Even music was not as important to Harrison as his wanting people to learn to get along with each other, and to make the world a better place.

A year after Harrison's death, Jeff Lynne, Dhani Harrison, the two remaining Beatles (Paul McCartney and Ringo Starr), and other musicians held the "Concert for George", which remembered Harrison's music, his life, and his gifts to humanity. All the profits from the concert were given to charity.




</doc>
<doc id="7719" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719" title="Note">
Note

Note has several meanings.



</doc>
<doc id="7720" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720" title="Ravi Shankar">
Ravi Shankar

Ravi Shankar (born April 7, 1920) is one of India's most famous musicians. Shankar was one the first to bring aspects of traditional Indian music into Europe and American culture in the 1960s. He was a major influence on George Harrison, who was a member of The Beatles. Ravi Shankar is famous for playing the , an Indian stringed instrument. Although very old now he still plays. In 2005 he played at The Proms. His daughters Norah Jones and Anoushka Shankar are also well-known musicians.


</doc>
<doc id="7721" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7721" title="Sentence">
Sentence

A sentence is a group of words that are put together to mean something. A sentence is the basic unit of language which expresses a complete thought. It does this by following the grammatical rules of syntax.

A complete sentence has at least a subject and a main verb to state (declare) a complete thought. Short example: "Walker walks". A subject is the noun that is doing the main verb. The main verb is the verb that the subject is doing. In English and many other languages, the first word of a written sentence has a capital letter. At the end of the sentence there is a full stop or full point (American: 'period').

A "phrase" or "clause" is part of a sentence. Above, the words 'at the end of the sentence' is a phrase; 'there is' is a verb, and 
the rest is also a phrase. 

This is an example of a sentence:
In this sentence, 'The dog' is the subject, and 'is' is the verb.

This is an example of a phrase:
There is no verb, so we do not know anything about what the happy dog is doing. It is not a sentence.

A clause is a sentence within a sentence. Example:


Sentences have different purposes:

Here are some sentences written in Basic English:

The sky is blue.

Today is Monday.

Tomorrow is Tuesday.

The baby is smiling.

This is the road to take.

Read a book about the history of America.

There are beautiful flowers growing in the garden.

The cushions are new and I can experience the comfort well.

Sex is good but Orgy is great




</doc>
<doc id="7722" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7722" title="James Joyce">
James Joyce

James Augustine Aloysius Joyce () (2 February 1882 - 13 January 1941) was an Irish writer and poet of the modernist movement. He was from Dublin, Ireland. He wore an eyepatch, because of eye damage. He could not see well.

His books are written in a special style. At first he wrote in a way which describes very accurately how life is, in the short story collection called "Dubliners". In his next book, called "A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man", he started a new style. It is called stream of consciousness, and influenced many other writers in the 20th century.

Some books that Joyce wrote are:

Joyce met Nora Barnacle in 1904 and they began to have a long relationship until his death in 1941. The couple moved out of Dublin to Zürich in 1904, then to Trieste, Paris then back to Zürich. They married in 1931. They had a son and a daughter. Their daughter had a mental illness later in her life.

Joyce became a very famous writer after he published "Ulysses". He also began to have a lot of problems with his eye and his family. But he still completed his last book, "Finnegans Wake" by 1939. 


</doc>
<doc id="7725" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725" title="May 1">
May 1






</doc>
<doc id="7726" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726" title="Andes">
Andes

The Andes are a mountain range along the western coast of South America. 

They stretch over 7,000 km / 4,400 miles from the south of Argentina and Chile to the north of Colombia. They are also found in Peru, Bolivia and Ecuador. 

The Amazon river system has its sources in the eastern flanks of the Andes.

The Andes are the longest exposed mountain range of the world, and the second-highest after the Himalayas. The Andes mountain range is the highest mountain range outside Asia. 

Aconcagua, the highest peak, rises to 6,962 m (22,841 ft) above sea level. The top of Mount Chimborazo in the Ecuadorean Andes is the point on the Earth's surface most distant from its center. Mount Chimborazo is an inactive volcano in Ecuador, which last erupted over a thousand years ago.

The Andes has three sections: 

The northern part has two parallel ranges. They are the "Cordillera Occidental" (western) and the "Cordillera Oriental" (eastern). The term "cordillera" comes from the Spanish word meaning 'rope'. 

In Colombia, north to the border with Ecuador, the Andes split in three parallel ranges, western, central and eastern. 

In the north the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta (Snowy Mountain Range of Saint Martha) is an isolated mountain range apart from the Andes chain that runs through Colombia. Reaching an altitude of 5,700 metres above sea level just 42 km from the Caribbean coast, the Sierra Nevada is the world's highest coastal range. 

The eastern range of the northern Cordillera Oriental is the only one which reaches Venezuela. 

The Andes range is about wide throughout its length, except in Bolivia where it is wide. The islands of the Dutch Caribbean Aruba, Bonaire, and Curaçao, which lie in the Caribbean Sea off the coast of Venezuela, represent the submerged tops of the northern edge of the Andes range.

The Andes are a Mesozoic–Tertiary orogenic belt of mountains along the Pacific Ring of Fire. 

The Andes are the result of plate tectonics processes, caused by the subduction of oceanic crust beneath the South American continental plate. South America, like North America, has been moving west since the Cretaceous period. 

The formation of the modern Andes began with the events of the Triassic and Jurassic when Pangea begun to break up and several rifts developed. It was during the Cretaceous period that the Andes began to take their present form, by the uplifting, faulting and folding of sedimentary and metamorphic rock of the ancient cratons to the east. The rise of the Andes has not been constant and different regions have had different degrees of tectonic stress, uplift, and weathering.

The climate in the Andes differs depending on which area, the altitude, and how close it is to the sea. The southern section is rainy and cool. The central Andes are dry. The northern Andes are normally rainy and warm, with an average temperature of in Colombia. The climate is known to change very much in rather short distances. Rainforests exist just miles away from the snow covered peak Cotopaxi. The mountains have a large effect on the temperatures of nearby areas. The snow line depends on the location. It is at between 4,500 and 4,800 m (14,800–15,800 ft) in the tropical Ecuadorian, Colombian, Venezuelan, and northern Peruvian Andes, going up to 4,800–5,200 m (15,800–17,060 ft) in the drier mountains of southern Peru south to northern Chile south to about 30°S, then going down to on Aconcagua at 32°S, at 40°S, at 50°S, and only in Tierra del Fuego at 55°S; from 50°S, many of the bigger glaciers go down to sea level.

The Andes of Chile and Argentina can be put in two climatic and glaciological zones; the Dry Andes and the Wet Andes.

Rainforests used to hold much of the northern Andes but are now mostly diminished, especially in the Chocó and inter-Andean valleys of Colombia. As a direct opposite of the humid Andean slopes are the mostly dry Andean slopes in most of western Peru, Chile and Argentina. Along with many Interandean Valles, they are normally ruled by deciduous woodland, shrub and xeric vegetation, reaching in the slopes near the mostly lifeless Atacama Desert.

About 30,000 species of vascular plants live in the Andes. About half of those are endemic to the region, going past the difference of any other hotspot. The small tree "Cinchona pubescens", a source of quinine which is used to treat malaria, is found widely in the Andes as far south as Bolivia. Other important crops that came from the Andes are tobacco and potatoes. The high-altitude "Polylepis" forests and woodlands are found in the Andean places of Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Bolivia and Chile. These trees, by locals are called Queñua, Yagual and other names, can be found at altitudes of above sea level. It is still unclear if the patchy distribution of these forests and woodlands is natural, or the result of clearing which began during the Incan time. Regardless, in modern times the clearance has had a faster pace, and the trees are now thought to be highly endangered, with some thinking that as little as 10% of the original woodland is still here.

The Andes has a lot of wildlife. With almost 1,000 species, of which about 2/3 are endemic to the region, the Andes is the most important region in the world for amphibians. 
Animal diversity in the Andes is high, with almost 600 species of mammals (13% endemic), more than 1,700 species of birds (1/3 endemic), more than 600 species of reptiles (45% endemic), and almost 400 species of fish (1/3 endemic).

The Vicuña and Guanaco can be found living in the Altiplano, while the closely related domesticated Llama and Alpaca are commonly kept by locals as pack animals and for their meat and wool. The nocturnal chinchillas, two threatened members of the rodent order, live in the Andes' alpine regions. The Andean Condor, the largest bird of its kind in the Western Hemisphere, lives throughout much of the Andes but mostly in very low numbers. Other animals found in the mostly open habitats of the high Andes are the huemul, cougar, and foxes in the genus "Pseudalopex". And for birds, some species of tinamous (they are members of the genus "Nothoprocta"), are the Andean Goose, Giant Coot, flamingos (mainly associated with hypersaline lakes), Lesser Rhea, Andean Flicker, Diademed Sandpiper-plover, miners, sierra-finches and diuca-finches. 


</doc>
<doc id="7727" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727" title="February 21">
February 21





</doc>
<doc id="7728" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728" title="Meal">
Meal

A meal is a serving of food eaten by human beings. Meals usually include several different types of food, such as grains, vegetables, fruit, and in some cases, meat. Meals have different names by time they are taken or by the type of food that is eaten.

In North America and in Europe, people usually eat three meals a day. The morning meal is called breakfast. It usually includes foods made from grain (cereal, porridge, or bread), fruit (apple, banana, or an orange), and milk products (milk, yogurt, or cottage cheese). Many people drink coffee or tea with their breakfast.

Around noon, people eat their lunch. People who are working at jobs are given a break to eat their lunch. The lunch meal includes foods such as a sandwich, soup, vegetables, fruit, and milk. In some countries, such as Italy, people serve an alcoholic drink with lunch. In England, some people have a glass of beer with their lunch.

In the evening, people eat their supper or dinner. Dinners are different in different countries. Usually dinners include a "main course" such as roast beef, a grain (such as rice or pasta), a vegetable (such as carrots or cauliflower) and a dessert (called a "sweet" in England).

In some cases, a starter or appetizer is served before the dinner. Appetizers are a small serving of food such as olives, cheese, or bread. In many countries, people serve an alcoholic drink with dinner, such as wine or beer.



</doc>
<doc id="7729" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729" title="Leipzig">
Leipzig

Leipzig is the biggest city in the state of Saxony (eastern Germany). When Germany was divided into East and West Germany, Leipzig was one of the three biggest industrial cities in the East Germany.

Leipzig occupies and is still an industrial city. 510,651 people are living in Leipzig as of 29 February 2008.

Its Latin name is "Lipsia" and the German name "Leipzig" came from this name. Leipzig has a long history. Its name was recorded first in 1015 as Leipzig Castle (Leipziger Burg). The city was settled in 1165. It was an economic center of Medieval Germany, famous with its market (Leipziger Messe).

In 1409, Leipzig University was started. Theology was its major faculty. In 1519, Martin Luther had a discussion in Leipzig against Johann Eck. Reformation came to Leipzig in 1539 and the city people became Lutheran.

It is famous for St. Thomas Church, where Johann Sebastian Bach worked as music director (Kantor) from 1723 until his death in 1750.

In 1813 near Leipzig, the Battle of Leipzig was fought between the French army led by Napoleon Bonaparte and the allied armies of Austria, Prussia and Russia.

In 1839, the railway between Dresden and Leipzig was opened. It was the first long distance railroad in Germany.

As a result of industrialization, the number of people living in Leipzig grew during the 19th century. Before World War II, there were about 750,000 people in Leipzig.

After the war, Leipzig belonged to the part of Germany occupied by the Soviet Union, and later to East Germany.

In 1989, the Monday Demonstrations took place in Leipzig. Every monday after a Christian mess in the Nikolaikirche the Leipzig people demonstrate for freedom to travel and democracy. These demonstrations became bigger and bigger and reached their peak on October 23 when 320,000 people came. The demonstrations are one of the things that lead to the end of communist dictatorship in East Germany.

Today, Leipzig is still known as a city of fairs, media and university, but is less important than it was before World War II.

Before World War II, Leipzig was a famous center of commerce (Leipzig exhibition) and industry. Now, there are big companies in Leipzig like Porsche, BMW, Siemens and DHL, as well as the Leipzig Airport.

With almost 511,000 people, Leipzig city proper is the 12th biggest city in Germany and the 2nd biggest in what was East Germany (DDR), smaller than East Berlin and bigger than Dresden. Leipzig urban has 567,000 people. The total population of Leipzig metropolitan area is 1,389,000. 

Leipzig, Chemnitz, Dresden, Halle, and Zwickau form an area called the Saxon Triangle, which has about 3,500,000 people. 

Leipzig has a university where famous people studied (e.g. Johann Wolfgang Goethe, Edvard Grieg, Erich Kästner, Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz, Gotthold Ephraim Lessing, Angela Merkel, Friedrich Nietzsche, Robert Schumann and Richard Wagner. The Leipzig Hauptbahnhof (Central Station) is the biggest terminal station in Europe. It sees about 150,000 passengers each day. It is 293 meters wide.



</doc>
<doc id="7731" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7731" title="1351">
1351



</doc>
<doc id="7732" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7732" title="January 30">
January 30





</doc>
<doc id="7733" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7733" title="Evil">
Evil

Evil means something which is morally bad or wicked. It is the opposite of good. People may say that an action which hurts people or breaks certain rules is evil. A person or a group that does evil things may also be called evil.

In theology, there is a question: "If there is a God, why does God let evil happen?" Some think that evil proves that there is not a God. Others think that God lets evil happen so that people can choose "not" to do evil.

The study of good and evil in philosophy is called ethics. Ethics tries to explain why some actions are good and other actions are evil. It attempts to give all kinds of answers for how to tell evil from good.

A version of the problem of evil, perhaps by Epicurus, goes as follows: 

Another argument goes: 

Arguments such as these are about the "logical" problem of evil. They attempt to show that the assumed propositions lead to a logical contradiction and so cannot all be correct. 

A common response is that God can exist with and allow evil in order to achieve a greater good. Some philosophers accept that arguments such as "God allows evil in order to achieve the greater good of free will" are logically possible and thus solve the logical problem of evil. Since the aim is only to defeat the assertion that God and evil are "logically incompatible", even a highly implausible instance of God's coexistence with evil is sufficient for the purpose.

Philosophies of science have approached the problem from the angle of empiricism. For logical positivism the issue with God is the lack of any independent method of verification. In their view, this makes the proposition "God exists", not true or false, but meaningless. A similar position points to the lack of any way the proposition might be falsified. 


</doc>
<doc id="7735" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735" title="1872">
1872

1872 was a leap year in the 19th century.





</doc>
<doc id="7736" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736" title="Poznań">
Poznań

Poznań is the biggest city and capital of Wielkopolska in Poland, one of the oldest and the biggest cities in Poland. Its population is about 560,000 and its area is 262 square kilometers.


</doc>
<doc id="7737" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737" title="Cartoonist">
Cartoonist

A cartoonist is a person who draws cartoons. Cartoons can be pictures on a printed page (also called comics or comic strips) or moving pictures on film (also called animation). Both kinds of cartoons can be found on the internet. Examples of some famous cartoonists are:



this is a really good webpage

</doc>
<doc id="7738" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7738" title="Jim Henson">
Jim Henson

James Maury "Jim" Henson (September 24, 1936 – May 16, 1990) was an American artist, animator, puppeteer, and moviemaker. He was best known for his work with the Muppets, which he helped to create.

Henson's best known puppet is Kermit the Frog, the host of "The Muppet Show".


</doc>
<doc id="7745" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7745" title="Game Boy Advance Video">
Game Boy Advance Video

Game Boy Advance Video is a format of cartridges for the Gameboy Advance. They work the same as normal cartridge but play television shows instead of games. They generally contain 45 minutes of TV, for example, a show from Nickelodeon or Cartoon Network. They were first made in early 2004, but gradually stopped being made shortly before there were no more Game Boy Advance games made in 2008.



</doc>
<doc id="7747" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7747" title="Butterfly">
Butterfly

A butterfly is a type of insect that can fly. It belongs in the order Lepidoptera. It is closely related to the moth. A butterfly has four wings which are covered with tiny scales. When a butterfly is not flying, its wings are usually folded over its back. The wings are patterned and are often brightly coloured. There are many different kinds of butterflies. The males and females of each kind are often slightly different from each other. Butterfly watching is a popular hobby. Some people also keep collections of dead butterflies that they have caught. 

As with most insects, a butterfly's life begins as an egg. Then it hatches into a larva (caterpillar). After some time, the larva turns into a chrysalis (like a cocoon). While it is in the "chrysalis", it becomes a butterfly. The butterfly then hatches out and lays more eggs.

Butterflies have three main body parts. These parts are the head, the thorax, and the abdomen. The body is protected by the exoskeleton. The body is made up of sections, known as segments. In between the segments there are flexible areas that allow the butterfly to move. All three parts of the body are covered in very small scales. The scales give the butterfly its color.

The head is the first part of the body. It has the eyes, mouth parts, and antennae.

The eyes of a butterfly are usually very large. The eye is made up of smaller eyes or optical units. Eyes that are made up of optical units are called compound eyes. A butterfly sees things as a lot of little pictures. Each picture is made from one optical unit. Butterflies do not see as many colors as humans, but they can see ultraviolet light.

The mouth of a butterfly does not have jaws. It has a kind of mouth that is made to suck liquids. This mouth is called a proboscis. The proboscis is made up of two hollow tubes. The tubes are locked together in the middle. When the butterfly is not using its proboscis, it is coiled up in the head. It can uncoil the proboscis when it wants to feed.

The antennae of a butterfly are used for smell and balance. The antenna in most butterflies is clubbed at the end. In some butterflies (like the Skippers), there is a hook at the end of the antenna, instead of a club.

The thorax is the second part of the body. It is made up of three segments. The legs and wings are connected to the thorax.

The legs of a butterfly are made for walking, holding onto things, and tasting. There are three pairs of legs. There are four main parts of the leg. They are the trochanter, the femur, the tibia, and the foot. At the end of each foot, there is a pair of claws. Butterflies in the family Nymphalidae have very short front legs. They keep there front legs close to their bodies. This makes it look like they only have two pairs of legs. In some species, there is a movable body part on the tibia that is used to clean the antennae.

A butterfly has two pairs of wings. Each wing has hollow tubes called veins. The colors and patterns of butterflies are made by tiny scales. The scales over lap each other. They are connected to the wing. If a butterfly is handled, the tiny scales can rub off.

The abdomen is the third part of the body. It is made up of ten segments. The abdomen is much softer than the head and the thorax. At the end of the abdomen are the reproductive organs. In the male, there is a pair of claspers. They are used to hold on to the female during mating. In the female, there is a tube made to lay eggs.

Butterflies go through complete metamorphosis. This means that there are four parts in a butterfly's life. The first part is the egg. The second part is the caterpillar (sometimes called the larva). The third part is the chrysalis (sometimes called the pupa). The fourth part is the adult (sometimes called the imago).

A female butterfly will lay her eggs on or near the food plant of the caterpillar (the food plant is the plant that the caterpillar feeds on). The female will choose a place to lay her eggs using smell, taste, touch, and sight. Most species will lay just one egg on the food plant. Others will lay groups of five to over 100 eggs on the food plant. Most species will lay their eggs on the leaves of the food plant. Others will lay them on the flowers, stems, bark, or fruit of the food plant.

The eggs come in many different shapes and colors. They may be round or oval, and flattened. In some species, the egg shell is ribbed. The most common colors in butterfly eggs are yellow and green. The eggs will turn dark just before hatching. Also, some butterflies take a day to come out of eggs, while others could take months.

Butterfly caterpillars can vary in size, color, and shape. They may have spines, bristles, or soft body extensions. All caterpillars have 13 body segments. The first three segments make up the thorax. The thorax has three pairs of legs. These legs are called true legs. The other 10 segments make up the abdomen. The abdomen has five pairs of soft legs called prolegs. The prolegs have tiny hooks at the end of the each foot. They are used to hold on to things. The hooks are called crochets.

A caterpillar's skin does not grow. As the caterpillar grows inside its skin, the skin becomes too tight. In order for the caterpillar to grow bigger, it sheds its too-tight skin. After the old skin is shed, there is a new, larger skin. This is known as molting. A caterpillar will molt four to five times before turning into a pupa. Each part between molts is called an instar.

All caterpillars can make silk. The silk is made from the salivary glands. Silk starts out as a liquid in the salivary glands. The caterpillar draws out the silk into a small thread. The silk hardens as soon as it is exposed to the air. Caterpillars use silk to make nests or cocoons.

Most caterpillars feed on leaves of plants or trees. Most species of caterpillars will feed only on a small number of certain kinds of plants. If the caterpillar's food plant is not found, it will starve to death.

Some species of caterpillars (in the family Lycaenidae) are tended by ants. The caterpillars have special glands that make a sweet liquid called honeydew. The ants like the honeydew. In return for the honeydew, the ants protect the caterpillars from predators. The caterpillars also have special body parts that make sounds. The caterpillar will make sounds with the body parts and "call" the ants when the caterpillar is being attacked by predators. The ants hear the sounds and come to protect the caterpillar.

Caterpillars in the subfamily Miletinae eat insects in the order Homoptera. This includes aphids, mealybugs, leafhoppers and treehoppers.

Caterpillars in the family Papilionidae have a special organ. This organ is called an osmeterium. It is a bad-smelling gland that is shaped like a snake's tongue. It is kept behind the inside of the head. When a predator tries to eat the caterpillar, the caterpillar will release the osmeterium. This scares the predators away.

The pupa (plural, pupae) is formed after the last molt. The caterpillar will find a special place to pupate (pupate means to turn into a pupa). The digestive tract is emptied. The caterpillar sheds its skin. The pupa is now exposed. The caterpillar's tissues are broken down and rebuilt into the butterfly's tissues.

The pupa cannot move. It is attached to an object by tiny hooks on the end of the abdomen. These hooks make up what is called the cremaster. There are many tiny holes on the pupa. They allow respiratory gases to move in and out of the pupa.

Many pupae are easy for predators to attack. Some caterpillars (in the family Hesperiidae and the subfamilies Parnassiinae and Satyrinae) make shelters out of silk and leaves to protect themselves when they become pupae. These shelters are called cocoons. Most butterfly pupae do not have cocoons to protect themselves. Instead, the pupae have brown or green colors to camouflage themselves among leaves and branches. Pupae that do not have cocoons are called chrysalids or chrysalises.

Butterflies are in trouble because of habitat loss. Because of the destruction of forests and grasslands, some types of butterflies have nowhere to feed and lay eggs. To help, some people plant a butterfly garden with flowers having lots of nectar for butterflies to feed on. Some people also keep plants that butterflies lay eggs on, and enjoy watching the caterpillars hatch out and feed on the plant. Chemical sprays that are used to keep pests away from garden plants, also kill butterflies.

Butterflies have many enemies, for example birds, spiders, and frogs. Some butterflies, like the Monarch butterflies (in the pictures below) taste horrible so that birds will not eat them.





</doc>
<doc id="7749" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7749" title="Nazism">
Nazism

Nazism was a political movement in Germany. It started in the 1920s.
Nazism is a form of fascism. A lot of the philosophy of this movement was based on an idea that the Aryan race was better than all others and had the greatest ability to survive. According to the racist ideas of Nazism, the Jews, Slavs and Roma (also known as "Gypsies") people were called "inferior races". The Nazis sent millions of Jews, Roma and other people to concentration camps where they were killed. These killings are now called the Holocaust.

The word "Nazi" is a short for "Nationalsozialist" (supporter of the "Nationalsozialistische Deutsche Arbeiterpartei") in the German language. This means "National Socialist German Workers' Party".

Adolf Hitler, who wrote Mein Kampf, said that all the problems of Germany were the result of Jews plotting against the country. He even said that it was Jewish politicians who arranged the Armistice of 1918, and who allowed Germany to agree to pay huge amounts of money and goods (reparations). On the night of the 27 February 1933 and 28 February 1933, someone set the Reichstag building on fire, which was where the German Parliament held their meetings. The Nazis blamed the communists. Others said the Nazis themselves had done it to come to power. On the very same day, an emergency law called "Reichstagsbrandverordnung" was passed. The government claimed it was to protect the state. With this law, most of the civil rights of the Weimar Republic did not count any longer. This was used by the Nazis against the other political parties. Members of the communist and social-democratic parties were put into prison or killed. People were threatened and there was a lot of violence.
The Nazis became the biggest party in the parliament. Until 1934 they managed to make all other parties illegal. Democracy was replaced with a dictatorship. Adolf Hitler became leader ("Führer") of Germany.

As leader of Germany, Hitler began moving Nazi armies into neighboring countries. When Germany attacked Poland, World War II started. Western countries like France, Belgium and the Netherlands were to be treated by Germany as colonies, while in Eastern countries, such as Poland and the Soviet Union, the Nazis planned to wipe out the Slavic peoples so that German settlers could take their land.

In the Holocaust, millions of Jews, as well as Roma people (also called "Gypsies"), the disabled, homosexuals, and political opponents from Germany (including Communists) and other countries that the Nazis controlled were sent to concentration camps in Poland and Germany. The Nazis killed millions of these people at the concentration camps with poison gas. The Nazis also killed millions of people in these groups by forcing them to do slave labor without giving them much food or clothing.

In 1945, the Soviet Union took over Berlin after beating the German army in Russia, and met the American and British armies who had fought right across Germany after invading Nazi Europe from the west in 1944. The Nazis had lost. During the invasion of Berlin Hitler may have shot himself in a bunker with his new wife, Eva Braun. Other Nazis also killed themselves, including Joseph Goebbels just one day after Hitler named him as his successor.

After the war, the Allied governments, such as the United States, Britain and Soviet Union held trials for the Nazi leaders. These trials were held in Nuremberg, in Germany. For this reason, these trials are called "the Nuremberg Trials." The Allied leaders accused the Nazi leaders of murdering millions of people (in the Holocaust), of starting wars, of conspiracy, and belonging to illegal organisations. Most Nazi leaders were found guilty by the court, and they were sent to jail or executed by hanging.

While there has not been a "Nazi" state since 1945, there are still people who believe in Nazi ideas. These people, called "neo"-Nazis, (which means "new"-Nazis) claim that white people are superior to non-whites, spread lies about Jews and the Holocaust, and tell other people to hate Jewish people and other groups of people. Many neo-Nazis say that the Holocaust killings never really happened (or that the numbers of those killed were less than is known to have happened) – these people are called Holocaust deniers. After the war, laws were made in Germany and other countries. These laws say it is forbidden to say that the Holocaust never really happened. Sometimes they also ban questioning the number of people affected by it, which is saying that not so many people were killed as most people think.


</doc>
<doc id="7751" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7751" title="Pork">
Pork

Pork is the meat that comes from a pig or hog.

In the religions of Islam and Judaism, people are not allowed to eat pork.

A simple meal to make which contains pork is Afelia. Sausages, bacon and ham are the most common uses of pork in the United Kingdom, the United States, and other parts of the Western world.


</doc>
<doc id="7752" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7752" title="Mike Farrell">
Mike Farrell

Mike Farrell (born February 6, 1939) is an American actor and activist. He played BJ Hunnicutt on the TV show, "M*A*S*H". In recent years he has become an activist for various causes, like animal rights and world peace.


</doc>
<doc id="7753" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7753" title="David Ogden Stiers">
David Ogden Stiers

David Ogden Stiers (born October 31, 1942) is an American actor and voice artist. He is most famous for his role as Charles Emerson Winchester III on the television series, "M*A*S*H". He also did the voices in several Disney animated movies, most notably Cogsworth in "Beauty and the Beast", Sir John Radcliffe in "Pocahantas", and Dr. Jumba Jookiba in "Lilo & Stitch".

He also plays the voice of Escher in the "Myst V" (End of Ages) video game.



</doc>
<doc id="7754" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7754" title="Beauty and the Beast">
Beauty and the Beast

Beauty and the Beast is a French folk story. It tells the story of a merchant who is lost in the woods. He finds the palace of a beast who wants to kill him, and makes a deal with the beast, to have his daughter in exchange. The daughter goes to live in the Beast's castle; the two fall in love; and the beast turns into a prince. 

The story has been published and revised in many versions, most notably Madame Gabrielle-Suzanne Barbot de Villeneuve's 1740 retelling and its revision in 1756 by Madame Jeanne-Marie Leprince de Beaumont. 

It was the inspiration for many other stories, as well as a 1980s TV series starring Linda Hamilton and Ron Pearlman. Several movies have been based on it, most famously Jean Cocteau's 1946 version and the 1991 animated version by Disney, which was nominated for the Best Picture Academy Award and inspired a long-running Broadway musical.



</doc>
<doc id="7755" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7755" title="Wayne Rogers">
Wayne Rogers

Wayne Rogers (born April 7, 1933) is an American television and movie actor. He played the role of "Trapper" John McIntrye on the TV series "M*A*S*H". (The role was played by Elliott Gould in the 1970 movie version and Pernell Roberts on the 1979-1986 TV show, "Trapper John MD"). He left the show in 1975 and was replaced by Mike Farrell as BJ Hunnicutt. He graduated from Princeton University with a degree in history and served in the Navy before becoming an actor. 

Since retiring from acting, Rogers works as an investor and appears on many financial news shows.


</doc>
<doc id="7756" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7756" title="McLean Stevenson">
McLean Stevenson

McLean Stevenson (November 14, 1929 – February 15, 1996) was an American actor. He is best known for his role as Henry Blake on the TV show, "M*A*S*H". He left the show in 1975 and his character was killed off.

His grandfather Adlai E. Stevenson was Vice-president of the United States to Grover Cleveland, and his cousin Adlai E. Stevenson II was Governor of Illinois and unsuccessfully ran for President twice in the 1950s losing to Dwight D. Eisenhower both times.

Ironically, Roger Bowen, who played in the same character he did in the 1970 movie version of "M*A*S*H", died the day after he did of the same cause, a heart attack.


</doc>
<doc id="7757" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7757" title="Friedrich Georg Wilhelm von Struve">
Friedrich Georg Wilhelm von Struve

Friedrich Georg Wilhelm von Struve (April 15, 1793 – November 23, 1864 (Julian calendar: November 11)) was a German-born Russian astronomer. He was born in Altona (now an area of Hamburg), Germany, but later lived in Russia. He was an expert on double stars and one of the first astronomers to measure stellar parallax (closely related to the work by Friedrich Bessel).

While director of Dorpat Observatory (1817–39) he wrote "Stellarum Duplicum et Multiplicum" (1837), which proved that double stars are not exceptional and that star systems are governed by the laws of gravity. Struve added a lot to the study of galactic structure and also engaged in notable geodetic operations such as the triangulation of Livonia and the measurement of an arc of the meridian. In 1839 he became director of the new Pulkovo Observatory and was one of the first three astronomers who almost simultaneously obtained an approximate stellar parallax. (One of the others being Bessel)

In 1822 he published the first of many double-star catalogues, the identifying numbers of which are still used today. Struve's stars, however, are now often named in his honor (for example, Struve 2398), whereas the original catalogue prefix was the Greek letter sigma. In 1833 he moved to Russia to set up the Pulkovo Observatory near St. Petersburg, of which he was director until his retirement in 1862, when his son took over in the post. In total, Friedrich Struve produced 272 astronomical works and 18 children; his great-grandson Otto, by contrast, produced 907 works but zero children.

His son, Otto Wilhelm von Struve (1819–1905) succeeded him as director (1862–89) of the Pulkovo Observatory.


</doc>
<doc id="7759" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7759" title="Wikipedia:Bots">
Wikipedia:Bots

Bots are automated scripts or processes which perform jobs on Wikipedia. Usually, 
they do jobs which would take a long time to do without the bot.

Bots perform their jobs under a different user name than the owner, so that it is easy to tell them apart. Also, bot edits are hidden from pages like to keep them from flooding the list. To see the bot edits, [ manually add hidebots=0 to your query string], or click "show bot edits" at the top of .

The most popular type of bot is called the Python Wikipedia Robot Framework or "pywikipediabot" for short.

These users have been given a "bot flag" and are approved to perform tasks. See for a current list of fully approved bots. All bots should be approved (with or without a bot flag) before editing. During their approval process (see below), bots may make up to 50 edits to show how they will be working. Any bot not approved (with or without a flag) or found to be making edits it was not approved for may be blocked. 
Some other bots make occasional edits here, usually creating links, but do not have a bot flag. These bots do not usually edit often enough for them to need the bot flag. Also, there may be other reasons for their edits to not be marked as a bot edit. The following bots are approved to edit without a bot flag:
To get approved to run a bot, you should be a good contributor first. Describe your bot on the , create a new account for it, run some tests for a short time, and get agreement from other users that the bot's use is a good idea. Once that is done, your bot may be given a bot flag by a bureaucrat.


If you have a task which you think a bot can help with, contact one of the bot owners, or make a request on the .



</doc>
<doc id="7762" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7762" title="Mario Party (series)">
Mario Party (series)

Mario Party is a series of video games created by Nintendo and Hudson. The idea of each game is that Mario and his friends must travel across a game board and earn stars and coins. Each new game in the series contains new characters, playing boards, and mini-games. (Every few turns, each character must participate in a mini-game. The winner generally gets 10 coins.)



</doc>
<doc id="7764" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7764" title="Helsinki">
Helsinki

Helsinki is the capital city of Finland. Helsinki is the largest city in Finland. 550,000 people live in Helsinki, and 1,000,000 live in the Helsinki metropolitan area.

Helsinki is on the coast of the Gulf of Finland. When one looks from Helsinki, Tallinn is on the opposite side of the sea, but it is too far away to see. A poetic name for Helsinki is "the daughter of the Baltic Sea".

In 1550 Swedish king Gustav Vasa commanded people to build a new city and move there. His idea was to build a new place to trade, which would be more popular than Tallinn. The idea did not work well, and many people returned from Helsinki to their homes. Later Sweden built the fortress Suomenlinna in Helsinki. After Russia had taken Finland from Sweden in several wars, they started developing Helsinki. Helsinki became the capital of autonomous province of Finland. When Finland became independent in 1917, Helsinki stayed as the capital city.

Helsinki spreads around several bays and over several islands. Some famous islands include Seurasaari, Lauttasaari and Korkeasaari - which is also the country's biggest zoo - as well as the fortress island of Suomenlinna (Sveaborg).



</doc>
<doc id="7765" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7765" title="Jehovah's Witnesses">
Jehovah's Witnesses

Jehovah's Witnesses (JW) is a Christian group who say that they have gone back to what early Christians did. Charles Taze Russell started the group in Pennsylvania, USA in 1876. Witnesses are known for preaching their beliefs from door-to-door and in other public places. They do not believe in the concept of the Trinity. They do not hold other concepts like having a priesthood and special titles or notables for an elders, who works voluntarily and unpaid as ministerial servants in each congregation, and are considered in same-level as other believers. They do not adhere in having class of clergy. Instead of it, all members are laics and have same amount of knowledge and privileges. They are not allowing the use of idols, relics, or the cross, because they believe that Bible teach that people have to worship only 'with spirit and truth'. Thus they do not use material things for worshiping. Witnesses believe that only 144,000 people will go to heaven and that the remaining people who serve God will live forever on a paradise Earth. Jehovah's Witnesses believe that hell just means being dead - like sleeping. They base beliefs solely on the principles found in the Holy Bible and view first-century Christianity as a model. 

Jehovah's Witnesses say that Jesus Christ is the spiritual leader of their religion. The religion as it exists today was formed during the 1870´s by Charles Taze Russell, who also began their principal magazine "The Watchtower" in July 1879. Russell had been studying religion in order to find the one he would belong to. While walking along a street he reportedly heard a religious service being held and went in. This service was held by Seventh-day Adventist Church (an Advent Christian Church). Russell would later be grateful to the Adventists and other Christian groups in the development of his beliefs that led to the beginnings of Bible Student Movement, from which Jehovah's Witnesses later emerged.

Jehovah's Witnesses believe in a single god: The same God that Jews, other Christians and Muslims believe in. They believe that God's name is Jehovah. Jehovah is the English translation of the Hebrew word "YHWH", which is known as the Tetragrammaton. They believe Jehovah is the most powerful being in existence and that he created the heavens and the Earth as written in Genesis 1:1 "In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth" and in Psalms 83:18 "that people may know that you, whose name is Jehovah, you alone are the Most High over all the earth". They believe that Jehovah is God the Father, Jesus is God's son, and the Holy Spirit is God's power that he uses. They do not believe in the Trinity.

Jehovah's Witnesses believe that only a small number of people (144,000, called the "little flock" taken from Revelation chapters 7 and 14) will go to heaven to be kings and priests with Jesus Christ. They believe that after Armageddon (the final battle of Jehovah against his enemies), God will give the Earth to the rest of the people who did what God wanted (the "great crowd"). They believe that God will make the Earth a paradise for them, and also bring back to life those who died in the past into that paradise. They also think that only their religion is true, and that good people willing to listen to God will survive Armageddon. They believe that all other religions (Catholics, Protestants, Buddhists, etc.) are false.

Jehovah's Witnesses believe that God made Adam and Eve, the first people, and put them in a paradise called Eden. They think that when Adam and Eve sinned, and God sent them away from Eden, and that people get sick and die because of that. They believe that the purpose of Jehovah sending his son Jesus Christ to die was to make a way for humans to get back the paradise that Adam and Eve lost and restore them to perfect health and life.

Jehovah's Witnesses are known for their door-to-door ministry. They believe God wants them to do it, so they can live on a peaceful Earth forever. Jehovah's Witnesses want to teach people about Jehovah and his will. They talk about the "signs of the times": when there are more natural disasters and wars, the time for God's last judgement, or Armageddon, is closer. 

The Jehovah's Witnesses are a charity in some countries; their headquarters (main office) is in Brooklyn, New York. Members are not paid for their work; volunteers do everything.

Jehovah's Witnesses places of worship are called Kingdom Halls. These halls do not have altars, statues, or candles. They are built by volunteers, sometimes from far away. Some Kingdom Halls are in buildings that used to be houses, shops, or offices.


 Jehovah's Witnesses' brochures about the name Jehovah 


</doc>
<doc id="7767" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7767" title="Wife">
Wife

A wife is a married woman. "Married" means that the law says two people are legally "joined". During the marriage ceremony, the wife is called the bride.

In countries and times it has been different how many wives a man can have legally. In old times there were no limitations in some countries. In Christianity a man can have one wife. In Islam a man can have up to four wives.

There are some names for special kinds of wives. For example,
a queen is a wife of a king. 

If a child is born between a man and his wife, this child is thought of as a legitimate (lawful) child. In contrast, a child between a man and a woman who are not married is called an illegitimate child or a bastard. However, children born out of wedlock have lost a social stigma in many western countries where common-law relationships are becoming much more common.

A man whose wife is deceased is called a widower.



</doc>
<doc id="7769" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7769" title="Catherine Parr">
Catherine Parr

Catherine Parr (c. 1512 – 5 September 1548) was the sixth wife of Henry VIII of England. She is often said to have been the only one of Henry's wives who survived, but this is not correct; Anne of Cleves also survived Henry.

Catherine Parr (also spelled Katherine or Katharine) was an English woman and the daughter of Thomas Parr of Kendal, a county squire who had distinguished himself in the service of both King Henry VII of England and his son, King Henry VIII.

At the age of fifteen, Catherine married Sir Edward Borough, but he died shortly afterwards in 1529 and Catherine became a widow. Her second husband, Sir John Neville, Lord Latimer was a wealthy landowner in Yorkshire and had an estate there called Snape Hall. Lord Latimer died in 1542, leaving Catherine as a widow for the second time, and without any children.

By this time Catherine was in love with Thomas Seymour and was about to marry him, but Henry VIII himself took a liking to Catherine as well and, no doubt influenced by their long-term acquaintance, she married Henry instead on July 12, 1543 in Hampton Court. 

As queen consort, Catherine managed to bring Henry's daughters Elizabeth and Mary back to court. For Elizabeth in particular, Catherine was a much-needed mother figure and friend, and Elizabeth frequently acknowledged Catherine as her foremost educational mentor. 

Catherine was a good wife to Henry, but her strong will and outspoken nature led her to debate topics of religion a little too openly for the court's taste, and Henry's advisors persuaded him that Catherine was attempting to subvert his religious authority. As a result, in 1546 Catherine found an arrest warrant for her signed by Henry. Catherine managed to comfort the King by saying that she only argued about religion to take his mind off his bad leg, leading Henry to spare her life.

On January 28, 1547, Henry VIII died. Not long afterwards, Catherine was married to Thomas Seymour and soon became pregnant. She gave birth to their daughter, Mary, at Sudeley Castle on 30 August 1548, but she did not recover from the birth and died soon afterwards on 5 September 1548. She was buried in St. Mary's Chapel at Sudeley Castle. She was the last Queen in Tudor times. She got married 4 times.


</doc>
<doc id="7774" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7774" title="Queen (band)">
Queen (band)

Queen are a British rock band formed in London in 1971 and are one of the most commercially successful musical acts of all time. The band members were Freddie Mercury (vocals), Brian May (guitar), John Deacon (bass), and Roger Taylor (drums). Freddie Mercury died of an AIDS-related illness on November 24, 1991. In 1997 John Deacon retired to spend more time with his family. The other two former members toured with Paul Rodgers from 2005 to 2009. Three of their biggest hits were We Will Rock You, We Are the Champions and Bohemian Rhapsody.




</doc>
<doc id="7775" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7775" title="Simon and Garfunkel">
Simon and Garfunkel

Paul Simon and Art Garfunkel were an American pop music group. They were two childhood friends, who found fame in the 1960s. Their songs, including "Mrs. Robinson", "The Sound of Silence", and "Bridge Over Troubled Water", all composed by Simon, are still popular to this day.

Their free concert in New York City's Central Park in 1981 was the biggest concert ever, with 500,000 people (about the same number as Woodstock).



</doc>
<doc id="7776" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7776" title="Madagascar">
Madagascar

"For the movie, please see Madagascar (movie)."
Madagascar is a large island nation in the Indian Ocean, off of the east coast of Africa. Seventeen million people live there; its capital is Antananarivo. It is the world's fourth largest island.

The official languages are Malagasy and French. 

Geologists think that about two million years ago, Madagascar was a part of a big landmass that included what is now the continent of Africa, but it broke off. Madagascar would later break off of the Indian subcontinent.

Madagascar is home to many species that were not known about until around 1679 when Dutch explorers went there. They do not even exist in Africa. They only exist in Madagascar. In fact, most of the mammals living in Madagascar do not live anywhere else. However, many of the species in Madagascar are in danger because many of the forests have been cut down. A big reason that forests have been cut down is so that land can be used to grow crops such as coffee, which is one of the most important crops that is grown in Madagascar.

Agriculture is a big part of the economy in Madagascar, including the growing of coffee and vanilla. Madagascar sells more vanilla than any other country in the world. Madagascar also makes money from tourism.

People have probably lived in Madagascar for at least 2000 years.

France took over the city of Antananarivo in 1895, and added Madagascar as a colony two years later. Madagascar became independent from France, which meant it became its own country, on 26 June, 1960. On March 17, 2009, President Marc Ravalomanana quit because of pressure from the military, and the next president became Andry Raejolina.



</doc>
<doc id="7777" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7777" title="Board game">
Board game

A board game is a game usually played with pieces on a board-like area. Board games may also involve dice, cards, money,Board chips,etc. Some examples of board games are chess, scrabble, checkers, backgammon, irensei, parqués and go. Chess & checkers are played on a 8x8 square board, consisting of 32 white & black squares.



</doc>
<doc id="7782" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7782" title="Aerosmith">
Aerosmith

Aerosmith is an American rock band, formed in 1970 in Boston. They have released many popular songs, including "Walk This Way" and "I Don't Want to Miss a Thing". They have their own Guitar Hero video game called . Their lead singer is Steven Tyler.





</doc>
<doc id="7783" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7783" title="Brighton">
Brighton

Brighton is a city on the south coast of England. It is in the county of East Sussex. In 2000, it joined Hove to become the city of Brighton & Hove. It was first called "Brighthelmstone". 


</doc>
<doc id="7785" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7785" title="April 20">
April 20





</doc>
<doc id="7786" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7786" title="Vincent van Gogh">
Vincent van Gogh

Vincent Willem van Gogh, 30 March 1853 – 29 July 1890), was a Dutch Post-Impressionism painter. His work had a great influence on Modern art because of its striking colors and emotional power. He suffered from anxiety and fits of mental illness. When he was 37, he shot himself and died.

He was not well known when he was alive, and most people did not appreciate his art. After he died, though, he became very famous. Today, many people think he is one of the greatest painters in the world and an important influence on modern art. Van Gogh did not begin painting until he was almost 30. Most of his most famous works were made in his last two years. He made more than 2,000 artworks, with 900 paintings and 1,100 drawings and sketches. Today, many of his pieces—portraits, landscapes and sunflowers—are some of the most famous and costly works of art in the world.

When he was a young adult, Van Gogh worked for a company of art dealers. He traveled between The Hague, London and Paris. After that, he taught in England. He then wanted to become a pastor and spread the Gospel, and from 1879 he worked as a missionary in a mining place in Belgium. He began drawing the people there, and in 1885, he painted his first important work, "The Potato Eaters". He usually painted in dark, sad colors at this time. In March 1886, he moved to Paris and found out about the French Impressionists. Later, he moved to the south of France, and the colors in his art became brighter. His special style of art was developed and later fully grown during the time he stayed in Arles in 1888.

After he died, people have often wondered how much his mental illness affected his painting. Many think of his ill health as dramatic, but modern critics think that Van Gogh was deeply unhappy because his sickness made his painting slower and less clear.

Vincent van Gogh was born in Groot-Zundert, Holland. He was a son of a pastor, and was brought up in a religious family. Vincent was very emotional and he did not have enough self-confidence. Between 1860 and 1880, when he
finally decided to become an artist, van Gogh had had two sad romances. He also had worked unsuccessfully in a bookstore, as an art salesman, and a preacher. He remained in Belgium, where he had preached, to study art. The works of his early Dutch period are sad, sharp, and one of the most famous pictures from here is "The Potato Eaters", painted in 1885. In that year, van Gogh went to Antwerp where he found the works of Rubens and bought a lot of Japanese prints.

In 1886 he went to Paris to join his brother Théo, who was the manager of Goupil's . In Paris, van Gogh studied with Cormon. He also met Pissarro, Monet, and Gauguin. This helped the colors of his paintings lighten and be painted in short strokes from the paintbrush. His nervous temper made him a difficult companion and night-long discussions combined with painting all day made him very unhealthy. He decided to go south to Arles where he hoped his friends would join him and help find a school of art. Gauguin did join him, but it did not help. Near the end of 1888, Gauguin left Arles. Van Gogh followed him with an open razor, but was stopped by Gauguin. Instead, he cut his own ear lobe off. After that, van Gogh began to get fits of madness and was sent to the asylum in Saint-Remy for medical treatment.

In May of 1890, he regained his health and went to live in Auvers-sur-Oise. Dr. Gachet watched him carefully. However, two months later at 27 July, he tried to commit suicide by shooting himself in the chest. He died two days later, with Theo at his side, who reported his last words as ""La tristese durera toujours"", which meant, "The sadness will last forever" in French. During his brief career he had only sold one painting. Van Gogh's finest works were all sold in less than three years. Van Gogh's mother threw away a lot of his paintings during his life and even after his death. But she lived long enough to see him become a world famous painter.



</doc>
<doc id="7787" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7787" title="April 2">
April 2





</doc>
<doc id="7788" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7788" title="October 14">
October 14

October 14 is the 287th day of the year (288th in leap years) in the Gregorian calendar. There are 78 days remaining until the end of the year.





</doc>
<doc id="7789" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7789" title="February 2">
February 2






</doc>
<doc id="7790" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7790" title="Rainbow">
Rainbow

A rainbow is an arc of colour in the sky that you can see when the sun shines through falling rain. The pattern of colors starts with red on the outside and changes through orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo to violet on the inside.

A rainbow is actually round. On the ground, the bottom part is hidden, but in the sky, like from the view of a flying airplane, it can be seen as a round shape. Rainbows are popular symbols that can mean peace and harmony. Rainbows are also recognizable symbols of gay pride. 

The rainbow effect can be seen when:
The rainbow displays with the deepest effect in our minds take place when:
Another common place to see the rainbow effect is near waterfalls. Parts of rainbows can be seen some of the time:
An unnatural rainbow effect can also be made putting drops of water into the air on a sunny day.
Note: The spectrum colors can only be approximated on a computer screen but the colors shown below are a close approximation of the spectrum colors of the rainbow. 


</doc>
<doc id="7792" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7792" title="Central Intelligence Agency">
Central Intelligence Agency

The Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) is a part of the United States government. The agency was formed after World War II.

The CIA is made up of four groups that each do different things. Their goal is to protect the US people. 

Many people feel that the CIA does more bad than good. Some people feel that the CIA does good by finding out secret information about enemies of the United States. American law prohibits the CIA and other agencies from killing foreign leaders. In 1992, Saddam Hussein tried to kill former President George H.W. Bush, who used to be Director of the CIA, during a visit to Kuwait. The assassination plot was not successful. In retaliation, then President Clinton ordered cruise missiles to be fired at the building of the Iraqi equivalent to the CIA. This occurred at night so only the janitors were killed, not those who planned the assassination.

CIA has many clandestine, or secret, operations that people not working for the CIA will most likely never find out about. Some CIA employees have been killed while working but their identities are so secret that they are represented only by a star, not a name, at a CIA memorial.

The CIA also uses open sources to gather information. Analysts read foreign newspapers and watch foreign news broadcasts to learn information which can be pieced together to make a conclusion.

The CIA used to report to the President. After the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in the United States, there was a reorganization so that the CIA, along with other intelligence agencies, report to a newly created Director.

The CIA has been featured in many TV and film productions including, but not limited to the American TV show, "The Agency", the American TV mini-series, "The Company", "Spy Game" starring Robert Redford and Brad Pitt, "Night Flight to Moscow" starring Yul Brenner, "Scorpio" starring Burt Lancaster, "Clear and Present Danger" starring Harrison Ford, "Ice Station Zebra", and several James Bond film which featured CIA agent Felix Leiter. 



</doc>
<doc id="7794" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7794" title="1975">
1975

1975 (MCMLXXV) was a common year starting on Wednesday of the Gregorian calendar.







</doc>
<doc id="7795" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7795" title="July 16">
July 16





</doc>
<doc id="7796" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7796" title="Thomas Dolby">
Thomas Dolby

Thomas Dolby is a British musican and computer designer. He is probably most famous for his 1983 hit, "She Blinded me with Science".


</doc>
<doc id="7798" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7798" title="Seismic retrofit">
Seismic retrofit

Seismic retrofitting is the modification of buildings that already exist to make them resistant to earthquakes . Seismic retrofitting techniques can be applied to other kinds of natural disasters such as tornadoes and strong winds from thunderstorms.

Main levels of retrofitted building structure performance objectives may vary, namely:


</doc>
<doc id="7802" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7802" title="Company (disambiguation)">
Company (disambiguation)

The word company has several meanings:



</doc>
<doc id="7803" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7803" title="1890">
1890



</doc>
<doc id="7805" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7805" title="Rio de Janeiro">
Rio de Janeiro

Rio de Janeiro is the second largest Brazilian city. Until April 21, 1960 it was the capital city of Brazil. Today it is the capital of the state of Rio de Janeiro. According to the 2000 Census, the city had 5,473,909 inhabitants, distributed over 1,000 km.
Rio de Janeiro is the most famous Brazilian city in the world. It is famous for its beaches, such as Copacabana Beach and Ipanema Beach, Sugar Loaf Mountain(in Portuguese, "Pão de Açúcar") and the statue of Christ the Redeemer (in Portuguese, "Cristo Redentor"). It also has an important harbour, and the second most important airport in Brazil for international flights: Tom Jobim Airport. It has significant commerce and many industries, especially textiles, food, chemicals, and metallurgy. Most of these industries are located in the northern and western suburbs of the city. Although it is not so widely known, Rio de Janeiro also has a small rural area, near the suburb of Campo Grande, where fruits and vegetables are grown. 

Other cities near Rio de Janeiro, like Duque de Caxias, Nova Iguaçu, Queimados and São Gonçalo, that form the Metropolitan Region of Rio de Janeiro, also have a lot of industries and population. 

The city is 420 kilometers away from São Paulo, the biggest city in South America. The cities of Rio and São Paulo are linked by the Presidente Dutra Highway (also known as "Via Dutra"). The region crossed by the Presidente Dutra Highway has been an important industrial zone since the 1950s.

In the city of Rio de Janeiro there is also one of the oldest national parks of Brazil: Tijuca National Park. This park is considered the largest urban forest in the world, with some 33 km, between the northern and the southern parts of the city. Another interesting place to visit in Rio is the district (in Portuguese, "bairro") of Santa Tereza, and the most interesting way to get there is by taking an old electric tram (in Portuguese, "bonde") from central Rio de Janeiro (near "Largo da Carioca" subway station), crossing over the "Arcos da Lapa", an old aqueduct built during the colonial period to provide water to the city.

On October 2, 2009, the city was named by the International Olympic Committee as the host for the 2016 Games.



</doc>
<doc id="7817" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7817" title="Andrew Jackson">
Andrew Jackson

Andrew Jackson (March 15, 1767 – June 8, 1845) was a general in the War of 1812 and was considered to be a war hero. He became the seventh President of the United States of America. He was the first Democrat and is on the Twenty Dollar Bill. His nickname was "Old Hickory".

Andrew Jackson created the Democratic Party and was its leader.

In 1828, he defeated John Quincy Adams in the presidential election of 1828, he became president on March 4th, 1829, and four years later he was re-elected to a second term as president. 

Andrew Jackson was the first U.S. president who was not born into a wealthy family. He was not a wealthy man and did not have a college education. For these reasons, Jackson stood for the common man (people who worked hard and did not make a lot of money, like farmers). 

Jackson supported a popular democracy where the people directly elect the president instead of what we have now, the Electoral College where the people elect people who elect the president.

Andrew Jackson was against a national bank of the United States because he felt that it was ran by wealthy powerful people and that it did not serve the interests of the common man. The national bank expired during Jackson's presidency. Jackson chose not to continue the bank.

During his presidency, he signed the Indian Removal Act which allowed the U.S. government to violently force the Native Americans to move out of their land and go west. Many Native Americans were killed and the path they walked to get to the west was called the Trail of Tears.

On March 4th, 1837, Andrew Jackson finished his second term. After that, vice-president Martin Van Buren became president (because he was elected) and continued many of the things Jackson did. Jackson was a big influence on other Democrats during the 1800's.

Jackson's legacy among historians is mixed.

One one hand, Jackson was a slave owner who had many Native Americans killed and most people now believe that a national bank is necessary for a society to be well.

On the other hand, Jackson was successful general who lead an entire political movement, stood for the common man, and had a big impact on American history.



</doc>
<doc id="7820" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7820" title="Pillow">
Pillow

A pillow is a soft cushion that a person puts under their head when they are sleeping in a bed. A pillow is made from two pieces of cloth that are sewn together and stuffed with a soft material, such as feathers, duck down, or synthetic batting (man made soft stuffing). Pillows are usually rectangular. Pillows are covered with a fabric sheet called a pillowcase. The pillowcase protects the pillow from getting dirty. Pillows are a form of cushion.


</doc>
<doc id="7821" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7821" title="Whaler">
Whaler

A whaler is a person who hunts whales, or the boat they use.
They hunt whales for their oil, made from their fat, called "blubber", and the meat. Today, there is a treaty which bans the hunt of some whale species. Most countries signed the treaty. A few countries still hunt whales for research purposes. Among those countries are Norway, Iceland and Japan.



</doc>
<doc id="7823" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7823" title="Crayon">
Crayon

Crayons are writing tools made with colored wax, water and citric acid or chalk. They are used very much by young children to make drawings, although some artists also use them to put finishing touches on their art. One very well-known brand of crayons is Crayola, a company by Binney and Smith.


</doc>
<doc id="7824" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7824" title="Self-defense">
Self-defense

Self-defense means fighting off something or another person to protect yourself and maybe others. Ways of self-defense include martial arts or using a weapon. Sometimes, self defence can cause serious harm to the other person in most nations you cannot be prosecuted for this harm.


</doc>
<doc id="7825" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7825" title="March 22">
March 22

March 22 is the 81st day of the year in the Gregorian calendar (82nd in leap years). There are 284 days remaining.






</doc>
<doc id="7826" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7826" title="May 24">
May 24






</doc>
<doc id="7827" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7827" title="1153">
1153



</doc>
<doc id="7828" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7828" title="January 9">
January 9





</doc>
<doc id="7829" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7829" title="1913">
1913

1913 (MCMXIII) was a common year starting on Wednesday of the Gregorian calendar.





</doc>
<doc id="7830" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7830" title="May 3">
May 3






</doc>
<doc id="7831" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7831" title="1469">
1469





</doc>
<doc id="7835" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7835" title="Dodgeball">
Dodgeball

Dodgeball is a sport played by throwing soft balls , or hard rubber balls, at people in a square court. The goal is to be the last one to be hit with the ball. Players may only throw balls at people who are not on their own team. If a player is hit by the ball, he or she should go to the outside of the court to the other team. From the outside, players throw the ball at players still on the inside.

Dodgeball is often played in elementary schools in physical education classes. Many school children play this game. In recent years, many adults who played it as children have formed adult leagues and clubs. Also, some schools have banned it (this means that made it against the rules to play it), because players can get hurt when playing the game. Tournaments are sometimes held in schools.

Dodgeball, because of its recent popularity, inspired a film "" (2004) starring Ben Stiller and Vince Vaughn, and a game show, "Extreme Dodgeball".


</doc>
<doc id="7836" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7836" title="Local area network">
Local area network

A local area network (LAN) is a group of computers (network) in a small area like a home, office, or school. Many computers can be connected to share information and Internet connections. Most LANs use Ethernet to connect together.

LAN topologies tell you how network devices are organized. Five common LAN topologies exist: bus, ring, star, tree, and mesh. These topologies are logical architectures. This means that they tell you the directions that signals go between devices, but that the actual cables that connect the devices might not be connected the same way. For example, logical bus and ring topologies are commonly organized physically as a star. 







</doc>
<doc id="7843" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7843" title="February 18">
February 18






</doc>
<doc id="7845" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7845" title="Pharaoh">
Pharaoh

Pharaohs were the rulers of ancient Egypt. Before the union of Upper and Lower Egypt, kings would wear crowns of different design, to show which part of Egypt they had rule over. The red crown was worn in Lower Egypt and the white crown in Upper Egypt. In later history, kings of the whole of ancient Egypt would wear a combination of the two crowns, called a Pschent. The word comes from the Egyptian word "Per-aa", which means "Great House". Pharaohs were believed to be descended from the gods. When a Pharaoh died, all the treasure that they owned would be buried with them.



</doc>
<doc id="7851" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7851" title="Gilligan's Island">
Gilligan's Island

Gilligan's Island is one of the most popular television series in the history of television. It originally aired in 1964 and is still popular today in reruns and on DVD. The series is about seven people (two crewmembers and five tourists) take a 3-hour sightseeing tour in a marina in Hawaii. This occurs on the boat, S.S. "Minnow". An unexpected storm sends the boat to an uncharted island. Now the passengers of the boat have to live on the island and try to find a way home. Most of the episodes involved the characters trying to survive a problem or trying to contact help.



</doc>
<doc id="7854" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7854" title="Diaper">
Diaper

A diaper (or nappy) is a piece of clothing worn by whose who cannot control their urine or feces.

Diapers can be made of cloth (usually cotton) that can be washed and used again, or diapers can be disposable (put in the garbage after they are used up). Disposable diapers are usually made of plastic or man-made (artificial) fibers and contain chemicals that are super-absorbent.

Diapers that can be washed must be folded in intricate ways (like origami) before being put on. But, with the disposable you must constantly buy new ones.

Viewed as unpleasant by some, Diapers are mostly used by children from birth until the child has been potty trained. The next most used age group is the Senior Citizen age group, however there are also adult diapers for people with medical problems.

In America, they are called this, but in the United Kingdom, Australia, and several other countries it is called a nappy (short for napkin).

Sometimes adults who do not have medical problems also wear diapers. This can be for different reasons. Sometimes it is because they have a profession where they cannot always get to a bathroom, like astronauts. Some adults wear diapers for fun. This is usually a form of sexual pleasure, or for emotional reasons. These people are often called "diaper-lovers" or "adult-babies." The scientific term for liking to wear diapers is "Diaper Fetishists."


</doc>
<doc id="7857" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7857" title="Category:Comedy television series">
Category:Comedy television series

This category is of comedy television series, particularly situation comedies.


</doc>
<doc id="7859" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7859" title="Mork and Mindy">
Mork and Mindy

Mork and Mindy was an American comedy television series. It that starred Robin Williams and Pam Dawber as the title characters. The series was made by Garry Marshall. "Mork and Mindy" was a spin-off from Marshall's other popular TV series, "Happy Days". The plot of the series was about an alien named Mork from a planet called Ork who travels to Earth and becomes friends with a woman named Mindy from Boulder, Colorado. 


</doc>
<doc id="7862" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7862" title="April 23">
April 23






</doc>
<doc id="7863" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7863" title="1954">
1954

1954 (MCMLIV) was a common year starting on Friday of the Gregorian calendar.








</doc>
<doc id="7864" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7864" title="American Samoa">
American Samoa

American Samoa is a territory of the United States in Samoan Islands, in the South Pacific Ocean.

International rivalries in the latter half of the 19th century were settled by an 1899 treaty in which Germany and the US divided the Samoan archipelago. The US formally occupied its portion - a smaller group of eastern islands with the noted harbor of Pago Pago - the following year. The western islands are now the independent state of Samoa. Though technically considered "unorganized" in that the US Congress has not passed an Organic Act for the territory, American Samoa is self-governing under a constitution that became effective on July 1, 1967.

The capital is Pago Pago, but the seat of government is Fagatogo.


</doc>
<doc id="7865" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7865" title="Disgust">
Disgust

Disgust is an emotion. People feel it when they see, touch or hear something that is nasty. It is also caused by scorn. For example, when find something dirty or not fit to eat. 


</doc>
<doc id="7866" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7866" title="February 7">
February 7






</doc>
<doc id="7867" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7867" title="1723">
1723



</doc>
<doc id="7868" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7868" title="Oven">
Oven

Ovens are closed, heated containers which are used for heating, baking, and drying. It is used the most often in cooking and pottery. They provide even, dry heat to all surfaces of food inside them. An indoor oven can have an electric heating element, or be fired by natural gas or coal. Outdoor ovens are often made of brick or clay and are buried in hot coals. An oven which is used for making pottery is called a kiln. An oven used for heating or industrial processes is called a furnace. They are hot inside, and often things come hot out of it.

The people in the settlements of the Indus Valley Civilization were the first to have an oven inside of their mud-brick houses by 3200 B.C.
People who study the history of food give credit to the Greeks for making the baking of bread into an art. A type of oven called Front-loaded bread ovens were created in ancient Greece. 


</doc>
<doc id="7869" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7869" title="Pot">
Pot

A cooking pot is a vessel to cook in. It is often larger than a pan, and will be taller than it is wide.
Pots are used for boiling liquids, like soups or stew.


</doc>
<doc id="7870" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7870" title="Liquid">
Liquid

A liquid is a form of matter. It is settled between solid and gas. Liquid has an almost-fixed volume, but no set shape.

Every small force makes a liquid change its shape by flowing. Because of that, gravity makes liquids always take the shape of the container. The molecules that make up the liquid can freely move among themselves.

Fluids that flow slowly have a high viscosity. Some fluids like tar have such a high viscosity that they may seem solid.

It is difficult to compress a liquid. If a liquid is cooled down until it is colder than a certain temperature, it will become a solid. This temperature is called the melting point and is different for every different type of liquid. The freezing point of water is around 0°C, and it becomes ice. If a liquid is heated up it becomes a gas. The temperature this happens at is called the boiling point. The boiling point of water is 100°C, at this temperature it becomes steam.

Examples of liquid are water, oils and blood.

In a liquid, the liquid on the top presses down on the liquid underneath, so at the bottom the pressure, "p", is bigger than at the top. The equation for working this out is:

where "z" is the depth of the point below the surface and "g" is how strong gravity is pulling on the liquid. "ρ" is a number that tells us how heavy a set amount of the liquid is. We call this the density and it is different for all liquids.


</doc>
<doc id="7872" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7872" title="January 24">
January 24





</doc>
<doc id="7873" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7873" title="October 12">
October 12





</doc>
<doc id="7874" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7874" title="1806">
1806



</doc>
<doc id="7875" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7875" title="July 13">
July 13






July 12 July 14 June 13 August 13 more listing of all days


</doc>
<doc id="7876" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7876" title="1836">
1836




</doc>
<doc id="7877" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7877" title="White">
White

White is the color of pure sunlight. White light can be made by putting all the other colors of light on the spectrum together. These other colors are red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, and violet.

White is linked with light, goodness, innocence, purity, cleanliness and virginity. It is thought to be the color of perfection. The opposite of black, white usually has a positive connotation. White can stand for a successful beginning. In heraldry, white depicts faith and purity. 

In advertising, white is linked with coolness and cleanliness because it is the color of snow. You can use white to show simplicity in high-tech products. White is an appropriate color for charitable organizations; angels are usually imagined wearing white clothes. White is associated with hospitals, doctors, and sterility, so you can use white to show safety when promoting medical products. White is often linked with low weight, low-fat food, and dairy products.



</doc>
<doc id="7879" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7879" title="French Guiana">
French Guiana

French Guiana ("French", Guyane) is a French province in South America. The capital is Cayenne (pronounced: kay-yen).

There are gold mines and many trees. The money used is the euro. There is also a famous island where criminals were sent to serve in prison, and it is called Devil's Island, or Ile du Diable. 

66% of the people are considered black or mulatto, 12% are white, 12% are East Indian, Chinese, Amerindian 12%, and 10% fall into other ethnic groups.

The European Space Agency launches rockets in French Guiana, near Kourou.

It is also the largest territory outside of Europe that is part of the European Union.


</doc>
<doc id="7880" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7880" title="Nigger">
Nigger

Nigger is a word to refer to a person of African descent. Today, it is mostly used as a racist insult. Originally, it was simply used to refer to a black person, as opposed to a white person. At that time it was not considered racist.

The word came from a slang pronunciation of "negro", which is the word for the color black in Spanish. Writers such as Joseph Conrad, Mark Twain
, and Charles Dickens used it. When they used it, they meant "black person", as opposed to "white person". The word was most used in the Southern part of the United States, where blacks were at one time held as slaves.

Today, it is an offensive and inflammatory racial slur in American English, and is often considered to be hate speech.


</doc>
<doc id="7886" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7886" title="Biography">
Biography

A biography is the story of a real person's life. The word comes from the Greek words "bios" (= life) and "graphein" (= write). When the biography is written by the person it is about, it is called an autobiography.

A biography is a part of literature. Biographies can also be made as movies. These movies are often called biopics.

The first known biographies were written to record rulers' lives. They were written in Assyria, ancient Babylonia, ancient Egypt and ancient Mesopotamia. Biographies were an early form of history.

In ancient Greek people wrote biographies too. But not only biographies of the rulers but also biographies of people who the writers thought were great. Xenophon wrote a biography of Socrates and gave this book the name "Memorabilia" (Memories). Plutarch wrote "Parallel Lives". In this book Plutarch wrote about a couple of Greek politicians and Roman politicians. Later among the Romans, Suetonius wrote biographies of the Roman emperors, "Lives of Caesars". The Gospels were also biographies of Jesus Christ. 

In Eastern countries people wrote biographies. In ancient China a biography was one of basic form of history book. In India biographies of Buddha were written and also biographies of his reincarnated lives.



</doc>
<doc id="7887" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7887" title="January 3">
January 3

January 3 is the third day of the year in the current calendar system we use. When there is not a leap year, there are 362 days after January 3. When there is a leap year, there are 363 days after January 3.





</doc>
<doc id="7888" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7888" title="Ralph Nader">
Ralph Nader

Ralph Nader (born February 27, 1934) is an American attorney, politician and political activist. He is best known for working for the rights of consumers, for his third party runs for President, and for helping George Bush get elected in 2000. He ran for President in 1996, 2000 and 2004, but failed to win. In the 2008 election, Nader placed third overall, with 660,094 votes, or about .38%. Nader was born in Winsted, Connecticut. His parents, Nathra and Rose Nader, were Lebanese immigrants.


</doc>
<doc id="7889" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7889" title="Jamie Farr">
Jamie Farr

Jamie Farr (born July 1, 1934) is an American actor of Lebanese descent. He is best known for his role as Corp./later Sgt. Maxwell Q. Klinger on the 1970s TV show, "M*A*S*H". His real name is Jameel Joseph Farha and he was born in Toledo, Ohio.

Farr also appeared in movies like "The Blackboard Jungle" (1955) and "The Cannonball Run" (1980), he was a regular "celebrity judge" on "The Gong Show" and has a golf tournament named after him.


</doc>
<doc id="7890" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7890" title="Free software">
Free software

Free software is software that anyone may run, share, and change, at any time, for any reason. The opposite of free software is proprietary software.

In 1984, Richard Stallman started the free software movement when he began the GNU project.

Free software is very similar, but different from open source software.

People who like the name “free software” more, say that they like it because they think every human must have the right to

People who like the name “open source” more, say that they like it because the authors of such software allow others to look at the software and change it, so the others will then help the authors make the software better.

Because of how the name “open source” is used, almost all free software is open source software, and almost all open source software is free software.

If an author wants to make his computer program free, he must allow the people to whom he gives the program as a free program to use it for any reason and purpose, on any computer, in any place at any time, without limits.

That does not mean that the author must say "I allow you to delete files from the computers of other people without telling them", but he must not say "I prohibit you from deleting files from the computers of other people without telling them". If deleting files from somebodies' computer is illegal, it will be illegal even if it is prohibited only by law and not by the author of the program.

If it is legal (for example, if a user wants the program to delete his files without telling him about that), but the author has prohibited it, nobody can change the program to make a useful program which does that, and give it to others.

The author must not prohibit even things which are dangerous, because if the prohibition is not very very very complex and long, it may be used incorrectly. For example, explosive materials can be used for war, but they can also be used to remove a big stone which has fallen on a road. Some authors would want to prohibit eating meat, or saying bad words (or good words which are not allowed to be said in their culture), or something else. If many authors prohibit many different things, then a program which is made of the programs of those authors will not be usable.

A person can understand how a program works, or change the program, only if they have the source code of that program. It is difficult to read, and very difficult to change many of the programs which exist, because they are often compiled, so only a computer can easily read them. Because of that, software can be free or open source only if the person who gets a copy can ask for and get the source code without paying more money.

If the user has a computer, and is allowed to change the program in the computer, the computer must work with the changed program, if the user has not made a mistake while changing the program. The license GNU GPL 3 prohibits making computers which, although the user can change the programs in them, completely stop working after that only because the program is changed.

There are also other things which must be allowed.

The word “free” in “free software” is about "freedom," not "price". People are allowed to sell free software, but the person who buys the software may change it or give it away.

The name “free software” in English language is also often used for software, a copy of which people can download without paying money, and sometimes can give copies to others, but not do all the things with it that they can do with the other Free software. In this case “free” means “free of charge”, “freedom from paying money”. This software is called freeware; it is almost always proprietary software.




</doc>
<doc id="7895" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7895" title="1804">
1804



</doc>
<doc id="7903" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7903" title="1812">
1812



</doc>
<doc id="7905" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7905" title="Zookeeper">
Zookeeper

A zookeeper is a worker in a zoo.

More specifically, it is someone who cares for animals in the zoo. They are responsible for the feeding and daily care of the animals. They clean out the exhibits and report health problems. They answer questions about the animals and might demonstrate the feeding of the animals.


</doc>
<doc id="7906" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7906" title="Cage">
Cage

A cage is a box which is made to keep something inside of, without it being able to get out (such as an animal). Cages are usually made of many metal bars.

A cage which has birds in it is called a "birdcage". 



</doc>
<doc id="7907" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7907" title="Toddler">
Toddler

A toddler is a child between the ages of one to three years old. During this time, the child learns how to use their hands, stand and walk, and also how to communicate with others.

Most children are toilet trained while they are toddlers.
Even when toddlers can walk, they are often transported in a stroller, buggy, or pushchair when the walk is a long distance or when they're tired.


</doc>
<doc id="7908" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7908" title="Category:Country musicians">
Category:Country musicians


</doc>
<doc id="7909" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7909" title="Category:Pop musicians">
Category:Pop musicians


</doc>
<doc id="7911" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7911" title="Category:Rock musicians">
Category:Rock musicians


</doc>
<doc id="7912" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7912" title="Category:Rock music">
Category:Rock music


</doc>
<doc id="7913" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7913" title="Category:Jazz musicians">
Category:Jazz musicians


</doc>
<doc id="7914" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7914" title="Category:Jazz music">
Category:Jazz music


</doc>
<doc id="7915" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7915" title="Category:R&amp;B musicians">
Category:R&amp;B musicians


</doc>
<doc id="7916" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7916" title="Category:R&amp;B music">
Category:R&amp;B music


</doc>
<doc id="7923" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7923" title="Ronald McDonald">
Ronald McDonald

Ronald McDonald is a clown character who is a mascot of the McDonald's fast-food restaurant. 
He wears yellow and red stipes and has wacky hair. He lives in McDonaldland, with lots of others including Grimace, the Hamburgler, Birdy the Early Bird, Mayor McCheese, and the Fry Kids.

The clown Michael Polakovs (known in America as Coco the Clown} designed his clothes and make-up. He appeared in the first eight of Ronald's television commercials. The actor Jeff Giuliano played Ronald McDonald for many years on television. Later he became a vegetarian, and was sorry he had spent so much time promoting hamburgers.


</doc>
<doc id="7927" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7927" title="Bob Marley">
Bob Marley

Robert Nesta "Bob" Marley (February 6, 1945 - May 11, 1981) was an important Jamaican musician in the 1970s and 1980s. He made the style of reggae music very popular all over the world. His music told stories of his home and the Rastafarian religion that he followed . Some songs were about religion and some songs were about politics. 

Bob Marley was born to a black teenager, Cedella Booker, and a white man named Norvall Marley. When he was young, his friends gave his the nickname, "Tuff Gong". He started his music career in the 1960s with his group the Wailing Wailers, that he formed with two friends, Peter Tosh and Bunny Wailer. In 1962, Bob Marley and the Wailing Wailers recorded their first two songs called "Judge Not" and "One Cup of Coffee".

Bob married Rita Anderson in 1966 and she joined the group as a back-up singer. They had five children together. One is Ziggy Marley, who is also a well known reggae performer.

In 1974, the Wailers broke up because three of the band members wanted to pursue solo careers. But, Bob Marley continued calling his band Bob Marley and the Wailers and joined together with new members to continue playing music. In 1975, Bob Marley had his first international hit called "No Woman No Cry". In Jamaica he is considered a folk hero. Some other hits of his include "Three Little Birds", "Africa Unite", "Buffalo Soldier", and "One Love". His most popular studio album was called "Legend", which includes his greatest hits. 

Bob Marley died on the 11th of May, 1981, at Cedars of Lebanon Hospital in Miami, Florida, due to melanoma.


</doc>
<doc id="7928" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7928" title="Leonardo DiCaprio">
Leonardo DiCaprio

Leonardo Wilhelm DiCaprio (born November 11, 1974 in Los Angeles, California) is an American actor. Some of the movies he has appeared in include "What's Eating Gilbert Grape", "Romeo + Juliet", "Titanic", "The Man in the Iron Mask", "The Beach", "Catch Me if You Can", "Gangs of New York", and "The Aviator". His first movie was "Critters 3".




! colspan="3" style="background: #DAA520;" | National Board of Review Award

! colspan="3" style="background: #DAA520;" | Golden Globe Award



</doc>
<doc id="7929" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7929" title="John Candy">
John Candy

John Candy (October 31, 1950 – March 4, 1994) was a Canadian actor. He is known for his comic roles in many movies and television series.




</doc>
<doc id="7933" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7933" title="Erwin Rommel">
Erwin Rommel

Field Marshal Erwin Johannes Eugen Rommel (The "Desert Fox"), (15 November 1891 – 14 October 1944) was an officer of the German Army in World War II. 

He commanded the German Army in North Africa in a long struggle against the British 8th Army. He was finally defeated at El Alamein.

Later in the war he commanded the German forces defending the French coast against the Allied re-invasion of Europe in Normandy.

Rommel was well liked by both the German public and respected by the Allies. He was thought to be chivalrous and humane, when other Nazi leaders were not. His famous "Afrikakorps" was not accused of any war crimes. Soldiers captured by his army were treated well and orders to kill captured Jewish soldiers and civilians were ignored. 

Rommel knew of the plan by senior officers to assassinate Hitler in 1944. When it failed, all concerned were tortured and executed. Hitler offered him the choice of suicide or trial, and he committed suicide in 1944. His death was announced as the death of a hero in battle.

Rommel was born in Heidenheim, Germany, 45 kilometers (28 mi) from Ulm, in the Kingdom of Württemberg which was then part of the German Empire, on November 15, 1891. He was baptised on 17 November 1891. His father, Erwin Rommel (1860—1913) was a math teacher, and later a secondary school headmaster at Aalen. His mother was Helene von Lutz, the daughter of a local government official. Rommel was the second of four children; Karl, Gerhard, and Helene. Rommel wrote that his "early years passed very happily."

At the age of 14, Rommel and a friend built a full-scale glider that was able to fly short distances. Young Erwin thought about being an engineer and he showed a talent with technical work; however, because of his father, young Rommel joined the local 124th Württemberg Infantry Regiment as an officer cadet in 1910 and, shortly after, was sent to the Officer Cadet School in Danzig. He graduated on 15 November 1911, and was a lieutenant in January 1912.

While at Cadet School, early in 1911, Erwin Rommel met his future wife, 17-year-old Lucia Maria Mollin (also called "Lucie") (b. 6 June 1894 in Danzig; d. 26 September 1971 in Stuttgart). They married on November 27, 1916, in Danzig, and on December 24, 1928 had a son, Manfred, who would later become the mayor of Stuttgart. After having met Lucie, some historians think that Rommel also had an affair with a woman called Walburga Stemmer in 1913, and they had a daughter named Gertrud.

In World War I, Rommel fought in France, as well as in Romania and Italy, first as a member of the 6th Württemberg Infantry Regiment, and then in the Württemberg Mountain Battalion of the "Alpenkorps." While serving with that unit, he gained a reputation for making quick tactical decisions and taking advantage of enemy confusion. He was wounded three times and awarded the Iron Cross; First and Second Class. Rommel also received Prussia's highest medal, the Pour le Mérite after fighting in the mountains of west Slovenia – Battles of the Isonzo – Soca front. The award came as a result of the Battle of Longarone, and the capture of Mount Matajur, Slovenia, and its defenders, numbering 150 Italian officers, 9,000 men, and 81 pieces of artillery. His battalion used gas during the battles of the Isonzo and also played a key role in the victory of the Central Powers over the Italian army at the Battle of Caporetto. While fighting at Isonzo, Rommel was taken prisoner by the Italians. He escaped, and because he spoke Italian, he was back to the German lines within two weeks. Later, when the German and Italian armies were allied during the Second World War, Rommel realised that their lack of success in battle was due to poor leadership and equipment, which when fixed, easily made them equal to German forces.

Rommel was a commander of the "Führerbegleithauptquartier" (Führer escort headquarters) during the Poland campaign, often moving up close to the front in the "Führersonderzug" and seeing much of Hitler. After the Polish defeat, Rommel returned to Berlin to organize the Führer's victory parade, taking part himself as a member of Hitler's entourage. During the Polish campaign, Rommel was asked to help of one of his wife's relatives, a Polish priest who had been arrested. When Rommel asked the Gestapo for information, the Gestapo found no information about the man's existence.

Rommel asked Hitler for command of a panzer division. On 6 February 1940, three months before the invasion of France, Rommel was given command of the 7th Panzer Division, for ""Fall Gelb"" ("Case Yellow"), the invasion of France and the Low Countries. Some other Nazi officers did not agree with his promotion. Rommel's initial request for command had been rejected by the Chief of Army Personnel, who cited his lack of previous experience with armoured units and his extensive prior experience in an Alpine unit made him a more suitable candidate to assume command of a mountain division that had recent need to fill its commanding officer post. Rommel had, however, emphasized the use of mobile infantry and recognized the great usefulness of armoured forces in the Poland campaign. He set about learning and developing the techniques of armoured warfare with great enthusiasm. The decision to place him in command of an armoured division was borne out to be an excellent one. In May, 1940 his 7th Panzer Division became known as the "Ghost Division" because its rapid advances and fast paced attacks often placed them so far forward that they were frequently out of communication with the rest of the German army.

Rommel's reward for his success was to be promoted and appointed commander of the 5th Light Division (later reorganised and redesignated "21.Panzer-Division") and of the "15.Panzer-Division" which, as the "Deutsches Afrikakorps,"() were sent to Libya in early 1941 in Operation Sonnenblume to aid the Italian troops which had suffered a heavy defeat from British Commonwealth forces in Operation Compass. It was in Africa where Rommel achieved his greatest fame as a commander.

Rommel was well known not only by the German people but also by his enemies. Stories of his chivalry and tactical ability earned him the respect of many opponents, including Claude Auchinleck, Winston Churchill, George S. Patton, and Bernard Montgomery (who named a dog after him). Rommel was also respectful of his enemies. Hitler considered Rommel among his favorite generals.

The "Afrika Korps" was never accused of any war crimes, and Rommel himself referred to the fighting in North Africa as "Krieg ohne Hass" — war without hate. Numerous examples exist of this such as his refusal to carry out an order from Hitler to execute Jewish prisoners. During Rommel's time in France, Hitler ordered him to deport the Jews in France; Rommel did not. Several times he wrote letters protesting the treatment of the Jews. When British Major Geoffrey Keyes was killed during a failed commando raid to kill or capture Rommel behind German lines, Rommel ordered him buried with full military honours. Also, during the construction of the Atlantic Wall, Rommel directed that French workers were not to be used as slaves but were to be paid for their labour.

Rommel was not one of the group who planned the attempt on Hitler's life. Actually, he was not in favour of assassinating Hitler. Rommel believed an assassination attempt could spark civil war in Germany and Austria, and Hitler would have become a martyr for a lasting cause. Instead, Rommel insisted that Hitler be arrested and brought to trial for his crimes. Later, though, Rommel made up his mind to support the plot.

After the failed bomb attack of 20 July 1944, many conspirators were arrested. Rommel was fairly perturbed at this development. It did not take long for Rommel's involvement to come to light. 

Under Gestapo torture, one of that group revealed the names of several higher army officers who were consulted beforehand. Rommel was one of those.

Even more damningly, Carl Goerdeler, the main civilian leader of the Resistance, wrote on several letters and other documents that Rommel was a potential supporter and an acceptable military leader to be placed in a position of responsibility should their coup succeed. Nazi party officials in France reported that Rommel extensively and scornfully criticised Nazi incompetence and crimes. That sealed his fate.

The release of the film "" (1951) helped his reputation as one of the most widely known and well-regarded leaders in the German Army.



</doc>
<doc id="7941" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7941" title="Fermentation">
Fermentation

Fermentation is when a cell uses sugar for energy without using oxygen at the same time. Yeast is an organism that ferments. When yeast ferments sugar, the yeast eats sugar and makes alcohol. Other cells make vinegar or lactic acid when they ferment sugar.

When yeast ferments, it breaks down the glucose (CHO) into ethanol (CHCHOH) and carbon dioxide (CO).



</doc>
<doc id="7947" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7947" title="Flower">
Flower

A flower is a part of a plant. Flowers are also called the bloom or blossom of a plant. It sometimes has a stem – a thin pipe – to support the flower. Flowers have petals. The flower contains the part that produces seeds.

Flowers are the reproductive structure of flowering plants, which are plants of the division Magnoliophyta, also called the Angiosperms).

In many plants, a flower is its most colourful part. We say the plant 'flowers', 'is flowering' or 'is in flower' when this colourful part begins to grow bigger and open out. There are many different kinds of flowers in different areas in the world. Even in the coldest places, for example the Arctic, flowers can grow during a few months.

In botany, flowers are the key evolutionary advance made by flowering plants. To investigate the structure of a flower, it must be dissected, examined under a binocular microscope, and its structure summarised by a floral diagram or a floral formula. Then its family can be identified with the aid of a flora, which is a book designed to help you identify plants.

Flowers contain the reproductive organs of a plant. Some flowers are dependent upon the wind to move pollen between flowers of the same species. Many others rely on insects or birds to move pollen. The role of flowers is to produce seeds or fruit (fruits contain seeds). Fruits and seeds are a means of dispersal. Plants do not move, but wind, animals and birds spread the plants across the landscape.

Flowers are modified leaves possessed only by the group known as the angiosperms, which are relatively late to appear in the fossil record. 

The flowering plants have long been assumed to have evolved from within the gymnosperms; but gymnosperms form a clade which is distinct from the angiosperms. The two clades diverging some 300 million years ago.

Since the ovules are protected by carpels and integuments, it takes something special for fertilisation to happen. Angiosperms have pollen grains comprising just three cells. One cell is responsible for drilling down through the integuments, and creating a passage for the two sperm cells to flow down. The megagametophyte has just seven cells; of these, one fuses with a sperm cell, forming the nucleus of the egg itself, and another other joins with the other sperm, and dedicates itself to forming a nutrient-rich endosperm. The other cells take auxiliary roles. This process of "double fertilisation" is unique and common to all angiosperms.

Flowers and flowering plants first appear in the fossil record of 130 million years ago in the Lower Cretaceous.

Flowers have long been admired and used by humans. Most people think that flowers are beautiful. Many people also love flowers for their fragrances (scents). People enjoy seeing flowers growing in gardens. People also enjoy growing flowers in their backyards, outside their homes. People often wear flowers on their clothes or give flowers as a gift during special occasions, holidays, or rituals, such as the birth of a new baby (or a Christening), at weddings (marriages), at funerals (when a person dies). People often buy flowers from businesses called florists.

Some parents name their girl children after a flower. Some common flower names are: Rose, Lily, Daisy, Holly, Hyacinth, Jasmine, Blossom.

People also eat some types of flowers. Flower vegetables include broccoli, cauliflower and artichoke. The most expensive spice, saffron, comes from the crocus flower. Other flower spices are cloves and capers. Hops flowers are used to flavor beer. Dandelion flowers are often made into wine. 

Honey is flower nectar that has been collected and processed by bees. Honey is often named for the type of flower that the bees are using (for example, clover honey). Some people put flowers from nasturtiums, chrysanthemums, or carnations in their food. Flowers can also be made into tea. Dried flowers such as chrysanthemum, rose, jasmine are used to make tea.

Flowers were used to signal meanings in the time when social meetings between men and women was difficult. Lilies make people think of life. Red roses make people think of love, beauty, and passion. In Britain, Australia and Canada, poppies are worn on Memorial Day as a mark of respect for those who served and died in wars. Daisies make people think of children and innocence.





</doc>
<doc id="7949" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7949" title="1939">
1939








</doc>
<doc id="7950" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7950" title="Square kilometre">
Square kilometre

A square kilometre (sometimes written "km²") is based on the SI unit of measurement of area, the "square metre". It is the area inside a square that has each side equal to 1 kilometre (1000 metres). This way of talking about area is often used to say how much land there is, on a farm or in a city, for example.

One square kilometre is just less than 0.39 square miles.


</doc>
<doc id="7952" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7952" title="Judge">
Judge

A judge is a man or woman who is in control of a court of law.

The way that people can become judges and what they have to do in court depends on each country. In some countries, judges must work with the law (often as a lawyer) for a number of years before they can "sit as a judge" in a . In some countries, especially the United States, there might be a jury in the courtroom that decides if someone is guilty or not guilty of breaking a law. A jury can also decide if someone must pay money to someone else and how much they have to pay. If there is a jury, the judge has the job of making sure the person taken to court is treated in a fair way.

In other countries, for example in many countries in Europe, the judge makes the decision of whether or not a person is guilty.

Some courts will have more than one judge, for example three judges. For important decisions about the laws of a country, countries may have a "supreme court" or "high court" with many (nine or more) judges in it. In the United States, judges on a supreme court are called "justices" and are lead by a "chief justice".

In many countries, judges wear special clothes while being in court. Oftentimes this is a black or . Supreme or high court judges often wear a kind of red cloak. Judges in some countries also wear a special long wig. They also used to put a piece of black material on their head when they sentenced a person to die.


</doc>
<doc id="7953" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7953" title="Guilty">
Guilty

A person is guilty of doing something if they have done something really bad. If a person has broken a law by stealing for example they are guilty of breaking the law or according to Colly O'Brien can be considered "guilty as charged and should be taken to the dock immediately" 

People also say they 'feel guilty', if they think they have been unfair or done something wrong. This is often called having a 'guilty conscience' (usually when the person does not admit to being guilty).

The opposite of 'guilty' is 'innocent' or 'not guilty'. 


</doc>
<doc id="7954" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7954" title="Length">
Length

Length is a property of a thing that can be measured. One of the methods of measurement is either using a ruler or a Geometric Square. We generally measure the length of small shapes but we have made a range of sizes so you can either have an 'easy to go' degree of accuracy or an close to exact measurement in millimeters, or even more accurate ways of saying that length, the more longer the object seems the lesser the degree of accuracy we tend to measure it. The length of something is the distance between two ends of the thing. Short means of small length. Long means of much length. Short and long are opposites. Length is usually the longer side of measurement.



Length is also a property of time. An amount of time has a length.

John sits down at one o'clock, or 1h. John waits until three o'clock, or 3h. John stands up at three o'clock, or 3h. John was sitting for 2 hours. The length of time John was sitting was two hours.


</doc>
<doc id="7956" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7956" title="Weight">
Weight

The weight of an object (or the weight of an amount of matter) is the measure of the intensity of the force imposed on this object by the local gravitational field. Weight should not be confused with the related but quite different concept of mass.

In common language, or in the absence of other information, the weight of something is typically understood to be the value measured at or near the Earth's surface. For small objects on Earth, this force is directed towards the center of mass of the planet. For larger objects, such as the Moon orbiting around the Earth, the force is directed towards the barycenter or center of mass of the combined system.

The unit of weight in the International System of Units is the Newton, which is represented by the symbol 'N'.

Other units have been in use in the past but have been abandoned, such as the dyne (the unit of force in the old CGS system) or the kilogram-force, which is the force exerted on a kg of matter by a 'standard' Earth: A mass of 1 kg has a weight of about 9.81 N at sea level.

The weight of an object, or of an amount of matter, is typically measured with an instrument such as a spring scale that provides a reading on the amount of another force required to balance the gravitational pull on the object of interest.

The weighing scale is a device that compares the weights of two masses in the same gravitational field: it determines whether one mass is heavier or lighter than the other. If one disposes of a series of reference (calibrated) masses, one can determine the mass of any object by adding those of the reference masses needed to balance the scale.

Weight is not an intrinsic property of matter because the local gravitational field that generates the force called weight is variable in space and time:


</doc>
<doc id="7957" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7957" title="Truth">
Truth

Truth is what is real. A thing is true if it is a fact. The English word "truth" is from Old English "tríewþ, tréowþ, trýwþ", Middle English "trewþe". Aristotle said: “To say of what is that it is not, or of what is not that it is, is false, while to say of what is that it is, and of what is not that it is not, is true”.

Truth is a noun, and the corresponding adverb and adjective
is true.

For example, it is a truth (true) that a dog is an animal. It is "untrue" (or "false") that a dog is a plant.

Something untrue is false. A half truth is something true mixed with something false, or where something is partly true but you do not tell the whole story.

If the things you say are true, then you are speaking the truth, or speaking truly. Saying something that is untrue can be called 'a lie', if the person who is saying it knows it is untrue. A person who says something untrue is often called a "liar".

"True" is also one of the two basic values of logic. The other such value is usually called "false".

Aristotle was the first to put logic into a formal framework. His version is called propositional logic (see also syllogism and deductive reasoning). Other forms of logic use types of mathematics (mathematical logic) or logical notations (symbolic logic). Boolean algebra is about things being true and false.

The relationship between verbal claims and external reality is handled by epistemology and the philosophy of science.



</doc>
<doc id="7961" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7961" title="Zimbabwe">
Zimbabwe

The Republic of Zimbabwe is a country in the southern part of the continent of Africa. Its capital city is Harare. President Robert Mugabe is the leader of the country.

Zimbabwe is surrounded by other countries, and so it has no coast on the sea. This type of country is called "landlocked". The countries that surround Zimbabwe are Zambia, Botswana, South Africa and Mozambique.

Zimbabwe is home to the famous waterfall, Victoria Falls, which are a feature of the river Zambezi and also the Great Zimbabwe, the ancient architectural monument from which the country was named after.

Zimbabwe was known as Rhodesia when it was a colony of Great Britain, but it took the ancient name of "Zimbabwe" in 1980 when it became an independent country.

The country has its unique-unified Zimbabwean english.

Zimbabwe uses the Zimbabwe dollar as its currency. The economy is currently in a bad situation. Foreign currency reserves are at very low levels, and the Zimbabwean Dollar has become very devalued. Just recently, three zeroes were taken off the Zimbabwean dollar (for example, $1,000,000 (one million dollars) would become $10000000000000 (one thousand dollars)). Many observers link this to Mugabe's controversial Land Reform programme.


</doc>
<doc id="7963" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7963" title="Monaco">
Monaco

Monaco is the second smallest country in the world; about 34,000 people live there. It is located near south-eastern France, on the Mediterranean Sea. French is the most common language spoken in Monaco. The head of state is Prince Albert II; the government and the prince share power. Tourism is the main industry. People in Monaco pay no income tax. 

Monte Carlo, famous for its casino, is in the north-east of the country. Monaco is famous for two car races: the Monte Carlo Rally and the Monaco Grand Prix.

A sovereign and independent state, the Principality of Monaco has borders on its landward side with several communes of the French Department of the Alpes-Maritimes; from west to east these are Cap d`Ail, la Turbie, Beausoleil and Roquebrune Cap Martin. Seawards, Monaco faces the Mediterranean. 

The population of the Principality consists of 29,972 inhabitants, 5,070 of whom are Monégasques, 12,047 French and 5,000 Italian (according to the last official census in 1990). 

Its surface area is 195 hectares, of which nearly 40 were recovered from the sea during the course of the last twenty years. 

It lies in a narrow coastal strip which sometimes rises vertically upwards with its highest point at 163 meters. Its width varies between 1050 meters and a mere 350 meters. Its coastline is 4100 meters long. 

The Principality has only one commune, Monaco, whose limits are the same as those of the state.

Monaco is made of of four districts: Monaco-Ville ( historic seat of the Principality, located upon the rock where the Prince Palace stands), Monte-Carlo (the district surrounding its Casino), La Condamine (around Port Hercule), & Fontvielle (the new industrial area built on ground reclaimed from the sea (22ha)).


</doc>
<doc id="7978" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7978" title="Graal">
Graal

Graal can be:



</doc>
<doc id="7982" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7982" title="Supermarkets in the United Kingdom">
Supermarkets in the United Kingdom

The main supermarket chains in the United Kingdom are:



</doc>
<doc id="7983" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7983" title="Jettingen">
Jettingen

Jettingen is a village in the south-west of Baden-Württemberg, Germany.
There are 7657 people living in "Jettingen".


</doc>
<doc id="7990" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7990" title="Ken Jennings">
Ken Jennings

Kenneth Wayne Jennings III (born May 23, 1974) was the highest money earning contestant in the history of the knowledge game show "Jeopardy!". He won a total of 74 times, earning $2,522,700. His winning lasted from June 2, 2004 through November 30, 2004. He lost after that time to a player named Nancy Zerg, who lost within a day to Katy Fitzgerald. He was brought back to appear in the final three games of Jeopardy!'s "Ultimate Tournament of Champions." In the tournament, he lost to Brad Rutter, who now has won more money than Jennings.

According to the introduction given at the start of the show, Jennings is a "Software Engineer from Salt Lake City, Utah" His highest one day total was a record $75,000. Jennings is a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, or Mormon.

In February 2005, Ken started appearing in Cingular commercials as himself.


</doc>
<doc id="7997" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7997" title="Sublimation">
Sublimation

Sublimation is the process by which a solid transforms into a gas without passing through the liquid stage. At normal atmospheric pressure, only some compounds like 'dry ice' (solid carbon dioxide) can go through this process. Most objects need low pressure to go through sublimation. There is low pressure in space.

Snow may look like it disappears on a cold sunny day, but this is not sublimation because it forms a thin layer of liquid water first.

A better example is CO, which changes from a solid to a gas without being a liquid.

Also diamond, graphite, iodine, ammonium chloride and aluminium chloride sublime rather than melt at atmospheric pressure.


</doc>
<doc id="8002" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8002" title="Malcolm McDowell">
Malcolm McDowell

Malcolm McDowell (born June 13, 1943) is an English actor. He was in a lot of movies, such as "if...", "A Clockwork Orange", "O Lucky Man!" and "Caligula".


</doc>
<doc id="8003" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8003" title="MAD Magazine">
MAD Magazine

MAD Magazine is a humor and satire magazine that started in 1952 as a 10 cent comic book parody of other comics. For its 25th issue it converted to a 25 cent magazine. It remains popular in the United States.

Each issue features the grinning red-headed mascot, Alfred E. Neuman on the cover, and comic-like articles making fun of recent movies, television series, music, trends, etc. as well as regular monthly features (Spy Vs. Spy, Monore, etc.)


</doc>
<doc id="8011" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8011" title="Traverse City, Michigan">
Traverse City, Michigan

Traverse City is a town in the northern Lower Peninsula of Michigan, United States. Traverse City is famous for its cherries. It has a beautiful beach, world-class hotels, but the zoo has been closed because not many people visited it.


</doc>
<doc id="8013" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8013" title="Will Smith">
Will Smith

Will Smith (September 25, 1968) is an American actor and rapper from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania . He got his start as part of the rap duo DJ Jazzy Jeff and the Fresh Prince . He became an actor when he starred on the television show "The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air" as Will Smith, a teenager from Philadelphia sent to live with his rich relatives in Southern California. He has appeared in many movies including "Independence Day", "Men in Black", "Ali", "Wild Wild West", and "I Am Legend" .

"Miami" is a popular song by Will Smith.



</doc>
<doc id="8014" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8014" title="Vladimir Putin">
Vladimir Putin

From 1985 to 1990, the KGB stationed Putin in Dresden, East Germany. Putin thinks of this as a minor position. The amount of damage that he must have caused to the dissidents in the former Soviet Union and in East Germany is currently unknown. 

After the East German regime collapsed, Putin was recalled to the Soviet Union and returned to Leningrad, where in June 1990 he assumed a position with the International Affairs section of Leningrad State University. In June 1991, he was appointed head of the International Committee of the St. Petersburg Mayor's office, with responsibility for promoting international relations and foreign investments.

Putin formally gave up his position in the state security services on August 20, 1991, during the KGB-supported abortive putsch against Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev. In 1994 he became First Deputy Chairman of the city of Saint Petersburg, a position he retained until he was called to Moscow, in August 1996, to serve in a variety of senior positions in Yeltsin's second Administration. He was head of the FSB (the successor agency to the KGB) from July 1998 to August 1999, and also served as Secretary of the Security Council from March to August 1999.

Mr. Putin is the leader of the ruling United Russia party, though he is not its member.

According to Putin’s critics, he is responsible for an assault on constitutional freedoms, failure of economic and social reforms (despite huge revenues from oil and gas exports), and widespread corruption. 

In the recent years, the Russian opposition has held anti-government rallies, campaigned against Putin on the Internet and published independent reports for general public. Attempts to register opposition parties have been unsuccessful due to prohibitive registration procedures and censorship in the mass media. 


</doc>
<doc id="8016" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8016" title="Henry VII of England">
Henry VII of England

Henry the VII or Henry Tudor (28 January 1457–21 April 1509) was king of England from 1485 to 1509. He founded the Tudor dynasty.

Henry VII was born in 1457 to Edmund Tudor and Margaret Beaufort. His father died two months before he was born, leaving his 13-year-old mother as his only parent. After Henry's birth, he spent a lot of time with his uncle Jasper Tudor. Jasper took Henry to France, where he spent most of his youth. Henry had a claim to the throne of England, but it was not a very good one, and he had to wait a long time for a chance to take the throne. In 1483, a new king came to the throne in England, called Richard III. King Richard was not popular with everyone, because it was thought that he had stolen the throne from his young nephews and had killed them. This gave Henry the chance he had been waiting for. With help from the French, he raised an army. They landed at Dale in Pembrokeshire, close to where Henry had been born, so he was able to gather more supporters on the way. The Wars of the Roses (1455 - 1485) was a series of civil wars fought over the throne of England between supporters of the House of Lancaster and supporters of the House of York. Both houses were branches of the Plantagenet royal house, tracing their descent from King Edward III. 

The main reason for the war was that King Edward III had many sons, as shown in the family tree below. His oldest son, who is known by the nickname, "The Black Prince", died first, and the throne passed to the Black Prince's son, Richard, who became King Richard II of England in 1377 at the age of only ten. He grew up to be a weak and unpopular king, and one of his actions was to send his cousin Henry into exile. Henry later returned, while Richard was away in Ireland, and took over the country. When Richard returned, Henry tricked him into giving himself up. Richard was put in prison, where he died, and Henry became King Henry IV of England.

Although Henry IV reigned until his death, and was followed by his son, King Henry V, the next king in line, King Henry VI was only a baby. While he was still growing up, the most powerful men in the kingdom started quarrelling over how to run the country, and some of them raised an army to try to take the throne. Henry VI and his family fought back, and the war between his supporters and their enemies lasted for many years, finally coming to an end when King Henry VII of England came to the throne in 1485

On 22 August 1485, Henry's army defeated Richard III's army at the Battle of Bosworth. When Richard III died in this battle, Henry VII became king. There were other people who had a claim on the throne, and Henry did his best to stop them from taking it from him, either by executing them, putting them in prison, or trying to make friends of them, as he did with the Earl of Lincoln. Another step he took was to marry Elizabeth of York, the niece of King Richard III, who would herself have been the heir to the throne if she had not been a girl.

There were also people who pretended to be long-lost members of the royal family, so that they could try to take the throne. One of these was a little boy called Lambert Simnel, who looked very like Edward, Earl of Warwick. The real Earl of Warwick was Henry's prisoner, but this did not stop other people from believing that Lambert was him. The Earl of Lincoln rebelled against King Henry and raised an army to make Lambert king, thinking that he himself could rule the country. There was a battle, and the Earl of Lincoln was killed. Lambert Simnel was captured, but, because he was only a child, Henry spared his life and he became a royal servant.

Henry married Elizabeth of York, and by this action put an end to the Wars of the Roses. They had six children, but only four survived infancy:


After Henry VII died in 1509, his son became king as Henry VIII. Henry VII was buried in Westminster Abbey. He was succeeded by his son, Henry VIII on 21 April 1509.


</doc>
<doc id="8017" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8017" title="Dover, Kent">
Dover, Kent

Dover is a town on the coast in Kent, in the UK. It was built by the Romans. There is a castle in Dover, called Dover Castle. It is the largest castle in England. The population, is about 39,078. Throughout history it has been a significant port of Britain, as it is the closest port to mainland Europe. The sea between Dover and the French port of Calais is called the Strait of Dover is the narrowest part of the English Channel, being only 34km wide.

The ferry port in Dover has ferries to Calais in France and Ostende in Belgium. Almost 45,000 travellers and 15,000 vehicles pass through the port every day.

The Romans first tried to invade Dover in 55BC, under Julius Caesar, but were forced back by the Celts, who fiercely defended their coastline. It was not until 43 AD, under the rule of Emperor Claudius, that Roman forces successfully landed on British soil at Richborough and took control of the land as far as the northern border. Dover, then called DVBRIS, became the Romans' most important naval town. Read more about the role Dover played as a Naval defence through Norman times to modern day to evolve into one of the world's busiest ports.



</doc>
<doc id="8018" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8018" title="Tonbridge">
Tonbridge

Tonbridge is a town in Kent in England. The River Medway runs through the town. A castle stands on the northern river bank in the middle of Tonbridge.

Tonbridge is linked by railways to London and Dover.

There are many high standard secondary schools in the area. The most recognised are;


</doc>
<doc id="8019" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8019" title="Inverness">
Inverness

Inverness is a city in the northern part of Scotland. It is often called the capital of the Highlands. It is on the A9 road.

The former leader of the Liberal Democrats, Charles Kennedy, was born in Inverness.

Yvette Cooper, the Minister of State for Housing in the Brown Cabinet was also born in Inverness.


</doc>
<doc id="8020" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8020" title="Boycott">
Boycott

A boycott is a protest where the protesters do not buy a product or give money to a company. Instead of buying a certain product, they might also buy another, very similar product from a different company.

The word was made during the "Irish Land War"'. It comes from the name of Captain Charles Boycott. Boycott was in charge of looking after the land of a landlord in County Mayo, Ireland. In 1880, the tenants (those who rented) wanted their rent lowered. Boycott refused, and threw them out of the land they had rented. The Irish Land League then proposed that instead of becoming violent, everyone in the community should stop doing business with Captain Boycott. The captain was soon isolated. No one helped him with the harvest, no one worked in his stables or his house. Local businessmen no longer traded with him, the postman no longer delivered his post. 

To get his harvest done, he had to hire 50 people from other counties, the counties Cavan and Monaghan. They were escorted to and from their work by 1000 policemen. Of course, this cost far more than what the harvest was worth. 

In 1881 the word came into general use. 



</doc>
<doc id="8021" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8021" title="Artificial">
Artificial

When something is artificial or man-made, it has been made by humans, not nature. For example, a "man-made satellite" is one made by humans, while a moon is a satellite that was not made by humans.


</doc>
<doc id="8023" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8023" title="King Arthur">
King Arthur

King Arthur was a legendary king in the mythology of Great Britain. He lived in Camelot and owned a mythical sword which people called Excalibur.

Some think King Arthur lived in some time from the end of 5th century to the early 6th century. He might have been a king or a leader of Britons. If he existed he was almost certainly not a king. Later his story grew with more stories like the magic-man Merlin or the horseman with sword, Sir Lancelot. No one knows whether he is a real person or not. Some say he is a mythical person like Hercules, and some say he is a real person with a miraculous story.

His father was Uther Pendragon, but when Arthur was born, his mother, Lady Igraine, died followed shortly by his father. Arthur was sent to live with a knight when he was still an infant (a newly born person). When he grew up, he found a sword stuck in a stone. He was told that whoever could pull it out was the true king. So he pulled it out and became king.

When he was older, he married Lady Guinevere. They lived very happily together until one of King Arthur's best knights, Sir Lancelot, slept with Lady Guinevere. King Arthur was very angry, but in the end forgave both of them. Lancelot apologized for his behaviour and decided to leave the kingdom, as he thought himself not worthy of King Arthur's favour. Guinevere, although she was allowed to stay (as with Lancelot), decided to leave as well to another part of the kingdom.

Later on, King Arthur's sword Excalibur was stolen and used by a traitor, a person who betrays, named Mordred. They fought and Mordred was able to make King Arthur bleed, but King Arthur hit Mordred and killed him in the end. Finally, King Arthur died from losing too much blood, and one of his horse riders threw Excalibur into the lake where it came from.

Many books have been written about him. One of best known books is written by Sir Thomas Malory. There are also many movies about him.


</doc>
<doc id="8024" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8024" title="Johnny Appleseed">
Johnny Appleseed

John "Johnny Appleseed" Chapman (September 26, 1774 - March 11, 1847) is an American folk hero. He was a Christian missionary and pioneer. His nickname came from the fact that he planted apple trees throughout the Midwest of America. Many people consider him an early conservationist or "tree-hugger". He wandered the country, usually barefoot, and with a cooking pot on his head for most of his adult life, planting apple trees, teaching the Bible, telling stories, and befriending Native Americans, wild animals, and other settlers. Many stories have been told about him and his journeys, as well as art, books, and later movies, which makes him a folk hero. He was born in Leominster, Massachusetts and is buried in Johnny Appleseed Park in Fort Wayne, Indiana.
John Chapman is said to have been in the Wilkes-Barre region some time in the 1790s, practicing his profession as a nurseryman, but just when he embraced the Swedenborgian faith and began his missionary activities we cannot be sure, though it is probable that it was before he ever reached western Pennsylvania. There are some early accounts of John speaking of his own activities as "a Bible missionary" on the Potomac when he was a young man, and Johnny was seen for two or three consecutive years along the banks of the Potomac in eastern Virginia, picking the seeds from the pomace of the cider mills in the late 1790s.The apple seeds that Johnny obtained were free, as the cider mills wanted there to be more apple trees planted to improve their business.

At the time of his death, Johnny Appleseed left an estate of more than 1,200 acres of nurseries, and he left these to his sister. He additionally had four plots located in Allen County, Indiana, which was a nursery that included 15,000 trees. 
Records show that John Chapman appeared on Licking Creek, in what is now Licking County, Ohio, in 1800, when he was twenty-six years old. He had probably come up the Muskingum River to plant near the Refugee Tract, which would soon fill up with settlers, when Congress actually got around to granting the lands. In April, 1798, the Continental Congress had ratified resolutions to donate public lands for the benefit of those who had left Canada and Nova Scotia to fight against the British in the Revolutionary War. The lands were actually set apart in 1801 and patents issued in 1802. Grants of land ranging from 160 acres to 2,240 acres were awarded according to the exertions of the patentee in the War. Johnny, with true Yankee enterprise, went ahead and planted his nurseries before the refugees arrived. Licking County, then a part of Fairfield, contained only three white families. By the time families were ready to settle the area, Johnny's tracts of land were ready for market.



</doc>
<doc id="8026" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8026" title="Compact Disc">
Compact Disc

A Compact Disc (CD) is a type of optical disc. It is flat and round, and is used to store digital data. It is used to store music and other sounds (and sometimes called an "audio CD"). The sounds on the CD are played using a compact disc player. It was developed by Phillips and Sony.

Later, Compact Discs were made that could be used to put computer files on in the same way as audio compact discs. These are called CD-ROMs (Compact Disc Read-Only Memory). The computer 'reads' the disc using a CD-ROM drive. Another use is to store MPEG videos cheaply, these CDs are called VCDs (Video CDs) and are especially popular in Asia. For example, in Indonesia they are used instead of the more expensive DVD.

The diameter of a normal CD is 120 mm. The middle hole in a CD is about the size of a five cent coin (About 1.5 cm). The person who decided the size was Dutch and used the size of an old Dutch coin (old because the Dutch now have switched to the Euro), called a "dubbeltje", or dime. A CD usually holds a maximum of 74-80 minutes of audio or 650-700 megabytes of data.

Some CDs are smaller; they are 80mm in diameter. They can hold about 30% of the capacity of a normal disc.



</doc>
<doc id="8027" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8027" title="Maidstone">
Maidstone

Maidstone is a town in Kent, in England. It stands on the River Medway. Maidstone is the county town of Kent, meaning the local government is based there. Its name means "stone of the maidens" .

During the Civil War a battle took place in 1648, which was won by Oliver Cromwell's soldiers. A year later, Andrew Broughton, who was then Mayor of Maidstone (and also Clerk to the High Court of Justice) gave the death sentence to Charles I. Today there is a plaque in Maidstone Town Centre describing Andrew as 'Mayor and Regicide' (a killer of kings). 

Maidstone used to be an industrial area, with paper making and brewing being two of the most important industries, although both have mainly died out in recent years. Until 1998, Sharps Toffee factory was where Bassets liquorice allsorts and other sweets were made. Most of the heavy industry has now been replaced by light and service industries.

Today, Maidstone is one of the top five shopping centres in the south east of England, with more than one million square feet of retail space. Most of this is in two shopping areas, "Fremlin Walk", which was built on the site of one of the old breweries, is , and "The Mall Maidstone" provides another . Both include multi-story car parks. 

The town of Maidstone is within the borough of Maidstone, which also includes several surrounding villages. In 2001, 75,070 people lived in the town of Maidstone, and there were 138,959 in the whole of the Borough.


</doc>
<doc id="8028" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8028" title="Redhill">
Redhill

Redhill can mean several things




</doc>
<doc id="8030" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8030" title="C. S. Lewis">
C. S. Lewis

Clive Staples Lewis (29 November 1898–22 November 1963), usually called C.S. Lewis, was a British scholar who wrote about 40 books. He was born in Belfast, Northern Ireland. He is famous for his fantasy works, essays, and writings on literature and theology. Lewis' theological works are usually apologetics, the defence of Christianity. Some of his most popular Christian writings were "Mere Christianity" and "The Screwtape Letters". His works have been translated into more than 30 languages.

In 1956, he married Joy Gresham, an American writer. She was 17 years younger than he was, and died four years later because of cancer.

He is loved throughout the world for his writing, and many of his books were made into movies.
His most famous and popular fantasy work is "The Chronicles of Narnia", which was a series of seven books.



</doc>
<doc id="8034" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8034" title="The Corrs">
The Corrs

The Corrs is a folk rock music group from Ireland. There are three sisters and one brother in the group. They began getting popular in the late 1990s.

They were all born in Dundalk, Republic of Ireland, the children of Gerry and Jean Corr.
Jim Corr (born 31 July 1964) is the oldest member of the group. He mainly plays the guitar, but he can also play the on the keyboards and the piano.

Sharon Corr (born 24 March 1970) plays the violin, keyboards, and does backing vocals and vocals on her own (vocals means "singing").

Caroline Corr, (born 17 March 1973) plays the drums, the "percussion", the bodhran, the piano, and also does backing vocals.

Andrea Corr (born 17 May 1974) plays the tin whistle and does the lead vocals.

The Corrs created themselves in 1991 to try to get in the movie "The Commitments". Jim, Sharon, and Caroline got a small part as musicians, while Andrea got a speaking part as Sharon Rabbitte, sister of the main character. It was while they were trying out for this movie that they were noticed by their manager, John Hughes.

Their music has been released through Atlantic Records, a music company.

Their first album, "Forgiven, Not Forgotten", was most popular in Australia. They then did another album called "Talk On Corners", which was very popular in Ireland and Britain.






</doc>
<doc id="8036" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8036" title="Aaron">
Aaron

Aaron is a biblical figure. He was the older brother of Moses. He helped Moses lead the Hebrews out of Egypt. In the Bible, he appeared very much in Exodus.

Aaron spoke for Moses, when he went to tell Pharaoh the King of Egypt everything God wanted Moses to say. The Lord said to Moses (Exodus 7:1 to 3), "See, I have made you like God to Pharaoh, and your brother Aaron will be your prophet. You are to say everything I command you, and your brother Aaron is to tell Pharaoh to let the Israelites go out of his country...".

Aaron's staff was used by the Lord a few times when trying to persuade the Pharaoh to let the Israelites go. The Lord ordered Moses and Aaron, "When Pharaoh says to you, 'Perform a miracle,' then say to Aaron, Take your staff and throw it down before Pharaoh', and it will become a snake." So Moses and Aaron went to Pharaoh and Aaron did so. Aaron's staff, according to the Bible, really became a snake and ate up all the other snakes that the Pharaoh's magicians had made. Also, Aaron's staff was used to make the Nile River all turn into blood. He "stretched it out", and the fish in the Nile died, and the river smelled; and the Egyptians could not drink the water, as it was recorded in the Bible.


</doc>
<doc id="8037" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8037" title="Paula Abdul">
Paula Abdul

Paula Abdul (born June 19, 1962) is a American singer and dancer. She had a string of hit songs and choreographed (planned) many dances for herself and others. She was a judge on the television show "American Idol" for its first eight seasons. She has a mezzo-soprano vocal range. 


</doc>
<doc id="8038" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8038" title="Douglas Adams">
Douglas Adams

Douglas Adams (11 March 1952–11 May 2001) was a British writer. He is most famous for his "The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy" series.

He originally received attention when he wrote for the popular TV shows "Monty Python" and "Doctor Who" in the 1970s. In 1979, he wrote a science fiction radio play called "The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy". It was later turned into a novel, then in the early 1980s, it became a TV miniseries, and in 2005, it became a film produced by Disney. He also wrote several sequels. Douglas was also known for his humorous detective novels starring Dirk Gentley, and for his efforts to conserve endangered species. In 2001, Adams died of a heart attack while he was working out at the gym.


</doc>
<doc id="8039" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8039" title="Tom Arnold">
Tom Arnold

Tom Arnold (March 6, 1959) is an American actor and comedian. He was born in Ottumwa, Iowa. He became famous when he married Roseanne Barr in 1990, another comedian and star of the popular sitcom, "Roseanne", who he divorced in 1994. Recently, he was one of the original hosts of the talk show, "The Best Damn Sports Show Period!" on Fox Sports. In November 2009, he married Ashley Groussman.



</doc>
<doc id="8040" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8040" title="Bea Arthur">
Bea Arthur

Beatrice "Bea" Arthur (May 13, 1922 - April 25, 2009) was an American actress, comedian and singer. She is best known for her roles on the comedy television series, "Maude" and "The Golden Girls".



</doc>
<doc id="8041" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8041" title="Dave Attell">
Dave Attell

Dave Attell (born January 18, 1965) is an American comedian and host of the TV show "Insomniac with Dave Attell", shown on Comedy Central in the United States.


</doc>
<doc id="8042" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8042" title="Karel Appel">
Karel Appel

Karel Appel (25 April 1921 – 3 May 2006) was a Dutch painter. He painted in the abstract expressionist style. He was known for his child-like style.


</doc>
<doc id="8043" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8043" title="Randy Bachman">
Randy Bachman

Randall Charles Bachman (born September 27, 1943) is a Canadian musician. He was a member of the rock groups The Guess Who and later The Bachmann-Turner Overdrive.


</doc>
<doc id="8044" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8044" title="J. M. Barrie">
J. M. Barrie

Sir James Matthew Barrie, 1st Baronet, OM (May 9, 1860 - June 19, 1937) was a Scottish-born writer. His most famous work was "Peter Pan".


</doc>
<doc id="8045" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8045" title="Charon">
Charon

Charon can mean:


</doc>
<doc id="8046" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8046" title="Riga">
Riga

Riga is the capital city of the European country of Latvia. Riga is located on river Daugava near the Baltic sea. 

The mayor of Riga is Nils Ušakovs.

Riga was founded in 1201. Since 1918 Riga has been the capital city of Latvia.

Most of the people are Latvian (45%) and 40% are Russian.



</doc>
<doc id="8047" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8047" title="Pope John Paul II">
Pope John Paul II

Blessed Pope John Paul II (18 May 1920-2 April 2005), born Karol Józef Wojtyła, was an Polish priest of the Roman Catholic Church and the 265th Pope from 1978 until his death.

John Paul II was the first non-Italian pope in 455 years. He traveled more than any other pope before him, visiting many of the countries of the world. He is also famous for starting the annual World Youth Day. After he was beatified, his title was changed to Blessed John Paul II.

Karol Józef Wojtyła was born on 18 May 1920 in Wadowice in southern Poland and was the youngest of three children of Karol Wojtyła and Emilia Kaczorowska. His mother died in 1929 when he was just nine years old, and his father supported him so that he could study. His brother, who worked as a doctor, died when Wojtyła was twelve. He lost everyone in his family - a sister, brother, mother, and father - before he became a priest. He played sports and was particularly interested in football (soccer) as a goalkeeper.

After finishing his studies at the Marcin Wadowita high school in Wadowice, in 1938 Wojtyła enrolled at the Jagiellonian University in Kraków, and in a school for drama. He worked as a volunteer librarian and was an athlete, actor and playwright. He did two months military training in the Academic Legion because it was compulsory, but he refused to hold or fire a weapon.

When he was young he met many Jewish people who lived in that area. In 1939, Nazi forces closed the Jagiellonian University. All men, except for the disabled, had to have a job. From 1940 to 1944 Wojtyła worked in a restaurant, in a limestone quarry, and then as a salesman for a chemical factory. He did not want to be sent to Germany where he would be made to join the army. His father died of a heart attack in February 1941.

On 29 February 1944, Wojtyła was knocked down by a German truck. He expected to be badly treated, but the German officers sent him to a hospital. He spent two weeks there with head and shoulder injuries. It was at this time that he decided that he must become a priest. When he came out of hospital, the young Polish men were being sent to Germany for training. He escaped to the house of the Archbishop and hid there till after the war. On the night of 17 January 1945, the Germans left the city. The priests and teacher and students went back to the seminary, where there was a big clean-up to be done. Wojtyła volunteered to clean out the lavatories.

That month, Wojtyła he found a fourteen-year-old Jewish refugee. The girl, named Edith Zierer, was trying to reach her parents, but had collapsed from hunger. He gave her food and helped her go to the railway station. She did not hear of him again until the day came when he was elected Pope.

Karol Wojtyła was ordained as a priest by Cardinal Adam Stefan Sapieha on 1 November 1946.

In 1958, Wojtyła then became the youngest bishop in Poland at the age of 388. In 1962 he took part in the Second Vatican Council and helped write two very important documents. One was about Religious freedom and the other one was about the work of the church in the Modern World. 

In 1963 Bishop Wojtyła became Archbishop of Kraków. 

On 26 June 1967, Pope Paul VI raised Archbishop Wojtyła's to the rank of cardinal.

John Paul II became Pope on 16 October 1978. John Paul II was the first non-Italian pope in 455 years. He was pope for 27 years, making him the second longest serving pope after Pope Pius IX who held the office for 31 years and seven months. He was also the first and only Slavic pope. John Paul II was the most traveled pope in history with 104 international trips.

During his lifetime he learned many foreign languages. He spoke Polish as his native language, and learned Latin and Ancient Greek in school. On the day that he officially became Pope, he spoke to people in Italian, English, German, French, Spanish, Czech and Portuguese. He also spoke a little Lithuanian, Hungarian, Russian and Ukrainian.

John Paul II beatified many people. This means that the Pope gave these people the title of "Blessed". One example is the painter Fra Angelico, who lived in the 1400s. After studying his life and teaching, it was decided that he should officially be called "the Blessed Fra Angelico". John Paul II gave more people the title of "Blessed" than any other pope in history. He also made many saints.

In 1984 John Paul II started World Youth Day which was first held in Rome and attended by about 300,000 people. Since then it has been held in a different country every year. It encourages young people to be faithful to God, and to live together in peace. Many millions of people have attended.

The first pope who traveled a lot was Pope Paul VI. Like him, John Paul II liked to travel. While he was pope, he made 105 trips, visiting 117 countries. In total he travelled more than 1.1 million km (725,000 miles). Wherever he went, he attracted large crowds. All these travels were paid by the money of the countries he visited and not by the Vatican.

One of John Paul II's earliest official visits was to his home country of Poland, in June 1979. There, he was always surrounded by happy, cheering crowds. The Pope wanted to bring freedom and human rights to his country. His visit encouraged Poles to oppose the communism, and in 1980 the Solidarity movement was born. On later trips to Poland, he made his message of support stronger. The Soviet Union had controlled Eastern Europe for many years. In 1989, Poland was the first country to begin to break free from the Soviet Union.

John Paul II went to places where other popes before him had already been, such as the United States, or The Holy Land. He also went to many countries that no pope had ever visited before. He was the first reigning pope to travel to the United Kingdom, where he met Queen Elizabeth II, the Supreme Governor of the Church of England.
In 1982, the Pope made a visit to Japan, and in 1984 to South Korea and Puerto Rico. He was the first pope to visit Cuba. During his visit in January 1998, he sharply criticized Cuba for not allowing people to freely express their religion. He also criticised the United States embargo against Cuba. In 2000, he became the first modern Catholic pope to visit Egypt, and met with the Coptic Pope, and the Greek Orthodox Patriarch of Alexandria. He was the first Catholic Pope to visit and pray in an Islamic mosque, in Damascus, Syria in 2001. He visited Umayyad Mosque, where John the Baptist is believed to be buried.

In 1988 he made a trip to Lesotho to beatify Joseph Gerrad. On 15 January 1995, during the 10th World Youth Day, he offered Mass to an estimated crowd of between four and eight million in Luneta Park, Manila, Philippines. This is considered to be the largest single event in Christian history.

After the attacks on 11 September 2001, even though people were worried about his safety, the Pope traveled to Kazakhstan and spoke to large audiences including many Muslims. He also went to Armenia, to participate in the celebration of the 1700 years of Christianity. He said Mass in local languages during some visits, including Kiswahili in Nairobi, Kenya in 1995 and in an Indonesian language in East Timor.

During his trips, the Pope always showed his devotion to the Blessed Virgin Mary. He visited many shrines consecrated to her, notably Knock in Ireland, Licheń Stary in Poland, Fátima in Portugal, Guadalupe in Mexico and Lourdes in France.

On 13 May 1981, the Pope was shot twice in the abdomen by a Muslim fanatic, Mehmet Ali Ağca. The pope was gravely injured.He barely survived the assassination attempt, and had to be treated in hospital for 20 days. The pope later visited Ağca in prison. He had forgiven him already. Exactly one year later he traveled to Fatima to thank Mary, Mother of God for saving his life.

On this trip there was a second attempt to his life. A follower of the French archbishop Marcel Lefebvre tried to hurt the Pope with a bayonet. He was overpowered by the bodyguards of the Pope. Lefevbre and his followers were against the decisions of the Second Vatican Council. After this the Pope often travelled in a bullet-proof trailer known as the "popemobile." 

John Paul died on Saturday, on the eve of the Divine Mercy Holiday, 2 April 2005. The official time of death on his death certificate was 9:37 pm, but a few sources reported 9:33 pm. The death certificate stated that when the Pope died, he had Parkinson's disease, with serious breathing difficulties. The Pope had tracheotomy surgery in mid February but it did not help and he lost lots of weight. He also had an enlarged prostate, urinary infection and other problems. The cause of death were that his kidneys failed, causing blood poisoning and infection brought by septic shock. John Paul II spoke his final words, “pozwólcie mi odejść do domu Ojca”, (“Let me depart to the house of the Father”), to his aides, and fell into a coma about four hours later.

The Pope's medical team used heart-monitoring machinery for more than 20 minutes, so his real and true time of death was around 9:15 PM Vatican time. As tradition demands, his name was called three times. When there was no reply, his papal ring was broken, which meant the end of John Paul II's papacy (reign as pope).

Many people claimed to have been specially blessed by the reign of Pope John Paul II. Many people thought he should be given the title "Blessed". This usually takes at least five years (and may take hundreds of years). On 13 May 2005, Pope Benedict XVI cut short the usual 5 year wait for the beatification process to begin. The only other time (in recent history) that this has happened was for Mother Theresa, who was made Blessed Mother Theresa by John Paul II.
It was announced on 14 January 2011, that John Paul II will be beatified on 1 May 2011 (Divine Mercy Sunday). 
According to the Vatican, Pope John Paul II's remains (which will not be exhumed and exposed) will be moved from the grotto beneath St. Peter's Basilica, where he is presently buried, to a marble stone monument in Pier Paolo Cristofari's Chapel of St. Sebastian, which is where Blessed Pope Innocent XI is currently buried; Blessed Pope Innocent's remains will likely be moved. This more prominent location, next to the Chapel of the Pieta, the Chapel of the Blessed Sacrament and statues of Popes Pius XI and Pius XII, will increase the number of pilgrims capable of viewing his memorial.
“ It will be a great joy for us when he is officially beatified, but as far as we are concerned he is already a Saint. ”
—Stanisław Dziwisz [189]
Once John Paul becomes a saint, it has been suggested that 22 May should be the official John Paul II Day on Church Calendar of the Saints. 22 May is 50 days after the death of the Pope. 18 May & 2 July have also been suggested as his official saint day on the church's calendar. 18 May is already Saint Pope John I's Day.

John Paul II was generally against communism. He was also a critic of capitalism that was not controlled and he did not want people's basic rights to be oppressed by world governments. He was against abortion and contraception in general. As head of the largest Christian group, John Paul II taught a conservative theological view of human sexuality. On the subject he wrote 130 topics called the Theology of the Body. He was against homosexuality, and in favour of people starting families as one husband and one wife. On April 30, 2000, John Paul instituted a Divine Mercy Holiday, according to the teachings of Saint Faustyna Kowalska and on that day she was also proclaimed a Saint of the Catholic Church. The Feast of the Mercy of God is continuously growing worldwide. John Paul is also remembered for his devotion to the Consecrated Holy Communion, the Holy Body and Blood of Christ.

During John Paul's time as pope, the church was involved in a large number of claims about child sexual abuse by priests. There are many people who believe that the Church, and therefore the Pope, knew about these claims and tried to cover them up. For example in 1996 the Irish bishops decided that priests suspected of child abuse must be reported to the police. The Vatican sent a letter to the bishops that they were not to report such cases. The letter was from future Pope Benedict XVI - who John Paul II had asked to handle such cases. John Paul II is also claimed to have got a cardinal to send a thank you letter to a French bishop who had refused to report a priest to the police. In 2001 John Paul II sent out a special letter saying that the abuse of children by priests was a very serious crime, and should be strictly punished. Some Catholics want the process for making John Paul II a saint stopped, until there is an investigation into his role in keeping secret information about bad priests.





</doc>
<doc id="8050" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8050" title="Marvel Comics">
Marvel Comics

Marvel Comics is a company that makes "superhero" comic books. Its top competitor is DC Comics. 

Some of their characters include:


As well as some of their villains too:


Marvel has also made films and cartoons about the characters, which has made them even more popular.

Marvel used to be a company called Timely Comics in the 1940s and then Atlas Comics in the 1950s. The first comic published with the name "Marvel Comics" was "Fantastic Four" #1 in November, 1961.


</doc>
<doc id="8060" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8060" title="Lincoln, Nebraska">
Lincoln, Nebraska

Lincoln is the capital city of Nebraska, United States. The City of Lincoln Only Omaha has more people of any city in Nebraska. Lincoln is also the county seat of Lancaster County and the home of the University of Nebraska. Lincoln's 2010 Census population was 258,379.

Lincoln was founded in 1856 as the village of Lancaster. It became the county seat of the newly created Lancaster County in 1859. The capital of Nebraska Territory had been Omaha since the start of the territory in 1854. Most of the territory's population lived south of the Platte River. After much of the territory south of the Platte became a part of Kansas, the legislature voted to move the capital south of the river and as far west as possible. They made the village of Lancaster the new capital, in part due to the salt flats and marshes.

People from Omaha tried to stop the move by renaming Lancaster after the recently-killed President Abraham Lincoln. Many of the people south of the river had wanted the Confederate to win the recent Civil War. These people thought that the legislature would not approve the move if the future capital were named after Lincoln. The plan did not work, as Lancaster was renamed Lincoln and also became the state capital upon Nebraska's admission to the Union on March 1, 1867. The people either liked or disliked the new name depending on how they felt about the Civil War.
Nebraska State Capitol was designed by Bertram Grosvenor Goodhue and constructed between 1922 and 1932. The capitol building is a skyscraper topped by a golden dome. The tower is crowned by a 6-meter (20 ft) statue of a farmer sowing grain on a pedestal of wheat and corn, to represent the state's agricultural heritage. City zoning rules prevent any other building from rivaling it in height, making it a landmark not only within the city but for the surrounding area. Inside, there are many paintings and iridescent murals showing Native American heritage and the history and culture of the early pioneers who settled Nebraska. It is the second tallest U.S. State Capitol building behind the Louisiana State Capitol building in Baton Rouge. 


</doc>
<doc id="8061" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8061" title="Nuclear fission">
Nuclear fission

Nuclear fission is when an atom splits apart into smaller atoms. It gives off a lot of energy, and is used in nuclear weapons and nuclear reactors. This process was discovered in December 1938 by the German nuclear chemist Otto Hahn and his assistant Fritz Strassmann in Berlin. 

Certain types of the elements including uranium and plutonium can be made to fission. While all atoms are small, atoms of uranium and plutonium are very large and heavy compared to most atoms. At their center is a very heavy ball called a nucleus, which is made of protons and neutrons. If a very large nucleus is hit by a neutron, it will sometimes become unstable and break into two pieces. When the nucleus breaks apart (or fissions) it releases a lot of energy and it also causes some more neutrons to be released. If those neutrons then hit other atoms, they will make the other atoms split. This can happen again and again. This is called a nuclear chain-reaction, and it can release huge amounts of energy very quickly. The amount of energy released by a nuclear chain reaction is measured in kilotons. One kiloton is the same as the explosive force of one thousand tons of TNT (trinitrotoluene).

In a nuclear bomb, this must happen very quickly to make a very big explosion. In a nuclear reactor, this must happen very slowly to create heat. In a reactor, the heat created by the uranium or plutonium atoms when they fission (or break apart) boils water into steam. This can be used to power a generator to create electricity.



</doc>
<doc id="8064" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8064" title="February 14">
February 14






</doc>
<doc id="8065" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8065" title="1903">
1903

1903 (MCMIII) was a common year starting on Thursday of the Gregorian calendar.





</doc>
<doc id="8066" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8066" title="The Fantastic Four">
The Fantastic Four

The Fantastic Four is a team of superheroes. The team originally appeared in a series of comic books created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby published by Marvel Comics starting in 1961. They also appeared in several cartoons and films as well. 

The members of the group are scientist Reed Richards, his girlfriend/wife Sue Storm, her teenage brother Johnny Storm, and Ben Grimm, a friend of theirs. While test flying a rocket ship, they are affected by cosmic rays, and gain superpowers. Richards becomes "Mr. Fantastic" who can stretch his limbs and body for long distances and sizes. Sue became the "Invisible Girl/Woman" who could make herself invisible, create force fields, and other things. Johnny transformed into the "Human Torch" who can become a giant ball of fire. Ben turned into a rock-like creature with super-strength, called "The Thing". 

They decide to use these powers for good and work from their laboratory in a New York City skyscraper.


</doc>
<doc id="8070" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8070" title="Bob Barker">
Bob Barker

Bob Barker (born December 12, 1923) was the host of the television game show "The Price is Right" (from 1972 to 2007). He was also seen acting as himself in the 1996 Adam Sandler comedy movie "Happy Gilmore".

Barker was the host of another game show, "Truth or Consequences", from 1956 to 1975.


</doc>
<doc id="8071" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8071" title="Connect Four">
Connect Four

Connect Four is a simple game. To win, players must put four of the same color markers in the yellow square so that they touch. 

For example:
0= White Marker
o= Black Marker

An example of winning connect four: the player can see the 4 o's all connected together in a pattern.

-oooo
An example of a move that does not let the player win:

-0oo0


</doc>
<doc id="8073" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8073" title="Nintendo DS">
Nintendo DS

The Nintendo DS is the third newest kind of handheld game system from Nintendo. It was released in 2004 and 2005. A similar handheld game system is the Nintendo 3DS, a 3D version of the DS. The DS is a small, nearly pocket-size fold-up machine that lets people play video games. The games for the Nintendo DS are stored on small cartridges called "carts", which are kind of like memory card chips from digital cameras. They are small and may be easy to lose. However, they are quite sturdy, even if they are dropped. New games, such as Super Mario 64 DS, came out on the release date, and come free with the blue DS in North America.

The games' graphics are a little better than on the Nintendo 64. For most of Nintendo's systems, there have been no load times (except for the GameCube and Wii ). With the DS, a level in the game loads up quickly, just like the Game Boy systems. This is because memory cards can be read a lot faster than CDs or DVDs.

The DS also has many new features. It has a new surround sound system. It not only works with games designed for the DS, but also for games designed for the Game Boy Advance. But the DS cannot play the oldest Game Boy games, or Game Boy Color games. It also features a touchscreen, a screen that, when touched with the included stylus, will cause something to happen in the game (like a PDA). There are two styluses with it, but more can be bought if they get lost. 

The Nintendo DS is a rival of Sony's PlayStation Portable. However, both Nintendo and Sony said that their products were aimed at different people, so there is "technically" no competition. At this time, the DS is enjoying good sales and has sold more units than the PSP has.

Nintendo later developed and released a similar version of the DS. It is known as the "DS Lite", it was first released on March 2, 2006 in Japan, and June 11, 2006 in North America.

The DS Lite plays the same games. It is smaller and lighter in size and weight and also has brighter screens. The console is so small that the Game Boy Advance games stick out when the player puts it into Slot 2. It also features a little cover so players can cover Slot 2 when it is not in use. The DS Lite is also sold in white, black, pink, blue, red, and silver. Also, the nintendo DS lite now has colors such as metallic rose, metallic silver, and black with white.

Some notable games for the DS are "Nintendogs", "Mario Kart DS", "New Super Mario Bros", "Brain Age", "Pokémon Diamond and Pearl, and ".

There are many accessories for the Nintendo DS, including different coloured styluses and protective cases. Some protective cases include the highly durable nerf cases. Most consoles come with a screen protector and a car adaptor that charges the battery with a car's cigarette lighter.

The DS has sold 147.86 millon units as of June 30 2011, making it the best selling portable games console ever.


</doc>
<doc id="8074" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8074" title="Sam Neill">
Sam Neill

Sam Neill (born September 14, 1947) is an New Zealand actor. He has been in lots of movies. Sometimes people in Australia say he is an Australian actor. Sam Neill has been in "Jurassic Park", "Dead Calm", "Event Horizon", "Sirens" and lots of other very famous movies. Sam Neill is sometimes a bad guy and sometimes a good guy in movies.


</doc>
<doc id="8075" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8075" title="Category:Louisiana">
Category:Louisiana

Louisiana is a state in the United States.


</doc>
<doc id="8076" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8076" title="Category:U.S. states">
Category:U.S. states

This category is for states of the United States. 

It directly includes sub-categories for each state as well as the main article for each state.


</doc>
<doc id="8077" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8077" title="Category:Georgia (U.S. state)">
Category:Georgia (U.S. state)


</doc>
<doc id="8078" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8078" title="Category:Nebraska">
Category:Nebraska


</doc>
<doc id="8079" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8079" title="Category:United States">
Category:United States


</doc>
<doc id="8081" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8081" title="March 18">
March 18

March 18 is the 77th day of the year in the Gregorian calendar (78th in leap years). There are 288 days remaining in the year.





</doc>
<doc id="8085" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8085" title="Category:Nintendo">
Category:Nintendo

This is a category for articles about Nintendo.


</doc>
<doc id="8092" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8092" title="1928">
1928






</doc>
<doc id="8093" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8093" title="Meteor">
Meteor

A meteor is what you see when a space rock falls to Earth. It is often known as a shooting star or falling star and can be a bright light in the night sky, though most are faint. If it hits the ground, it is then called a meteorite and it will leave a hole in the ground called a crater. Meteoroids may range in size from large pieces of rock to tiny dust particles floating in space that did not form planets. Once the meteoroids enter Earth's atmosphere and begin to heat up and break apart, they are known as meteors. Meteors are distinct from comets or asteroids, but some, especially those associated with showers, are dust particles that were ejected from comets.

There are several types of meteorites including: stony, carbonaceous chondrites, and iron-nickel. Stony meteorites are named because they are largely made up of stone-like mineral material, carbonaceous chondrites have a high carbon content and iron-nickel meteorites are mostly iron often with significant nickel as well.

Meteorite strikes may have played a part in several of the mass extinctions, and so indirectly on the course of evolution. see K/T extinction event; List of extinction events; Chicxulub crater.



</doc>
<doc id="8099" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8099" title="Similarity">
Similarity

The word similarity means that two or more things share some property. This means that they have some things about them that makes them alike. The things that are similar have the same appearance or other features. 

"For similarity as used in psychology or philosophy, see Similarity (psychology)"

Pie and cake are similar:

Similarity is also a word used in geometry. If a shape looks the same as another shape, but has a different size or rotation, then the two polygons are called similar. (if it is possible to scale them so that they are congruent)

The opposite of similarity is difference. 


</doc>
<doc id="8105" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8105" title="Notepad">
Notepad

Notepad is a word processing program, which allows changing of text in a computer file. Notepad was created by the Microsoft corporation. It is a very simple word processor. It has been a part of Microsoft Windows since 1985. The program has options such as changing the font, the font size, and the font style. The most common use for Notepad is to view or change (edit) text (.txt) files, though .dat and .ini files can be changed in Notpad as well. Many users find Notepad a simple program for creating webpages.

Unlike using special software programs to create webpages, a Notepad user must write their webpages directly in the HTML markup language.


</doc>
<doc id="8106" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8106" title="Max Planck">
Max Planck

Max Karl Ernst Ludwig Planck (April 23, 1858 in Kiel - October 4, 1947 in Göttingen) was a physicist from Germany. He discovered quantum mechanics. He won the Nobel Prize in physics.

Planck came from an old fashioned, intelligent family. His great-grandfather and grandfather were both theology professors in Göttingen; his father was a law professor in Kiel and Munich; and his paternal uncle was a judge.
Planck was born in Kiel, Holstein, to Johann Julius Wilhelm Planck and his second wife, Emma Patzig. He was baptised with the name of "Karl Ernst Ludwig Marx Planck"; of his given names, "Marx" (a now not used variant of "Markus" or maybe simply an error for "Max", which is actually short for "Maximilian") was indicated as the primary name. However, by the age of ten he signed with the name "Max" and used this for the rest of his life.

He was the sixth child in the family, although two of his brothers and sisters were from his father's first marriage. Among his earliest memories was the marching of Prussian and Austrian troops into Kiel during the Danish-Prussian war of 1864. In 1867 the family moved to Munich, and Planck enrolled in the Maximilians gymnasium school, where he came under the tutelage of Hermann Müller, a mathematician who took an interest in the youth, and taught him astronomy and mechanics as well as mathematics. It was from Müller that Planck first learned the principle of conservation of energy. Planck graduated early, at age 17. This is how Planck first came in contact with the field of physics.


</doc>
<doc id="8109" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8109" title="Jay Leno">
Jay Leno

Jay Leno (born James Douglas Muir on April 28, 1950) is an Emmy Award-winning American comedian. He currently works on late night television. He became host of "The Tonight Show" in 1992, when Johnny Carson retired. In 2007, during the writer's strike, Leno sided with the writers, although he returned to his show after two months (without the writers besides himself) so that his staff would not be out of work. Despite leading the late-night ratings, he was forced out as host of the Tonight Show in 2009 to make way for Conan O'Brien. On March 1, 2010, he will become "The Tonight Show" host once again, because of poor ratings with both himself and Conan O'Brien.

He now stars in his own prime-time comedy show, "The Jay Leno Show", which debuted September 14, 2009.

He guest-starred twice on the "Nickelodeon" TV series "The Fairly OddParents" as the "Crimson Chin". His character's name uses the fact that Leno has a large and square chin.


</doc>
<doc id="8110" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8110" title="Vancouver">
Vancouver

Vancouver is a coastal city and major seaport on the mainland of southwestern British Columbia, Canada. The city, with a population of over 570,000, is the largest city in British Columbia. Metro Vancouver has a population over 2 million,
making it the third largest metropolitan area in Canada.
Vancouver has a mix of people from different cultures, with 52% of city residents having a first language other than English.

Native people began living in this area around 10,000-8,000 years ago. These people were part of three main groups: the Squamish, Musqueam, and Tsleil-Waututh.

Vancouver was founded in 1886, and is named after British naval captain George Vancouver. Captain Vancouver explored the area around Vancouver and Vancouver Island in the 1790s.

The University of British Columbia is in Vancouver.

Vancouver also has Stanley Park which has beaches and totem poles. Nearby is Grouse Mountain which has excellent skiing. Grouse Mountain also has an animal sanctuary, including wolves and bears.

The 2010 Winter Olympics were held in Vancouver and was the first time Canada won a gold medal on Canadian soil.

Vancouver has an NHL hockey team, the Vancouver Canucks. They have never won a Stanley Cup.

Vancouver has a CFL football team, the BC Lions. They have won the Grey Cup 5 times.

The Vancouver Whitecaps Soccer team played in the USL First Division for many years, and had enjoyed much success. The Vancouver Whitecaps are now a franchise of the Major League Soccer professional league.
The Lions Gate Bridge is in Vancouver.

Vancouver is on a peninsula on the West Coast of Canada, less than a one hour drive north of the Canada-U.S. border.
Between Vancouver and the Pacific Ocean to the west is a large island called Vancouver Island. Until the city was named in 1885, "Vancouver" referred to Vancouver Island. Some people mistakenly think that the city is on Vancouver Island. 
On the south shore of Vancouver is the Fraser River, which flows west into the Strait of Georgia. The water along the north shore is Burrard Inlet.
The city has an area of 114 square kilometres (44 sq mi). The larger metropolitan area is 2,878 square kilometres (1,111 sq mi).
As with most of British Columbia, Vancouver is in the Pacific Time Zone (UTC−8).

The average annual rainfall is 1155 mm, mostly from October to April. High temperatures in the summer average 22°C. The highest temperature ever recorded was 34.4°C on July 30, 2009. On average, snow falls on only 11 days per year. The snow is usually wet, not very deep, and melts in the rain. On average, on only 4.5 days a year does the temperature not rise above freezing.



</doc>
<doc id="8111" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8111" title="Halifax">
Halifax

There are two places called Halifax:




</doc>
<doc id="8112" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8112" title="Nunavut">
Nunavut

Nunavut is a territory in Canada. It was founded in 1999 when many Inuit living in the Northwest Territories wanted to have an independent province and government. Its capital is named Iqaluit. It is located in the north of Canada, and has a particularly cold climate for much of the year. It has a large native population (mainly Inuit).
The main form of transportation is the snowmobile. For the first week of being a separate unit, it was the Province of Nunavut. But after a week it was renamed Nunavut Territory. 


</doc>
<doc id="8113" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8113" title="Steve Martin">
Steve Martin

Stephen Glenn Martin (born August 14, 1945) is an American comedian and actor.

Martin was born in Waco, Texas to Glenn Vernon Martin, a real estate salesman and aspiring actor, and Mary Lee Stewart, a housewife. Martin was raised in Garden Grove, California. He is of English, Irish and Scottish descent.

As a teenager, Martin started out working at the Magic Shop at Disneyland. There he developed his talents for magic, juggling, playing the banjo and creating balloon animals. He teamed up with friend and Garden Grove High School classmate Kathy Westmoreland to do a musical comedy routine. They performed at local coffee houses and at the Bird Cage Theater in Knott's Berry Farm. Martin attended Santa Ana College at the same time as actress Diane Keaton.

Martin majored in philosophy at California State University, Long Beach, but dropped out. His time there changed his life:

"It changed what I believe and what I think about everything. I majored in philosophy. Something about non sequiturs appealed to me. In philosophy, I started studying logic, and they were talking about cause and effect, and you start to realize, 'Hey, there is no cause and effect! There is no logic! There is no anything!' Then it gets real easy to write this stuff, because all you have to do is twist everything hard—you twist the punch line, you twist the non sequitur so hard away from the things that set it up, that it's easy... and it's thrilling."
Martin's girlfriend in 1967 was a dancer on "The Smothers Brothers Comedy Hour". She helped Martin get a writing job with the show by submitting his work to head writer Mason Williams. Williams initially paid Martin out of his own pocket. Along with the other writers for the show, Martin won an Emmy Award in 1969. Martin also wrote for John Denver (a neighbor of his in Aspen, Colorado at one point), The Glen Campbell Goodtime Hour, and The Sonny and Cher Comedy Hour. He also appeared on these shows and several others, in various comedy skits.

Martin also performed his own material, sometimes as an opening act for groups such as The Nitty Gritty Dirt Band and The Carpenters. He appeared at San Francisco's The Boarding House among other places. He continued to write, earning an Emmy nomination for his work on Van Dyke and Company in 1976.

In the mid-1970s, he made appearances as a stand up comedian on The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson. That exposure, together with appearances on HBO's On Location and NBC's Saturday Night Live (SNL) led to his first of four comedy albums, "Let's Get Small". The album was a huge success.

His next album, "A Wild and Crazy Guy", was a bigger success. It reached the #2 spot on the sales chart in the United States. It created a catch phrase (the album's title). It was based on an SNL skit in which Martin and Dan Aykroyd played a couple of bumbling Czechoslovakian playboys. The album was a million seller.

Both albums won Grammys for Best Comedy Recording in 1977 and 1978 respectively.

Martin's first movie was a short, "The Absent-Minded Waiter" (1977). The seven-minute long movie, also featuring Buck Henry and Teri Garr, was written by and starred Martin. The movie was nominated for an Academy Award as Best Short Film, Live Action. His first feature movie appearance was in the musical "Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band". He sang the Beatles' "Maxwell's Silver Hammer".

In 1979, Martin wrote and starred in his first full-length movie, "The Jerk", directed by Carl Reiner. The movie was a huge success, grossing over $73 million. Martin was in three more Reiner-directed comedies after "The Jerk": "Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid" in 1982, "The Man with Two Brains" in 1983 and "All of Me" in 1984. In 1986, Martin joined fellow Saturday Night Live veterans Martin Short and Chevy Chase in "¡Three Amigos"!, directed by John Landis.

In 1986, Martin was in the musical movie version of the hit off-Broadway play "Little Shop of Horrors" as a sadistic dentist, Orin Scrivello. 

In 1987, Martin joined comedian John Candy in the John Hughes movie, "Planes, Trains & Automobiles". That same year, the Cyrano de Bergerac adaptation "Roxanne" won him a Writers Guild of America award. In 1988, he did "Dirty Rotten Scoundrels" with Michael Caine and directed by Frank Oz.

In 2005, Martin wrote and starred in "Shopgirl". Martin played a wealthy businessman who strikes up a romance with a Saks 5th Avenue counter girl (Claire Danes). He also starred in "Cheaper by the Dozen 2" that year. Martin's latest work was in the 2006 remake of "The Pink Panther".


</doc>
<doc id="8114" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8114" title="Richard Attenborough">
Richard Attenborough

Richard Attenborough (born 29 August 1923) is an English movie producer, director and actor. He was born in Cambridge, England. Richard Attenborough left his home when he was 17 to attend the Royal Academy of Dramatic Arts in London. He then earned his first West End theatre role, then went to national stardom in the play "Brighton Rock". Richard Attenborough then later became a producer and director. He produced and directed the film "Gandhi". Gandhi won 5 British Academy Awards and 8 American Oscars. He is the older brother of naturalist David Attenborough.




</doc>
<doc id="8118" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8118" title="Robin Williams">
Robin Williams

Robin Williams (July 21, 1951) is an American actor and comedian. He first became famous on the television show, "Mork and Mindy". Since that time he has appeared in many movies including,




</doc>
<doc id="8121" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8121" title="Bamboo">
Bamboo

Bamboo is a name for more than one thousand species of giant grasses. There are about 91 different genera. All bamboos have wood-like stems. Bamboo mainly grows in Africa, America and in Asia but can easily grow in Europe.

Bamboo grows in clumps (although running varieties exist.) and can be up to 40 metres (130 feet). David Farrelly, in his book "The Book of Bamboo", says that bamboo has been measured to grow 1.21 meter (47.6 inches) in a 24-hour period. Most bamboos (used for gardening) will grow more like 3 cm to 5 cm (1-2 inches)a day, though.

Almost all species of bamboo have hollow stems divided into nodes or joints. The stem can be up to 30 cm in diameter. Each of the node has one side bud. Not all of those buds develop into branches, but some do. This makes bamboo one of the few grasses that have a branch structure. Bamboo rarely flowers. Some species only flower once, and then die off. The distance of two joints in a bamboo is the basis of a traditional Japanese unit of measurement, "shaku".

Bamboo is used to make lots of things and is a construction material. The stems of larger trees are used to build houses, bridges, and other things that have to be constructed such as boat and wickerwork. It can be used for scaffolding. Bamboo is an easy construction material that is not too expensive.

Bamboo shoots can also be used as human food. Bamboo shoots (new bamboo culms that come out of the ground) are usually cooked before being eaten. Most temperate bamboos can be eaten without cooking if they are not too bitter.
As some may contain cyanogens, cooking is better. The only Phyllostachys known to have potentially toxic concentrations of cyanogens is Ph. heterocycla pubescens.


</doc>
<doc id="8126" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8126" title="Trojan War">
Trojan War

The Trojan War was one of the greatest wars in the history of Ancient Greece. It probably happened between the Trojans and the Achaeans. It is mostly known through the "Iliad" an epic poem written by the Ancient Greek poet Homer.

The site of ancient Troy has been found, across the Aegean Sea on Asia Minor. The war may have taken place in the 12th century BC. 

The origins of the war (in the Iliad) started at the wedding of King Peleus and the nereid (sea-nymph) Thetis. They had invited almost all the gods to their wedding. But they did not invite Eris, goddess of strife. She was angry and she threw a golden apple among the guests on which was written "To the Fairest". The goddesses Hera, Athena, and Aphrodite caught the apple at the same time and fought over who was the most beautiful. Because they could not end the fight by themselves, they went to Zeus, the king of the gods. Zeus chose Paris to decide, and give the apple to who he wanted. Each of the three goddesses offered Paris gifts so he would choose her. Hera offered Paris all of Asia. Athena offered him wisdom. Then Aphrodite offered him the love of the most beautiful woman. Paris gave the apple to Aphrodite. Of course, Aphrodite had not thought about the fact that the most beautiful woman, Helen, Queen of Sparta, already had a husband (King Menelaus of Sparta). But Aphrodite had her son, Eros, shoot Helen with a golden arrow and fall in love with Paris. Then the pair left for Troy. Menelaus, Helen's husband, declared war on Troy to retrieve his queen. This began the Trojan war. Achilles was one of the great heroes of the war, the other being Hector.

The war went on for ten years. Some famous people were Achilles, Paris, and Hector. The Greeks won by building a big wooden horse. This became named the Trojan Horse. Some Greek people hid inside the horse, and the rest put the horse on the shore and left in their boats. The Trojans saw the horse and thought that the Greeks had surrendered (stopped trying to win the war). They thought that the horse was a present. They dragged the horse into Troy and celebrated their victory. When night fell, the Greeks hiding inside the horse opened the city gates and set fire to the houses. The Greeks who had left in their boats, had just pretended to leave to trick the Trojans. They had actually just hidden behind islands. They returned and won the war. The trick was thought up by Odysseus (or Ulysses as he was also known), King of the small island of Ithaca.

The war probably did happen, but in the telling the events were exaggerated and mythic elements put in. These changes fit the needs of oral poetry. In the mid-19th century the German archaeologist Heinrich Schliemann discovered the ruins of a city which he identified as Troy. 

Some Hittite and Egyptian texts also talk about the war. They say that a confederation of 22 cities went to war.

These are stories, books, movies, etc., that are about the Trojan War, or tell parts of its story:



</doc>
<doc id="8127" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8127" title="Cruise ship">
Cruise ship

A cruise ship (or cruise liner) is a large ship with sleeping cabins that takes people on holiday and vacation trips. Hundreds of thousands of people take cruises each year. Cruise ship vacations usually cost about $600 US per week per person. This includes meals in the ship's restaurant and a small cabin to live in.

Today's cruise ships are like floating hotels. They have a complete "hospitality staff" (to serve food and help passengers in other ways) as well as the usual ship's crew. The largest cruise ships have casinos, shops, many restaurants, several pools, and a running track. The most expensive cruises often have more crew and staff than passengers. This means that the people who control the cruise can give many personal services.

Today, hundreds of cruise ships sail all over the world. Some carry over 3,000 passengers. These are some of the largest ships ever built. For some places, such as Antarctica, cruise ships are one of the only way for tourists to visit.


</doc>
<doc id="8128" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8128" title="Windows Media Player">
Windows Media Player

Windows Media Player is a digital media player made by Microsoft. It is already installed on Microsoft Windows operating systems, and an older version is available for some Apple Macintosh operating systems. The program allows people to watch certain video files and play music files that are in a compatible format. How the program looks can also be changed with skins, and it can be made small enough to fit on the taskbar.



</doc>
<doc id="8129" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8129" title="Listen Up">
Listen Up

Listen Up! was a 2004 CBS television series. It was a sitcom starring Jason Alexander as Tony Kleinman, a sportscaster from the fictional ""Listen Up!"" His cohost is named Bernie, and is a hall of famer. Jason has a wife, Dana, and two kids, one named Mickey. Mickey is very good at golf, but gets low grades.

The series only lasted for one season, 22 episodes.


</doc>
<doc id="8130" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8130" title="Jurassic Park III">
Jurassic Park III

Jurassic Park III is a 2001 movie and the third "Jurassic Park" movie. Paul Kirby, who says he is a rich business owner, convinces Dr. Alan Grant and his assistant, Billy Brennan, to take him and his wife to Isla Sorna as a vacation and serve as a guide. Actually, Kirby and his wife want to search for their son, who was stranded on Isla Sorna while on a parasailing trip. After crashing on the island, they are attacked by a Spinosaurus, who kills several members of their party. After escaping, the remaining people start hiking for the coast, fighting many dinosaurs, including the Spinosaurus, along the way.


</doc>
<doc id="8133" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8133" title="Laura Dern">
Laura Dern

Laura Elizabeth Dern (born February 10, 1967) is an American actress. She received an Oscar and Golden Globe Award for her performance as Rose in "Rambling Rose". For the HBO film "Afterburn", she received an Emmy Award nomination and a Golden Globe Award. She has also won Independent Spirit Awards for "Blue Velvet" and "Smooth Talk". She is perhaps most famous for playing Dr. Ellie Sattler in Jurassic Park. She used to date Jeff Goldblum. 


</doc>
<doc id="8134" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8134" title="Trailer (movie)">
Trailer (movie)

A movie trailer is a short showing of a future (not yet released) movie. They are shown in a theater before the current movie starts. They are often later shown in advertisements for DVD releases, and broadcasts of the movie on television.


</doc>
<doc id="8135" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8135" title="Michael Crichton">
Michael Crichton

Michael Crichton (October 23, 1942 – November 4, 2008) was an American author of many books. He was also a producer, director, and doctor. Crichton is well known for Jurassic Park, a book that became a film series. He also wrote books such as "Prey" and "The Lost World". Crichton has also created the "E.R." television show. He was 6'9" tall. He was married five times. He had a daughter from his fourth marriage. In November 2008, he died of throat cancer, aged 66. He was looked down on by some as a climate change denier
In February 2009, his widow gave birth to his only, posthumous son, John Michael Todd Crichton.


</doc>
<doc id="8136" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8136" title="Andreas Baader">
Andreas Baader

Andreas Bernd Baader (6 May 1943-18 October 1977) was born in Munich, Germany was a German terrorist.

He was one of the first leaders of the "Baader-Meinhof gang", later it was called the Red Army Faction or RAF.

In 1968, Baader and his girlfriend Gudrun Ensslin were convicted of the setting fire to a department store in Frankfurt am Main.

They were arrested and sent to jail, but Baader escaped. He was caught in April 1970, but in May 1970, he was allowed to go a library outside the prison.

Journalist Ulrike Meinhof and two other women were allowed to join him. They let a masked man into the library who fired shots at a 64-year-old librarian. Baader, the three women and the masked man fled through a window, and the group soon became known as the "Baader-Meinhof Gang".

Baader and others then spent some time in a Palestinian military training camp in Jordan before being thrown out. Back in Germany, Baader robbed banks and bombed buildings from 1970 to 1972. On 1 June 1972, he and fellow RAF members Jan-Carl Raspe and Holger Meins were caught after a gunfight in Frankfurt.

Meins died during a hunger strike in Stammheim Prison in 1974. This was when philosopher Jean-Paul Sartre visited Baader. He described Baader as "incredibly stupid" and "an asshole"."Sartre par lui-même", 1976

From 1975 to 1977, there was a long and expensive trial in a specially fortified building on the grounds of Stuttgart's Stammheim prison. Their jailers said Baader and the others kept their cells as dirty and disgusting as possible in stop searches for things that might be smuggled in; at this time lawyers and defendants were not separated by panes of glass during unsupervised meetings.

Ulrike Meinhof was found dead in her cell at Stuttgart-Stammheim on 9 May 1976, hanging from the ceiling. Members of the Red Army Faction and others claimed that she was killed by the German government. The so-called "second generation of the RAF" committed several kidnappings and killings in a campaign in support of the prisoners. The three remaining defendants were convicted in April 1977 of several murders, attempted murders, and of forming a terrorist organization, and were sentenced to life imprisonment.

Hanns Martin Schleyer was kidnapped on 5 September 1977 and Lufthansa Flight 181 was hijacked in mid-October to try to force the release of Baader and ten other RAF members.

After several weeks that were called "the German Autumn", the passengers of the aeroplane were freed in an assault carried out by German GSG 9 special forces in the early hours of 18 October 1977.

Next morning, Andreas Baader and Jan-Carl Raspe were found in their prison cells, dead from gunshot wounds. Gudrun Ensslin was found hanging. RAF member Irmgard Möller was found with four stab wounds to her chest, but survived.

All the official inquiries said that Baader and the others two committed suicide. Möller still insists that the deaths and her injury were extrajudicial executions.

In 2002, director Christopher Roth released a film about Baader titled "Baader".

Hitler's Children: The story of the Baader Meinhof Terrorist Gang by Jillian Becker



</doc>
<doc id="8137" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8137" title="Meher Baba">
Meher Baba

Meher Baba (February 25, 1894 - January 31, 1969) was a spiritual teacher who lived in India. Baba's real birth name was Merwan Irani and his parents' names were Sheriar and Shireen Irani. His family lived in India, but they were of Persian descent. Today Persia is called Iran. They were not Hindus or Muslims like most Indians at that time, but were of the Zoroastrian religion.

Baba had a normal childhood and liked poetry and sports, especially cricket. When Baba was thirteen years old he started a boy's club with his best school friends called "The Cosmopolitan Club". The boys in the club kept up on the news, practiced public speaking at their clubhouse, and raised money to give to the poor. As Baba got older he worked for his father in his father's tavern where he served a cheap kind of wine called toddy made from the sap of palm trees. 

Baba lived in Pune, India where he graduated from St. Vincent's High School and attended Deccan College. In 1913, when Baba was nineteen, he was coming home from college riding a bicycle. A very old Muslim woman named Hazrat Babajan, who was sitting under a Neem tree, called for him to come over to her and she kissed him on the forehead. He then went home. Baba later said that he became so dazed after this kiss that he could barely find his way home, and that when Babajan kissed him, he realized God within himself. He was so dazed that he had to stay in bed for several weeks. A year later, Baba met a Hindu holy man named Upasni Maharaj. Baba went to live with Upasni in the village of Sakori. He learned from Upasni and obeyed Upasni's orders. 

Baba stayed with Upasni for seven years, until he was twenty seven years old. Then Upasni told some of his followers that from then on Baba would be their spiritual guide. Baba eventually took these new followers to Ahmednagar, to a place now called Meherabad. There he gave lessons in spirituality, worked with the poor, and started a free boarding school. Gradually other people started to follow Meher Baba.
For most of his life Baba did not speak. He started his silence in 1925. He communicated by pointing to letters painted on an "alphabet board" at first, and later used his own form of sign language. He kept silent until his death in 1969. Some people called him "The Silent Master" and there is a book by that title.

Meher Baba traveled around the world many times. He visited many countries. He spent several months in England, Australia and the United States. Many thousands of people came to see him. Some of them became his followers. 

In 1954, when Baba was sixty years old, he said to others that he was the Avatar. In the ancient language of Sanskrit, the word "Avatar" means one who has come down from God. Baba said that the Avatar is born on Earth every 700-1400 years, and comes to help others find God. Meher Baba said that in the past the Avatar had been on Earth as Zoroaster, Rama, Krishna, Buddha, Jesus, and Muhammad.

Meher Baba's most famous quote is "Don't Worry, Be Happy," partly because it appeared in a popular song by Bobby McFerrin. Others know of him because of the song "Baba O'Reilly" written by Pete Townshend who is a follower of his and named the song partly after Baba. 

He wrote two important books. In "Discourses", Meher Baba wrote about how to live a good life, how to meditate, and how to love God. In "God Speaks", Meher Baba wrote about how the soul seeks God over many lifetimes. He said, "Real happiness lies in making others happy." He showed his followers that the best path is to love God at all times by loving your fellow man. 

He also said he had not come to start a new religion -- that it was better to truly follow one's own religion. Because of this, he has followers who are Zoroastrians, Christians, Jews, Hindus, Muslims, Sufis, Buddhists, and Sikhs. There are also atheists and agnostics who do not necessarily believe in God, but who are attracted purely to his simple philosophy of leading an honest and loving life.




</doc>
<doc id="8139" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8139" title="Trailer">
Trailer

Trailer has the following definitions:



</doc>
<doc id="8141" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8141" title="Uno (card game)">
Uno (card game)

Uno is a card game that was made by Merle Robbins in 1971. It has since been bought by a company named Mattel. It uses 108 special cards that are made just to play "Uno". It is similar to Crazy Eights.

The cards are put into 4 different groups: Red cards, green cards, blue cards and yellow cards. There are also some other cards called "Special Cards". Skip, Reverse, Draw +2, Wild, and Wild +4 cards allow you to do something you cannot normally do, such as pick up two more cards. 

The game's name is also sometimes written in capital letters - "UNO".


</doc>
<doc id="8147" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8147" title="UNO">
UNO

Uno can mean: 

UNO is an acronym for:


</doc>
<doc id="8149" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8149" title="Electrical engineering">
Electrical engineering

Electrical engineers develop (think and make) different things that use electricity in a helpful way. They fix or design new and better ways of using devices that use electricity.

The first universities in the world taught philosophy and then science. With more learning they had to start teaching new parts of these sciences. When humans made industry, we needed to study mathematics, physics and chemistry to help support it. When electricity was used more, they had to make a new branch called electrical engineering. Big subjects in electrical engineering are power generation, automation and control, semiconductors, and information technology (high frequency and computer). These change in different countries. Since then electrical engineering has allowed us to study new forms of engineering, such as electronic engineering and software engineering.



</doc>
<doc id="8150" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8150" title="Design">
Design

Design is a visual look or a shape given to a certain object, in order to make it more attractive, make it more comfortable or to improve another characteristic. Designers use tools from geometry and art. Design is sometimes divided to sub-categories: graphic design, buildings and nature design, consumer goods design.

Design is also a concept used to create an object (virtual or not).


</doc>
<doc id="8151" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8151" title="Star Trek">
Star Trek

In its broadest sense, Star Trek is a collection of science fiction video entertainments, owned by Paramount and CBS, as well as various spin-offs. Many of these types of collections are often known as franchises.

The main parts of the "Star Trek" franchise are:

Other parts of the franchise are: books (both fiction and non-fiction), magazines, comics, action figures, model toys and computer video games.

"Star Trek" was created as a TV series in 1966 by Gene Roddenberry. He and the other authors of "Star Trek" have, over time, developed a whole fictional universe set in the future. Following this fictional universe is the way they have chosen to maintain continuity between the various TV series and the movies.

"Trekkies" or "Trekkers" may refer to the many fans who love the series and support this "Star Trek Universe". Many conventions and newsletters exist to serve these fans. There are even amateur movies made by the fans.

In the 1960s, Gene Roddenberry created "Star Trek". He sold it as a western (a television genre about cowboys), but in space, and compared it to the television show "Wagon Train". He also based it on "Gulliver's Travels". After two pilots (test episodes), "Star Trek" was first shown on television in 1966.

In 2053, World War III is ended on Earth. In 2063 Zefram Cochrane invented warp drive, a way to travel faster than the speed of light. Because of this invention, Vulcans came to Earth to meet the humans. This is shown in "". The Vulcans helped humans fight disease and hunger. In 2150 when humans made a United Earth Government.

A war between Earth and the Romulans made species from different planets work together, and the Coalition of Planets was started in 2156. In 2161, the planets Vulcan, Earth, Andoria and Tellar started the United Federation of Planets.

"" is sometimes called "TOS" as an abbreviation (a shorter way of saying something). In it, the starship Enterprise travels through space to discover new places - "to boldly go where no man has gone before". The show was set in the 23rd century.

The main characters are:

It was shown on television for three years, and was cancelled in 1969.

"" is also called "TAS". It is an animated version of "The Original Series". The crew are the same, and most are voice-acted by the same actors. Because it was animated, the planets and species could look more interesting.

Gene Roddenberry asked for the stories in "TAS" to be removed from "Star Trek"'s canon (the official history of "Star Trek" that is the same in all series). It is still argued about if they are part of canon or not, but usually agreed that they are not. The official Star Trek website has added some things from "TAS" to their library.

"" is also called "TNG". It is set 70 years after "The Original Series", in the 24th century. The crew travel on a new starship called the "Enterprise-D". The stories are also about exploring, and often about fighting hostile (violent or angry) ships. The crew has many different races.

The main characters are:

It was shown on television for seven seasons, from 1987 to 1994.

"" is also sometimes called "DS9". It is set in the late 24th century, at the end of "The Next Generation"'s time line and the start of Voyager's. It is not like "TOS" and "TNG" because it is set on a space station and is not about exploring. This means it has more soap opera elements (lots of stories about the characters). Most of the stories are about the Cardassian race and the war with the Dominion.

The main characters are:

It was shown on television for seven seasons, from 1993 to 1999.

"" is set in the late 24th century. It is different from the other series because it takes place in the Delta Quadrant. The ship Voyager was trapped there after a chase by the Maquis (Starfleet rebels). The stories are about them trying to find their way home. This is a long journey, and will take them 75 years.

The main characters are:

It was shown on television for seven seasons, from 1995 to 2001. It was made to help start a new television channel, UPN.

"" is the newest "Star Trek" series. It is set in the 22nd century, which means it is before all the other series on the "Star Trek" timeline. It is about the humans and the Vulcans working together after first contact. The ship, Enterprise, was the first Warp 5 ship made by the humans (with some vulcan assistance). The first season famously had many continuity errors (events and technology that did not match what happens in the other series).

The main characters are:

It was shown on television for four seasons, from 2001 to 2005.

The "Star Trek" franchise is a multi-billion dollar industry (a very large business). It has influenced (affected) many things in real life.

"Star Trek" has a large following of fans who are very enthusiastic (care a great deal) about the show. They are usually called Trekkies. The word was first used by Arthur W. Saha when he saw people wearing fake Vulcan ears at a convention (an event where lots of people interested in the same thing organise to meet) in 1967. Some fans like to be known as Trekkers instead.

Two documentaries (factual television shows) have been made about them, called "Trekkies" and "Trekkies 2".

In 1976, NASA made a prototype (test) space shuttle. It was first going to be called "Constitution", but Star Trek fans wrote letters to NASA asking for it to be called "Enterprise" instead. "Enterprise" was used for flight tests, although it was never sent into space. It is now displayed (put on show) at the Smithsonian Institution.

The movie "Galaxy Quest" is a "Star Trek" parody, which means it was made to be like "Star Trek" in a funny way. 

There have been parodies on television in the cartoons "Futurama", "The Simpsons" and "Family Guy".

The video games company Blizzard Entertainment puts references to "Star Trek" in many of its games, like "Starcraft" and "World of Warcraft".

Usually, episodes of "Star Trek" are trying to tell a moral story. 

Often they ask philosophical and moral questions, like in the episode "Tuvix" in "Voyager". In the story, a transporter accident puts two characters, Tuvok and Neelix, into one body. This makes a new person, Tuvix, who has his own personality. The crew then have to decide between killing Tuvix by separating him back into Tuvok and Neelix, or killing Tuvok and Neelix by letting Tuvix live. In the end, Captain Janeway decides to save Tuvok and Neelix, but the Doctor disagrees.

They also sometimes are telling a story to reflect (copy) what is happening in the real world. One example is the episode "A Private Little War" in "The Original Series". This is said to be like the Vietnam War. In the episode, Captain Kirk has to decide if he should give guns to innocent people so they can defend themselves, or let the Klingons destroy them. It asks if you can fight evil without doing evil yourself.

The moral points of all the "Star Trek" franchises often focus on what is called "The Prime Directive," the first law of the Federation, which states that advanced civilizations should not interfere with more primitive ones, so the natural developing process of the society is not changed. This often presents a moral dilemma, such as a ship's crew being endangered because a primitive society misunderstands the nature of the more advanced civilization. Also, a common plot element is a conflict between the Prime Directive and what would appear to be the more ethical option of meddling to save a species from destruction.



</doc>
<doc id="8152" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8152" title="Tunnel">
Tunnel

A tunnel is an underground passage. Some tunnels are used for cars, and others are used for trains. Sometimes, a tunnel is used for movement of ships. Some tunnels are built for communication cables and some are built for electricity cables. Other tunnels are built for animals.

Tunnels are dug in different kinds of grounds, from soft sand to hard rock. The way of digging is chosen by the type of ground. There are two additional ways of digging : quarry and 'cut and cover'. In quarry, the tunnel path is drilled in a horizontal way.
This system requires a deep tunnel that's built in a firm rock. In the 'cut and cover' system, a tunnel is dug in the ground and, afterwards, a roof is built above the tunnel. This system fits tunnels that are close to the ground like road tunnels and infrastructure.

Building tunnels is a large civil engineering project that could cost very high sums of money. The planning and building of a long tunnel may take many years.

The Channel Tunnel between France and England is one of the longest tunnels in the world. It is 50 kilometers long. The longest tunnel in the world, the "Gotthard Base Tunnel", is being dug in Switzerland.



</doc>
<doc id="8155" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8155" title="Salvation Army">
Salvation Army

The Salvation Army is a Protestant Christian organization. It was founded by William and Catherine Booth in the East End of London, England in 1865. It was called the Christian Mission to start with, but in 1878, the name was changed. The Booths came from a Methodist tradition, but today the teachings of the movement are mainstream Protestant. They focus on preaching, and on helping those in need. They also actively help in disaster relief. 

The Salvation Army operates in over 100 countries today. Its members devote themselves to teaching Christian morals, helping those in need, like the homeless, the sick, the poor, and others. It operates facilities like shelters, , orphanages, , and a , and offers Sunday church services. It is one of the largest charitable organisations in the world which means that it relies on people to give it money to use.

hello my name is wudu



</doc>
<doc id="8156" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8156" title="Orphanage">
Orphanage

An orphanage is an institution that takes in and cares for orphans. It can also mean state of being an orphan. This is when a child is an orphan. 

Historically it was very often the church or the state who cared for orphans. 



</doc>
<doc id="8157" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8157" title="London Underground">
London Underground

The London Underground is a system of electric trains operating in London, United Kingdom. It is the oldest underground railway in the world. It started running in 1863 as "Metropolitan Railway". After the opening the system was copied in many other cities, for example New York and Madrid. Even though it is called "the Underground" about half of it is above the ground. The "Tube" is a slang name for the London Underground, because the tunnels for some of the lines are round tubes running through the ground. The Underground has got 274 stations and over 408 km of track. Some lines and stations were also closed after a time, for example Aldwych. From 2006-2007 over 1 billion passengers used the underground. 

Underground train systems in other cities may be called "metros" or "subways" (in North America). "Subway" is used in Britain to refer to underground walkways.

The Metropolitan Line was the first part of the Underground to be made. It was opened in 1863. It then ran between Paddington and Farringdon. It took 40,000 passengers per day. Later it was made longer. The District Line was built by a different company. In 1884, the Circle Line was finished. All these lines used steam engines at first.

In 1890, a line using electric trains was opened. It was much deeper below ground than the other lines. Now it is part of the Northern Line. More lines like this were opened. People liked them, so in 1905 the lines that used steam engines were changed to use electric trains.

Because the different lines were run by different companies, changing lines was difficult. Between 1900 and 1902 Charles Yerkes bought most of the companies and formed a company named Underground Electric Railways of London Company Ltd, short UERL.

In 1933 a company was formed of all the bus, tram and underground companies, called London Passenger Transport Board (LPTB). It planned to make the network longer, but the Second World War stopped this. In the war, some Underground stations were used as shelters against bombs.

After the war more passengers used the underground. Because of that they built the Victoria Line which took over many passengers. The Piccadilly Line was built farther to Heathrow Airport in 1977. The Jubilee Line was opened in 1979. In 1999 the Jubilee Line was built longer to Stratford.

The system uses two kinds of trains, a big one and a small one. The big ones are used for the rectangular tunnels (District Line, Metropolitan Line, Circle Line), the small ones for the round tunnels.
The underground uses trains built between 1960 and 1996

The Underground's trains usually drive to 270 stations.

14 Stations are outside of London.

Here is a list of the London Underground lines

The Underground uses zones to collect fares. 
Zone 1 is the most central, with a boundary just beyond the Circle Line, and Zone 6 is the outermost and includes London Heathrow Airport. Stations on the Metropolitan Line outside London are in special Zones A to D.

There are ticket offices, some open only in the rush-hour, and ticket machines, which can be used at any time. Some machines take coins only, other touch-screen machines take coins and English notes, and usually give change. These machines also take credit and debit cards: some newer machines accept cards only.

The following tickets are available from London Underground and TfL ticket offices to use on the Underground:

There is also the Oyster Card, a plastic card (like a credit card) which stores credit (money and Travelcards) which the owner uses to pay for Underground travel. The user must "charge" (put money onto) their card at a ticket machine then touch the card on the yellow readers to pay for their journey. Since its introduction in 2002 it has become very popular with regular travellers, as the prices are much cheaper if you use an Oyster card.

When most of the stations in the London Underground system were built, disabled and wheelchair access was not considered. While many above-ground stations have only a few steps to the platform, nearly all Underground stations have some of the systems's 410 escalators and 112 lifts (elevators). Newer stations include disabled access, and many older stations install disabled access when they are refurbished or rebuilt. Since 2004, maps inside the trains show which stations have step-free access from street level. Transport for London plan to have a network of over 100 fully accessible stations by 2020, which means that 75% of Tube journeys can be made with step-free access.

The escalators in the London Underground system are some of the longest in Europe. They run 20 hours a day, 364 days a year and are used by 13,000 people per hour, with 95% of them running at one time.

There have been relatively few accidents in the Underground's history. Most happen if people accidentally fall onto the tracks. In some stations there are pits in the middle of the track to stop people being injured if they fall onto the track. Newly rebuilt parts of the system, especially on the Jubilee line, have platform doors. These doors only open when a train stops and prevent people falling or jumping onto the tracks.

In recent years, refurbished and rebuilt parts of the Underground, especially the Jubilee Line (around Westminster) have had sliding platform doors installed to prevent people falling off the platform onto the tracks, and discourage/prevent suicides.

In the 30s, 70s and 90s the Underground was bombed many times by the IRA, and for this reason there have been no wastebins in or around stations until very recently, when clear plastic sacks were introduced in some parts of the system. On 7th July 2005 there were three attacks by radical Islamic terrorists on two Circle Line trains and on one Piccadilly Line.

Smoking is not allowed in any part of the underground. This ban happened after a fire in King's Cross Station in 1987.

A new station is being built on the Piccadilly Line for the new Terminal 5 of Heathrow Airport. The new part is called the PiccEx. It has two-platform station, two sidings where trains can be put, a ventilation shaft and two escape shafts. Building of the two tunnels, the ventilation shaft, one escape shaft and parts of T5 station have been finished and tracks are being laid. The junction between PiccEx and the Heathrow Loop is being built. This work required that the tunnel between Terminal 4 and Terminals 1,2,3 could not be used until 17 September 2006. The extension opened in 2008.

There are plans to extend the East London Line (ELL) to the north and the south.Shoreditch station was closed in June 2006 and the line north of Whitechapel will run on the old Broad Street viaduct to Dalston and along the North London Line to Highbury & Islington, for a interchange with the Victoria Line. To the south, two branches are planned, using railway lines, that are already built. The first will run to West Croydon, the second to Clapham Junction. 

The new stations north of Whitechapel will be:

The East London Line will become a more important line, and when the extension is open it will be run as part of the London Overground.

The commuters of London often complain about the Underground. Even newspapers, especially the Evening Standard, often criticises the system. 

Usually the complaints are about delays, overcrowding and the fares. Sometimes even strikes happen among London Underground Staff.

London Underground fares are now the most expensive of any rail system around the world, including the luxorious Orient Express, and they continue to rise at very high levels.. Concern has also been raised over the huge difference between oyster card fares and cash fares, with the criticism that the high cash fares will discourage tourists and day visitors to London from travelling around the City..

Because the underground is a very old system, engineering work is often needed and often causes delays. There can be other reasons as well, for example signal failures or other breakdowns. Customers can claim a refund if their tube journey is delayed for more than 15 minutes due to problems within the control of Transport For London .

Because many more commuters use the underground than planned, overcrowding often happens. This can cause stress and frustration with the underground system among commuters. According to a report by MPs, commuters face "a daily trauma" and are often forced to travel in "intolerable conditions"

Because so many passengers travel on the London Underground network every day, strikes or industrial actions on the Underground network have a very high impact on London's traffic and can impact on London's economy. London Underground and the rail unions claim to be under high pressure from the working public, private businesses and government departments.

Strike actions on the London Underground occur for a number of reasons, including health and safety, working conditions and pay levels. There were several such strikes in the late 1970s.



</doc>
<doc id="8158" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8158" title="Democracy Now!">
Democracy Now!

Democracy Now! is a radio and TV program that has is entirely paid for through donations from listeners, viewers, and foundations and does not accept advertisers, corporate underwriting, or government funding. It is one of the biggest independent news organizations in the United States.



</doc>
<doc id="8159" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8159" title="Socialist Party (England and Wales)">
Socialist Party (England and Wales)

The Socialist Party is a Socialist political party active in England and Wales and part of the Committee for a Workers' International. They publish a weekly newspaper entitled "The Socialist" and a monthly "Socialism Today". As an organisation, it has evolved from the Militant Tendency, who in the early 1980s started to be expelled from the Labour Party, for organising a mass campaign against the Poll Tax.

There was a debate with the Militant Tendency as to whether or not to cease working within the Labour Party and the majority of the group decided to do so, although a minority around Ted Grant broke away to form Socialist Appeal. This debate ran alongside a parallel debate on the future of Scottish politics. The result was that the experiment of operating as an "open party" was first undertaken in Scotland under the name of Scottish Militant Labour. This initiative would eventually lead to the foundation of the Scottish Socialist Alliance. The majority of Scottish members, after forming the Scottish Socialist Party, left the CWI in early 2001 as they moved away from traditional Trotskyist politics.

For a while, the party was known as "Militant Labour". In 1997, the group changed its name to the Socialist Party, but the ownership of this name has been contested by the much older Socialist Party of Great Britain. As a result, the new party is frequently known as "The Socialist Party of England and Wales". In elections, it has had to use the name "Socialist Alternative". They were one of the founders of the local Socialist Alliance groups, but they left in 2001.

Since ending their tenure in the Socialist Alliance, the Socialist Party has run candidates in elections as "Socialist Alternative". Following the UK local elections, 2006, it has three councillors in Coventry, one in Stoke, two in Lewisham, South London and one in Huddersfield. In February 2005, the Socialist Party announced plans to contest the 2005 parliamentary elections as part of a new electoral alliance called the Socialist Green Unity Coalition. Several former components of the Socialist Alliance that did not join Respect also joined the SGUC.

The Socialist Party is a smaller organisation than the Militant of the 1980s, but has influence in some trade unions. In 2005, 23 Socialist Party members are elected members of trade union national executive committees. Under the leadership of Peter Taaffe, their policies have remained close to the Trotskyist mainstream. Their demand for the nationalisation of the one hundred and fifty top British companies and their longstanding practice of running in elections has led some critics to label them as reformists though the party insists that their method is based on Trotsky's Transitional Programme.

The Socialist Party is affiliated to the Committee for a Workers International, and is indeed the largest of its forty members. The party participates also in the broader European Anticapitalist Left.

In November 2005 at its annual 'Socialism' event, the Socialist Party formally launched the 'Campaign for a New Workers' Party' with the aim of persuading individuals, campaigners and trade unions to help set up and back a new broad left alternative to New Labour that would fight for working class people. The National Union of Rail, Maritime and Transport Workers (RMT union) held a conference in January 2006 to address what it calls 'The crisis in working class representation', in which Dave Nellist was invited to speak. Most of the speakers were in favour of a broad left alternative to New Labour. The remaining speakers, such as MP John McDonnell, wished it well. 



</doc>
<doc id="8160" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8160" title="Socialist teachers">
Socialist teachers

Socialist Teachers are a group of members of the Socialist Party (England and Wales) in the National Union of Teachers(NUT). 

It is associated with CNWP teachers and its members work with other socialists and trade union activists in the STA (Socialist Teachers' Alliance) and CDFU (Campaign for a Democratic and Fighting Union).

Socialist Party teacher Martin Powell-Davies stood for the general secretary of the NUT in 2004 and polled 6,482 first-preference votes.



</doc>
<doc id="8161" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8161" title="National Union of Teachers">
National Union of Teachers

The National Union of Teachers is the largest teachers' union in the United Kingdom. It has a policy of campaigning on educational issues as well as the conditions of service of its members.



</doc>
<doc id="8164" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8164" title="Socialist Party">
Socialist Party

Socialist Party is the name of several different socialist political parties around the world. These are parties who believe everyone should be equal and have the same access to products produced. These include:


In some cases, those parties are more social-democrat than socialist.

See also: Democratic Socialist Party, Social Democratic Party, Socialist Labour Party, Socialist Workers Party, National Socialist Party, Communist Party, List of political parties.


</doc>
<doc id="8166" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8166" title="June 5">
June 5






</doc>
<doc id="8167" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8167" title="February 20">
February 20





February 19 – February 21 – January 20 – March 20 – listing of all days


</doc>
<doc id="8168" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8168" title="Dave Grohl">
Dave Grohl

David Eric Grohl, usually known as Dave Grohl, is an American rock musician and singer. He is best known as the lead singer of rock band Foo Fighters and the drummer of the grunge band Nirvana. He has also been part of thirty different bands in his life. These bands include Nine Inch Nails and Tenacious D.

Dave Grohl lived most of his early life in and around Washington DC. He played in many local punk bands, on guitar. By 15 years old he was a drummer in the hardcore punk band, Scream. Scream toured all over the United States and Europe but broke up in 1989. After they broke up he tried out to be a drummer in a small band called Nirvana. 

Grohl joined Nirvana in 1990, along with Krist Novoselic and Kurt Cobain. They went on to be one of the most successful bands of the decade, selling over 50 million albums worldwide. Grohl joined shortly before the release of Nevermind. Nevermind proved to be a classic album, one that is still a big influence on the alternative metal and alternative rock scene. The band only recorded one more studio album though, In Utero in 1993. On April 8, 1994, Kurt Cobain's body was found at his home in Seattle. He had shot himself in the head with a shotgun. This basically ended Nirvana and Grohl started his own band Foo Fighters in 1995.

The original Foo Fighters album was recorded entirely by Grohl himself. He recorded the parts for each instrument one at a time and then combined them. Foo Fighters are now a multi grammy award winning rock band and sell out huge arenas when they go on tour.


</doc>
<doc id="8169" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8169" title="1740">
1740



</doc>
<doc id="8178" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8178" title="Embryo">
Embryo

An embryo is an early stage of development in a multicellular eukaryote, such as a plant, animal or human. The embryo comes from the fertilised egg (the zygote), and grows into the fetus.

The embryo contains the basic cells needed to create a living thing. The cells contain DNA. Cells multiply, fulfilling the DNA "instructions", and the embryo grows. The development of an embryo passes through various stages: the blastula, a hollow ball of cells; the gastrula, migration of cells; morphogenesis; tissue differentiation, and so on.


</doc>
<doc id="8179" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8179" title="WordPad">
WordPad

WordPad is a word processor application. It is made by Microsoft. WordPad is a basic word processor. It has simple formatting functions. The software comes free with Microsoft Windows operating systems. WordPad is similar to Notepad but lets the user format text, something you cannot do in Notepad. However, WordPad is very basic compared to normal word processors like Microsoft Word or OpenOffice Writer. Wordpad saves documents in Rich Text Format, unlike Notepad's use of simple text files, allowing users to change the alignment and color of the font, and add things like bullets and font effects.


</doc>
<doc id="8180" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8180" title="Microsoft Paint">
Microsoft Paint

Microsoft Paint, also called MS Paint or simply Paint is a computer program made by Microsoft. It allows people to create picture files as well as edit picture files saved on their computer. Microsoft Paint is also a program for adding texts to images saved on a computer. There are various tools to help people edit photos, including:

The program has a color palette displayed on the bottom left of the screen, as well as an "Edit Colors..." menu, allowing users to create all the shades they need.

Using the selection tools (the 2 tools at the top if the tools bar), users can select all or part of an image and then cut, copy, delete and paste it.

Many digital artists or editors prefer programs like Photoshop, but many on a tighter budget or with less time on their hands use Paint. Because of this, there are many Internet tutorials to help enhance the creative skill of every Microsoft Painter.


</doc>
<doc id="8183" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8183" title="My Computer">
My Computer

My Computer is seen on the Microsoft Windows computers. My computer allows the user to access the local drives, such as the local disk, also known as the C: Drive. The user can also access external drives. Examples of an external drive are a floppy disk drive (A: Drive) and the CD Drive (D:). My computer also lets the user access My Documents and other files.


</doc>
<doc id="8188" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8188" title="Category:Cartoonists">
Category:Cartoonists


</doc>
<doc id="8190" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8190" title="Category:Lebanese people">
Category:Lebanese people


</doc>
<doc id="8192" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8192" title="Category:French people">
Category:French people


</doc>
<doc id="8193" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8193" title="Category:People of the Philippines">
Category:People of the Philippines


</doc>
<doc id="8194" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8194" title="Trilogy">
Trilogy

A trilogy is a series with three parts. For example, The Godfather series of movies is a trilogy because there was three movies in the series; "The Godfather"; "The Godfather Part II"; and "The Godfather Part III".

General emotional rockers Saves the Day have done a trilogy of albums about self discovery.

The trilogy was originally a tradition of Ancient Greek theatre, where three plays and one satyr play would be played.


</doc>
<doc id="8195" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8195" title="Series">
Series

A series is a group of several things that are all about the same thing, or are intentionally similar.

In mathematics, a series is several adding problems all together in one question. For example:

...As 1 plus 4 equals 5, then 5 plus 3 equals 8, then 8 plus 6 equals 14, then 14 plus 8 equals 22.



</doc>
<doc id="8196" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8196" title="Synesthesia">
Synesthesia

Synesthesia, or synaesthesia, is a condition where the brain mixes up the senses. People who have synesthesia are called synesthetes. 

Synesthesia is usually inherited (called congenital synesthesia), but exactly how people inherit it is unknown. 

Synesthesia is sometimes reported by people using psychedelic drugs, after a stroke, or during an epileptic seizure. It is also reported to be a result of blindness or deafness. Synesthesia that comes from events unrelated to genes is called adventitious synesthesia. This synesthesia results from some drugs or a stroke but not blindness or deafness. It involves sound being linked to vision or touch being linked to hearing.

Synesthesia was investigated a lot in the 19th and early 20th centuries, but in the middle of the 20th century, it was less studied. Only recently has it been studied again in much detail.

Some musicians and composers have a form of synesthesia that allows them to "see" music as colors or shapes. This is called chromethesia. Mozart is said to have had this form of synesthesia. He said that the key of D major had a warm "orangey" sound to it, while B-flat minor was blackish. A major was a rainbow of colors to him. This may explain why he wrote some of his music using different colors for different music notes, and why much of his music is in major keys.

Another composer who had color-hearing was the Russian composer Alexander Scriabin. In 1907, he talked with another famous composer, Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov, who had synesthesia, and they both found that some musical notes made them think of certain colors. Scriabin worked with a man named Alexander Mozer who made a color organ.

The same type of synesthesia may have different effects (pronounced and less pronounced) on different people.

Synesthetes often say that they did not know their experiences were unusual until they found out that other people did not have them. Others report feeling as if they had been keeping a secret their entire lives. Most synesthetes consider their experiences a gift—a "hidden" sense. Most synesthetes find out in their childhood that they have synethesia. Some learn to apply it in daily life and work. For example, they might use their gift to memorize names and telephone numbers or do mental arithmetic. Many people with synesthesia use their experiences to help them be more creative, for example, in making drawings and music.

More than 60 types of synesthesia have been reported, but only a small number have been studied by scientists.
Some common types of synthesia include:


</doc>
<doc id="8199" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8199" title="Moose">
Moose

A moose ("Alces alces") (called elk in Europe) is a mammal of the deer family. A male moose is called a "bull", a female moose is called a "cow", and a young moose is called a "calf". A group of moose is called a "herd". The plural of moose is "moose" (such as: There was one "moose" in the forest / There were two "moose" in the forest.).

Moose are about 3 meters long and about 2 meters / 6.5 feet tall. Males usually weigh about 500 kilograms / 1,100 pounds, and females weigh about 400 kilograms / 880 pounds. The moose has a fur coat colored between reddish-brown and blackish-brown. In winter, their fur becomes a grayish color. Moose have a flap of skin hanging from their throats, which is called a "bell". Male moose have large antlers. These antlers fall off before winter. In the spring the antlers grow back again. Female moose do not have antlers.

The moose lives across North America to northern Europe to Siberia. In Europe they live in Finland, Sweden , Norway and the Baltic countries.(Estonia ,Latvia and Lithuania). In north America they live in Canada , Alaska , and little bit USA. In 2008 they have been re-introduced to Scottish Highlands from Scandinavia. 

Moose live in northern Europe, Asia, and in North America. Moose usually live in areas with lakes, marshes and swamps.They also live in moutains like Alaska and Canada.

Finland in 2008 there were about 264,000 moose in Finland.

Moose are active during the day. They live alone, but in winter they sometimes form small groups. Moose eat grass, leaves, twigs, willow, birch and maple shoots and water plants. After a pregnancy of 8 months, the female gives birth to 1 or 2 babies. Females begin to have babies when they are 2 or 3 years old. Young moose stay with their mother for a year; after one year they leave and live alone. Moose usually become 15 years old, but they can become up to 27 years old. A mother moose will aggressively protect her young. Their enemies are bears and wolves, who hunt moose calves.

Moose have been hunted by humans for a very long time, since the Stone Age.

Because of their dark coloured fur, Moose are sometimes hit by cars since they are hard to see when they are crossing roads at night. In some countries like Canada, Finland and Sweden they have a moose sign and have fences around motorways.



</doc>
<doc id="8204" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8204" title="Stanley Kubrick">
Stanley Kubrick

Stanley Kubrick (26 July 1928 - 7 March 1999) was an American movie director. Kubrick is thought to be one of the great directors of the 20th century.

He was born in New York City but he has lived most of his life in Britain. His films are respected for their great amount of detail and symbolism. Many of his films were very controversial when they were first shown. For example, the sex and violence in his film "A Clockwork Orange" was very disturbing to many people who saw it when it was released in 1973. The reaction to the film in the United Kingdom became so great that Stanley Kubrick stopped showing the film there for over 25 years. Other famous movies that Kubrick made include "", "" and "The Shining". Stanley Kubrick died from a heart attack on March 7th, 1999.

Kubrick was born in New York City and lived there during his youth. Stanley was a poor student in school but his father, who was a doctor, taught Stanley how to play chess and gave him a camera. Kubrick finished high school in 1946 and could not get into a college. This was because of his poor grades in school and because colleges were full with many American soldier's who returned from World War II that same year. During this time, Kubrick played games of chess with people for money. He was a good chess player and won many games. He used the money he won from playing chess to buy food and photography equipment. Kubrick got a job at a magazine in New York City that was called Look Magazine. Kubrick also enjoyed watching films and thought that he could make better films than the films that were being made at the time. He first made two small documentaries. One of them was about a boxer and was called "Day of the Fight". The other documentary was about a religious man and was called "Flying Padre". He then made two full-length films (called feature films) that made other people interested in his work. The first feature film was called "Fear and Desire" and the other was called "Killer's Kiss." His third feature film, called "The Killing", was a success. The success of "The Killing" allowed Stanley to work on a bigger film, called "Paths of Glory", that was about World War I and was made with the famous actor Kirk Douglas. At this time Kubrick became well known in the film industry and had started to create his own style.

After Stanley Kubrick completed "Paths of Glory" he tried working on a big Hollywood movie called "Spartacus" in 1960, about a gladiator who fights Rome. The film made a lot of money and was a success but Kubrick did not enjoy working on it. He did not enjoy working on it because of problems he had with the other people working on the film who controlled it. Kubrick desired to have a lot of control in making his films, and after making "Spartacus" he only worked on films that he had full control over.

In the 1962 Kubrick moved to United Kingdom to make his next film, "Lolita". He liked the United Kingdom very much and decided to live there for the rest of his life. The film "Lolita" was the first film that Kubrick made that created a lot of controversy. The film was based upon a book by the Russian author Vladimir Nabokov that was also very controversial at the time. The film shows the relationship between a very young woman and an older man. This is a forbidden topic in the United States and most of the world.

For the film "Lolita", Kubrick hired the talented and famous actor Peter Sellers. Kubrick respected Peter's acting and asked him to act as 3 different characters in Kubrick's next film, "", which was released in 1963. "Dr. Strangelove" was a comedy but it was about very serious topics. These are called black comedies. The film was about the Cold War and was very controversial but also very successful. The film had a large cultural influence and created some images that became very famous in the years to follow. The most famous image from the film was of an American pilot sitting on a nuclear bomb as it fell to earth from an airplane.

Kubrick's success with "Dr Strangelove" convinced the film studios that he was talented and that he could be trusted to make good, popular films. Kubrick entered into a positive relationship with the film studio, Warner Brothers. Warner Brothers gave him almost full artistic control on all of the films he was to make in the future. A director being given so much control is rare. Such directors are called "auteurs".

Kubrick took five years to develop and plan his next film. It was a science fiction film called "" and it was released in 1968. Kubrick based the movie on a short story called the "The Sentinel" that was written by the science fiction author Arthur C. Clarke. Kubrick worked with Arthur C. Clarke to make the film. The film used many new ideas and techniques and had special effects that no other movie at the time had. The great special effects used in the film won Kubrick his first and only Oscar award. "2001" was made during the end of the 1960's and was very popular with members of the Hippie Counterculture. This was because of the films strange and dream-like visuals. When the film was released it was both loved and hated by many film critics. Many of the film critics who did not like the movie when they saw it in 1968 have changed their opinions. Some of them have written a second, positive review of the film many years later.

His next film was one of his most famous and also his most controversial. The film was titled "A Clockwork Orange" and was released in 1971. The film was darker than "2001" and was originally released with an "X" motion picture rating in the US. The film was based on a novel of the same title by the author Anthony Burgess. The novel and film are about a criminal who is given a new and experimental 'cure' for his violent nature. The story asks questions about how society defines morality. The film had an amount of sex and violence that was not often seen in big Hollywood films at the time. The controversy of the film increased when other people copied some of the acts that were committed by the characters in the film. Kubrick and his family received violent threats from people, called death threats. These threats were serious enough that Kubrick took the film out of theaters in Britain. The film was not shown again in Britain until the year 2000, after Kubrick's death.

Kubrick's next film was to going to be about Napoleon but he canceled it after another similar film was released before his own. Kubrick worked very hard researching and learning about Napoleon and about the world at that time. Kubrick chose to make another movie set in that time that was titled "Barry Lyndon". The film was based a book by William Makepeace Thackeray and was about an 18th century gambler named Barry Lyndon. The film was not as well liked as his previous films but, like "2001: A Space Odyssey", it convinced people over time.

After "Barry Lyndon", Kubrick made films at a much slower rate than before. He only made three more films in the next twenty-five years. He was still very popular and respected. Each of the films he released became an event that many people waited for and celebrated.

"The Shining" was Kubrick's next movie. It was based on the book of the same name by the American author, Stephen King and was released in 1980. It was a horror film and starred Jack Nicholson and Shelley Duvall. The film was one of Kubrick's most mainstream films and was very popular. It was different from the other horror films at the time and the catch phrase, "Here's Johnny!" (which was also used on the TV's The Tonight Show hosted by Johnny Carson at the time) was made very popular after Jack Nicholson's character said it during an important scene in the film. The author of the book Stephen King hated the movie and did not like that Kubrick changed many things from the book. King made his own version, a TV mini-series in 1997, which was much more like the book.

"Full Metal Jacket" was Kubrick's next film and was released in 1987. It was one of several films that were made in the 1980s that were about the Vietnam War. The film was most famous for its drill instructor character, played by R. Lee Ermey, who was very cruel to his soldiers. After the film was released, the United States Armed Forces changed some of its rules about how their drill instructors should behave.

"Eyes Wide Shut" was Kubrick's last film and was released in 1999. He completed editing the film just before his death in March. The film starred Tom Cruise and Nicole Kidman, who were married to each other in real-life at the time. It was based on the novel "Traumnovelle" by the Austrian writer Arthur Schnitzler. The film took over 16 consecutive months (a world record) to complete and was released in July of 1999. According to R. Lee Ermey, of Full Metal Jacket Fame, Kubrick revealed to him that he was rather disappointed with his work. Kubrick supposedly went further, saying that both Kidman and Cruise "had their way with" him. Apparently a reference to a clashing of large-Hollywood personas to Kubrick's more reserved demeanor.

Just a few days after completing the editing of "Eyes Wide Shut", Kubrick died from a heart attack.

In the year 2001, the American film director Steven Spielberg filmed "A.I.: Artificial Intelligence". "A.I" was a film that Stanley Kubrick had worked on before "Eyes Wide Shut", but did not film. Steven Spielberg based his film on Kubrick's plans. The film received a poor response from audiences and did not make as much money as expected. The film was thought to be more Spielberg's film than Kubrick's film.




</doc>
<doc id="8206" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8206" title="Kyoto Protocol">
Kyoto Protocol

The Kyoto Protocol is a plan created by the United Nations for the "United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change" that tries to reduce the effects of climate change, such as global warming. The plan says that countries that adopt (follow) the Kyoto Protocol have to try to reduce how much carbon dioxide (and other "greenhouse gases" that pollute the atmosphere) they release into the air.

The full name of the Kyoto Protocol is the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. It is called the "Kyoto" Protocol because it was made in Kyoto, Japan. The Kyoto Protocol was officially put into "full force" on February 16, 2005. On February 16, Russia began to follow (ratify) the Kyoto Protocol and it was decided to be put into "full force". As of February 2009, 183 countries have agreed to follow the Kyoto Protocol, who make up for more than 55% of the greenhouse gases released into our atmosphere.

There are still 29 countries which have not yet adopted it. Croatia and Kazakhstan have signed the treaty, but have not ratified it (made it a law they have to follow). The United States of America has signed it but said that they will not ratify it. Australia has only recently ratified the Kyoto Protocol under the previous Prime Minister, Kevin Rudd. Both of these countries have said that the fact that China and India are using exceptions to the treaty (those countries believe parts of the treaty do not apply to them and they will not follow those parts) in the name of industrialization is unfair and that they will not ratify because of this, although it is believed that the U.S. and Australia are protecting their economic interests by not ratifying. The countries' leaders say that changing their use of greenhouse gases will make their people lose jobs. The twenty four other countries have neither signed nor ratified the treaty.


</doc>
<doc id="8207" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8207" title="Ratify">
Ratify

To ratify ("Ratification") is to adopt (accept and put in force) an important document or treaty that affects an entire country. For example, if a country decided to begin putting something like the Kyoto Protocol into force, then they have just ratified it. To have something ratified, it must usually be agreed to be good and must go through a process.


</doc>
<doc id="8212" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8212" title="Physical constants">
Physical constants

In science, a physical constant is a number (physical quantity) that does not change. This is different from a mathematical constant, which is not based on a real measurement.

There are many physical constants in science. Some famous ones are the speed of light, Planck's constant, the gravitational constant, and Avogadro's number.

Some scientists think that physical constants may decrease as the universe gets older. There has been no evidence to support this yet.

Constants that do not have units (like length or speed) are called fundamental physical constants.

Some believe that if the physical constants were different, there would be no life in the universe. They say that the universe seems to be fine-tuned for intelligent life.



</doc>
<doc id="8213" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8213" title="Movie director">
Movie director

A movie director is a person who helps lead the making of a movie (or "film"). They take care of the artistic things in the movie. They give instructions to the actors and direct the people that work on the movie.

Directors give many of their responsibilities to other members of their movie-making team (called a movie crew). For example, the person who is responsible for the lighting is told by the director what style of lighting he wants and he then creates the lighting for him. It is common for movie directors to work closely with a movie producer. Movie producers are people who control the non-artistic side of movie making. For example, they control all the money that is used for making the movie.

The amount of control a director has in creating their movie is different for each director. It is most common for directors to have some control, while the rest of the movie-making is controlled by the movie studio (the area where the movies are made), and by the people who pay for the movie. This was very common for American movies made in the 1930s to 1950s. During those years, the studios used many different directors for making a single movie. There are a small number of directors who are given complete control over making their movie. For example, Stanley Kubrick, Glen Tennis, Federico Fellini, and Alfred Hitchcock or Tim Burton are all movie directors who had a great amount of control in making their movie.


</doc>
<doc id="8233" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8233" title="Jack Nicholson">
Jack Nicholson

Jack Nicholson (born April 22, 1937, Neptune, New Jersey) is an American actor, film director, producer and writer. He started out as a writer and part-time actor. He became a star in 1969 when he landed a small part in the movie "Easy Rider". His other movies include, "Five Easy Pieces" (1970), "Carnal Knowledge" (1971), "Tommy" (1975), "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" (1975), "The Shining" (1980), "Terms of Endearment" (1983), "Batman" (1989), "Mars Attacks" (1996), "As Good as it Gets" (1997), "About Schmidt" (2002), and "Anger Management" (2003). He has won three Oscars, for "As Good as it Gets", "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest", and "Terms of Endearment". He is one of the most notable fans of the Los Angeles Lakers.



</doc>
<doc id="8234" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8234" title="1860s">
1860s




</doc>
<doc id="8235" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8235" title="June 20">
June 20






</doc>
<doc id="8236" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8236" title="January 4">
January 4

January 4 is the fourth day of the year in the current calendar system we use. When there is not a leap year, there are 361 days after January 4. When there is a leap year, there are 362 days after January 4.




</doc>
<doc id="8248" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8248" title="Autism">
Autism

Autism is a life-changing disorder characterized by a profound withdrawal from contact with people, repetitive behavior, and fear of change in the environment. The emotional disorder is impacting the brain's ability to receive and process information. People who have autism find it difficult to act in a way that other people think is "normal". They find it difficult to talk to other people, to look at other people and often do not like being touched by other people. A person who has autism seems to be turned inwards. They may talk only to themselves, rock themselves backwards and forwards, and laugh at their own thoughts. They do not like any type of change and may find it very difficult to learn a new behavior like using a toilet or going to school. 

Autism is caused by the way that the brain develops, both before and after a baby is born. Autism is a "spectrum disorder". This means that some people who have autism are only mildly affected. These people may go to regular schools, go to work, and have partners and families. Mild autism is called Asperger Syndrome or "High functioning Autism". Some people are more badly affected. These people may be able to take care of most of their own needs at home like dressing and getting food, but not be able to have a regular job or travel alone. A person who has severe autism may need to be cared for all their life. 

Autism seems to run in families. Parents with an Autistic Spectrum Disorder (Asperger Syndrome) often have children with Asperger Syndrome or with more severe Autism. Sometimes people who have autism are or . These people are said to have savant syndrome. They are often very good at just one thing in particular, like mathematics, playing the piano or remembering football scores. 

About 1-2 people of every 1,000 have autism.

A normal baby without autism will usually look at people talking, look at other people's faces, smile, and be interested in other people. Autistic babies, though, may like objects more than faces and other people. They may look for a second at a face, but quickly turn. They may not smile, or may just smile at what they are interested in.

Autistic children may usually like to be by themselves, without other people around. They may not be interested in making friends. They may also not react normally to hugging and other signs of love by their parents. This does not mean that they do not love their parents, they just do not know how to say it.

They may also not see other people's feelings; for example, they might not see much difference between whether a parent is smiling or being sad. They may laugh and cry at the wrong times.

An autistic child might not try to talk, point, or otherwise try to get a message across by 1 year of age. Some do not understand their language at all. Some autistic people do not speak. Many are not good at talking with other people.

Some autistic people spend a lot of time doing the same thing over and over again, or be interested in unusual things; some might spend a lot of time waving their arms around, walking on their toes, or putting things in order. An autistic person might spend a huge amount of time putting toys in lines or patterns and may get angry if someone bumps something out of place.

Some do not want any change, and will do exactly the same things every day without change—such as what they eat, when they eat, getting dressed, brushing their teeth, or going to school—and may even get upset if any change takes place to this. They may also be interested in strange things and may spend all of their time learning about their interest.

Autism was first named in 1943. Leo Kanner did a study of 11 children and found unusual things about them. He called it "early infantile autism". Around the same time, another doctor, Hans Asperger, did another study on nearly the same thing. His discovery is now called "Asperger syndrome", while Leo Kanner's discovery is called "autistic disorder", "childhood autism", "infantile autism", or simply "autism".

Niko Tinbergen, the ethologist, gave his Nobel Prize lecture on autism.


</doc>
<doc id="8249" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8249" title="Italian language">
Italian language

Italian is a language spoken by about 70 million people, mostly people from Italy, from which it gets its name.
It is the official language in Italy, San Marino, Vatican City, Switzerland and in some cities of Slovenia and Croatia. It is also used in some parts of Monaco, Malta, Albania, Dodecaneso (Greece), Eritrea, Libya, Ethiopia, Somalia, Tunisia, Slovenia, Croatia and some other places.

It is mostly derived from Latin, with some words from Greek, Etruscan and elsewhere. It is called an inflected language - that means that the meaning of words can be changed by changing their endings. Italian nouns are either masculine or feminine (these are grammatical terms, normally only indirectly to do with sex).

Most singular masculine nouns end in -o, and most plural masculine nouns end in -i.

Most singular feminine nouns end in -a, and most plural feminine nouns end in -e.

So:

The ending of verbs are quite complicated, because they depend upon the "tense" of the verb (past, present, future and so on) and on the "person" of the verb (I, you, they etc). Because of that, the personal pronoun is not compulsory (in the following example it is in parenthesis).

So:

There are very many of these endings to learn - it is a difficult part of Italian. But pronunciation is simple - there are just a few rules to learn, and hardly any difficult sounds.

Many Italian words have entered the English language. Pizza, spaghetti and ravioli are just some of the food words that we use. Many technical words in music are Italian, such as and . Many musical instrument names are also Italian, such as cello and tuba. From the darker side of Italian life we get Mafia and . But Bravo for Italian - it's a good language to learn.



</doc>
<doc id="8250" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8250" title="Namibia">
Namibia

The Republic of Namibia is a country in southern Africa on the Atlantic coast. It is bordered by Angola, Zambia, and Zimbabwe to the north, Botswana to the east, and South Africa to the south. It gained independence from South Africa in 1990. Before that it was called South West Africa. Its capital is Windhoek.

Before World War I Nambia was a German colony. German is still widely spoken in the country, although English is the official language.

Namibia has a population of 2.1 million people.



</doc>
<doc id="8251" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8251" title="Jubal Early">
Jubal Early

Jubal Anderson Early (November 3, 1816 – March 2, 1894) was a Confederate general in the American Civil War. He commanded a corps in Robert E. Lee's Army of Northern Virginia, as well as the Confederate Army of Northern Virginia. He invaded the north in 1864. After the war, he was one of the major defenders of the Confederate 


</doc>
<doc id="8253" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8253" title="Lewis Carroll">
Lewis Carroll

Lewis Carroll was the pen name of Charles Lutwidge Dodgson (27 January 1832 – 14 January 1898), a British writer, logician (maths expert), Anglican clergyman, and photographer. He is most famous for his story "Alice's Adventures in Wonderland" which he told to a young friend, Alice Liddel, when he took the girl and two of her sisters on a boat trip. Alice enjoyed the story and asked Dodgson to write it down. Carroll then wrote a second story about Alice called "Through the Looking Glass." Both stories are still popular with people all over the world. He was a lecturer in mathematics at Christ Church, Oxford, and wrote some books on the subject. 



</doc>
<doc id="8260" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8260" title="1935">
1935







</doc>
<doc id="8262" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8262" title="Category:1936 births">
Category:1936 births


</doc>
<doc id="8263" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8263" title="Category:Births by year">
Category:Births by year

This category has people organized by the year in which they were born.

See also for people organized by the year in which they died.


</doc>
<doc id="8265" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8265" title="Category:1927 births">
Category:1927 births


</doc>
<doc id="8266" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8266" title="Category:1929 births">
Category:1929 births


</doc>
<doc id="8268" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8268" title="Category:1933 births">
Category:1933 births


</doc>
<doc id="8271" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8271" title="Category:1950 births">
Category:1950 births


</doc>
<doc id="8273" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8273" title="Category:1954 births">
Category:1954 births


</doc>
<doc id="8274" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8274" title="Category:1939 births">
Category:1939 births


</doc>
<doc id="8275" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8275" title="Category:1934 births">
Category:1934 births


</doc>
<doc id="8276" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8276" title="Category:1935 births">
Category:1935 births


</doc>
<doc id="8277" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8277" title="Category:Deaths by year">
Category:Deaths by year

This category has people organized by the year in which they died.

See also for people organized by the year in which were born.


</doc>
<doc id="8278" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8278" title="Category:1960 births">
Category:1960 births


</doc>
<doc id="8280" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8280" title="Category:1770 births">
Category:1770 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1770.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="8281" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8281" title="Category:1963 births">
Category:1963 births


</doc>
<doc id="8284" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8284" title="Belize">
Belize

Belize is a country in Central America. Some people in Belize speak Spanish or Kriol, but English is the official language and the most commonly spoken. This is because Belize is a former colony of the United Kingdom, while its neighbors were once colonies of Spain. It was formerly called British Honduras, but changed its name in 1973. Long before that it was part of the Mayan Empire.

More than three hundred and thirty thousand people live in Belize. Belmopan, which is located near the centre of the country, is its capital. Other towns and cities include Belize City, Corozal, Orange Walk and Punta Gorda.

Belize is on the coast of the Caribbean Sea and includes about 450 islands. The largest island, Ambergris Caye, is forty kilometres long, but many other islands are very small. In the water around the islands are coral reefs.

The temperature along the coast is warm all year round, typically ranging from 20°C in to 32°C. Sometimes hurricanes hit, causing great damage.

On the mainland bananas and sugar cane are grown. Many tourists come to Belize each year, to snorkel or dive, to visit pyramids built by the Mayans, or simply to relax on a beach. 


</doc>
<doc id="8290" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8290" title="Michael Landon">
Michael Landon

Michael Landon (October 31, 1936- July 1, 1991) was an American actor. He is probably best known for his roles on the TV shows, "Bonanza", "Little House on the Prairie", and "Highway to Heaven".



</doc>
<doc id="8291" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8291" title="Category:1991 deaths">
Category:1991 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="8292" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8292" title="Category:1890 births">
Category:1890 births


</doc>
<doc id="8293" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8293" title="Category:1969 deaths">
Category:1969 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="8296" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8296" title="RMS Titanic">
RMS Titanic

The RMS "Titanic (or SS "Titanic) was a British passenger ship. It was built by Harland and Wolff ship builders, in Belfast, for the White Star Line company. 

Before it sailed, many people thought it would be almost impossible for it to sink.

At 11:40 on 14 April 1912, during "Titanic"<nowiki>'s</nowiki> maiden voyage, it hit an iceberg in the Atlantic Ocean. The iceberg broke the "Titanic"<nowiki>'s</nowiki> hull (bottom) letting water come into the ship. The "Titanic" sank two hours and forty minutes later at 2:20 on 15 April. 

As it sank, the Titanic split in two. It killed more than 1,500 people. Only about 705 people survived. It was one of the worst shipwrecks that was not during a war. 

One reason why so many people died was because the ship did not have enough lifeboats. Women and children were allowed on the lifeboats first, and passengers who sailed in first class (which meant that they paid for better rooms on the ship) were allowed on before other passengers. 

Another reason so few people survived was that the radio was off on the ship closest to the "Titanic", and the crew did not hear about the accident.

The last survivor of the Titanic disaster to die was a lady named Millvina Dean. She was the youngest passenger on board, as she was then a baby of only nine weeks old. She died in Ashhurst, Hampshire, England on 21 May 2009 aged 97.

The "Titanic" disaster changed shipping laws. It included requiring all ships to carry enough lifeboats for everyone on the ship, and for ships to have someone at the radio all the time. 

The wreck was discovered by a French and American team led by Robert Ballard and Jean-Louis Michel on 1 September 1985 at 1:02 in the morning. 

The story of the sinking has been made into several movies. The most popular film version is a 1997 film starring Kate Winslet and Leonardo DiCaprio called "Titanic". It won 11 Academy Awards, tying "Ben-Hur" for the record for the most Academy Awards won by one movie. Other movie versions of the story include the 1958 film "A Night to Remember", the 1953 film "Titanic", and the 1980 film "Raise the Titanic".


</doc>
<doc id="8299" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8299" title="Steel">
Steel

Steel is a mixture of several metals (this is called an alloy) but most of it is iron. Steel is harder and stronger than iron. Steels are often iron alloys with between 0.02% and 1.7% percent carbon by weight; alloys with higher carbon than this are known as cast iron. Steel is different from wrought iron, that has little or no carbon. There are some newer steels in which carbon is replaced with other alloying materials. 

Steel has a long history. People in India and Sri Lanka were making steel by hand more than 1,500 years ago. It was very expensive and was often used to make swords and knives. In the Middle Ages, steel could be made only in small amounts since the processes were slow and took a long time.

In the time since, there have been many changes to the way steel is made. In about the year 1610 steel started to be made in England, and the way it was made got better and cheaper over the next 100 years. Cheap steel was a help in the start of the Industrial Revolution in England and in Europe. The first industrial process for making cheap steel was Bessemer process, followed by Siemens-Martin open-hearth process. Today the most common way of making steel is the basic oxygen steelmaking. It uses a large turnip-shaped vessel called "converter". Liquid raw iron called "pig iron" is poured in and some scrap metal is added in to balance the heat. Oxygen is then blown in the iron. It will burn off any remaining carbon and other impurities. Then enough carbon is added in the batch to make the carbon contents as wanted. The liquid steel is then tapped off. It can be either cast into molds or rolled into sheets, slabs, beams and other so-called "long products", such as railway tracks. 

Today steel is made in huge buildings called "steel mills", and is most often made by machines. It is a very cheap metal today and is used to make many things. Steel is used to making buildings and bridges, and all kinds of machines. Almost all ships and cars are today made from steel. When a steel object is no more usable, or it is broken beyond repair, it is called "scrap". The scrap can be melted down and re-shaped into new object. Steel is "recyclable" material; that is, the same steel can be used and re-used.

Steel is a metal alloy which includes iron and often some carbon. 

Every material is made up of atoms which are very small parts. Some atoms hold together quite well, which is what makes some solid materials hard. Something made of pure iron is softer than steel because the atoms can slip over one another. If other atoms like carbon are added, they are different from iron atoms and stop the iron atoms from sliding apart so easily. This makes the metal stronger and harder. 

Changing the amount of carbon (or other atoms) added to steel will change those things that are interesting and useful about the metal. These are called the properties of the steel. Some properties are:


Steel with more carbon is harder and stronger than pure iron, but it also breaks more easily (brittle).

These are a few of the many types of steel:
There are a huge number of things that people make from steel. It is one of the most common and useful metals. 
A lot of items made from iron in the past are now made of steel. Some of them are:


</doc>
<doc id="8304" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8304" title="Luftwaffe">
Luftwaffe

The Luftwaffe (pronounced ) is the name for the air force of Germany. 

This was the name for the air force of Germany during the Third Reich when Adolf Hitler was in power (between 1933 and 1945) and was also the name for the air force during the era of the Cold War when Germany was divided into two: East Germany and West Germany. This meant that the Luftwaffe was the air force of West Germany between 1955 and 1990. In 1990, these two countries became one country again, so the Luftwaffe has been the air force of the united (together) Germany since 1990. Luftwaffe means Air force in English.

Germany first had aeroplanes in its army in 1910, four years before the start of World War I in 1914. At that time, aeroplanes had no guns. They were being used for reconnaissance duties, that is, they would fly over the battlefield to see what the enemy was doing and fly back so that the pilots could tell their generals what they knew. The generals would then use that information. Before aeroplanes came along, balloons had been used. 

During World War I, Germany used a few kinds of aeroplane to fight its war, such as fighters, bombers and reconnaissance aeroplanes, but the fighter aeroplanes became very famous because of its brave pilots. The most famous German pilot of World War I was Manfred von Richthofen, also known as "The Red Baron." 

Germany also used airships called "Zeppelins". They were named after Count Ferdinand von Zeppelin, who had built the first airships in 1900, but he had wanted them to carry cargo and passengers, not bombs. He died in 1917, but people still use his name when they remember the German airships of World War I. (In fact, the Zeppelin company is still making airships today, but these are much smaller now.)

In November 1918, the "Allies", or the Allied forces (which included Britain and France) won the war, and Germany had to sign the Treaty of Versailles. It was told that it could not have any military aeroplanes at all because it was blamed for starting the war in 1914. Germany therefore had to destroy all its military aeroplanes as a punishment, so until 1933 it had no air force at all.

For many years, Germany pretended to have no army pilots because the German army generals did not like the idea of not having any aeroplanes. At first, pilots would pretend to be training to become airline pilots but this was not much use because they really needed to fly fighters and bombers. The Treaty of Versailles did not allow Germany to have them, so Germany had to ask for help from Russia, its former (and future) enemy. 

In 1924, German army pilots started to fly Russian fighters and bombers at a secret training school near the Russian city of Lipetsk. These pilots would then become the first ones to fly for the new German air force, the Luftwaffe, when Hitler said that it now existed. The training school closed in 1933.

In 1935, Adolf Hitler finally told the world that Germany had a new air force, even if the Treaty of Versailles forbade Germany from having one. Hitler therefore was defying the Allies, who had won World War I, but they did not do anything about this, because many people still remembered the war in 1914-1918. They were frightened by the idea of war and did not want another one. 

The Spanish Civil War of 1936-1939 gave the Germans the opportunity to test its new aircraft, pilots and weapons in battle. Hitler sent many aeroplanes and pilots over to Spain because he wanted to support a man called Franco, who wanted to get rid of the Spanish government. Amongst the aeroplanes were fighters called the Messerschmitt Bf 109 and dive-bombers called the Junkers Ju 87 ‘Stuka”.

The world now remembers one mission that the German air force carried out during the war. German bombers attacked the city of Guernica in the Basque region of northeast Spain, and many civilians (people who were not soldiers) died in the attack. Many governments and people around the world were horrified by the attack. The artist Pablo Picasso painted a painting called "Guernica" that has become very famous. People see the painting as a symbol of the horror of war. A copy of the painting hangs in the United Nations building in New York.

The German air force was the strongest in the world when World War II broke out in September 1939. It supported the army on the ground and the aircraft were very effective at defeating all opposition, since the German armed forces, the "Wehrmacht", had practised a very new and very fast way to defeat the armies of enemies. This was called Blitzkrieg or Lightning War. The French and the British were prepared for a trench war, it was impossible to fight back.

Within a year, Germany had conquered Poland, Denmark, Norway, Luxembourg, Belgium, and France. Britain supported the countries attacked by Germany but found herself on her own by June 1940 when Germany had conquered most of western Europe.

As the war went on, things began to go badly wrong for the "Luftwaffe". The leadership of the Luftwaffe began to become quite bad, as generals were arguing about what the air force should be doing and blaming each other when the Luftwaffe was unable to stop the British from attacking German aircraft factories and other industrial targets in large numbers during the night since they had lost many planes when attacking them by day. Not only that, but Germany was suffering a shortage of materials needed to build the aeroplanes. Things got worse for the Germans when the USA joined the war in December 1941, because the Americans brought thousands of bombers to the United Kingdom, and they attacked Germany from there.

Soon, hundreds of American and British bombers were attacking Germany every single day both by day and by night. 

Germany could not hope to win the war on the ground. Since Russia was so huge, the government set up factories hundreds of miles away from the fighting in order to build aeroplanes, tanks, guns and other weapons for the Russian Army. This meant that the Russians would eventually start to push the Germans back west, especially after they defeated the Germans in great battles near the city of Kursk and in the city of Stalingrad itself. The Germans had failed to conquer the city of Leningrad, too. 

On January 1 1945 the Luftwaffe launched a desperate plan called operation 'Bodenplatte' (Baseplate), a dawn air attack aimed at multiple Allied air bases in Belgium & Holland. Over 800 German aircraft were rounded up with many veteran pilots retired from combat duty pressesd back into service. 

The plan cost more than it was worth, with over 280 German planes lost and 213 irreplaceble pilots killed or captured. As with the fog of war, over 100 German planes were shot down by their own ground fire who were not in on the plan.

Germany became famous as the country, which flew the first jet aeroplanes. In 1944, the Luftwaffe started to use the world’s first jet fighter plane, the Messerschmitt Me-262, even if the engines sometimes did not work properly. Once again, the shortage of the materials needed to build the plane as well as the continuing bombing of Germany meant that not as many Me-262s were built as Germany would have liked. Even so, Germany also built and flew the world's first jet bomber, the Arado Ar 234, the world’s first fighter plane powered by a rocket, the Messerschmitt Me-163, the world’s first "cruise missile", the V-1, and the world’s first ballistic missile, the V-2.

After the war the allies were quite impressed with Germany's technical know how & gleaned all they could from the vast array of Luftwaffe aircraft strewn across Germany.

Once again, the Allies prohibited Germany from having an air force. The Russians were in the eastern half of Germany, and this half became East Germany. The British, French and Americans were in the western half, and this half became West Germany. These became countries in their own right, and East Germany became a Russian puppet state. In case a new war started with Russia and East Germany as enemies, the Western Allies finally allowed West Germany to join the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO), an organization of western countries which wanted there to be peace throughout the world. NATO allowed West Germany to have an air force because the country was right next to East Germany. 

Germany used military aircraft in war for the first time since 1945 when they supported British aircraft in the war in Kosovo in 1999, but many people still believed that Germany should never again go to war because of what had happened in the two world wars.

This article is a simplified (and slightly reduced) version based on the one about the Luftwaffe in the (other) English Wikipedia. A list of books about the Luftwaffe and about military aviation in general is there.



</doc>
<doc id="8305" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8305" title="Category:1937 births">
Category:1937 births


</doc>
<doc id="8306" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8306" title="Category:2005 deaths">
Category:2005 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="8308" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8308" title="The Velvet Underground">
The Velvet Underground

The Velvet Underground was an American rock band. It was founded in 1964. The original line-up was Lou Reed, John Cale, Sterling Morrison and Maureen Tucker. They were discovered by the famous artist, Andy Warhol, who produced and designed the cover for their first album "The Velvet Underground and Nico", which paired them with another discovery of his, German model/singer, Nico. The album was never really a hit, but it is now considered a classic. Later, the group broke up with Warhol and Nico after being a part of Andy Warhol's Factory for a while. The group released several more albums, "White Light/White Heat" (1967), "The Velvet Underground" (1969), "Loaded" (1970), and "Squeeze" (which features none of the original members, 1973), before finally breaking up. Lou Reed later had a successful solo career and is considered one of the founders of the "punk" movement.



</doc>
<doc id="8310" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8310" title="John F. Kennedy">
John F. Kennedy

John Fitzgerald Kennedy (May 29, 1917 – November 22, 1963), also known as JFK, was the 35th president of the United States of America. He was in office from 1961 until he was assassinated in 1963. He was the youngest President elected to the office, at the age of 43. Events during his presidency included the Bay of Pigs Invasion, the Cuban Missile Crisis, the building of the Berlin Wall, the Space Race, the African American Civil Rights Movement and early stages of the Vietnam War.

John F. Kennedy was born in Brookline, Massachusetts. He was the second of nine children of Joseph P. Kennedy (1888–1969). His father was a businessman and later US ambassador in the United Kingdom from 1938 until 1940. His mother was Rose Fitzgerald (1890–1995). She was the daughter of Boston mayor John "Honey Fitz" Fitzgerald. 

John graduated from Harvard University with a Bachelor in Science. During World War II, he served in the US Navy. When his PT boat was sunk by a Japanese destroyer in 1943, he seriously injured his back. He still saved his surviving crew, for which he was later rewarded with a medal.

He was elected to the US Congress in 1946, and the US Senate in 1952. He married Jacqueline Bouvier on September 12, 1953. The couple had four children; stillborn daughter (b. 1956), Caroline (b. 1957), John (1960–1999) and Patrick, who was born prematurely in August 1963 and lived only two days.

Kennedy was a member of the United States Democratic Party. He beat his Republican Party opponent Richard Nixon in the 1960 presidential election. Kennedy was the youngest president ever elected. He was also the first Roman Catholic President and the first president to win a Pulitzer Prize. Kennedy was a great speaker and inspired a new generation of young Americans. 

During the beginning of his term, he approved the CIA's plan to invade Cuba. After the invasion turned out to be a failure, the Cuban Missile Crisis began. During the crisis, Cuba ordered a lot of nuclear missiles from the Soviet Union. It was the closest the world was to having a nuclear war. Kennedy ordered US Navy ships to surround Cuba. He ended the crisis peacefully by making an agreement with the Soviet Union. They agreed that the Soviet Union would stop selling nuclear weapons to Cuba. In return, the U.S. would take its missiles out of Turkey and promise to never invade Cuba again. 

He also created a plan called the New Frontier. This was a series of government programs, such as urban renewal, to help poor and working class people. He made the Peace Corps to help poor countries all over the world. He agreed to a large tax cut to help the economy. He also called for the Civil Rights Act of 1964 which would make discrimination and segregation illegal.

"See John F. Kennedy assassination for more information"

Kennedy was assassinated on November 22, 1963, in Dallas, Texas. He was being driven through the city in an open top car, along with John Connally, the Governor of Texas. As the car drove into Dealey Plaza, gunshots were fired. two bullets hit Kennedy, through the neck, and in the head. Lee Harvey Oswald was the prime suspect in the murder, and he was arrested on the same day for murdering a policeman called J. D. Tippit. Oswald denied involvement in either of the killings and was shot two days later on November 24 by Jack Ruby.

The government investigated the murder and decided that Oswald was the only person involved, and he had fired three shots from the window of a warehouse on the corner of Dealey Plaza. Although most people at the time believed this was true, there are now many alternative theories as to what could have happened:


Kennedy had a private funeral on November 25 three days after his murder, near to the White House, where his body was laid to rest in Arlington, Virginia.

After Kennedy died, Lyndon Johnson (his Vice President) took over and put many of Kennedy's ideas into law (see Great Society).

Kennedy was a very popular president and still is today, ranking highly in public surveys and opinion polls.


</doc>
<doc id="8318" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8318" title="Jyväskylä">
Jyväskylä

Jyväskylä is the capital of the Finnish province Central Finland by the northern end of lake Päijänne. There are about 128.016 inhabitants in Jyväskylä. The University of Jyväskylä is popular and respected.


</doc>
<doc id="8324" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8324" title="Alfred Hitchcock">
Alfred Hitchcock

Alfred Hitchcock (August 13, 1899 - April 29, 1980) was a British film director who later became an American citizen but still kept his British citizenship. He mostly made mystery and suspense films. He is known for appearing in a very small role in most of his films.

Hitchcock started his career in England, starting with silent films in the 1920s. In the 1930s, he made some successful films like "The Man Who Knew Too Much" (1934), "The 30 Steps" (1935) and "The Lady Vanishes" (1938). He then moved to the United States, to work in Hollywood. His first American film was "Rebecca" (1940), which won an Oscar. 

Some of his best known films from the 1940s are "Spellbound" (1945) and "Notorious" (1946), which were inspired by psychoanalysis. His first film in color was the experimental "Rope" (1948). "Strangers on a Train" (1951) was based on a novel by Patricia Highsmith. In the 1950s, he made three popular films with Grace Kelly: "Dial M for Murder" (1954), "Rear Window" (1954) and "To Catch a Thief" (1955). In 1956 he made a new version of "The Man Who Knew Too Much", starring James Stewart and Doris Day. He returned to black-and-white, briefly, with "The Wrong Man" (1957). Then came "Vertigo" (1958), which some consider his best suspense film. It was followed by three more successful films: "North by Northwest" (1959), "Psycho" (1960) and "The Birds" (1963). After that he only made 5 more films: "Marnie" (1964), "Torn Curtain" (1966), "Topaz" (1969), "Frenzy" (1972) and "Family Plot" (1976).

He also hosted a TV show, "Alfred Hitchcock Presents".

Hithcock was a Roman Catholic. He was married to Alma Reville, who helped write some of his films. They had a daughter, Patricia. 



</doc>
<doc id="8325" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8325" title="1659">
1659



</doc>
<doc id="8327" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8327" title="July 1">
July 1






</doc>
<doc id="8329" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8329" title="Black comedy">
Black comedy

Black comedy is a style of humor (something funny or comical) that is about something serious that might upset people or people have problems with (death, war, drug use, abuse).

Some famous examples of Black comedy include:



</doc>
<doc id="8330" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8330" title="Elliott Gould">
Elliott Gould

Elliot Gould (born as Elliott Goldstein) (born August 29, 1938) is a well-known American actor. He is mostly known for his roles in many films including "M*A*S*H" (1970), "Bob & Carol & Ted & Alice" (1970), and "Ocean's Eleven" (2001). He is still a popular actor and has also made guest appearances on many television shows as well.
From 1963 to 1970, he was married to the famous singer and actress, Barbra Streisand and they had a son named Jason.


</doc>
<doc id="8331" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8331" title="Category:1938 births">
Category:1938 births


</doc>
<doc id="8335" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8335" title="Equation">
Equation

An equation is a mathematical or chemical object.

Usually mathematical equations have one equals sign ( = ) with a mathematical expression on each side of it. The equals sign says that both sides must be exactly the same.

There are two kinds of equations in math:

The second kind is often used to solve problems in which you have to know the value of some variables. For example, 
if 2x = 8, x = 8 / 2 = 4.

Equations are a part of math called algebra.


</doc>
<doc id="8336" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8336" title="1961">
1961

1961 (MCMLXI) was a common year starting on Sunday of the Gregorian calendar.








</doc>
<doc id="8337" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8337" title="1783">
1783





</doc>
<doc id="8338" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8338" title="1809">
1809



</doc>
<doc id="8340" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8340" title="1968">
1968

1968 (MCMLXVIII) was a leap year starting on Monday of the Gregorian calendar.








</doc>
<doc id="8341" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8341" title="October 31">
October 31






</doc>
<doc id="8342" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8342" title="Canteen">
Canteen

A canteen can be:



</doc>
<doc id="8343" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8343" title="Beadle">
Beadle

A beadle is someone who works at a church or a Jewish synagogue and helps the clergy. A beadle's main job is to show people to their seats and to keep order during church services.

Like many words that describe a person's job, the word beadle can also be used as a last name.


</doc>
<doc id="8355" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8355" title="1947">
1947






</doc>
<doc id="8356" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8356" title="July 17">
July 17






</doc>
<doc id="8364" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8364" title="Vegetable">
Vegetable

A vegetable is any eatable part of a plant that does "not" have seeds. For example, lettuce leaves are vegetables, because they do not have seeds. Carrots and potatoes are parts of the root systems of the plants, but since they have no seeds and are eaten by humans, they are vegetables. They are not in the same category as a fruit, nut, herb, spice, or grain. Though tomatoes are often thought of as vegetable, because they have seeds, they are actually fruits. Vegetables are an important part of people's diet (what they eat every day). Vegetables and fruits are sometimes called produce. Vegetables have vitamins A, B, C, D minerals and carbohydrates.

The word "vegetable" can also be used to mean plants in general, such as when people say "Animal, Vegetable, or Mineral."

However, in an Asian context, 'vegetable' may mean any plant produce, apart from grain and nuts, that is consumed cooked, while only the fruits consumed raw are considered as 'fruits' in that sense. For example, a pumpkin is therefore considered a vegetable, while a melon qualifies as a fruit.


"See" List of vegetables "for longer list."


</doc>
<doc id="8365" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8365" title="Olivine">
Olivine

Olivine (or chrysolite) is a mineral made of magnesium iron silicate with the formula (Mg,Fe)2SiO4

It ranges in color from chartreuse green to pale olive. In its gem form, it is called peridot. 

Dunite is a rock of 90%+ olivine. Dunite and other peridotite rocks are major constituents of the Earth's mantle above a depth of about 400 kilometers. Dunite is rarely found on land, except where slabs of mantle rock from a subduction zone have been thrust onto continental crust. 


</doc>
<doc id="8374" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8374" title="May 18">
May 18






</doc>
<doc id="8375" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8375" title="30 BC">
30 BC



</doc>
<doc id="8376" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8376" title="January 29">
January 29





</doc>
<doc id="8377" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8377" title="Economy">
Economy

An economy is a system of exchange of valuable things. The word "economy" comes from the Greek word "οἰκονόμος", meaning "person who manages the house." To better understand how the economy works, it can be broken up into three sections. These are:



</doc>
<doc id="8378" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8378" title="March 7">
March 7

March 7 is the 66th day of the year in the Gregorian calendar (67th in leap years). There are 299 days remaining.




</doc>
<doc id="8379" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8379" title="September 19">
September 19






</doc>
<doc id="8380" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8380" title="September 9">
September 9





</doc>
<doc id="8382" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8382" title="Engine">
Engine

An engine, or motor, is a machine used to change energy into movement that can be used. The energy can be in any form. Common forms of energy used in engines are electricity, chemical (such as petrol or diesel) or heat. When a chemical is used to produce energy it is known as "fuel".

Early kinds of engine used heat that was outside of the engine itself to heat up a gas to a high pressure. This was usually steam and the engines are called steam engines. The steam was piped to the engine where it pushed on pistons to bring about motion. These engines were commonly used in old factories , boats and trains.

Most cars use a chemical engine that burns fuel inside it. This is called an internal combustion engine. There are many different types of internal combustion engine. They can be grouped by fuel, cycle and configuration.

Common fuel types for internal combustion engines are petrol, diesel, autogas and alcohol. There are many other types of fuels.

There are 3 different types of cycle. 2-stroke engine cylinders produce power once every turn of the engine. 4-stroke engines cylinders make power once every two turns of the engine. 6-stroke engines cylinders make power twice in every six turns of the engine. 

There are lots of different configurations of piston engines. Lots have cylinders with pistons in them and a crankshaft. Any number of cylinders can be used but 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 10 and 12 are common. The cylinders can be arranged in many ways, in a straight line, at an angle to each other or in a circle.

A 'Rotary' engine has no cylinders and uses a triangle shaped rotor spinning in an oval housing which mimics the movement of a piston.

Hot gas can also be made to push a turbine around rather like the way the wind turns a windmill. The first turbines used jets of steam. Later fuel was burnt and the hot gasses drove the turbine. Jet engines used in aircraft are a kind of turbine engine.

A rocket causes movement by shooting jets of gas very fast out of a nozzle. The gas may have been stored under pressure or be a chemical fuel that burns to make a very hot gas. Although they are very simple rockets are the most powerful engines we know how to make. They will work in space where there is nothing to push against.

Electric motors do not use a fuel. The energy is supplied to them by electricity carried along a pair of wires. The energy may come from a fuel being burnt somewhere else a long way off. The electricity is used to make powerful magnets inside the motor switch on and off at the right time to turn the shaft of the motor.



</doc>
<doc id="8384" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8384" title="Belarus">
Belarus

Belarus is a country in Eastern Europe. About nine million people live there. Its capital is Minsk. It was part of the Soviet Union until 1991. The official languages are Belarusian and Russian. The president of Belarus is Alexander Lukashenko. It is bordered by Russia, Ukraine, Poland, Lithuania and Latvia. 
The State is a member of the UN, the CIS Collective Security Treaty Organization, the Eurasian Economic Community, the Union State of Russia and Belarus (from 2 April 1997), as well as a member of other international organizations.



</doc>
<doc id="8386" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8386" title="Steam">
Steam

Steam is the name given to water when it is a gas. Steam is a form of water vapour. Steam is always seen as a string of cloudy translucent mist. But, that is only the result of the steam condensing on the surface of dust in the air, which means the steam that you touch would not be very hot. The steam that is really 100 degrees Celsius is invisible. 

When the pressure of the atmosphere is 1013 mbar (this is about the average pressure for a place which is at sea level), water will boil (turn into steam) at 100 degrees Celsius.

100 degrees Celsius is the same temperature as 212 degrees Fahrenheit, 80 degrees Réaumur and 373.15 Kelvin.


</doc>
<doc id="8389" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8389" title="1834">
1834



</doc>
<doc id="8390" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8390" title="August 29">
August 29






</doc>
<doc id="8393" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8393" title="July 20">
July 20







</doc>
<doc id="8394" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8394" title="Category:1996 deaths">
Category:1996 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="8395" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8395" title="Steering wheel">
Steering wheel

A steering wheel is a circular object used by the driver of a car or boat to change the direction it is moving. 


</doc>
<doc id="8398" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8398" title="German Democratic Republic">
German Democratic Republic

The German Democratic Republic (GDR) ( ("DDR")), commonly called East Germany (), was founded on October 7,1949, after World War II. It was formed from the parts of Germany occupied by the USSR, including part of the city of Berlin. It is no longer a nation by itself since the two parts of Germany, East Germany and West Germany, got back together in 1990.

The GDR was ruled by the Socialist Unity Party of Germany (SED). Most people say that it was a dictatorship.

After World War II, Germany was divided into four sections, each controlled by a different country. The countries that controlled these parts of Germany were France, the United Kingdom, the United States, and the Soviet Union. Then, the French, American, and British parts of Germany formed West Germany (the "Bundesrepublik") and the Soviet section was East Germany. 

The first president was Wilhelm Pieck. Walter Ulbricht, the head of the SED, had also very much power. Pieck died in 1960, and Ulbricht became "Chairman of the State Council". So he was now really the head of state.

On 13 August 1961, the Berlin Wall was built. The people in the GDR were not allowed to go to Western countries any more, including West Germany. Many people died when they wanted to cross the Wall, and more than 100 were shot dead by East German soldiers.

After Mikhail Gorbachev had started "glasnost" and "perestroika" in the Soviet Union, many people in the GDR wanted reforms, too. In 1989, there were lots of demonstrations against the SED and for democracy and human rights. In the city of Leipzig, people met every Monday and demonstrated, and so these demonstrations are called "Montagsdemonstrationen" ("Monday Demonstrations"). Erich Honecker had to resign, and on 9 November 1989, the Berlin Wall was opened. Soon the SED lost their power. On 18 March 1990, there were free elections in the GDR. The "Alliance for Germany", a group of political parties who wanted to unify the GDR with West Germany, won that election. This process, when East Germany became a democracy, is known als the "Wende" in Germany.

In the German reunification, the GDR joined West Germany by ratifying its constitution in 1990. The East German districts were reorganised into the "Länder" (Berlin, Brandenburg, Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, Sachsen, Sachsen-Anhalt and Thüringen) and joined West Germany, after which the GDR ceased to exist.

Even though the western and the eastern part joined back together in 1990, people from former West Germany still call people from East Germany "Ossi". This comes from the German word "Osten" which means "East". Ossi is not always meant kindly.

The leading role of the SED was written down in the constitution of the GDR. There were other parties in the GDR, which were called the "Blockparteien" ("block parties"), but their job was mostly to do what the SED said:

The Ministry for State Security (in German: "Ministerium für Staatssicherheit"; often called "MfS" or "Stasi") was the East German homeland security service. It searched for people who were against the state, the SED and their politics. The MfS had many informants who told them when some people said or did something against the state. There was a big MfS prison in the town of Bautzen.

East Germany was a member of the Warsaw Pact. Some people thought the GDR was a puppet state of the Soviet Union.

In the GDR, there was a planned economy. All big factories and companies were in property of the state (officially "Volkseigentum", "people's property"). Only some small companies and shops were private property.

A famous relic of the GDR is the low-powered automobile "Trabant" or "Trabi".

Until 1964, East and West Germany took part in the Olympic Games with only one team for both states. Since 1968, East and West Germany had their own team each. 

East German sportspeople were very successful, for example in athletics, cycling, boxing or some winter sports. Famous sportspeople from East Germany were Täve Schur (cycling), Waldemar Cierpinski (athletics), Heike Drechsler (athletics), Olaf Ludwig (cycling), Katarina Witt (ice skating) or Jens Weißflog (ski jumping). 

A famous cycling race was the Peace Race (in German: "Friedensfahrt").

The East German national football team was not so successful. They were only in one FIFA World Cup. This was the 1974 FIFA World Cup, which took place in West Germany. On 22 June 1974, East Germany played against West Germany. Jürgen Sparwasser shot a goal and East Germany won 1-0.



</doc>
<doc id="8404" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8404" title="Netball">
Netball

Netball is a sport played in two teams of seven. It is like basketball except that bouncing the ball is not allowed, and the player cannot step with the ball either.
There are 7 fixed positions on the court:

there is also subbs in netball too, you can have at least ten players in a full team..

There are many rules in netball some of which are;
this sport is good and a way to keep active, it is healthy for you,

The ultimate aim, as it is in many sports, is to score as many goals as possible in the time. The goals are scored through a hoop - one reason why netball is quite similar to basketball.
netball is really cool


</doc>
<doc id="8405" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8405" title="Category:Vegetables">
Category:Vegetables

Main article: vegetable


</doc>
<doc id="8406" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8406" title="Category:Actors">
Category:Actors

This category contains actors.


</doc>
<doc id="8407" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8407" title="Atomic number">
Atomic number

In chemistry and physics, the atomic number of an atom is the number of protons in the atom. The chemical elements of the periodic table are listed in order of atomic number.


</doc>
<doc id="8412" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8412" title="June 21">
June 21






</doc>
<doc id="8413" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8413" title="1920">
1920

1920 (film)




</doc>
<doc id="8415" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8415" title="Cardinal number">
Cardinal number

Cardinal numbers (or cardinals) are numbers that say "how many" of something there are, for example: one, two, three, four, five. They are sometimes called counting numbers.

The cardinality of a set is the cardinal number that tells how many things are in the set.

In mathematics, people also study infinite cardinal numbers. The first infinite cardinal number was named formula_1 (pronounced Aleph-zero or Aleph-naught) by Georg Cantor. formula_1 is the amount of numbers that are in the group 0, 1, 2, 3, ... keep going forever. Cantor proved that there are many different infinite cardinal numbers that are bigger than formula_1. A famous theorem of Cantor is that the cardinality of the real numbers is larger than the cardinality of the natural numbers.



</doc>
<doc id="8426" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8426" title="1960">
1960

1960 (MCMLX) was a leap year starting on Friday of the Gregorian calendar. It was the first year of the 1960s.








</doc>
<doc id="8427" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8427" title="1956">
1956






</doc>
<doc id="8428" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8428" title="March 4">
March 4

March 4 is the 63rd day of the year in the Gregorian Calendar (64th in leap years). There are 302 days remaining.

From 1793 1933, March 4 was Inauguration Day for the President of the United States. Beginning in 1937, Inauguration Day has been January 20.






</doc>
<doc id="8429" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8429" title="Merchant marine">
Merchant marine

Merchant marine is a term used in many places to talk about commercial ships and crews. A country's merchant marine is made up of all the ships owned by companies or individuals in that country which are used to make money. Most of a country's merchant marine is usually made of ships that carry things from place to place, like oil tankers and freighters. Other ships, like cruise ships and ferries, are also included because they are used to make money. When a country is at peace, its merchant marine works independently. Some countries, though, require merchant ships to work for their armed forces in times of war.

In the United States, "Merchant Marine" has a different meaning. The United States Merchant Marine (USMM) is a part of the military which is controlled by the government in both peace and war. When the United States is at war, the USMM is used to carry military supplies. In World War II, nearly one out of every twenty-six American merchant mariners was killed, a higher portion of men than in the Army, Navy, or even the Marines.



</doc>
<doc id="8434" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8434" title="FreeBSD">
FreeBSD

FreeBSD is an operating system for many different kinds of computers. This means that if you have a computer around the house and want to run FreeBSD on it, you probably can. Computers that run Microsoft Windows will also run FreeBSD. It is based on BSD, the version of UNIX developed at the University of California, Berkeley.

FreeBSD is open source. This means that anyone can download the source code and change, or learn from it. The people who work on FreeBSD do not usually get paid. They keep working on it because they enjoy it or want to become more experienced programmers.
Most open source software that runs on Linux will run natively on FreeBSD without the need for any compatibility layer.




</doc>
<doc id="8435" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8435" title="Garry Marshall">
Garry Marshall

Garry Marshall (November 13, 1934-) is an influential American writer, producer, and actor. He wrote for comedians Joey Bishop and Phil Foster, soon he moved on to writing for TV shows, like "The Dick Van Dyke Show" and "The Tonight Show". In 1970, he adapted the Neil Simon play and 1968 film "The Odd Couple" into a popular television show starring Tony Randall and Jack Klugman. It proved very successful, and he soon followed it up with "Happy Days", which became one of the most popular shows on TV. He also created "Laverne and Shirley" (which co-starred his sister Penny) and "Mork and Mindy" (which starred Robin Williams) which were both spin-offs from "Happy Days" and just as successful and well-known. He also directed and acted in several feature films including "Pretty Woman" and "Runaway Bride". He also runs and works out of a local community theatre house in Los Angeles, The Falcon Theatre.



</doc>
<doc id="8436" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8436" title="1934">
1934







</doc>
<doc id="8437" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8437" title="November 1">
November 1






</doc>
<doc id="8438" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8438" title="Johnny Weissmuller">
Johnny Weissmuller

Johnny Weissmuller (June 2, 1904 – January 20, 1984) was an American swimmer and actor. He was one of the world's best swimmers in the 1920s He won five gold and one bronze medal at the Olympics. He later played Tarzan in the series of movies in the 1930s. He played Tarzan for several movies, and had trouble getting parts in other movies because of this.


</doc>
<doc id="8442" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8442" title="1756">
1756





</doc>
<doc id="8443" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8443" title="1715">
1715



</doc>
<doc id="8444" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8444" title="Priscilla Presley">
Priscilla Presley

Priscilla Presley (birth name Priscilla Ann Wagner - last name Beaulieu after her mother's remarriage; born May 24, 1945 in Brooklyn, New York, USA) is an American actress. She is the former wife of Elvis Presley (they divorced in 1973) and the mother of Lisa Marie Presley. Presley is probably most famous for her roles in the television primetime soap opera "Dallas", and "The Naked Gun" films with Leslie Nielson. She is also a member of Scientology.



</doc>
<doc id="8445" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8445" title="1973">
1973

1973 (MCMLXXIII) was a common year starting on Monday of the Gregorian calendar.







</doc>
<doc id="8446" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8446" title="Drunkenness">
Drunkenness

Drunkenness is the state of intoxication by alcohol. In this state, mind and body become impaired. Common symptoms may include slurred speech, poor balance, poor coordination, reddened face and reddened eyes. Depending on the level of intoxication, there may also be good feelings. Small to moderate amounts of alcohol can lower social and sexual inhibition. Drinking large amounts of alcohol may lead to a hangover the next day. People that are intoxicated usually change their behaviour.

Many countries have laws that say that people who have drunk (a certain amount of) alcohol may not do certain things. That way, it is illegal to drive a car or operate heavy machinery while drunk.


</doc>
<doc id="8447" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8447" title="Canada Dry">
Canada Dry

Canada Dry is a brand name belonging to a company that produces beverages. Canada Dry makes ginger ale, club soda, and tonic water. Ginger ale is flavored with ginger root. Club soda is a clear drink that is sometimes used to help remove stains from clothing. Tonic water is frequently used to make an alcoholic beverage known as "gin and tonic".


</doc>
<doc id="8448" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8448" title="Ginger ale">
Ginger ale

Ginger ale is a soft drink flavored with the root of a plant known as ginger. It has a sweet yet spicy flavor. Even though it has the name "ale", which can be another word for beer, it is not beer. It can be enjoyed by all ages. Canada Dry is a well known maker of ginger ale. Most drinks that are ginger ale come in a green can. 

Ginger beer is a non-alcoholic soft drink that is also flavored with ginger root. Ginger beer is much spicier than ginger ale. Ginger beer is popular in some Caribbean countries such as Trinidad.


</doc>
<doc id="8449" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8449" title="Shaving">
Shaving

Shaving is removing hair from the face or other body part with a razor. Some people do not shave the chin, this is called a goatee beard. Other men do not shave the upper lip, this is called a mustache.


</doc>
<doc id="8450" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8450" title="Hygiene">
Hygiene

Hygiene is the act of being clean. Washing the body to remove dirt and germs, brushing the teeth to keep them clean, shaving, using the toilet properly, and dressing correctly are some examples. Proper hygiene is often taught to children at a young age, and it becomes a habit. People who do not have good hygiene might smell bad, lose teeth, or become ill (sick) .


</doc>
<doc id="8451" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8451" title="Spork">
Spork

A Spork is a combination of a spoon and a fork to create a special tool used to eat. Most sporks are made from plastic. Many fast food chains use the spork, including Taco Bell, Kentucky Fried Chicken, Taco John's, and Taco Bueno. Many people dislike the spork because it cannot poke food as well as a fork nor hold liquids as well as a spoon.


</doc>
<doc id="8453" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8453" title="Category:Automobiles">
Category:Automobiles


</doc>
<doc id="8454" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8454" title="Vauxhall Astra">
Vauxhall Astra

Vauxhall Astra is a car produced by Vauxhall since 1979. It was first just branded as a Vauxhall, since 1991 it has also been sold as a Opel, a Holden and a Chevrolet. From 2007 to 2009 it was sold as a Saturn.

In 1979, General Motors, the owners of Vauxhall, decided to replace the Viva model (Kaddett in Europe including Republic of Ireland) in the United Kingdom in as Vauxhall's small family car. The model still shared its body with the Kaddett, however it had things suited for use in this country, i.e. the steering wheel on the right side so that owners could drive on the left-hand side of the road. In 1991, Opel and Chevrolet both binned the Kaddett name. Therefore, they adopted the Astra one. In 1995, Holden did that too. It was only in South Africa that the Kaddett name continued, and it was only on the Astra hatchback. In 1999, the year after the launch of the Opel Astra G/B, South Africa binned the Kaddett name too, leaving no countries/regions/continents using the Kaddett badge. In 2004, the Opel Astra H/C was launched. The sixth/fourth Generation Astra was launched in late 2009.


</doc>
<doc id="8455" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8455" title="Ford Ka">
Ford Ka

The Ford Ka is a very small car made by the Ford Motor Company in Spain, Poland and Brazil. It has three doors and was first made in 1996. The Ka is very popular in Europe, about 1.5 million cars have been sold. A new model has been released in Brazil in 2008, in Europe a new model has been introduced in 2009.

4 cylinders in line; SOHC; 8 valves; electronic multipoint fuel injection 

48 kW (65 HP) at 6.000 rpm
87 Nm at 3.250 rpm

44 kW (60 HP) at 5500 rpm 
99 Nm at 2500 rpm 

51 kW (70 HP) at 5500 rpm 
106 Nm at 3000 rpm 

70 kW (95 HP) at 5500 rpm
135 Nm at 4250 rpm 

The second generation of the Ka was released in the beginning of 2009. The car is build in cooperation with Fiat, the technic is the same as used in the Fiat 500.

For the first time, a Diesel engine is available for the Ford Ka.

4 cylinders in line; SOHC; 8 valves

51 kW (69 HP)
102 Nm at 3.000 rpm

55 kW (75 HP)
145 Nm at 1500 rpm 


</doc>
<doc id="8456" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8456" title="Tower Bridge">
Tower Bridge

Tower Bridge is a bridge in London. It crosses the River Thames near the Tower of London. The north side of the bridge is Tower Hill, and the south side of the bridge comes down into Bermondsey, SE1, an area in Southwark. It is far more visible than London Bridge, which people often mistake it for. If large boats need to sail under Tower Bridge, the two halves of the bridge lift up to let it under. Many tourists go to London see the Tower Bridge.

Workers began to build the Tower Bridge in April 1886 and the bridge was opened in 30 June 1894. When they finished building the bridge, Tower Bridge was the largest bascule bridge yet built. "Bascule" is the French word for a see-saw. The bascules are the surfaces raised to allow tall ships to pass through: this happens about 900 times per year.
The bridge's deck can be raised to 83 from the horizontal. Tower Bridge is the world's most famous and recognisable bascule bridge, so the bridge is one of London's most famous sights.

The City of London Corporation held a competition for the design in 1876. Over 50 designs were entered, and in 1884 Horace Jones and John Wolfe Barry's design was chosen.
The bridge is 800 feet (244 m) in length with two towers each 213 feet (65 m) high, built on piers. The central span of 200 feet (61 m) between the towers is split into two equal bascules or leaves, which can be raised to an angle of 83 to allow river traffic to pass. The bascules, weighing over 1100 tons each, are counterbalanced to minimize the force required and allow raising in five minutes. The bascules are raised by huge hydraulic pumps which were first powered by steam engines. In 1976 these were replaced by oil and electricity. The bridge is made from more than 11,000 tons of steel, and covered with Cornish granite and Portland stone. HI

The two side-spans are suspension bridges, each long, with the suspension rods anchored both at the abutments and through rods contained within the bridge's upper walkways. The pedestrian walkways are above the river at high tide. These walkways allow people to still cross the river, even when the bridge is raised. They were closed in 1910 because not enough people used them, but were reopened in 1982.



</doc>
<doc id="8457" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8457" title="Waiter">
Waiter

A waiter is a person who "waits" on tables, often at a restaurant or cafe. A female waiter is called a waitress. He takes orders and delivers food to customers. A good waiter can also help the customers by recommending the best food.

Many waiters and waitresses are required by their employers to wear a uniform. Most uniforms used are black and white or all black. Historically the term waiter was used to describe customs officers who waited on the high tide for vessels to come in carrying goods to tax.


</doc>
<doc id="8459" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8459" title="Steven Spielberg">
Steven Spielberg

Steven Spielberg (born December 18, 1946 in Cincinnati, Ohio) is an American movie director, producer and writer. Known from amusement movies ("Jaws", "Jurassic Park", "E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial", series about Indiana Jones), equal as well as ambitious themes underway ("Saving Private Ryan", "Munich"). His movie - "Schindler's List" have won Academy Awards of best picture. Spielberg won two Academy Award for best director. 

He is friends with director George Lucas and actor Harrison Ford.


Steven Spielberg was born to a Jewish family. His mother, Leah Adler was restaurateur.
Uditi


</doc>
<doc id="8460" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8460" title="Variable">
Variable

A variable is a special type of amount or quantity which can change its value. They are often used in programming computers or in mathematical equations.

A number such as 5 or 200 cannot change its value. For example, if a person stands 5 feet away from a building, the "distance" variable compared to the building does not change over time. 5 feet is called a "fixed amount", which is the opposite of a variable amount.

But if a person walks away from the building, the distance variable compared to the building is increasing. So it does not have the same value and we can not use the same number for it, as the distance might be 1 foot now, but 2 feet a second later. In mathematics, a variable is usually given a letter, such as "x" or "y".

In some equations, variables are used to show numbers that are unknown. Using a type of math called algebra, one can find the value of the variable.

In computer science, a variable does not have to be a number—it may be a string (text) value, or a date, or an amount of money, or even an object such as a picture.


</doc>
<doc id="8462" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8462" title="Salvador Allende">
Salvador Allende

Salvador Allende Gossens (June 26, 1908 – September 11, 1973) was a physician, senator, minister of health and the President of Chile from November 3, 1970 until his death on September 11, 1973.

Allende was born on June 26, 1908 in the port city of Valparaiso, Chile to a well-to-do family. Like many Chileans Allende had a mestizo (mixed) racial background (European and other races mixed with Native Americans), his father Salvador Allende (senior), a lawyer, was of Basque background and his mother Laura Gossens had a Belgian Jewish background (though converted to Catholicism).

In 1918 his father sent Allende to study at the "Instituto Nacional" (National Institute) in Santiago. He then did his compulsory military service and entered the University of Chile to study medicine. Allende was a gifted, friendly and popular student; a great debater and public speaker and quickly becomes a student leader and vice-president of the FECH. (Student Federation of Chile). As an undergraduate student Allende requested to his parents to let him earn his own livelihood and he started to work as a paramedic in the ambulance services and as an assistant in pathology. He graduated with a medical degree in 1933.

He was one of the founders of the Socialist Party of Chile and in 1938 became a minister of health. He was a senator from 1945 until 1969 and was President of the Chilean Senate from 1966 until 1969.
Allende first ran for the presidency in the 1952 elections but failed. Determined to succeed he tried again in 1958 and then in 1964. In both instances he failed again.
Allende would tour Chile from Iquique to Magallanes, for example one end to the other, speaking to peasants in the south and miners in the north and held rallies in the big cities. Allende found it hard to win an election because of the successful scare campaigns launched by opposing parties, many financed by large multi-national corporations and powerful national institutions such as private banks and schools.

Finally, and to the surprise of many working people - who had voted for him in previous elections and felt he would never win - in 1970 he won and became the President of Chile.

Allende always ran for election on the same socialist platform (plan) proposing the same resolutions (things to be done), focusing on the persistent inequality in the country and the underdevelopment (poverty for large part of the population) which Allende saw as being rooted in the lack of control the Chilean people had over their natural resources and vital industries. (e.g. Banks, Copper mines, Electricity Companies etc.).

Allende promised that he would nationalize (put under control of government) vital industries and then create an advanced public health system and educational system that would be free and accessible to all. During the cold war (between the U.S. and the former U.S.S.R) many people feared that Chile would fall under the influence of the USSR and after the 1960s under the influence of Cuba.

Allende’s speeches were said to be very radical (extreme) and Allende’s vision for Chile seemed completely different to the Chile that most people were familiar with. For example: Allende was said to be an atheist and Marxist. He was a non- practicing Catholic This was considered odd in a country that was very catholic, held traditional family values, and in which people were taught that political freedoms (the freedom to elect politicians from different parties) was more important than solving problems such as extreme poverty or economic inequality (division between the poorest and the wealthiest people).

Allende also wanted revolutionary change, i.e. he wanted deep changes to Chilean society very quickly, such forms of changes have been said to have tended to cause great divisions in society between those who oppose the changes (called reactionaries) and those who support the drastic changes (revolutionaries). Through history such situations tend to end up resolved violently. For example civil war (where one group of people fight another group of people of the same country), or military coup (when a government is overthrown before it finishes his term).

As a result many Chileans, especially professionals like University professors, doctors and business people left the country–this had a negative effect on Allende’s reforms. E.g. Allende increased health services and places at Universities for the underprivileged while many professors, specialists and doctors were leaving the country.

However, Allende was unique in that he did all he could to prevent this sort of violence, calling his revolution a “peaceful one within democracy” or calling it “the Chilean road to socialism.” In 1973 Allende’s enemies accused him of preparing a secret war and that his supporters were hoarding stocks of illegal weapons (in shanty towns and in rural areas) that were being sent from communist Cuba. To prove that this was not true, Allende allowed the Chilean Army to enforce a “weapons control’s law” that allowed the Chilean military to search and comb for any illegal weapons anywhere in the country. The Chilean army confirmed that after thoroughly searching for such weapons throughout the country they had found no significant stocks as the opposition was claiming. This ended up creating more support for Allende and allowed Allende to begin to focus on the upcoming election.

Allende came to power with a socialist plan. His vision for Chile was one in which the country's resources and wealth would be owned by Chileans and distributed more democratically. Allende started his program by nationalizing (put under control of government) major industries. Such as, Chile's copper mines (Chile had one of the largest copper mines in the World) but these mines were not owned by Chileans but by very powerful U.S. business people.

This created a serious problem with the U.S. government who saw Allende's nationalisation as an attack on U.S. interest and a threat to U.S. money investments in South America.
The American Central Intelligence Agency was said to be involved in the overthrowing of his government. Allende was a socialist. Many of his reforms and programs revolved around socialism. He created universal health care for all, made education better, and took a stronger level of control within the economy. He died in 1973. His death has been disputed for years; some feel that he took his own life by committing suicide, but others feel that he was murdered by Augusto Pinochet's militia. Pinochet would then become the ruler of Chile.

Allende was replaced by those who bombed him out of his post as president. The new ruling Junta justified their coup claiming that “Chile could no longer tolerate the cancer of Marxism”. The Pinochet regime claimed Allende had violated the Chilean Constitution–strange considering that Pinochet ended up writing a completely new one.

Also, after the coup many rumors and myths emerged about Allende’s death and life. Many of these myths attempted to discredit the character of Allende i.e. make him appear as a coward, weak or cruel person:

Allende became of interest to people all over the world because he was the first democratically elected socialist in Chile and the first democratically elected Marxist in the world. Many people felt Allende was the beginning of a new era in which great changes to society - especially in developing countries - could be brought about peacefully through an election.

Allende has become one of the most commemorated Latin American polital figures in history. Since his death monuments, statues, parks and streets have been named in his honour all over the world. In France alone there are more than 320 public places named in honour of Allende. Ministries and municipalities in many countries have also officially approved the naming of schools and educational departments in his honour. 

Despites Pinochet’s 17 years of military rule and an attempt to deny Allende his proper place in Chilean history, he was officially honoured in Chile as a defender of representative democracy (i.e. people’s right to elect their political representatives through free and fair elections) with a state funeral in 1990. A monument was also erected outside the "Moneda Presidential Palace" (Chile's house of Government) where he died defending the democratically elected Popular Unity government he lead.

http://www.bbc.co.uk/dna/h2g2/A716591
http://news.bbc.co.uk/onthisday/hi/dates/stories/september/11/newsid_3199000/3199155.stm<br>
http://news.bbc.co.uk/onthisday/hi/witness/september/11/newsid_3101000/3101146.stm<br>
http://news.bbc.co.uk/onthisday/hi/dates/stories/march/2/newsid_2771000/2771229.stm<br>
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/peter-kornbluh/35-years-after-original-9_b_125447.html<br>


</doc>
