<doc id="222279" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222279" title="Sergej Ognew">
Sergej Ognew

Sergej Ivanovich Ognew (1886–1951) was a Russian zoologist and naturalist, remembered for his work on mammalogy. He graduated from Moscow University in 1910. In 1910 he also published his first book. In 1928, he became a professor at the Pedagogical Institute. He published many books for education about zoology and economy. His most important work which was to be called "Mammals of Russia and adjacent territories" was never completed.



</doc>
<doc id="222281" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222281" title="Roach's Mouse-tailed Dormouse">
Roach's Mouse-tailed Dormouse

Roach's Mouse-tailed Dormouse (also called the Mouse-tailed Dormouse), (Myomimus roachi) is a species of rodent in the Gliridae family. It is found in Bulgaria, Greece, and Turkey. 



</doc>
<doc id="222287" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222287" title="Charles Spence Bate">
Charles Spence Bate

Charles Spence Bate, or Spence Bate, FRS (March 16, 1819 – July 29, 1889) was a British zoologist and dentist, who lived in Swansea and Plymouth. He was an expert on the crustacea. He often wrote to Charles Darwin, mainly about their shared interest in barnacles. He wrote ""A history of the British sessile-eyed Crustacea"" with J. O. Westwood.

A number of species are named after him:


</doc>
<doc id="222289" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222289" title="Flag of Bangladesh">
Flag of Bangladesh

The national flag of Bangladesh (Bengali: বাংলাদেশের জাতীয় পতাকা) was adopted officially on 17 January 1972.


</doc>
<doc id="222290" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222290" title="Setzer's Mouse-tailed Dormouse">
Setzer's Mouse-tailed Dormouse

The Setzer's Mouse-tailed Dormouse (Myomimus setzeri) is a species of rodent in the Gliridae family. It is endemic to Iran. 




</doc>
<doc id="222291" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222291" title="Desert Dormouse">
Desert Dormouse

The Desert Dormouse (Selevinia betpakdalaensis) is a species of rodent in the dormouse family Gliridae.
When it was first found, the species was placed in its own family, Seleviniidae, but now it is considered to be a dormouse, the only type within the genus Selevinia.

It is endemic to Kazakhstan.



</doc>
<doc id="222295" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222295" title="Glirinae">
Glirinae

Glirinae is a subfamily of dormice ("Gliridae").

It contains two genera, "Glirulus" and "Glis". These genera have one species each: "Glirulus japonicus" (the Japanese dormouse) and "Glis glis" (the edible dormouse).


</doc>
<doc id="222297" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222297" title="Japanese Dormouse">
Japanese Dormouse

The Japanese Dormouse (Glirulus japonicus) is a species of rodent in the Gliridae family. It is the only species in the genus Glirulus. It is endemic to Japan. 
Its natural habitat is temperate forests. In Japanese it is called "Yamane" (山鼠). It has the special ability of running at great speed upside down, underneath branches. Its main food is nectar or pollen, although nursing females will eat small insects.



</doc>
<doc id="222299" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222299" title="Heinrich Rudolf Schinz">
Heinrich Rudolf Schinz

Heinrich Rudolf Schinz (March 30, 1777 - March 8, 1861) was a Swiss physician and naturalist.

Schinz was born at Zurich and studied medicine at Würzburg and Jena. In 1798 he returning to Zurich to work as a doctor. In 1804 he became a teacher at the medical school. In 1833 he became professor of natural history at the University of Zurich.

Schinz was also curator of the Natural History Society of Zurich. He also wrote a lot of important zoological books between 1824 and 1852. These included "Das Thierreich" (1821-4), "Naturgeschichte und Abbildungen der Reptilien" (1833-4), and
"Europäsche Fauna" (1840). Karl Joseph Brodtmann made the pictures for these books.



</doc>
<doc id="222315" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222315" title="List of colonial heads of The Gambia">
List of colonial heads of The Gambia

This is a list of colonial administrators in The Gambia from when Fort James was created by the United Kingdom in 1815 until The Gambia's independence in 1965.


In 1821, The Gambia became a British colony. A lieutenant governor was appointed in 1829. They reported to the Governor of Sierra Leone.

Between 1843 and 1866, a governor was appointed who was independent of the Governor of Sierra Leone.

In 1866 the job of governor was replaced with that of an administrator who reported to the Governor of Sierra Leone.

In 1901, an independent governor was again created.

In 1965, The Gambia achieved independence from the United Kingdom. After independence, the viceroy in The Gambia was the Governor-General of the Gambia.



</doc>
<doc id="222320" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222320" title="List of colonial heads of Sierra Leone">
List of colonial heads of Sierra Leone

This is a list of colonial administrators in Sierra Leone from the establishment of the Province of Freedom by the Committee for the Relief of the Black Poor in 1787 until Sierra Leone's independence in 1961.

On 14 May 1787, the Province of Freedom was founded by the Committee for the Relief of the Black Poor for freed slaves.

On 22 August 1788, the Province of Freedom and the land along the Freetown peninsula was given to Captain John Taylor of the HMS "Miro". In 1789, it was abandoned.


In January 1791, Granville Town was taken back by the St. George Bay Company.

In 1792, Freetown was founded as the main town of the newly established Colony of Sierra Leone



On 5 July 1799, the Province of Freedom was renamed Sierra Leone.

On 1 January 1808, Sierra Leone (including the coastal area) becomes a Crown colony of the United Kingdom, and the Sierra Leone Company stopped being in charge.

On 17 October 1821, Sierra Leone territory became part of British West African Territories. Its Governorship was held by the Governor (from 1827 until 1837 Lieutenant governor) of Sierra Leone. 




On 13 January 1850, Sierra Leone becomes a separate crown colony again.

On 19 February 1866, Sierra Leone territory becomes part of the British West African Settlements. Its Governorship was held by the Governor of Sierra Leone.

On 17 December 1874, British West African Settlements became known as British West Africa Settlements.

On 28 November 1888, the Sierra Leone became a separate crown colony again.

On 24 August 1895, the land by the coast of Sierra Leone became a British protectorate, and the crown colony was renamed as the Sierra Leone Colony and Protectorate.

In 1961, Sierra Leone achieved independence from the United Kingdom. After independence, the viceroy in Sierra Leone was the Governor-General of Sierra Leone.




</doc>
<doc id="222321" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222321" title="Governor of the Bahamas">
Governor of the Bahamas

This is a list of colonial heads of the Bahamas. The first English settlement in the Bahamas was on Eleuthera. In 1670, the king gave the Bahamas to the Lords Proprietors of the Province of Carolina, but the islands were left alone. The local pirates proclaimed a 'Privateers' Republic' with Edward Teach ("Blackbeard") as chief magistrate in 1703. In 1717, the Bahamas became a British crown colony, and the pirates were moved out.

During the American War of Independence, the Bahamas were occupied by both the American and Spanish armies. In 1964, the Bahamas achieved self-governance. In 1973 the Bahamas were given full independence.


On November 1 1670, the Bahamas were granted to the Lords Proprietors of the Province of Carolina:

The islands were mainly left alone, but the Lords Proprietors appointed Proprietary Governors to administer them:

In 1684, a joint French and Spanish fleet destroyed Charles Town (now called Nassau).

From 1706 until July 26 1718, the Bahamas were ruled by the anarchic "Privateer's Republic", including:

In 1717 the Bahamas became a British crown colony. The pirates were driven out in 1718 by Woodes Rogers, the colony's first governor.

In 1969, the crown colony became the Commonwealth of the Bahama Islands.

On July 10 1973, the Bahamas achieved independence from Britain. Following independence, the viceroy in the Bahamas was the Governor-General of the Bahamas.



</doc>
<doc id="222324" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222324" title="List of Governors of Barbados">
List of Governors of Barbados

This page contains a list of viceroys in Barbados from when Great Britain started a colony in 1627 by England until Barbados received independence in 1966. From 1833 to 1885, Barbados was part of the colony of the Windward Islands, and the Governor of Barbados represented the monarch in all the Windward Islands. In 1885 Barbados became an independent colony again.


In 1833, Barbados became part of the new colony of the Windward Islands and the Governor of Barbados became viceroy over the new colony as well.


In 1885, Grenada took over responsibility for the Windward Islands instead of Barbados.


On 29 November 1966, Barbados achieved independence from the United Kingdom. For a list of viceroys in Barbados after independence, see Governor-General of Barbados.




</doc>
<doc id="222329" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222329" title="Centromere">
Centromere

The centromere is a special region of a chromosome, usually near the middle. It is where the two identical sister chromatids stay in contact as the chromosome attaches to the spindle in mitosis. The region contains specific types of DNA, which are tandem repetitive sequences (satellite DNA). These sequences bind specific proteins called "cen"-proteins. 

During mitosis the centromeres can be seen during the "metaphase" stage as a constriction at the chromosome. At this centromeric constriction the two halves of the chromosome, the sister chromatids, are held together until late metaphase.


</doc>
<doc id="222332" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222332" title="Grand Cross">
Grand Cross

The phrase Grand Cross is used to describe the highest grade in many types of knighthood. Sometimes the person with the highest grade are called "knights grand cross" or just "grand crosses". Sometimes the actual medallion or ribbon is called "the grand cross" and not the person.

In some orders, the highest grade may be called the "grand cordon", "grand collar" or something like this. In those cases the rank of grand cross may come after another rank, but before the highest grade.

As an example:


</doc>
<doc id="222338" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222338" title="Rhizobia">
Rhizobia

Rhizobia are soil bacteria which become established inside root nodules of legumes (the pea family: Fabaceae). 

They fix nitrogen in a form the plant can use. Rhizobia require a plant host; they cannot independently fix nitrogen. 

The relationship is a classic example of symbiosis and mutualism.


</doc>
<doc id="222353" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222353" title="Paul Steinitz">
Paul Steinitz

Paul Steinitz (born Chichester, 25 August 1909; died Old Oxted, Surrey, 21 April 1988) was an English conductor and organist. He was one of the first musicians in the 20th century to make a careful study of the way that music by Johann Sebastian Bach should be performed so that it would sound like it used to in Bach’s day, in the early 18th century. He started a choir called the London Bach Society and a group of instrumentalists called the Steinitz Bach Players. He conducted them in lots of concerts. During the space of 25 years he performed all the cantatas of J.S. Bach in London. There are over 200 of them.

Paul Steinitz was born in Chichester, West Sussex, in the south of England in 1909. His father was an Anglican clergyman. He became a student at the Royal Academy of Music, studying under George Oldroyd. He was a very good organist and got his FRCO diploma in 1930. In the 1930s he was Director of Music at the church of St. Mary's Ashford, Kent. There he became very interested in the music of Bach while studying for his Doctorate 

In 1946 he started the London Bach Society. Then he became Director of Music and organist at the Priory Church of St. Bartholomew-the-Great in London , which was a very old church, a lecturer at University of London and a Professor at the Royal Academy of Music.

When Paul Steinitz founded the London Bach Society he wanted them to perform Bach’s music. Most musicians in those days played Bach in an exaggerated, romantic style, using large choirs and orchestras, playing with lots of vibrato, and with lots of changes of speed which Bach would not have done. Steinitz wanted to show people how Bach’s works should sound. From 1950 he performed them in German. When more musicians started to learn how to play period instruments he started to use these. In 1952 he conducted the first performance in Britain of Bach’s St Matthew Passion in its complete and original German form. It was all part of a movement which was known as “Back to Bach in its original form”.
In 1958 he started to perform all the 208 Bach cantatas that are known (it is thought 100 have been lost). He finished this project in 1987, shortly before he died. He got together a group of players which he called the Steinitz Bach Players. They were professional musicians who agreed with what Steinitz was trying to do. Every Lent they performed one of the two great Bach passions: the St Matthew Passion, or sometimes the St John Passion. He took the choir and his orchestra on tour to the USA, Israel, German Democratic Republic (twice, including performances at Bach’s own church, the St. Thomas' Church Leipzig) and Bulgaria.

Steinitz did not just perform Bach’s music. He conducted music by many Baroque composers as well as modern composers such as Igor Stravinsky, Peter Maxwell Davies, John Tavener, Stanley Glasser (sung in Zulu) and his own pupil Nicholas Maw.

Steinitz wrote a lot about music. He wrote a chapter on 18th century German church music in "The New Oxford History of Music", he wrote several books to show students how to write harmony, and books on how to perform Bach’s music called "Bach’s Passions", "Bach for Choirs", and "Performing Bach’s Vocal Music".

Paul Steinitz had many honours. He was a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Music and Royal College of Organists. He was made an Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) in 1985, the year in which Bach’s 300th birthday was celebrated.

At the end of his concerts, when the audience applauded, he would often hold up a picture of Bach, so that the audience was thanking Bach for his music.

Dr. Steinitz died in April 1988 at home in his lovely 18th century cottage in Old Oxted, just south of London. He was a Quaker who believed strongly that music could help to bring peace in the world.

There is a public memorial to him in the Cloister of St Bartholomew-the-Great, West Smithfield, London.

Today Steinitz’ wife Margaret continues her husband's work with the London Bach Society, of which Steinitz Bach Players is an integral part. To reflect modern Bach scholarship and continue Dr. Steinitz's work along the lines he had planned, the original choir was disbanded to make way for smaller professional choirs - more Bach in its original form. She also founded an annual Bachfest in 1990, which is presented each autumn.



</doc>
<doc id="222365" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222365" title="London Bach Society">
London Bach Society

The London Bach Society is a society devoted to performing the music of Johann Sebastian Bach.

The London Bach Society was started in 1946 by Paul Steinitz because he wanted to perform Bach in a style which was like the way it sounded in Bach's time. Bach lived from 1685 to 1750. By the 20th century a lot of things had changed in music. Choirs and orchestras were much bigger and instruments were made differently. Steinitz wanted to get back to the sort of sound that Bach would have known. He started a choir called the London Bach Society so that they could give concerts of Bach's music, making it sound much clearer than it did with huge, romantic choirs.

The choir was formed in 1947. The singers were good amateur singers. Steinitz rehearsed them a lot until they were very good. The London Bach Society (LBS) gave many concerts of Bach's music, as well as singing music by other Baroque composers such as Handel, Telemann and Heinrich Schütz. They also sang works by modern composers such as Stravinsky, John Tavener and Nicholas Maw. Between 1958 and 1987 the LBS choir performed all the cantatas by Bach which survive. 208 of them are known. Many others have been lost. The choir performed one of Bach's passions every Lent, usually the "St Matthew Passion". They also went on tour, travelling to the USA, Israel, Bulgaria and twice to the German Democratic Republic (East Germany) where they sang at St Thomas Church, Leipzig, where Bach had been Director of Music.
In 1968 Steinitz got a group of players together, calling them the Steinitz Bach Players. They were professional musicians who understood how to play Baroque music. Gradually he was able to add more and more historical instruments to his concerts, such as the natural/clarino trumpet, oboe da caccia, baroque flute and sackbuts. By 1985 there were enough professional players of Baroque instruments in England for the LBS choir to be able to perform the St Matthew Passion with a complete orchestra of period instruments in Wells Cathedral and later in 1987 at Westminster Abbey

After Steinitz's death in 1989 there was no more choir, but the society still continues. Today they organize a festival of Bach's music every year, called "Bachfest" (German for "Bach Festival").



</doc>
<doc id="222374" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222374" title="Rodgau">
Rodgau

Rodgau is a city in the Offenbach Rural District in the state of Hesse, Germany. It is the largest city of the district by area and by population as well. 

Rodgau is in the "Rhine Main area" 30 km southeast of Frankfurt am Main. The whole area of the town is 65.04 km large and it is 130 m above sea level. It is a plain area with no hills.

About 35 to 20 million years ago in the age of tertiary the whole region was lying under sea level. At that time it was covered by an ocean which was warm and not very deep. Lots of sediments sank to its bottom. Then the region rose again and the water left, leaving soil which is mostly sandy and poor. 

The town consists out of 5 former independent villages. On 1 January 1977 they were united and became the "municipality of Rodgau". On 15 September 1979 city rights were given to the municipality. 

The former villages, now urban districts, are from north to south: Weiskirchen, Hainhausen, Jügesheim, Dudenhofen and Nieder-Roden. They all lie by a small creek, the "Rodau", flowing through the city from south to north. Rodgau got its name from this creek. The ending "-gau" means "area" or "district". "Rod-" is a hint to the former landscape. The German verb "roden" means "cutting down trees to cultivate land". "Rod-" is also part of the name of Nieder-"Rod"en. 

The neighbours of Rodgau are: 

Rodgau has 43,047 inhabitants (2008). Nearly 10% of the people living here are from foreign countries. They come from 52 different nations. 39% of the people are of catholic religion, 25.5% are of protestant religion and 35.5% have another or no religion. 

The climate of the town is mild with an average temperature of 10.5 °C. There is less rain than in other parts of Germany.

Some local people are speaking a regional type (dialect) of the German language with a certain tone and special words. It is a Hessian dialect (German: "Hessisch"). This language type is related to other dialects in the south of Germany. In former times mostly every village had its own special dialect, sometimes hard to understand for people of other parts of Germany. Today the dialect speakers are a minority and the majority of them does not speak the real dialect. They rather speak a kind of regular German with a certain pronunciation.

The first settlements were build in the 8th century. Later in the 12th and 13th century the names of the settlements were written down in documents. During the times the villages belonged to different owners. Because of the reformation the people of the village of "Dudenhofen" became protestant, but all the others remained catholic. This led to the situation, that the Dudenhofen people married partners from nearby Babenhausen, Dietzenbach and other protestant places but did not have relatives in the catholic Rodgau villages. Around 1830 the settlements had a total population of about 4,000 people. In 1939 the amount of inhabitants was about 11,500. It increased to about 34,000 in 1970 and to about 45,000 at the end of the 2000s. 

Formerly the people in the Rodgau area were farmers and craftsmen but not tradesmen. Every family had land to grow their food. When the property was handed to the next generation it was divided within the children. Therefore most families had only small farms and were poor. With the industrial revolution the Rhine Main area got lots of factories and developed to a center for metal working and leather manufacturing, also chemical engineering. Many men got workmen and found a job in the factories and earned money. This increased living conditions partly. 

After world war II the Rhine Main area was one of the hot spots in Germany because of its central location and its traffic opportunities. Many companies settled down because of the Rhine Main airport and the motorways connecting the region with all parts of Germany. From the 1960s on the Rodgau villages were a huge development area, especially in Nieder-Roden and Jügesheim. Lots of small and middle seized companies started or moved to the area giving jobs to the people. Houses were built and people from other parts of Germany or from other countries came to the area for working and living. The fields near the villages were needed for building and the prices for the land exploded in the 1970s. All this increased the living conditions dramatically. 

The growing villages formed an urban areal and in the late 1970s the municipality of Rodgau was shaped. Since then the former villagers and the new residents slowly began to develop a Rodgau identity. Most of the foreign people at first came from Italy, Spain and Portugal, later from Yugoslavia and Greece, then from Turkey. Often the male members came to earn money and send it to their family abroad. In many cases the families moved to Germany later, settled down and got German citizens, bought houses or built one. Only few went back to their home countries. The children went to German schools and are nowadays regular members of the community.

The administration of the formerly independent villages was centralized and the new city hall is in the central part of Rodgau, Jügesheim. There are citizen offices in every former village, called "Anlaufstelle" to deal with minor affairs. 

Head of the city is a mayor (CDU). The parliament has 45 seats. Last elections in 2006 had the following results:



Rodgau is ruled by a "center-right" alliance of CDU and FDP. 

The city government and the mayor got problems because after the parliament elections three members of the CDU delegates left the CDU parliamentary group. The following political trouble influenced the later mayor elections (2009) and led to a new mayor, now from the SPD. He will start in April 2010.

The coat of arms was given to the city in 1978. It stands for the former villages and their religion. From bottom left to top right runs a silvery band. It is the picture of the creek "Rodau". The fife stars on the band are the picture of the fife villages lying by the creek. 

Top left is the picture of a luther rose. It is a religious symbol and it stands for the protestant religion of Dudenhofen. Bottom right is a picture of a wheel. This is not a religious symbol. But it stands for the catholic religion of Weiskirchen, Hainhausen, Jügesheim and Nieder-Roden. 

Both pictures are standing for the former owners of the villages. The rose stands for the Count of Hanau and later the Count of Darmstadt. The wheel comes from the archbishop of Mainz. The rose is on one side of the creek and the wheel is opposite to it on the other side of the creek. This means that the villages had trouble and fights because of their different religion.

The two main fields of Rodgau culture are the surrounding nature and the peoples clubs. It is typically German, that most of the people of Rodgau are a member of one or more of the clubs. 

These associations have a focus on singing, sports, orchestra music, socker, breeding pet animals, dancing and many other. There are about 50 clubs in Rodgau, where people come together and spend their free time. The associations are an important part of the social life of the city, especially for the people of the former villages partly to keep their villager identity. The clubs are open to new members, who like to share the focus and to develope social contacts. 

Rodgau is surrounded by large forests. On weekend many people go there for a walk or make trips by bicycle on the narrow lanes which are leading all through the woods. Often there are places for doing sports or having a barbecue. The facilities are kept kleen and in order by work departments of the city administration. 

Because of the village history there are no theaters or museums in the city, but there are well known ones in the cities nearby, mostly in Frankfurt (Senckenbergmuseum; on natural history), Offenbach (Ledermuseum; on leather handycraft and artswork) and Darmstadt (Theater). There are no famous buildings in Rodgau but some architecture (stile of buildings) typical for the region. The old churches of the villages and the framework houses are worth to look at. 

There are five protestant and six catholic churches in the city. For the Muslim there are two mosques, one in Nieder-Roden and one in Jügesheim. 

Rodgau has two cinemas, many restaurants of different style, bars and some dancefloors. 

Once in the year in January and February the whole region is celebrating carnival, the local name is "Fasenacht" or "Fastnacht". It is mostly a tradition of catholic areas. The local names come from a period named "Fastenzeit" (a time of fasting) some weeks before Easter, when one should do fasting. The celebrations are always ending on Tuesday midnight and the fasting period starts on the following Wednesday, named "Aschermittwoch". 

In autumn every village has a extra weekend to celebrate. It is the memorial to the opening of their church. The feasts are named "Kirchweih" or - in the local dialect - "Kerb". In former times great autumn fairs were held on that weekend and the people, especially the young ones of the nearby places, went to the feasts to meet each other in the village, to have pleasure, to dance together and make friends. 

During late spring and summer many small feasts are celebrated on weekend, mostly in the forests at the barbecue places. They are arranged by the local clubs and associations, even by the local political parties. They are open to the public and people go there to socialize, having a meal and drinking some beer. 

The most special and expensive vegetable of the region is asparagus, which loves the poor sandy soil. It is gathered in May and June. Because of the same reason the region has a lot of potato dishes. Some of them are very special and only available on special occasions like the "Bauernkeeskuche" (farmers cheese pie). It is a sort of salty potato pie, that is made with a bread dough.

The traffic in Rodgau runs mostly individual by car. A lot of people are working in nearby cities. They have to drive to their jobs in Frankfurt, Offenbach or other big places. They use the motorway "A3" running through the north of Rodgau. 

East along the city runs the B45 from north to south, a motorway-like street connecting all the urban districts with the motorway A3 and the cities of Offenbach, Frankfurt and Hanau to the north and Darmstadt to the south. The suburban railway no. 1 (German: "S-Bahn-Linie 1") runs to Offenbach and, since 2003 directly to Frankfurt. A poor bus system (a single line) connects the urban districts frequently. Rodgau can be easyly reached by street from most other parts of Germany. This was one reason for its fast development in the past. 

The city has no own daily newspaper. There are the "Offenbach-Post" and the "Frankfurter Rundschau", both with additional pages (supplement) about Rodgau. The Offenbach-Post supplement is named "Rodgau-Post". It comes weekly on Thursday. There are two weekly papers for free which are brought to every house: The "Rodgau-Zeitung" and the "Bürgerblatt". The "Dreieich-Spiegel" also comes to the houses for free and has a part with Rodgau things. There is a quarterly city magazine "mein rodgau", with articles about people, sports, culture and life style. 

Radio information comes by the radio station "Hessischer Rundfunk" ("HR") on channel 1 to 4, "You FM" and "hr-info". Other radio stations are "Hit Radio FFH", also "Radio Primavera" in the nearby bavarian city of Aschaffenburg. 

Rodgau does not have a hospital. The next clinic is about 7 km away in Seligenstadt. The town is short with specialist doctors. Patients often have to go to nearby cities, if they want to see a doctor on special diseases, for example a heart disease. There is a medical emergency center in Dudenhofen to give fast help in case of a heart attack. 

The city has many kindergartens and primary schools in each urban district. There is a secondary school (highschool) in Dudenhofen. For colleges and universities the students have to go to the nearby cities. 



</doc>
<doc id="222384" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222384" title="North Pacific Giant Octopus">
North Pacific Giant Octopus

The North Pacific Giant Octopus ("Enteroctopus dofleini") is a big cephalopod that is in the genus "Enteroctopus". It can be found in the coastal North Pacific, usually at depths around 65 meters but they have also been recorded at much deeper depths and shallower too. North Pacific Giant Octopi are the second biggest kind of octopus, after the Seven-arm Octopus ("Haliphron atlanticus"). Adults usually weigh around 15 kg (33 lb), with an arm span of up to 4.3 m (14 ft). The Mantle of the octopus is round in shape and holds most of its important organs. They mostly eat crabs, shrimp, abalone, fish, and shellfish like scallops, clams, and mussels. In aquariums, they have been seen eating Spiny dogfish ("Squalus acanthias"), a type of shark 3-4 feet long. Food is grabbed with its suckers and then crushed using its tough "beak" of chitin. North Pacific Giant Octopus are eaten by Harbor Seals, Sea Otters, and Sperm Whales. They usually live about 3-5 years in the wild. 


</doc>
<doc id="222386" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222386" title="Chuck Palahniuk">
Chuck Palahniuk

Chuck Palahniuk (born February 21, 1962) is an American satire author. He is well known for writing the award-winning book Fight Club. It was later made into a movie directed by David Fincher. He lives in the state of Washington.

Palahniuk started writing books when he was in his mid-thirties. His first book, "Insomnia: If You Lived Here, You'd Be Home Already", was never made into a book because he didn't think the story was very good. When he tried to write his next novel, "Invisible Monsters", publishers did not like it because they thought it was too scary. This made him work on his most famous book, Fight Club. He wrote it to try to scare the publisher even more for not publishing his book. Palahniuk wrote this story in his spare time. After first writing it as a short story, Palahniuk made it longer into a full book, which, surprising to him, was published.

In 1999, a changed version of Invisible Monsters, and his fourth novel, Survivor, were published. This made Palahniuk a cult figure. A few years later Palahniuk wrote his first New York Times bestseller, Choke. After that, Palahniuk's later books would mostly have the same success. This success allowed him to travel and promote his books, where he reads from new and upcoming books.




</doc>
<doc id="222393" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222393" title="Order of St Michael and St George">
Order of St Michael and St George

The Most Distinguished Order of Saint Michael and Saint George is an order of chivalry. It was started on 28 April 1818 by George, Prince Regent, who became King George IV of the United Kingdom. It started when he was Prince Regent for his father, King George III.

It is named in honour of two military saints, Saint Michael and Saint George.

The Order includes three classes, listed below from highest to lowest


It is used to honour people who have done important things for the Commonwealth or foreign nations.

People are "appointed" to the Order rather than given it. British Ambassadors to foreign nations are often appointed as KCMGs or CMGs. For example, the British Ambassador to the United States, Sir David Manning, was appointed a CMG when he worked for the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO). 

After his appointment as British Ambassador to the United States, he was promoted to a Knight Commander (KCMG). Often, when the Queen visits a nation, the British ambassador to that nation automatically becomes a Knight Commander of the Order, and afterwards they may use the prefix "Sir".

It is the normal award for members of the FCO.

The Order's motto is "Auspicium melioris ævi" (Latin for "Token of a better age"). Its patron saints are Saint Michael the Archangel and Saint George. One of its primary symbols is that of St Michael standing over Satan.

The Order is the sixth-most important in the British honours system, after The Most Noble Order of the Garter (the highest British honour), The Most Ancient and Most Noble Order of the Thistle, The Most Illustrious Order of St Patrick, The Most Honourable Order of the Bath, and The Most Exalted Order of the Star of India.

The Most Illustrious Order of St Patrick (for Ireland) has not been appointed since 1934 as the Republic of Ireland is no longer part of the United Kingdom. The Most Exalted Order of the Star of India has not been used since India's independence in 1947.

The Order was started to remember the British protectorate over the Ionian Islands. The Islands had come under British control in 1814. It was given its own constitution as the United States of the Ionian Islands in 1817.

The order was to reward people who lived on their Ionian Islands and on Malta who worked for the King.

The protectorate ended in 1864 and the Ionian Islands became a part of Greece.

The reasons for being appointed to the Order were changed in 1868. Anyone who did important work in Queen Victoria's government (especially overseas) could be appointed. After this change, many Governors-General and Governors were appointed to the Order.

The British Sovereign is the Sovereign of the Order and appoints all other members of the Order. The sovereign follow the advice of the Government.

The next-most senior member is the Grand Master. The office used to be held by the Lord High Commissioner of the Ionian Islands, but now they are chosen by the Sovereign.

Grand Masters include:

The number of members originally in the Order included:

Members of the Royal Family who are appointed to the Order are not counted as part of these limits and neither are foreigners appointed as "honorary members" (this means that they cannot use the title 'Sir' or 'Dame', and do not receive all the privileges of the order)

The Order has six officers:

The Order's King of Arms is not a member of the College of Arms.

The Usher of the Order is known as the Gentleman Usher of the Blue Rod. He does not perform any duties related to the House of Lords, unlike the Usher of the Order of the Garter (the Gentleman Usher of the Black Rod).

Members of the Order wear decorated costumes on important occasions (such as coronations), which vary by rank:

The Sovereign will name some days "collar days". On these days, members attending formal events may wear the Order's collar over their military uniform or evening wear. When collars are worn (either on collar days or on formal occasions such as coronations), the badge is hung from the collar.

All collars which have been awarded since 1948 must be returned to the Central Chancery of the Orders of Knighthood. The other symbols can be kept..

The original home of the Order was the Palace of St Michael and St George in Corfu This was the home of the Lord High Commissioner of the Ionian Islands. It was also the location of the Ionian Senate meetings.

Since 1906, the Order's chapel has been in St Paul's Cathedral in London. (The Cathedral also serves as home to the chapels of The Most Excellent Order of the British Empire and The Imperial Society of Knights Bachelor.) Religious services for the whole Order are held every four years. New Knights and Dames Grand Cross are 'installed' at these services (this means that they are officially appointed and make an oath of loyalty to the Sovereign).

The Sovereign and the Knights and Dames Grand Cross have stalls in the choir's area of the chapel.

Over their stall, their heraldic devices are displayed: The Knight's helm, decorated with a mantling (cloth tied to the helpmet) and topped by his crest (often an animal).

Under English heraldic law, women who are not monarchs do not bear helms or crests - this is because in the past, women did not fight in wars or tournaments, so they did not have a helmet. Instead of a helmet, Dames will have a coronet (a small crown). The exact design will depend on how important the Dame's is in society.

Above the crest or coronet hangs the Knight or Dame's heraldic banner, showing the coat of arms. At the back of the stall there is a piece of brass (a "stall plate") displaying its occupant's name, arms and date of admission into the Order. Upon the death of a Knight, the banner, helm, mantling and crest are taken down. The stall plates are not removed, but remain permanently placed somewhere in the stall, so that the stalls of the chapel are covered with a colourful record of the Order's Knights and Dames Grand Cross since 1906.

The reredos (decorated panels) within the chapel were designed by Henry Poole in 1927.

Members of the Order of St Michael are assigned positions in the order of precedence (the order in which members of the nobility should be placed in a procession or other events). Wives of male members are also given positions in the order of precedence. So are sons, daughters and daughters-in-law of Knights Grand Cross and Knights Commanders. Relatives of female members are not assigned any special precedence. 

Knights Grand Cross and Knights Commanders use the title "Sir" before their given name, and Dames Grand Cross and Dames Commanders use "Dame". For example, John Smith and Jane Doe would be called "Sir John Smith" and "Dame Jane Doe".

Wives of Knights may use the title "Lady" before their to their surname (for example "Lady Smith"), but husbands of Dames have no title to put before their name.

These titles are not used by peers and princes, except when the names of peers are written out in their fullest forms. Honorary members (usually members from other countries) and clergymen do not receive the accolade or use the title.

Knights and Dames Grand Cross use the post-nominal "GCMG". Knights Commanders and Dames Commanders use "KCMG" and "DCMG" respectively. Companions use "CMG". Examples are:

Knights and Dames Grand Cross are also entitled to receive heraldic supporters (figures on either side of the shield, which look like they are holding it up). These may be real or imaginary animals, or human figures. They may also surround their arms with the design of the circlet (a circle bearing the motto) and the collar. The circlet is shown either outside or on top of the collar.

Knights and Dames Commanders and Companions may display the circlet (but not the collar) around their arms. The badge is depicted hanging from the collar or circlet.

In the satirical British television programme "Yes Minister", Jim Hacker MP is told an old joke by his Private Secretary Bernard Woolley about what the different post-nominals mean.

Ian Fleming's spy, James Bond, was appointed to the CMG in 1953 (mentioned in the novel "From Russia, with Love"). He was offered the KCMG in "The Man with the Golden Gun" but he would not accept it as he did not wish to become a public figure.









</doc>
<doc id="222407" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222407" title="Gilbert Thomas Carter">
Gilbert Thomas Carter

Sir Gilbert Thomas Carter KCMG (14 January 1848 – 18 January 1927) was an administrative officer in the Royal Navy, and later a colonial official who served as an Administrator and Governor in Africa and the Caribbean.

Carter was the only son of Thomas Gilbert Carter who was a Commander in the British Royal Navy. and Mary Webber, daughter of Ezekiel and Sarah [Gibbs] Webber of Clyst St George, Devon [1814-1887.] Birth register of Clyst St George Vol 10, Page 182. 1881 census gives evidence of Mary's birth, name and residence. His sister was Mary Webber Carter 1847-1892- Head of a school for girls in Wincanton. 

Carter joined the Royal Navy in 1864, working as an Assistant Clerk on different ships. He also worked as a Clerk and as an Assistant Paymaster (the person responsible for paying everyone).

His final job in the Royal Navy was on a Colonial steamer. While he was on this ship, he took part in the third war between England and the Ashanti people on the Gold Coast (now Ghana). 

When the town of Elmina was sold to the British by the Dutch Government, he was a commissioner, responsible for valuing the military supplies left behind by the Dutch.. He left the Navy on 21 July 1875.

In 1875, Carter became the private secretary to Sir George Berkeley who was the Governor of the Leeward Islands. In August 1879, he was appointed Collector of Customs and Treasurer of the Gold Coast.

From 1882 until December 1888, Carter was in charge of the "Settlement" (the British colony) on The Gambia as a Treasurer and Postmaster. From 1886, he was acting Administrator of the Colony of the Gambia.

On 1 December 1888, he was appointed Administrator on the Gambia's separation from Sierra Leone.

On 1 January 1890, Carter was made a Companion of the Order of St Michael and St George (CMG).

In 1891, the native King of Gambia had been organising abusive acts towards the British colonists. Carter sent an envoy from his official residence in Bathurst with a message that if the abuses continued, "he might expect a visit of a disciplinary nature from the marine forces of the Queen of England." (This means that the British Navy would send warships to punish the King).

The King sent the envoy back mutilated, with a message: "This is the King's answer." In response, Carter sent three British gunboats to get revenge for the bad treatment shown to the envoy.

On 3 February 1891, Carter was appointed Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the Colony of Lagos (now Nigeria). In 1892, Carter ordered an attack on the Ijebu tribe (of the Yoruba people) "in the interest of civilization". Afterwards, he continued to say that this attack was a war to end slavery and promote civilization.

In early 1893, Carter travelled to various parts of Yorubaland, accompanied by soldiers, in an attempt to demonstrate the power of the British. Some of the tribal chiefs did not want Carter there, and told him not to intefere with the slavery trade.

In January 1893 the Egba chiefs decided to sign a Treaty of Independence with the British Government. The Crown agreed that Her Majesty's Government would not try to take over any part of the Egba Nation without the permission of the lawful Authority of the nation.

They also agreed that no aggressive actions should be made against the nation, and that its independence would be recognised. The Egba chiefs also promised to end human sacrifices.

He was promoted to Knight Commander of the Order of St Michael and St George (KCMG) on 3 June 1893. This was for the work that he did in Yoruba country, and for bringing an end to a long war there.

Carter sent works of art made by the Ife peoples of Yoruba to Europe.

In 1898, Carter was moved to The Bahamas as the Governor and Commander-in-Chief. He also had a temporary job as the Governor of Trinidad. In July 1904 he was moved to Barbados as Governor and Commander-in-Chief.

In the Spring of 1903, Carter met Gertrude Codman Parker (born 6 February 1875). She was travelling in the Bahamas with her parents. Carter and Parker got married on 25 August 1903 in the Church of the Advent in Boston, USA.

He was married two times, and had three sons and two daughters. His son Humphrey was Director of the Cambridge University Botanic Garden.

Carter retired in 1910. In 1919, he changed his surname to "Gilbert-Carter".

In the early 1920s, he moved back to Barbados, and lived at Ilaro Court, which had been designed and built by his wife.

He died in Barbados on 18 January 1927.




</doc>
<doc id="222410" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222410" title="Uvula">
Uvula

The uvula is the punchbag-shaped object on the back of a throat, in the middle of the soft palate. Massaging the uvula causes the gag reflex which makes someone vomit.

The uvula functions with the back of the throat, the palate, and air coming up from the lungs to create a number variety of different sounds. Consonants involving sound from the uvula are not found in most dialects of English, though they are found in many Semitic, Caucasian, and Turkic languages, as well as several languages of Western Europe such as German, French and a few Celtic languages, where it is used to make a sound called the uvular trill.


</doc>
<doc id="222411" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222411" title="History of origami">
History of origami

The history of origami started in Japan soon after paper was invented. Paperfolding also had its own traditions in Asia and Europe, and it is not known if they all came from the same place.

Origami began in the 6th century when Buddhist monks took paper to Japan. The first Japanese origami is from this time and was used for religious ceremonial purposes only because paper was expensive. 


</doc>
<doc id="222415" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222415" title="Canada Day">
Canada Day

Canada Day is an official holiday in Canada celebrating its anniversary of Confederation. It takes place annually on July 1st.


</doc>
<doc id="222420" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222420" title="Blood diamond">
Blood diamond

A blood diamond, also known as a conflict diamond, is a diamond that came from an area which is controlled by armed groups which oppose the rules and regulations of governments. These diamonds are mined by civilians who have been ordered by the armed groups to do so. The diamonds are then sold and used to buy weapons to help the armed groups fight against the government. Because of this, most of the blood diamond mining happens in war zones.


</doc>
<doc id="222429" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222429" title="Category:Internet Relay Chat templates">
Category:Internet Relay Chat templates


</doc>
<doc id="222432" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222432" title="Solomon's Temple">
Solomon's Temple

According to the Hebrew Bible, Solomon’s Temple, was the first temple the Israelites built for God. It was also called the first temple and was first built by Solomon. It stood next to the king’s palace, and was both God’s royal palace and Israel’s center of worship. The Bible says that the Lord said to Solomon, “I have consecrated (made special or clean) this temple…by putting my Name there forever. My eyes and my heart will always be there” (1 King 9:3). A symbol of holiness and royalty, it reminded the Israelites that God was the special head of Israel. It was patterned after the and, in general, other temples at that time, and was divided into three important areas: the Most Holy Place, the Holy Place and the outer courtyard. It was built in Jerusalem, on the threshing floor of Araunah the Jebusite, where Solomon's father David had bought to build an altar to God.

According to secular Historians, the Temple would have been completed in around 960 BCE. The Babylonians destroyed it in 587 or 586 BCE. Rabbinic literature says that the temple stood for 410 years. According to the work Seder Olam Rabbah, written in the second century CE, the temple was built in 832 BCE, and destroyed in 433 BCE (3338 AM). This is 165 later than the secular estimates.

To date, no definite archaeological proofs for Solomon's Temple havw been found and the only information regarding the First Temple in Jerusalem is inside the biblical books of Joshua, Judges, 1-2 Samuel and 1-2 Kings.

At first, King David wanted to build a temple for God, but according to the Bible, God said to him through the prophet Nathan, "You are not to build a house for my Name, because you are a warrior and have shed blood." However, he chose Solomon to build the temple. Before his death, David gave his son Solomon the plans for the building of the temple, and instructions for the priests and Levites, and all the work of serving in the temple. He also gave his own money to Solomon to help build the temple, and asked the people to help give gifts of money.

King Solomon sent a message to Hiram king of Tyre, who had been friends with his father David and sent David lots of wood to build his palace with. In this message, Solomon said that he wanted to build a temple for the Lord, and asked Hiram to send him wood. Hiram said that he would if Solomon gave food for the cost of the wood and work people did. So Hiram gave Solomon all the cedar and pine logs he wanted, and Solomon gave Hiram wheat for his family, and twenty thousand baths (about 115,000 gallons or 434 000 liters) of olive oil. King Hiram cut down the wood and sent them on to a place called Joppa. From there they could take the wood up to Jerusalem.

According to the Bible, “In the 480th year after the Israelites had come out of Egypt, in the fourth year of Solomon’s reign over Israel, in…the second month, he began to build the temple of the LORD.”(1 Kings 6:1) King Solomon brought Huram-Abi, whose mother was a widow from the tribe of Naphtali (one of the tribes of Israel) and whose father was a man from Tyre and a person who was a craftsman in bronze. Huram was very good at all kinds of work. In 2 Chronicles 2:7 it says that he was "...skilled to work in gold and silver, bronze and iron, and in purple, crimson, and blue yarn." He was especially good at working with bronze. When all the work King Solomon had done for the temple was finished, he brought in the things his father David had given to God, and put them in the treasuries of the temple. So "In the eleventh year in the month of Bul, the eighth month, the temple was finished in all its details according to its specifications." (1 Kings 6:38 NIV)

When the temple was finished, King Solomon brought the of the Lord's covenant to the temple and made all the people of Israel come there, and they sacrificed so many sheep and cattle "they could not be recorded or counted". Then the cloud filled the temple - just as God showed himself on the at Mt. Sinai, he now showed himself at the temple in a cloud. Then King Solomon praised God. He said a prayer of dedication (giving to God) in front of the people of Israel. He asked God to keep his promise to King David of letting King David's sons rule forever (which, according to the bible, becomes true when Jesus, the son of David, dies for mankind); then he added, "But will God really dwell on earth? The heavens, even the highest heaven, cannot contain you. How much less this temple I have built!"--reminding the people that God was not bound to the temple and could not be contained, even though he had chosen to come and with the people of Israel in a special way. Then he asked God to answer the people of Israel when they prayed toward, or at, the temple; to hear from heaven when someone sinned, or enemies came to Israel, or there was drought or famine in the land, "...whatever disaster or disease may come, and when a prayer or plea (asking for something, request) is made by any of your people Israel...then hear from heaven, your dwelling place. Forgive and act; deal with each man according to all he does, since you know his heart (for you alone know the hearts of all men), so that they will fear you all the time they live in the land you gave our fathers" (1 Kings 8:38-40). Then Solom stood up and blessed the people of Israel, and gave sacrifices to God: "twenty thousand cattle and a hundred and twenty thousand sheep and goats. So the king and all the Israelites dedicated the temple of the LORD"(1 Kings 8: 63, NIV).

According to the Bible, when Solomon had finished building the temple, God appeared to him and said, "I have heard the prayer and plea you have made before me...My eyes and my heart will always be there [at the temple you have made]." However, God also warned to Solomon the importance of obeying God's covenant (promise) in order to enjoy its blessings, not its curses. This was needed because God gave Solomon power and wealth, which many times made people forget the promise God had made with them.

Solomon also gave to Hiram king of Tyre 20 towns in Galilee because Hiram had given him all the cedar and pine and gold he had needed. But Hiram did not like the towns Solomon had given him and he said, "What kind of towns are these you have given me, my brother?" (1 Kings 9:13, NIV) He called them the Land of Cabul (which sounds like the Hebrew for "good-for-nothing"). Probably Solomon had become more indebted to Hiram than he had at first thought, so he had given the towns to Hiram king of Tyre as a sign that he would pay him later. 2 Chronicles 8:1-2 says that later, when Solomon became richer - maybe because of the expedition to Ophir (1 King 9:26-28;10-11) or the visit from the queen of Sheba.

The temple of Solomon was next to the king's palace. The floor plan was like most West Semite kinds of floor plans. An early example of a floor divided into "ulam", "hekal", and "debir" (, main hall, and inner ) has been found at Syrian Ebla (c.2300 B.C.) and much later but more around the time of Solomon, at Tell Tainat at the Orontes basin (c.900 B.C.) . Like Solomon's, the later temple has three divisions has two columns at the entrance (in Solomon's palace, they are called "Jakin" and Boaz"), and is next to the royal palace.

The ark of the covenant of God was put inside the inner sanctuary - the Most Holy Place - which was about 30 feet (about 9 meters) long, wide and high, overlaid with pure gold. Solomon used lots of gold in the temple: this was probably because the bright gold symbolized the glory of God and his heavenly temple (Rev.21:10-11,18,21). Inside the temple were carved , palm trees and flowers. This is a reminder of the Garden of Eden, which humans could not live in anymore because of their sin. The temple was a symbol that the Israelites could come back to paradise through the temple.

Some discoveries today echo the words in 1 Kings 6-7.

Something very much like the wheeled movable basin used in the courtyard of the temple has come from archaeological on Cyprus. 

A stone altar having four horns on the corners was found at Megiddo. It shows a good idea of how the gold altar in the temple looked like. The table for the Bread of the Presence was also made of gold. The Bread of the Presence (twelve pieces of bread, one for every tribe of Israel), symbolized a continual offering to God by which Israel showed that she gave to God what she earned with her work, and that everything Israel had received was a blessing of God's.

Ten lamp stands were in the temple, five on each side of the (1 Kings 7:49). Lamps like these have been found in many places in Palestine, including Hazor and Dothan.



</doc>
<doc id="222441" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222441" title="2nd millennium">
2nd millennium

The 2nd millennium started on January 1, 1001, and ended on December 31, 2000. It lasted 1000 years. 


</doc>
<doc id="222461" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222461" title="Template:Yeoman Editor Ribbon">
Template:Yeoman Editor Ribbon


</doc>
<doc id="222462" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222462" title="Template:Sa-senior I-ubx">
Template:Sa-senior I-ubx


</doc>
<doc id="222463" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222463" title="Radio Bart">
Radio Bart

"Radio Bart" is the thirteenth episode of The Simpsons third season. It first started on the Fox network in the United States on January 9, 1992. In this episode, Bart gets a microphone that transmits sound to nearby AM radios. To play a prank on the people of "Springfield", Bart places a radio deep inside a well and uses the microphone to trick the town into thinking a little boy is stuck in it. At first his trick worked, but soon realizes that he left a "property of Bart Simpson" label on the radio and goes to get it. Bart becomes trapped in the well and while the town decides to leave him there after finding out about the prank, his father Homer tries to rescue him.


</doc>
<doc id="222476" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222476" title="Chromatin">
Chromatin

Chromatin is the complex combination of DNA and proteins that makes up chromosomes. It is found inside the nuclei of eukaryotic cells. 

Chromatin is divided into heterochromatin (condensed) and euchromatin (extended) forms.
The major components of chromatin are DNA and histone proteins, although other proteins also occur. The functions of chromatin are:

Chromatin contains genetic material: instructions to direct cell functions. Changes in chromatin structure are one way the action of genes is controlled.


</doc>
<doc id="222484" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222484" title="The Santa Clause 3: The Escape Clause">
The Santa Clause 3: The Escape Clause

The Santa Claus 3: The Escape Clause is the third movie in the "The Santa Clause" series of movies.

In this movie Santa Claus hires Jack Frost to work at the North Pole. Frost causes mischief, and tricks Santa into saying "I wish I had never become Santa at all", causing Santa to escape from his job. Frost takes over his job and makes changes to the North Pole. Santa then has to get everything back to normal.



</doc>
<doc id="222494" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222494" title="Lisa the Greek">
Lisa the Greek

"Lisa the Greek" is the fourteenth episode of The Simpsons third season. It first started on the Fox network in the United States on January 23, 1992. In this episode, Homer begins to bond with his daughter, Lisa, after learning her unique ability to pick winning American Football teams. When Lisa finds out Homer has only been using her for gambling, she doesn't to speak to her father until he fully understands her. "Lisa the Greek" was written by Jay Kogen and Wallace Wolodarsky, and directed by Rich Moore.


</doc>
<doc id="222502" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222502" title="Homer Alone">
Homer Alone

"Homer Alone" is the 15th episode of "The Simpsons" ' third season and the 50th episode of the series. The title is based on the film "Home Alone". The episode is written by David M. Stern, the brother of actor Daniel Stern, who co-starred in "Home Alone" and its first sequel.


</doc>
<doc id="222508" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222508" title="Bart the Lover">
Bart the Lover

"Bart the Lover" is the sixteenth episode of The Simpsons' third season. In this episode, it takes an early look at the personal life of Mrs. Krabappel. Marcia Wallace, the voice actress of Mrs. Krabappel, won an Emmy for her performance in this episode.


</doc>
<doc id="222530" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222530" title="MediaWiki:Editnotice-4-Requests for permissions-Rollback">
MediaWiki:Editnotice-4-Requests for permissions-Rollback


</doc>
<doc id="222534" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222534" title="Nucleosome">
Nucleosome

Nucleosomes are the building blocks which make up chromosomes. They consist of a segment of DNA wound around a histone protein core.

First, DNA and a protein make up chromatin. Then the chromatin is packed up into nucleosomes. Nucleosomes are then packaged up to make a chromosome. The packages do three things: the chromosomes function in cell division; the very long DNA is wrapped up in a shorter package; and the proteins regulate the gene action in cells.

Nucleosomes form the basic repeating units of eukaryotic chromatin. This packs the large eukaryotic genomes into the nucleus and allows it to be controlled.

In mammalian cells about two metres of linear DNA have to be packed into a nucleus of roughly 10 µm diameter. Nucleosomes are folded, in a series of higher order structures, to form a chromosome. This folding compacts the DNA and adds a layer of regulatory control. The control ensures correct gene expression. 

Nucleosomes are thought to carry epigenetically inherited information, as modifications of their core histones. This information can be passed on to daughter cells, but it usually wiped out by meiosis in germ cells.

The nucleosome hypothesis proposed by Don and Ada Olins and Roger Kornberg 
in 1974, was a big step for understanding eukaryotic gene expression. Kornberg won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry (2006) for this and other discoveries.

Although the nucleosome is a very stable protein-DNA complex, it is not static. It undergoes some structural re-arrangements, such as nucleosome sliding and DNA site exposure. Nucleosomes can inhibit or facilitate transcription. 

Since they were discovered in the mid 1960’s, histone changes were thought to affect transcription.

Some modifications have been shown to be correlated with gene silencing, others seem to be correlated with gene activation. The information stored in this way is considered epigenetic: it is not coded in the DNA but is nevertheless inherited by daughter cells. The maintenance of a particular state of a gene is often necessary for cellular differentiation.


</doc>
<doc id="222543" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222543" title="Category:Microbiology">
Category:Microbiology


</doc>
<doc id="222544" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222544" title="Category:Archaeans">
Category:Archaeans


</doc>
<doc id="222549" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222549" title="Arturo Rodas">
Arturo Rodas

Arturo Rodas (1954) is a leading Ecuadorian composer who has lived in London since 1989.

He has composed "24.5 Preludes" for piano; "Climax" for orchestra, "Atonal fugue I" for oboe "d'amore" & piano and electronic music works.

"Since emigrating to England in 1990, he has composed works such as "The Book of the Orchestra" (2002-2003) , which is intended to be performed in a house with many rooms so as to allow an “audience” to hear different instrumental groups as they wander from room to room".
Audio: "Tutti frutti" for piano & tape (fragment)






</doc>
<doc id="222551" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222551" title="Category:Prokaryotes">
Category:Prokaryotes


</doc>
<doc id="222555" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222555" title="Extremophile">
Extremophile

An extremophile is an organism that thrives in extreme conditions that are harmful to most life on Earth. In contrast, organisms from moderate temperature or neutral pH environments may be termed "mesophiles" or "neutrophiles".

In the 1980s and 1990s, biologists found that microbial life has a capacity for surviving in extreme environments. These are niches that are extreme in some way. They may be extraordinarily hot, or cold, or dry, or under immense pressures, or very salty or acidic. Such conditions are inhospitable to complex organisms. Some scientists suggest that life may have begun on Earth in hydrothermal vents far below the ocean surface. High temperature habitats such as hot oceans, hot springs and deep ocean thermal vents would have occurred widely in the early Archaean eon (from 3.9 billion years ago). Adaptation to these conditions may have been crucial to the development of early forms of life.

Most known extremophiles are microbes. The domain Archaea contains well-known examples, but extremophiles occur in bacteria as well. It is a mistake to use the term extremophile for all archaeans, as some are mesophilic. Nor are all extremophiles unicellular; protostome animals found in similar environments. 

Some extremophiles fall under several categories. For example, organisms living inside hot rocks deep under Earth's surface are both "thermophilic" and "barophilic".



</doc>
<doc id="222566" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222566" title="Template:Pokedex">
Template:Pokedex

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="222569" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222569" title="Meowth">
Meowth

Meowth has a cat-like design, with cream-colored fur, and has brown paws and tail tip. It has whiskers, black-and-brown ears, and a gold coin on its head. Meowth is spends most of the daytime sleeping and walks the city streets at night. They put their claws back into their paws so they can move without noise and not leave footprints. Meowth loves round objects, as well as shiny things. The item it loves collecting the most are coins since they are both round "and" shiny. Meowth collects them and keeps them in its nest. Murkrow, a bird Pokémon, also likes coins and steals them from Meowth.

Meowth appears as a wild Pokémon in many versions of the games. Meowth is one of the characters in the Pokémon Mystery Dungeon games. Meowth is also seen in the Nintendo 64 game Pokémon Snap, the Nintendo GameCube game "Pokémon Channel", and many others. Meowth is seen in the Super Smash Bros. series as a Pokémon used with a Poké Ball item, and uses its move "Pay Day" and throws coins at players.

Meowth has made an appearance in almost every episode in the anime because one is owned by Team Rocket agents Jessie and James, the show's main antagonists. He first lived in the city, and tried to impress a female Meowth named Meowzie by learning to walk on two legs and speak human language. Instead of being impressed, she told him he was a freak, so Meowth joined Team Rocket. Meowth was cloned in "", but his clone could not talk or walk on two legs, because Meowth needed to learn how to do this. The Meowth clone is shown again in "". A trainer named Tyson owns a Meowth, which beat Ash's Pikachu a the Hoenn Pokémon League. This Meowth was dressed up like Puss in Boots.

In the Pokémon Adventures manga, Meowth's first appearance is a cameo in the first chapter as one of the Pokémon that escapes from Professor Oak's Laboratory. Meowth has appeared in the Pokémon Trading Card Game first in the Jungle series. A special Meowth card was given when buying the Pokémon Trading Card Video Game. In an open forum interview with ABC News, Pokémon anime director Masakazu Kubo noted Meowth as his favorite Pokémon, saying that while not a major Pokémon in the games, a Meowth is in the anime.

Team Rocket's Meowth ranked fourth on Game Daily's top 10 list of Nintendo characters that deserve their own games, describing him as "adorable" and explaining that his intelligence and ability to speak gave writers more depth than other Pokémon would. IGN stated that without the anime, the character would not have been as famous, further describing it as "probably the funniest part of the show". However, another editor stated it was also popular amongst people who have never seen the anime due to being a feline. IGN also said that Meowth would make a good choice as a playable character in "Super Smash Bros. Brawl" "if Brawl's developers really wanted much more representation for Pokémon as a franchise" also stating "it would be fun to face him in battle as a real fighter, just to be able to send him "blasting off again," referencing Team Rocket's Meowth GamesRadar described Meowth as "not all that useful", and questioned if the Pokémon would have stood out if it were not for its portrayal in the anime.


</doc>
<doc id="222574" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222574" title="Seal of Alabama">
Seal of Alabama

The Great Seal of the State of Alabama is the state seal of the U.S. state of Alabama. It was designed in 1817 by William Wyatt Bibb, the governor of the "Alabama Territory" and the subsequent first governor of the state. When Alabama became a state in 1819, the state got the design as the official state seal. The seal has a map showing one of the state's most valuable resources—its major rivers. Bibb's design served as the official seal until 1868, when it was replaced by a design having on it an eagle holding in its beak a banner that read "Here We Rest." The legislature and Governor Frank M. Dixon restored Bibb's original design in 1939, and it has remained unchanged since.


</doc>
<doc id="222575" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222575" title="Modular origami">
Modular origami

Modular origami (also called unit origami) is a type of paperfolding that uses many sheets of paper. Modular origami is used to make large structures that cannot be made with one sheet of paper. Many sheets of paper are folded in identical shapes, and they are then put together by inserting flaps into pockets. 

The first modular origami model comes from a 1734 Japanese book by Hayato Ohoka called "Ranma Zushiki". The book has pictures of many traditional origami models, and one is a modular cube called "tamatebako". "Tamatebako" is a Japanese word meaning "magic treasure box", and it is called this because the box can be opened on any side. Another traditional model, kusudamas, are balls of folded paper flowers. They are often hung as decorations using string or thread.


</doc>
<doc id="222579" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222579" title="Wikipedia:Requests for adminship/TheMan 2">
Wikipedia:Requests for adminship/TheMan 2


</doc>
<doc id="222593" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222593" title="Category:Internet Relay Chat daemons">
Category:Internet Relay Chat daemons


</doc>
<doc id="222594" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222594" title="University of Missouri">
University of Missouri

The University of Missouri (often shortened to MU) is a public university in Columbia, Missouri, in the United States that was started in 1839. It has about 31,000 students.

Missouri's athletics teams are called the Tigers. Missouri has 18 varsity teams and they compete in the Big 12 Conference. The school's mascot, Truman the Tiger, is named after President Harry Truman, who was from Missouri.

There are more than 280 degree programs at the University of Missouri. The university's well known school of journalism is the oldest university journalism program in the United States.



</doc>
<doc id="222596" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222596" title="Saltasaurus">
Saltasaurus

Saltasaurus was a large plant-eating dinosaur with an elongated neck and bony armored plates on its body. It was a titanosaurid sauropod that lived during the late Cretaceous Period, about 83 to 79 million years ago. Fossils have been found in Argentina.
"Saltasaurus" was named by paleontologists J. Bonaparte and J. Powell in 1980. Salta is the name of the Northwestern Argentinian Province where fossils were found. They include: a few oval and circular armored plates, hundreds of bumps which covered its back (roughly 1/4 inch = 6-7 mm in diameter), and several incomplete skeletons, including some vertebrae, limb bones, and jaws.


</doc>
<doc id="222600" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222600" title="Peter Schwartz">
Peter Schwartz

Peter Schwartz was born in 1946. He is a futurist (his job is to think about what might happen in the future, and help prepare for it) and an author. He and his friends Stewart Brand and Jay Ogilvy made Global Business Network. Global Business Network is a company in San Francisco, California.

Peter was born in 1946. His parents are named Klara and Benjamin. He went to college at RPI. His wife is named Cathleen. His son is named Benjamin. Benjamin was born in 1990.

Peter Schwartz wrote a lot of books, mostly about the future. He wrote about China's economy.
Peter Schwartz also helped work on movies.

Global Business Network is Peter Schwartz's company. He started it in the 1980s with his friends Stewart Brand and Jay Ogilvy.


</doc>
<doc id="222601" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222601" title="Fiddler crab">
Fiddler crab

A fiddler crab, also called a calling crab, is a land crab that lives in mud or sand flats near the beach. The reason this crab is called a fiddler crab is because it holds its large in front of its body and moves it back and forth as if it is playing a fiddle.

The male fiddler crab has one huge cheliped and another smaller cheliped. Sometimes it's the right cheliped that's the big one and sometimes it's the left. This huge cheliped is so large that it is sometimes bigger than the whole crab. It is this cheliped they wave back and forth.

The fiddler crab eats by first opening its mouth, then using its maxillipeds (a part of its mouth), it scoops in a small amount of mud or sand, depending on where it lives. Then, it uses its other mouthparts to scrape any food matter (algae, decaying animals or plants)it can from the dirt it has just put into its mouth. After this, it forms the mud or sand into a little , which is called a "feeding pellet". It then drops the feeding pellet and starts all over again.

The reason the male fiddler crab has such a big claw is to attract females. Every two weeks during the summer, male fiddler crabs build little round , which are deeper and better than the ones they usually build. The crabs guard these burrows . Where there are lots of fiddler crabs, there are usually hundreds of these little burrows all lined up only a few inches apart. Each male fiddler crab stands out in front of his burrow waiting for the females to return from eating. The females then walk around looking at the different burrows. As they walk past, the males wave their big chelipeds back and forth. If a female likes a male or burrow, she will stop and stare. Then the male begins waving his cheliped wildly. Sometimes the female will run away. However, if she stays, the male will run between her and the burrow, back and forth, again and again. If she has still not run away, she will come closer to the burrow. Then the male will enter the burrow a little and start drumming against the side of the tunnel with his cheliped. If the female likes what she hears, she will go down into the burrow, and they will mate.



</doc>
<doc id="222644" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222644" title="Night">
Night

Night or nighttime is the time when the Sun is not in the sky. The opposite of night is day. The start and end times of night are different in different geographic locations. It varies on season, latitude, longitude and timezone. In popular culture, night is often thought of as a symbol of evil, possibly because of the fear of the dark or possibly because of the lack of visibility.


</doc>
<doc id="222647" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222647" title="Bureau of Economic Analysis">
Bureau of Economic Analysis

The Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) is an agency in the "United States Department of Commerce" that has economic statistics like the gross domestic product of the United States. Its stated mission is to "promote a better understanding of the U.S. economy by having the most timely, relevant, and accurate economic data in an objective and cost-effective manner."


</doc>
<doc id="222649" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222649" title="Flag of Washington">
Flag of Washington

The Flag of Washington has the state seal (which has an image of George Washington) on a field of dark green with gold fringe being . It is the only U.S. state flag with a field of green as well as the only state flag with the image of an American president.


</doc>
<doc id="222653" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222653" title="Back at the Barnyard">
Back at the Barnyard

Back at the Barnyard is a cartoon which is a spinoff form the "Barnyard" movie. It began airing on September 2007.

In March 2008, Nick renewed "Back at the Barnyard" for a second season of 20 episodes and two holiday themed specials. The new season premiered on October 24, 2008, part of "Some Like It Snotty Week", which became the first 30-minute episode called, "Some Like it Snotty". A brand new Barnyard movie aired on November 29, 2008, which is the third day of the second "Super Stuffed Nicktoons Weekend". Four new episodes aired from January 20-23, 2009 part of "Battle of the Barnyard Week". Five more new episodes aired from February 23-27, 2009 part of "Animal Invasion" week, followed by five new episodes aired from May 18-22, 2009 part of an "Barnyard Bizarro Week". Another quintet new episodes aired June 29 - July 3, 2009 part of "Battle of the Barnyard 2 week". 


</doc>
<doc id="222655" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222655" title="Barnyard (movie)">
Barnyard (movie)

Barnyard is an animated movie which first shown in theaters on August 4, 2006. It was created by Steve Oedekerk.

Otis is a carefree Cow who prefers to goof off than to be responsible. His father Ben is the leader of the barnyard when the farmer is away, giving the animals the safest moment to spring up on two legs. After Otis interrupts a barnyard meeting with his wild antics, Ben has a talk with his son, in which he tells him that he will never be happy if he just goofs off, and that he should grow up. Otis ignores his advices and leaves to have fun with his friends: Pip the mouse, Pig the pig, Freddy the ferret, and Peck the chicken. That same day, Otis meets a new cow, Daisy (Courtney Cox)(who is pregnant), accompanied by Bessy, another female cow. 

That night the animals throw a massive party in the barn; all the animals are there except Ben, who watches over the fence, which marks their space. Otis is assigned his shift along with him, but he talks himself out of it, saying he is needed for a certain role in the party barn. Ben talks with Otis and says the day he found him alone in the meadow, the stars danced. Otis is given the privilege to party out, and the thankful son runs to the barn. 
Later on, Ben has to take on a pack of coyotes led by Dag, which is raiding the chicken coop. Ben manages to fight off the pack until he is bitten in the leg, causing him to fall. The coyotes pile on Ben, but he manages to grab Dag and escapes the pile. He threatens to punch Dag, but lets him go, scaring them off. The hens cheer, but Ben falls on the ground, exhausted. Etta the hen runs into the barn and tells Otis, and the alerted son runs outside to his father. Ben opens his mouth as if to say something, but dies. 

After Ben's death, all the animals elect Otis as the new leader of the Barnyard, presumably because he is a born party animal. He shirks his duties by leaving Freddy and Peck in charge of the coop, and helping three trouble-making cows in teaching a lesson to Snotty Boy who enjoys cow tipping. Later that night when Otis is sitting with Daisy, he overhears the coyotes chasing a hare. Otis attempts to attack Dag but is outsmarted. Since Otis is weaker, Dag orders a deal that he and his pack will take animals here and there, and if he tries to stand up for all of them, they will kill everyone. Otis decides to leave the barnyard, realizing that he has no chance.

The next morning, before leaving, Otis is informed that the coyotes took some hens and a chick. Otis figures that he has been backstabbed by Dag, as he was not expecting them until tonight, and sets off to rescue the poultry. Otis confronts the pack but is easily defeated; however Pip, Pig, Freddy, and Peck along with Miles the Mule arrive to help them, along with the gophers and Jersey Cows. Dag attempts to attack Otis from behind, but Otis is alerted when Peck successfully manages to crow a warning. Otis catches Dag and tells the coyote to never return. Dag is swung out of the junkyard by Otis's golf skills.

Otis and the rest make it back to the barnyard, finding that Daisy went into labor. She gives birth to a calf whom she names Ben. Duke, the farmer's sheepdog, asks Otis if he wants to stay and be their leader. Otis agrees, and everyone cheers as he walks outside finding the stars dancing. The movie ends with Wild Mike dancing on top of Mrs. Beady's head when she gets ready for bed.




</doc>
<doc id="222665" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222665" title="Robert J. Lang">
Robert J. Lang

Robert J. Lang (born May 4, 1961) is an American physicist known for his contributions to the art of origami.

Lang started his career in origami forty years ago, and many think he is now one of the world's best paperfolders. He travels often, giving lectures about how origami is related to other topics, like science, mathematics, and technology. Lang is also the author of nine books, and has written articles in several origami magazines. He has found many uses of origami in real life situations, like airbag design and an expandable space telescope. 

Before being a professional origamist, Lang had many different jobs. He was a physicist, engineer, and research and development manager in chemistry. Lang has helped to write 80 publications, and has over 50 patents.

Lang was born on May 4th, 1961 in Dayton, Ohio, but he grew up outside Atlanta, Georgia. He was first introduced to origami when he was six years old. Lang was very good at math and math class bored him, so his teacher gave him an origami book to keep him entertained. He quickly folded the models in the book, and then folded models in many other books. In his early teens, Lang began folding his own models, and he drew diagrams on how to make them.

Lang went to college at Caltech, The California Institute of Technology, where he learned electrical engineering. He found college very hard, and often folded origami as a distraction from college life. Lang was afraid to tell people about his hobby, and he was even "a little embarrassed about it." For a long time, Lang didn't know any other origamists. He graduated from Caltech with a Ph.D. in physics, and later he graduated from Stanford University with a master's degree in electrical engineering.

While in college, Lang noticed the name and address of the Origami Center of America, and he soon became friends with other experienced paperfolders, including Michael LaFosse, John Montroll, Joseph Wu, and Paul Jackson. They inspired Lang with their pretty and complex models, and he soon created new models; he designed a hermit crab, an ant, a skunk, and many other others. Soon afterwards, he took a trip to Germany, where he was fascinated by their beautiful cuckoo clocks. They inspired him to make origami clocks, which impressed many paperfolders. Soon after completing his first origami clock, Lang began a job at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory.

In 2000, Lang decided to quit his job and begin a career in origami.

Lang has written nine books about origami:


</doc>
<doc id="222669" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222669" title="Lent">
Lent

Lent, in the Christian tradition, is the period of nearly five weeks before Easter. 

Lent is a time in which Christians are supposed to be quiet and thoughtful, preparing themselves for Easter. They should pray a lot, give money to charities and give up some of the things they might otherwise do for pleasure. The period of Lent ends at Easter, which is a time of great celebration as the Christians think of how Jesus had died on the cross but then rose again from the dead.

Lent is traditionally supposed to be forty days long, because the Bible says that Jesus spent forty days in the wilderness, in preparation for his death and resurrection.

Lent begins on Ash Wednesday and finishes at the Ninth Hour of Holy Thursday (44 days in the Catholic Church) or on Holy Saturday (46 days) in the The Anglican Catholic Church.

Churches in the Byzantine tradition (e.g. Eastern Orthodox and Eastern Catholics) count the days of Lent differently. There are also different local traditions in the Oriental Orthodox church.

Lent is traditionally a time for fasting (not eating much). This tradition was useful because it was a time when food which had been kept for the winter had to be eaten up before it went bad. Many Roman Catholics do not eat meat other than fish on Fridays during Lent.

The word "lent" came from the Anglo-Saxon "lencten" meaning "Spring (season)". The Dutch word for spring is "Lente" and the Old German word is "Lenz".



</doc>
<doc id="222671" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222671" title="Oskar Schindler">
Oskar Schindler

Oskar Schindler (April 28 1908 – October 9 1974) was a Sudeten German industrialist. He saved almost 1,200 Jews during the Holocaust by making them work his enamelware and ammunitions factories, which were in what is known today as Poland and the Czech Republic. He is the subject of the novel Schindler's Ark, and the film based on it, "Schindler's List".


</doc>
<doc id="222673" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222673" title="Donna Karan">
Donna Karan

Donna Karan (born October 2, 1948 as Donna Ivy Faske) is an American fashion designer and the creator of the "Donna Karan New York" and "DKNY" clothing labels. 


</doc>
<doc id="222707" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222707" title="Wisteria">
Wisteria

Wisteria is a type of plant. It is a climbing shrub with blue/lilac flowers.


</doc>
<doc id="222708" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222708" title="Moment magnitude scale">
Moment magnitude scale

The Moment Magnitude scale is a way to measure the power of earthquakes. The higher the number, the bigger the earthquake. It is the energy of the earthquake at the moment it happens. It is similar to the Richter scale.

The scale is a logarithmic, with a base of ten, like the Richter scale.



</doc>
<doc id="222712" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222712" title="Basic English">
Basic English

Basic English (British American Scientific International Commercial) is a constructed (made-up) language to explain complex thoughts with chosen by Charles Kay Ogden.

The word use of Basic English is much simpler and more regular than the word use of full English. Not all the meanings of each word are allowed.

Ogden's rules of grammar for Basic English help people use the 850 words to talk about things and events simply.



Ogden, C. K. (1940). "General Basic English Dictionary". London: Evans Brothers Limited. ISBN 0874713625.




</doc>
<doc id="222721" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222721" title="Preston Wamsley">
Preston Wamsley

Preston Maki Wamsley (born April 29, 1986) is an American television actor.

Wamsley is best known for his recurring role as "Ronnie Wilson" on the late 1990s sitcom, "The Hughleys". Wamsley has also made appearances on other sitcoms including "My Wife and Kids", "The Nanny", and "Beyond Belief: Fact or Fiction". He is currently trying to break back into the acting industry vicariously through hiphop music, as he feels his name is mentioned in the albums of several major recording artists such as Snoop Dogg, or Twista. 
He once said "Aint no thang but a chicken wang" on ABC, after being called 'black' by John Henton, and also "ebony JR." by DL Hughley, although he is Irish, but portrayed a Jewish neighbor on the television series "The Hughleys".


</doc>
<doc id="222735" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222735" title="Template:Senior Editor I Ribbon">
Template:Senior Editor I Ribbon


</doc>
<doc id="222738" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222738" title="Template:Sa-senior2-ubx">
Template:Sa-senior2-ubx


</doc>
<doc id="222739" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222739" title="Template:Senior Editor II Ribbon">
Template:Senior Editor II Ribbon


</doc>
<doc id="222745" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222745" title="Template:Sa-senior3-ubx">
Template:Sa-senior3-ubx


</doc>
<doc id="222747" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222747" title="Template:Senior Editor III Ribbon">
Template:Senior Editor III Ribbon


</doc>
<doc id="222756" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222756" title="Template:Sa-master1-ubx">
Template:Sa-master1-ubx


</doc>
<doc id="222758" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222758" title="Template:Master Editor I Ribbon">
Template:Master Editor I Ribbon


</doc>
<doc id="222760" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222760" title="Template:Master Editor II Ribbon">
Template:Master Editor II Ribbon


</doc>
<doc id="222761" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222761" title="Template:Sa-master3book-ubx">
Template:Sa-master3book-ubx


</doc>
<doc id="222772" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222772" title="NationStates">
NationStates

NationStates is an browser game where you run your own country. It was made by an Australian man called Max Barry and the idea for it was from his book "Jennifer Government". It came out on 13 November 2002 . There was a sequel, NationStates 2, but it is now closed.

In the beginning, you create your own country. On the first page, you choose your name, flag, motto, money and government type. On the next page, the answers decide the first rankings of your nation. At first, a country has a population of 5 million and rises every day.

Issues are the most important part of the game. In it, you have to choose an option to solve a problem in your country. Also, you can just click "dismiss" to ignore it. None are the right one, as each one has it's downsides . After the 30 original issues, Max Barry realized that more were needed so he gave players with a population of over 500 million an option to send him their own issue ideas. 

The way you choose the solutions to the issues changes your civil rights, political freedoms and economy rankings. The names of the rankings can be seen below:

Based on these, each country is placed in one of 27 types, such as Inoffensive Centrist Democracy, Scandanavian Liberal Paradise and Corporate Police State.



</doc>
<doc id="222817" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222817" title="Template:Quran-usc">
Template:Quran-usc

<includeonly>[]</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="222818" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222818" title="Template:Quran-usc/doc">
Template:Quran-usc/doc

<includeonly></includeonly>


See page for further details, examples, discussion, etc.
<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="222828" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222828" title="Fork-tailed Woodnymph">
Fork-tailed Woodnymph

The Fork-tailed Woodnymph ("Thalurania furcata") is a species of hummingbird. It is found in Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, French Guiana, Guyana, Paraguay, Peru, Suriname, Trinidad and Tobago, and Venezuela. Its natural habitats are subtropical or tropical moist lowland forests, subtropical or tropical moist montane forests, and heavily former forest.


</doc>
<doc id="222833" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222833" title="2010 Haiti earthquake">
2010 Haiti earthquake

The 2010 Haiti earthquake was a magnitude 7.0 M earthquake centred near Léogâne, about west of Port-au-Prince, the capital of Haiti. It happened at 16:53:10 local time (21:53:10 UTC) on Tuesday, 12 January 2010. The earthquake occurred at a depth of . The United States Geological Survey recorded a series of, at least, 33 aftershocks. Fourteen of them had magnitudes between 5.0 and 5.9. Scientists predict these to continue for at least two weeks after the first event. The International Red Cross estimated that about three million people were affected, and the Haitian Interior Minister believes that up to 200,000 have died as a result of the disaster, exceeding earlier Red Cross estimates of 45,000–50,000. Several prominent public figures are within the dead.

The earthquake caused major damage to Port-au-Prince. Most major landmarks were significantly damaged or destroyed, including the Presidential Palace, the National Assembly building, the Port-au-Prince Cathedral, and the main jail. The current president of Haiti, René Préval survived. Most hospitals in the area were destroyed, which makes the situation worse. The United Nations (UN) reported that the headquarters of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti (MINUSTAH), located in the capital, had collapsed and that the Mission's Chief, Hédi Annabi, his deputy, and the acting police commissioner were confirmed dead. Elisabeth Byrs of the UN called it the worst disaster the United Nations has experienced because the organizational structures of the UN in Haiti and the Haitian government were destroyed.

Appeals for aid were issued by the International Red Cross, the Salvation Army, the United Nations and president René Préval. Raymond Joseph, Haiti's ambassador to the United States, and his nephew, singer Wyclef Jean, who was called upon by Préval to become a "roving ambassador" for Haiti, have also pleaded for donations.

Many countries have responded to the appeals and started fund-raising efforts, as well as sending search and rescue teams. The nearby Dominican Republic was the first country to give aid to Haiti, easing tensions that have existed between the two countries since the 19th century.

Haiti is on the Caribbean plate and North America plate border which has been locked for about 200 years so huge stress had been built up and the energy was released in earthquake.


</doc>
<doc id="222834" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222834" title="Rödermark">
Rödermark

Rödermark is a city in the Offenbach Rural District in the state of Hesse, Germany. 

Rödermark is in the "Rhine Main area" 35 km southeast of Frankfurt. The whole area of the town is 29.99 km large and it is 142 m above sea level. It is a plain area with nearly no hills.

About 35 to 20 million years ago in the age of tertiary the whole region was lying under sea level. At that time it was covered by an ocean which was warm and not very deep. Lots of sediments sank to its bottom. Then the region rose again and the water left, leaving soil which is mostly sandy and poor. 

The town consists out of the 2 former independent villages "Ober-Roden" and "Urberach". On 1 January 1977 they were united and became the "municipality of Rödermark". On 23 August 1980 the town privileges were given to the municipality. 

The city has 5 urban districts. These are "Ober-Roden", "Urberach", "Waldacker", "Messenhausen" and "Buhlau". 

The ending "-roden" is a hint to the former landscape. The German verb "roden" means "cutting down trees to cultivate land". 

The neighbours of Rödermark are: 

Rödermark has 27,858 inhabitants (2008). 10.7% of the people living here are from foreign countries. 

The climate of the town is mild. There is less rain than in other parts of Germany.

Some local people are speaking a regional type (dialect) of the German language with a certain tone and special words. It is a Hessian dialect (German: "Hessisch"). This language type is related to other dialects in the south of Germany. In former times mostly every village had its own special dialect, sometimes hard to understand for people of other parts of Germany. Today the dialect speakers are a minority and mostly it is no longer the dialect they speak but a kind of regular German with a certain pronunciation.

The first settlements were build in the 8th century. At that time their names were written down in documents. 

Formerly the people in the Rödermark area were farmers and craftsmen but not tradesmen. Every family had land to grow their food. When the property was handed to the next generation it was divided within the children. Therefore most families had only small farms and were poor. With the industrial revolution the Rhine Main area got lots of factories and developed to a center for metal working and leather manufacturing, also chemical processing. Many men got workmen and found a job in the factories and earned money. This increased living conditions partly. 



</doc>
<doc id="222835" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222835" title="The Pirate Bay">
The Pirate Bay

The Pirate Bay (shortname:TPB) is a Swedish website that indexes Bit Torrent files. It was created by Gottfrid Svartholm, Fredrik Neij and Peter Sunde. The Pirate Bay is ranked as the 85th most popular website by Alexa. The Pirate Bay had to face many lawsuits and a raid in relation to copyright violations.



</doc>
<doc id="222837" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222837" title="Template:Location map many">
Template:Location map many

<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="222841" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222841" title="Heusenstamm">
Heusenstamm

Heusenstamm is a city in the Offenbach Rural District in the state of Hesse, Germany. 

Heusenstamm is in the "rhein main region" 20 km southeast of Frankfurt. The whole area of the town is 19,03 km large and is 130 m above sea level. It is a plain area with no hills.

About 35 to 20 million years ago in the age of tertiary the whole region was lying under sea level. At that time it was covered by an ocean which was warm and not very deep. Lots of sediments sank to its bottom. Then the region rose again and the water left, leaving soil which is mostly sandy and poor. 

The city consists out of 2 urban districts, the town of Heusenstamm and the former independent village, "Rembrücken", which became on 1th of January 1977 part of Heusenstamm. 

The neighbours of Heusenstamm are: 

Heusenstamm has 18,227 inhabitants (2008). 

The climate of the town is mild. There is less rain than in other parts of Germany.

The local people are speaking a regional type (dialect) of the German language with a certain tone and special words. It is spoken in the south of Hesse, named "hessisch". This language type is related to other dialects in the south of Germany. In former times mostly every place had its own special dialect, sometimes hard to understand for people of other parts of Germany. Today the dialect speakers are a minority and the majority of them does not speak the real dialect. They rather speak a kind of regular German with a certain pronunciation.

In the 13th century the names of Heusenstamm and Rembrücken were written down in documents for the first time. 

Formerly the people in the Heusenstamm area were mostly farmers and craftsmen but not tradesmen. Every family had land to grow their food. When the property was handed to the next generation it was divided within the children. Therefore most families had only small farms and were poor. With the industrial revolution the rhein main region got lots of factories and developed to a center for metal working and leather manufacturing, also chemical processing. Many men got workmen and found a job in the factories and earned money. This increased living conditions partly. 




</doc>
<doc id="222842" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222842" title="Catherine of Alexandria">
Catherine of Alexandria

Saint Catherine of Alexandria, also known as Saint Catherine of the Wheel and The Great Martyr Saint Catherine (Greek "") is a Christian saint and martyr. She is believed to have been a well-known scholar in the 4th century. In the 15th century it was claimed she had spoken to Joan of Arc. The Orthodox Church venerates her as a "great martyr", and in the Catholic Church she is traditionally revered as one of the Fourteen Holy Helpers.

Catherine was the daughter of Costus, a pagan governor of Alexandria. She announced to her parents that she would only marry someone who was more beautiful, intelligent and wealthy than herself. In addition, that person needed to have a better social status than she had. Eventually, she discovered Christ. "His beauty was more radiant than the shining of the sun, His wisdom governed all creation, His riches were spread throughout all the world."

She was a martyr, because she died for her beliefs in God. According to legend, she was supposed to die on a breaking wheel, but the wheel broke as soon as she touched it, so her head was cut off instead. Because of this, her main symbol is the spiked wheel, which is known as a Catherine wheel. The Catholic Church of St. Catherine, one of the first Catholic churches built in Russia, were named after her..



</doc>
<doc id="222843" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222843" title="Seed plants">
Seed plants

Seed plants are the gymnosperms and angiosperms. Their seeds have three parts: (1) an embryo, (2) a supply of nutrients for the embryo, and (3) a seed coat. They are also called spermatophytes or phanerogams. The seed plants dominate almost all the environments on land.

The living spermatophytes form five groups: 


The fossil seed ferns (Pteridospermatophyta) were one of the earliest successful groups of land plants, and forests dominated by seed ferns were prevalent in the Permian. "Glossopteris" was the most prominent tree genus in the ancient southern supercontinent of Gondwana during the Permian period. By the Triassic period, seed ferns had declined, (perhaps were extinct) and modern gymnosperm groups were abundant and dominant to the Upper Cretaceous, when angiosperms radiated.



</doc>
<doc id="222847" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222847" title="Andros">
Andros

Andros is an island of Greece and is a second biggest island of Cyclades group. It is located in the north-west of Cyclades group near Euboea island. Its total area is 380 square meter and its population is 10,009 inhabitants according to 2001 Greek census. The biggest town of Andros is Andros city.

Andros is mountainous island with gorges and cliffs which ends up to sea. The vegetation of island concludes many flowers, bushes and few trees mainly in the center of island. The island has many beautiful beaches and beautiful landscape and thanks to these the island is popular for tourists.



</doc>
<doc id="222860" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222860" title="Dietzenbach">
Dietzenbach

Dietzenbach is a city in the Offenbach Rural District in the state of Hesse, Germany. The town is also the capital of the Offenbach Rural District ("Landkreis Offenbach")

Dietzenbach is in the "Rhine-Main area" 25 km southeast of Frankfurt. The whole area of the town is 21,67 km large and it is 135 m above sea level. It is a plain area with nearly no hills.

About 35 to 20 million years ago in the age of tertiary the whole region was lying under sea level. At that time it was covered by an ocean which was warm and not very deep. Lots of sediments sank to its bottom. Then the region rose again and the water left, leaving soil which is mostly sandy and poor. 

The city consists out of the urban districts "Neue Stadtmitte", "Spessartviertel", "Altstadt", "Steinberg", "Hexenberg" and "Wingertsberg". 

The neighbours of Dietzenbach are: 

Dietzenbach has 33,067 inhabitants (2008). About 30 % of the people living here are from foreign countries. They come from many different nations.

The climate of the town is mild. There is less rain than in other parts of Germany.

Some local people are speaking a regional type (dialect) of the German language with a certain tone and special words. It is a Hessian dialect (German: "Hessisch") and is spoken in the south of Hesse. This language type is related to other dialects in the south of Germany. In former times mostly every place had its own special dialect, sometimes hard to understand for people of other parts of Germany. Today the dialect speakers are a minority and the majority of them does not speak the real dialect. They rather speak a kind of regular German with a certain pronunciation.

In the 13th century the name of Dietzenbach was written down in a document for the first time. 

Formerly the people in the Dietzenbach area were mostly farmers and craftsmen but not tradesmen. Every family had land to grow their food. When the property was handed to the next generation it was divided within the children. Therefore most families had only small farms and were poor. With the industrial revolution the Rhine-Main area got lots of factories and developed to a center for metal working, leather manufacturing and chemical processing. Many men became workmen and found a job in the factories and earned money. This increased living conditions partly. 




</doc>
<doc id="222866" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222866" title="Octet rule">
Octet rule

The Octet rule is a general rule of thumb that applies to most atoms. Basically, it states that every atom wants to have eight valence electrons in its outermost electron shell. 

According to the Bohr model, an atom consists of a nucleus of protons and neutrons orbited by a number of electrons. In an ordinary atom, the number of electrons equals the number of protons. If it has more or fewer electrons, it is an ion. In addition, the electrons orbit in electron shells. Each shell can only contain a certain number of electrons before new electrons must migrate to the next shell or "energy level." Starting with the third energy level, however, electrons sometimes move up a level even before the current one is full. 

Every atom tries to have 8 electrons in its outermost (or valence) shell. This may require them to give up, share, or take electrons. As stated above, the number of electrons normally equals the number of protons. This means that some atoms are "happier" than others. For example, neon, as with other noble gases naturally has 8 valence electrons. (10 total - 2 in the 1st energy level=8 in the 2nd) Not surprisingly, neon hardly ever reacts with anything. (Neon lights require high voltages to work.) By contrast, the atoms in the Alkaline metals column, such as sodium, have one valence electron, with a layer containing 8 electrons in the shell below. That means that if sodium only has to give up that one electron in order to complete the octet rule, and does so if given the chance. This is why sodium is so chemically reactive. 


</doc>
<doc id="222870" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222870" title="Dreieich">
Dreieich

Dreieich is a city in the Offenbach Rural District in the state of Hesse, Germany. 

Dreieich is in the "Rhine Main area". Its northern urban district Sprendlingen is 10 km south of Frankfurt. In the south it touches the City of Darmstadt. The whole area of the town is 53.33 km large and it is 140 m above sea level. It is a plain area with no hills.

About 35 to 20 million years ago in the Age of Tertiary the whole region was lying under sea level. At that time it was covered by an ocean which was warm and not very deep. Lots of sediments sank to its bottom. Then the region rose again and the water left, leaving soil which is mostly sandy and poor. 

The city consists out of the town Dreieichenhain and the 4 former independent villages Buchschlag, Götzenhain, Offenthal and Sprendlingen, all now urban districts of Dreieich. On 1 January 1977 they were united and became the City of Dreieich. 

The name Dreieich means "three oaks". This is a hint to the former landscape. In the Middle Ages the Dreieich area was a huge forest with a lot of wild animals, where only the emperor had the right of hunting. 

The neighbours of Dreieich are: 

Dreieich has 40,432 inhabitants (2008). 

The climate of the town is mild. There is less rain than in other parts of Germany.

Some local people are speaking a regional type (dialect) of the German language with a certain tone and special words. It is a Hessian dialect (German: "Hessisch"). This language type is related to other dialects in the south of Germany. In former times mostly every place had its own special dialect, sometimes hard to understand for people of other parts of Germany. Today the dialect speakers are a minority and the majority of them does not speak the real dialect. They rather speak a kind of regular German with a certain pronunciation.

In the 9th century the names of Sprendlingen and Offenthal were written down in documents for the first time. But people think, that especially Sprendlingen is much older because of its name. They say the name was given by the Alamanni, a band of west germanic tribes (see also: germanic peoples), which had settled in the area a long time before. 

Formerly the people in the Dreieich area were mostly farmers and craftsmen but not tradesmen. Every family had land to grow their food. When the property was handed to the next generation it was divided within the children. Therefore most families had only small farms and were poor. With the industrial revolution the Rhine Main area got lots of factories and developed to a center for metal working and leather manufacturing, also chemical processing. Many men got workmen and found a job in the factories and earned money. This increased living conditions partly. 




</doc>
<doc id="222878" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222878" title="Template:Sa-grandmasterbook-ubx">
Template:Sa-grandmasterbook-ubx


</doc>
<doc id="222880" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222880" title="Pichilemu">
Pichilemu

Pichilemu (in Mapudungun: "Small Forest" ) is a city and commune of the central zone (centre part) of Chile. It is the capital of the Province of Cardenal Caro. 

The beach of Pichilemu is called one of the best beaches in the world for surfing. The most famous beach in Pichilemu is Punta de Lobos, where competitions are commonly made. The city has become a beach resort.

Promoucaes were the first people that populated Pichilemu. They were hunter gatherers and fishermen. 

In 1887, President José Manuel Balmaceda decreed Pichilemu as a minor dock.

José Toribio Medina did his first archeological investigations in Pichilemu, and he published in 1908 "Los Restos Indígenas de Pichilemu". He said there that Pedro de Valdivia gave land in what is now central Chile to Juan Gómez de Almagro on February 24, 1544. Pichilemu was between the areas of the Palloquierbico, Topocalma, and Gulaquien.

The name Pichilemu comes from the Mapudungún words "pichi" (little) and "lemu" (forest).

Some of the first land owners of Pichilemu were the Ortúzar family. Daniel Ortúzar is known as one of the founders of the original village of Pichilemu. The family of Ortúzar Cuevas, from the San Antonio de Petrel Hacienda, made a mid-century maritime dock which was as a fishing port for some years. They also built homes along the dock on what is now Ortúzar Avenue. More recently, other large land owners are Pedro Pavez Polanco and the Hacienda of San Antonio de Petrel. In 1891, during the Chilean Civil War, Daniel Ortúzar and the priest of Alcones were taken prisoners from Pichilemu through the dock. During the war, the dock was burned down. After the civil war, Pichilemu got its formal name and status. President Jorge Montt and his Minister, Manuel José Irarrázabal, the city was officially established on December 22, 1891.

Pichilemu has become the historic capital of the province called Cardenal Caro which is named for the first Chilean Catholic Church Cardinal. His father was the first mayor in the city.

Agustín Ross Edwards was a Chilean writer, Member of Parliament, minister and politician.
Ross was very rich and based on his European background, he bought a 300-hectare piece of land and named it ""La Posada"" (), or Petren Fund, in 1885. Ross designed an urban place of high environmental value and landscape, turning ""La Posada"" into a hotel ("Great Hotel Pichilemu", later "Hotel Ross", or "Ross Hotel"), and building a casino, embankments, stone walls, a balcony facing the beach. Additionally, he built a park and a forest of more than 10 hectares. Agustín Ross turned Pichilemu into a summer resort town for the people from Santiago. Some of his buildings were named National Monuments.

Pichilemu is located west of San Fernando, Chile and just east of the Pacific Ocean. It is around a three-hour drive to the Andes Mountains. It is also near the coastal mountain range.

Even though most of the forest areas around Pichilemu are covered in Pine and Eucalyptus trees, a native forest (now Municipal Forest) is still there It contains species such as Litres, Quillayes, Boldos, Espinos and Peumos.

Pichilemu borders Litueche to the north, Paredones to the south, Marchigüe and Pumanque to the east, and the Pacific Ocean to the west .

In the 17th century, Pichilemu had 1,468 inhabitants. In 1787, Pichilemu had 1,688 inhabitants. In 1907, Pichilemu had 7,787 inhabitants. However, the city's population progressively decreased; in 1920, it was 7,424; in 1930, it was 6,929, and in 1940, it was 6,570. In 1952, the city's population increased to 7,150 inhabitants; in 1992, that figure had increased to 10,510. As of the 2002 census, 12,392 people reside in the town. The census recorded that 9,459 people (76.3%) are from urban places of the city, and 2,933 people (23.7%) are from rural places of the city, there are 6,440 (52.0%) men and 5,952 (48.0%) women. The area of Pichilemu is . According to the CASEN 2002 census, 544 inhabitants (4.4%) of the population of Pichilemu live in extreme poverty compared to the average in the greater Region of O'Higgins of 4.5%, and 1,946 inhabitants (15.7%) live in mild poverty, compared to the regional average of 16.1%.
</div>

Pichilemu, along with the communes of Placilla, Nancagua, Chépica, Santa Cruz, Pumanque, Palmilla, Peralillo, Navidad, Lolol, Litueche, La Estrella, Chile, Marchihue and Paredones, is part of the Electoral District N° 35 and belongs to the 9th Senatorial Constituency (O'Higgins) of the electoral division of Chile.

The current Mayor of Pichilemu is Roberto Córdova. The last popularly-elected mayor was Marcelo Cabrera, elected in 2008 with 42.08% of the vote, who served from May 2009 to August 2009 due to legal action. The municipal council selected Córdova as the new mayor on September 9, 2009, almost a year after the municipal elections. The current councilors are Aldo Polanco Contreras, Andrea Aranda Escudero, Viviana Parraguez Ulloa, Juan Cornejo Vargas and Marta Urzúa Púa.

Surfing is one of the tourist attractions, particularly at Punta de Lobos. According to travel guide Fodor's,

Every October and December the International Championship of Surf takes place at La Puntilla Beach. Punta de Lobos hosts the "Campeonato Nacional de Surf" () each summer.

Pichilemu has many dark sand beaches. The water is cool year-round, though many tourists choose to swim during the summer months. Bodyboarding, surfing, windsurfing, and kitesurfing can be practiced.

The beach that is farthest north is San Antonio Beach or Main Beach (), which is found in front of the Ross Park. It is known for good surfing.

Las Terrazas Beach () is the busiest beach during the summer. Many surf schools, "La Ola Perfecta" and "Lobos del Pacífico", are found near the beach, as is the Caleta de Pescadores (), where fisherman sell their fish. found at the south of the town and around the other side of the Puntilla, the Infiernillo Beach is found. It is used for fishing. At the south of Infiernillo, Playa Hermosa is found, which is great for walking and fishing.

Further south, from Pichilemu, Punta de Lobos is found .It is an increasingly popular destination for tourists and specially for surfers. Several surf contests are held there, including an international big-wave contest during the Chilean fall. The size of waves varies throughout the year, but large swells in fall and winter can reach heights of up to 50 feet (15 metres). It is widely considered one of the best beaches for surfing worldwide.



</doc>
<doc id="222890" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222890" title="Template:Master Editor III Ribbon">
Template:Master Editor III Ribbon


</doc>
<doc id="222896" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222896" title="Template:Grand Master Editor Ribbon">
Template:Grand Master Editor Ribbon


</doc>
<doc id="222897" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222897" title="Queen of Sheba">
Queen of Sheba

Queen of Sheba, or, Queen Sheba is a queen who ruled over the ancient kingdom of Sheba, and comes out in the Bible and the Qur'an.

The Queen of Sheba appears in the Bible to King Solomon, because of the fame of his riches and wealth and . She comes, "with a very great caravan - with camels carrying spices, large quantities of gold, and precious stones - she came to Solomon and talked with him about all that she had on her mind" (1 Kings 10:2).

Solomon answered all the questions she asked; returned her quizzes and riddles with wit and correct wisdom; and was kind to her. Awed and astonished by all these things, she rewarded his achievements with "120 talents of gold, large quantities of spices, and precious stones. Never again were so many spices brought in as those the queen of Sheba gave to King Solomon" (1 Kings 10:10), ad Solomon returned it by giving "all she desired and asked for, besides what he had given her out of his royal bounty" (1 Kings 10:13).




</doc>
<doc id="222899" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222899" title="Template:Sa-ultimate1-ubx">
Template:Sa-ultimate1-ubx


</doc>
<doc id="222901" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222901" title="Template:Sa-ultimatebook-ubx">
Template:Sa-ultimatebook-ubx


</doc>
<doc id="222903" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222903" title="Template:Ultimate Editor Ribbon">
Template:Ultimate Editor Ribbon


</doc>
<doc id="222930" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222930" title="Taqwa">
Taqwa

Taqwa is an islam word which means to become more aware of Allah. 


</doc>
<doc id="222932" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222932" title="Cynodont">
Cynodont

The Cynodonts are a sub-order of the Therapsida. Cynodonts, one of the most diverse groups of therapsids, are named after their dog-like teeth.

The taxon includes modern mammals and their extinct close relatives, the Mammaliaformes. 

The cynodonts lived in all continents, and their fossil record begins in the Upper Permian 256 million years ago.

The extinct members of the group were victims of the End-Triassic extinction event, but the line that led to the mammals survived.


</doc>
<doc id="222941" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222941" title="Reflex">
Reflex

A reflex is an act where a nerve sends an electric impulse to the spinal cord. After that it comes to the muscle and the muscle reacts.

A reflex action, also known as a reflex, is an involuntary and nearly instantaneous movement in response to a stimulus. A true reflex is a behaviour which is mediated via the reflex arc; this does not apply to casual uses of the term 'reflex'.


</doc>
<doc id="222957" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222957" title="Category:Audi automobiles">
Category:Audi automobiles


</doc>
<doc id="222958" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222958" title="Audi A3">
Audi A3

The Audi A3 is a car produced by Audi since 1996. It is based on the Volkswagen Golf's platform, and it is currenty in its Second Generation.


</doc>
<doc id="223006" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223006" title="Kobe Bryant">
Kobe Bryant

Kobe Bryant (born ) is an American professional basketball player. He currently plays for the Los Angeles Lakers of the National Basketball Association. Bryant plays as a shooting guard. During the 2005-2006 season, he scored 81 points in a game against the Toronto Raptors.

Bryant has won five championship rings from 2000-2002 and again in 2009-2010.

He was awarded the Most Valuable Player in the 2007-08 NBA season after the Los Angeles Lakers went to the 2008 NBA Playoffs as the first seed in the Western Conference.

In 2008, he won a gold medal with the United States national team at the Olympics in Beijing.


</doc>
<doc id="223007" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223007" title="Turks in Germany">
Turks in Germany

The Turks in Germany are the largest ethnic minority in Germany. The majority of these immigrants came from Turkey when Germany invited them to work as guest workers between 1960-70 due to labour shortages. 



</doc>
<doc id="223015" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223015" title="Babenhausen">
Babenhausen

Babenhausen is a town in the Darmstadt-Dieburg Rural District in the state of Hesse, Germany. 

Babenhausen is in the "Rhine-Main area" 35 km south east of Frankfurt. The whole area of the town is 66,87 km large and it is 127 m above sea level. It is a plain area with no hills.

About 35 to 20 million years ago in the age of tertiary the whole region was lying under sea level. At that time it was covered by an ocean which was warm and not very deep. Lots of sediments sank to its bottom. Then the region rose again and the water left, leaving soil which is mostly sandy and poor. 

The city consists out of the town "Babenhausen" and the 5 former independent villages "Hergershausen", "Harpertshausen", "Harreshausen", "Sickenhofen" and "Langstadt". 

The neighbours of Babenhausen are: 

Babenhausen has 16,066 inhabitants (2008). 

The climate of the town is mild. There is less rain than in other parts of Germany.

Some local people are speaking a regional type (dialect) of the German language with a certain tone and special words. It is a Hessian dialect (German: "Hessisch") spoken in the south of Hesse. This language type is related to other dialects in the south of Germany. In former times mostly every place had its own special dialect, sometimes hard to understand for people of other parts of Germany. Today the dialect speakers are a minority and the majority of them does not speak the real dialect. They rather speak a kind of regular German with a certain pronunciation.

Babenhausen and the former villages are early places where people lived. In the time of the 7th to the 9th century new places to live got name endings like "-hausen" and -"stadt". But the names of the places were not written down. 

In 1236 the name of Babenhausen was written down in a document for the first time. About 50 years later it got the town privileges (1295). During the Thirty Years' War the military made a lot of damages to the city. Many people died because of diseases and hunger (Bubonic plague). 

Formerly the people in the Babenhausen area were mostly farmers and craftsmen but not tradesmen. Every family had land to grow their food. When the property was handed to the next generation it was divided within the children. Therefore most families had only small farms and were poor. With the industrial revolution the Rhine-Main area got lots of factories and developed to a center for metal working, leather manufacturing and chemical processing. Many men became workmen and found a job in the factories and earned money. This increased living conditions partly. 

In World War II Babenhausen was a central place for Russian soldiers, who where caught in the fights with the German. They lived here as war prisoners and had to work for the German people. After World War II it became a central place for Jewish people that were prisoners of the NAZI concentration camps.




</doc>
<doc id="223031" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223031" title="Wikipedia:Other awards">
Wikipedia:Other awards

Other related awards

As well as the , there are several other awards. Barnstars are usually used for an editor who has been doing good work for a long time. The following awards are more often given for a particular action or event. 



</doc>
<doc id="223033" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223033" title="Template:Tlsu">
Template:Tlsu


</doc>
<doc id="223036" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223036" title="Alamosaurus">
Alamosaurus

"Alamosaurus" was a quadrupedal, plant-eating dinosaur that lived during the late Cretaceous period, about 73 million to 65 million years ago. It was a sauropod and a titanosaurid (it may have had some body armor).
"Alamosaurus" was a long-necked, whip-tailed dinosaur. It was about 69 feet (21 m) long and weighed perhaps 33 tons (30000 kg). Fossils have been found in New Mexico, Texas, and Utah. Fossils include fragmentary skeletons (and no skulls).


</doc>
<doc id="223037" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223037" title="Template:The Exceptional Newcomer Award">
Template:The Exceptional Newcomer Award


</doc>
<doc id="223038" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223038" title="Template:ZenAward">
Template:ZenAward


</doc>
<doc id="223039" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223039" title="Template:Documentation/links">
Template:Documentation/links


</doc>
<doc id="223040" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223040" title="Template:ZenAward/doc">
Template:ZenAward/doc

What to type: </nowiki>

The "Zen Garden Award for Infinite Patience" may be awarded to an editor who has shown extraordinary patience in the face of toil or turmoil. This award was introduced on 31 March 2006 by .

<includeonly>
</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="223041" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223041" title="Template:WikiMedal">
Template:WikiMedal


</doc>
<doc id="223042" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223042" title="Category:Wikipedia award templates">
Category:Wikipedia award templates


</doc>
<doc id="223043" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223043" title="Template:MissingBarnstar">
Template:MissingBarnstar


</doc>
<doc id="223044" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223044" title="Template:The Featured Article Medal">
Template:The Featured Article Medal


</doc>
<doc id="223045" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223045" title="Template:The DYK Medal">
Template:The DYK Medal


</doc>
<doc id="223046" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223046" title="Template:The DYK Medal/doc">
Template:The DYK Medal/doc



<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="223047" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223047" title="Template:ReviewersAward">
Template:ReviewersAward


</doc>
<doc id="223049" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223049" title="Template:GAMedal">
Template:GAMedal


</doc>
<doc id="223050" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223050" title="Template:GAMedal/doc">
Template:GAMedal/doc

What to type: <nowiki></nowiki> 

<includeonly>
</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="223052" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223052" title="Template:Content Review Medal">
Template:Content Review Medal


</doc>
<doc id="223053" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223053" title="Template:The Bot Builder Award">
Template:The Bot Builder Award


</doc>
<doc id="223054" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223054" title="Template:Botnav">
Template:Botnav


</doc>
<doc id="223057" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223057" title="Template:WAA">
Template:WAA


</doc>
<doc id="223058" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223058" title="Template:The Mensch's Barnstar">
Template:The Mensch's Barnstar


</doc>
<doc id="223068" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223068" title="Template:Abbreviations">
Template:Abbreviations

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="223069" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223069" title="Template:Workpage">
Template:Workpage

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="223075" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223075" title="Computer Space">
Computer Space

Computer Space is a video arcade game released in November 1971 by Nutting Associates. It was created by Nolan Bushnell and Ted Dabney, who would both later start the company Atari.


</doc>
<doc id="223080" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223080" title="Iron">
Iron

Iron (Fe) is the most common metal on Earth. It is element 26, a transition metal in Group 8. Its symbol is Fe, from the Latin word for iron, "ferrum". Its atomic number is 26 and its mass number is 55.85. 

It is used a lot because it is very strong and cheap. Iron is the main thing used to make steel. As iron is magnetic, it can be used to make a magnet.

Iron is a grey, silvery metal. It is magnetic. It is very strong, which is why it is used. Pure iron is malleable, while steel (iron mixed with a little carbon) is stronger. The more carbon there is in the iron, the stronger it is, although too much carbon will make it brittle.

Iron is quite reactive. It reacts with most acids like sulfuric acid. It makes ferrous sulfate when reacted with sulfuric acid. This reaction with sulfuric acid is used to clean metal.

Iron reacts with air and water to make rust. The rust flakes off, making more iron rust. Eventually, the whole piece of iron is rusted away. Other metals like aluminum do not rust away. Iron can be alloyed with chromium and carbon to produce stainless steel, which does not rust under normal conditions.

Iron powder can react with sulfur to make iron(II) sulfide, a hard black solid. Iron also reacts with the halogens to make iron(III) halides, like iron(III) chloride. Iron reacts with the hydrohalic acids to make iron(II) halides like iron(II) chloride.

Iron makes chemical compounds with other elements. Normally the other element oxidizes iron. Sometimes two electrons are taken and sometimes three. Compounds where iron has two electrons taken are called ferrous compounds. Compounds where iron has three electrons taken are called ferric compounds. Ferrous compounds have iron in its +2 oxidation state. Ferric compounds have iron in its +3 oxidation state. Iron compounds can be black, brown, yellow, green, or purple.

Ferrous compounds are weak reducing agents. Many of them are green or blue. The most common ferrous compound is ferrous sulfate.

Ferric compounds are oxidizing agents. Many of them are brown. The most common ferric compound is ferric oxide, the same thing as rust. One reason why iron rusts is because ferric oxide is an oxidizing agent. It oxidizes iron, rusting it even under paint. That is why if there is a small scratch in the paint, the whole thing can rust.

Iron is hardly ever found in the earth. Sometimes rocks that fall from outer space have iron metal in them. Normally hematite is in the ground. The hematite is used to make iron metal.

Some iron is found in meat. Iron is also found in hemoglobin in blood. Not all blood has hemoglobin in it, though.

Iron is made in large factories called "ironworks" by reducing hematite with carbon (coke). This happens in large containers called blast furnaces. The blast furnace is filled with iron ore, coke and limestone. A very hot blast of air is blown in, where it burns up the coke. The extreme heat makes the carbon react with iron ore, taking off the oxygen from iron oxides, and making carbon dioxide. There is normally some sand in with the iron. The limestone, which is made of calcium carbonate, turns into calcium oxide and carbon dioxide when very hot. The calcium oxide reacts with the sand to make a liquid called a slag. This is drained, leaving the iron. The reaction will leave pure liquid iron on the bottom of the blast furnace, where it can be shaped and hardened after cooling down. Almost all ironworks are today part of steel mills, and almost all iron is further processed into steel.

There are many ways to work iron. Iron can be hardened by heating a piece of metal and splashing it into cold water. It can be softened by heating it and allowing it to slowly cool. It can also be stamped by a heavy press. It can be pulled into wires. It can be rolled to make sheet metal.

In the United States, much of the iron was taken from the ground in Minnesota and then sent by ship to Indiana and Michigan where it was made into steel.

Iron is used more than any other metal. It is strong and cheap. It is used to make buildings, bridges, nails, screws, pipes, girders, and towers. Iron is magnetic, so it is used in many magnets.

Iron is used in bridges because it is very strong thats why its so hard to get out. It is also very easy to get to. There is a lot in the world so it is cheap.

There are different types of iron. Cast iron is iron made by the way described above in the article. It is hard and brittle. It is used to make things like storm drain covers, manhole covers, and engine blocks (the main part of an engine). 

Steel is the most common form of iron. Steels come in several forms. Mild steel is steel with a little carbon. It is soft and easily bent, but it does not crack easily. It is used for nails and wires. Carbon steel is harder but more brittle. It is used in tools. There are other special types of steel. Stainless steel does not rust. Some other types of steel are very strong. Other types are very hard.

Wrought iron is easily shaped and used to make fences and chains.

Some iron is very pure. It just has iron in it. This iron is very soft and easily made into a magnet. It is made by electrolysis of iron(II) chloride solution. It is used in the core of an electromagnet.

Iron compounds are used for several things. Iron(II) chloride is used to make water clean. Iron(III) chloride is also used. Iron(II) sulfate is used to reduce chromates in cement. Some iron compounds are used in vitamins.

Our bodies need iron to help oxygen get to our muscles, because the molecule is at the heart of some essential macromolecules such as hemoglobin. Many cereals have some added iron (the element "metal" iron). It is added to cereal in the form of tiny metal filings. It is even possible to see the slivers sometimes by taking an extremely strong magnet and putting it into the box. The magnet will attract these pieces of iron. Eating these small metal shavings are not harmful to our body. 

Iron is most available to the body when added to amino acids – iron in this form is ten to fifteen times more digestible than than it is as an element. Iron is also found in meat, for example steak. Iron provided by diet supplements is in the form of a chemical, such as a sulphate, which is cheap and is absorbed well. The body will not take up more iron than it needs, and it usually needs very little. The iron in red blood cells is recycled by a system which breaks down old cells. Loss of blood by injury or parasite infection may be more serious.

Iron is toxic when large amounts are swallowed. It can damage the body. When too many vitamins that have iron in them are eaten, people get sick. There are chemicals that doctors have that can react with iron and stop it from poisoning people.



</doc>
<doc id="223081" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223081" title="Prime Minister's Questions">
Prime Minister's Questions

Prime Minister's Questions (PMQs) is a weekly event in the British Parliament. It is a chance for the Leader of the Opposition and other MPs to ask the Prime Minister questions. Until 1997 there were two short PMQs each week. Now there is one longer event, which is on a Wednesday. It can often be a loud and rowdy event with lots of people shouting. Once Michael Heseltine grabbed the mace and waved it around his head.


</doc>
<doc id="223083" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223083" title="Leader of the Opposition">
Leader of the Opposition

The Leader of the Opposition is the name given to the leader of the largest party not in government in a Westminster System of parliamentary government. The Leader of the Opposition is often seen as the alternative Prime Minister, Premier or Chief Minister. They lead an alternative government known as the Shadow Cabinet or Opposition Front Bench.

In many Commonwealth realms the full title is "Leader of Her Majesty's Loyal Opposition". This is not used in Australia. It is the duty of the Opposition party to ask questions to the Prime Minister or other ministers during Question Time.

The following is a list of Leaders of the Opposition:



</doc>
<doc id="223084" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223084" title="Age of the Earth">
Age of the Earth

The age of the Earth, is over four billion years. Working this out was a difficult problem to solve. For most of human history, the basic facts about the planet were unknown. The problem was solved by Earth scientists in the twentieth century.

The first facts about the Earth were worked out by the Ancient Greeks. A good estimate of the Earth's size was made by Eratosthenes (276 – 194 ), using trigonometry. The first estimate of the Earth's age based on evidence was by Benoît de Maillet (1656–1738), a French diplomat, philosopher and naturalist. He thought the Earth must have developed by slow, natural forces. He studied geology in the field. He could see signs of erosion on land and sedimentation in the sea. He hid his ideas under the guise of a talk with an Indian philosopher, to avoid conflict with the Catholic Church. His work stayed in manuscript until after his death, when it was published after its editor had made changes which damaged it. Now there is a better modern edition based on the manuscripts. de Maillet estimated that the Earth was older than two billion years. He also recognized the true nature of fossils, and had early ideas about evolution.

In the last quarter of the 19th century there was a long-running debate on the age of the Earth. In Charles Lyell's "Principles of Geology" (1830–33), he showed that the Earth had changed slowly, and that what we see is the result of gradual changes. This clearly meant that the Earth was ancient, though Lyell did not try to work out how old. His younger friend Charles Darwin believed this, too. Darwin saw that if evolution had taken place, it would have required a long time. Also, a huge amount of sedimentary rock lies between the early fossils in the Cambrian strata, and the present land surface. Darwin and Lyell agreed that it would have taken a very long time for so much rock to be deposited.

In the first edition of "On the origin of species" (1859), Darwin had estimated that the erosion of the Sussex Weald must have taken 300 million years. Both he and Lyle were surprised when the physicist William Thomson (Lord Kelvin) said the Earth could not be as old as they thought. He made the calculation based on how long it must have taken the Earth to cool down to its present temperature, given a starting point of 2,000C. Kelvin's result was based on the idea that the near-surface geothermal gradient reflects the conductive cooling of the solid Earth

He did this calculation a number of times, making various assumptions. In 1862 his estimate was between 20 and 400 million years; but in 1866 he reduced the top estimate to 100 million years, and attacked Darwin and Lyle for not taking notice of his calculation. We know Darwin was anxious and worried that this would not be long enough to allow for evolution. Thomas Henry Huxley remarked that Kelvin's calculations were good, but his assumptions were wrong. In 1897 Kelvin did the calculation one last time, and came up with 20 to 40 million years. This, of course, would definitely not be long enough to allow for evolution.

Right at the end of the 19th century, someone realised that if the mantle was a highly viscous (sticky) fluid, that would make a great difference to the calculations. In 1895, John Perry, a former assistant to Kelvin, produced an age of Earth estimate of 2 to 3 billion years old using a model of a convective mantle and thin crust. 

In Kelvin’s model, heat on the Earth’s surface
is derived from the cooling of a shallow outer crust, assuming a solid Earth. But if the conductivity inside the Earth were much higher than at the surface, then the Earth's core and lower mantle would also cool. This would provide a huge store of energy to the surface. In that case, Kelvin’s estimate of the age of the Earth would be too low by many times.

Perry's main reason was that convection in the fluid, or partly fluid, interior of the Earth
would transfer heat much more effectively than would conduction:

Kelvin stuck by his estimate of 100 million years, and later reduced the estimate to about 20 million years.

We now know that the existence of a viscous fluid under a thin crust is a much greater factor than the discovery of radioactivity, which was the textbook explanation for many years. The rediscovery and reexamination of Perry's work is quite recent.

In 1896 Henri Bequerel discovered radioactivity. In 1903, he shared the Nobel Prize in Physics with Pierre and Marie Curie "in recognition of the extraordinary services he has rendered by his discovery of spontaneous radioactivity".

Eventually, it was realized that radioactivity was a major source of heat inside the Earth. In 1921 came the first modern estimate, using radiometric dating. It was based on uranium-lead dating: the rate of decay of uranium to lead in the crust of the Earth, by Henry Norris Russell. He came up with 2 to 8 billion years. In 1949, H.E. Suess estimated 4 to 5 billion years, based on a whole array of radioactive isotopes. This is close to the time we estimate today, which has been refined further to about 4,560 million years. 

The calculation makes use of convection in a viscous fluid as well as radioactivity, so it combines Perry's idea with the effect of radioactivity, even though Perry's contribution had been forgotten. The later knowledge of plate tectonics made it quite certain that the lower mantle was a viscous fluid. 

The formation and evolution of the Solar System is estimated to have begun 4.568 billion years ago with the gravitational collapse of a small part of a giant molecular cloud. Basically, the whole system developed in the same period of time.

Many societies assumed the Earth had always been as it is now. Some religions raised the question of its age: the Hindu religion got closest to the present-day scientific estimate. Some Christians and Jews believe the Genesis creation narrative is literally true, which would mean that the Earth was created between 5000 and 10,000 years ago. However, these days most people think such questions are best answered by scientific methods.


</doc>
<doc id="223091" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223091" title="Angara (rocket family)">
Angara (rocket family)

Angara is a family of rockets which are being developed in Russia. The family contains many different rockets. For example, there is a rocket for lifting small payloads and a rocket for lifting heavy payloads. The rockets are designed by a company called Khrunichev State Research and Production Space Center. The first rocket is expected to be ready in 2012.

Angara is being developed using money given by the Russian government. The government decided to finance Angara because they wanted to make sure that Russia has independent access to space. Many of Russia's current rockets can only be launched from Baikonour Cosmodrome in Kazakshtan. Many of them also use foreign technology. However, Angara is better since it does not use any foreign technology (it is 100% Russian) and can be launched from Plesetsk Cosmodrome, located in Russian territory. Another reason why it was decided to build Angara is because Russia needed a rocket which does not use toxic fuels, like some current rockets do.

The first part of all Angara rockets consists of an engine called Universal Rocket Module (in short: URM). The small version, Angara 1.1 has only one URM, while the heavier Angara 5 has 5 URMs. For this reason, Angara 5 can lift heavier payloads. The second part (called the second stage) of Angara 1.1 is called Briz-KM and the second stage of Angara 5 is called Block I. 

The rockets are meant for launching unmanned payloads such as satellites. However, Khrunichev has also suggested building a version that could launch humans into space: Angara 5P. 

All Angara versions can be launched from a single launch pad. 

The first flight of Angara is expected to take place in 2012 from Plesetsk Cosmodrome. In the future, the flights on Angara rockets will be sold to other companies, who want to get their satellites into space. The price for an Angara 1.1 flight is expected to be about 20 million dollars.


</doc>
<doc id="223110" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223110" title="Samsara">
Samsara

Samsara is a Buddhist term, meaning the conditioned state of mind. It is cycle of ignorance, leading to disturbing emotions and clumsy actions. They in turn are cause for suffering and new disturbing feelings and so on. According to Buddha’s teachings there are three main disturbing feelings: ignorance, anger and desire. They are called three poisons of mind and are told to have 84 000 combinations. The only way to completely get rid of suffering is to reach Nirvana or the perfect state of Buddha. All the teachings Buddha gives lead to this goal. 

There are six realms of samsara, connected to six specific emotions:


</doc>
<doc id="223115" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223115" title="Michael Heseltine">
Michael Heseltine

Michael Gordon R. Dibdin Heseltine, Baron Heseltine, CH, PC (born 21 March 1933) is a British politician and businessman. He currently sits in the House of Lords, and was a Member of Parliament from 1966 to 2001 as a member of the Conservative Party.

He was born in Swansea, Wales and studied at the University of Oxford. He was briefly conscripted into the army, before becoming a self-made millionaire in the 1960s. At the 1966 General Election, Heseltine became the Member of Parliament for the constituency of Tavistock in Devon. From 1970 to 1974, he was a junior minister in the government of Edward Heath. From 1979 to 1983, he was in the cabinet of Margaret Thatcher as Secretary of State for the Environment. He was Defence Secretary from 1983 to 1986, but resigned in 1986 and became a backbencher.

As a backbencher, Heseltine became very critical of Thatcher's government and refused to support the Poll Tax in 1989. In November 1990, Heseltine challenged Thatcher for Conservative Party leadership and this led to Thatcher resigning, but Heseltine did not get to become party leader. New Conservative Prime Minister John Major made Heseltine Secretary of State for the Environment (1990-1992), President of the Board of Trade (1992-1995) and Deputy Prime Minister (1995-1997).

In 2001, Heseltine stood down as an MP and entered the House of Lords. He was considered to be one of Britain's top 200 richest people in 2004, owning a wealth of about £240 million.


</doc>
<doc id="223131" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223131" title="Template:Alternate acc inline">
Template:Alternate acc inline


</doc>
<doc id="223132" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223132" title="Template:Alternate acc inline/doc">
Template:Alternate acc inline/doc

<includeonly>


</doc>
<doc id="223147" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223147" title="Template:NFLusealtColor">
Template:NFLusealtColor

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="223153" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223153" title="Template:Infobox song/color">
Template:Infobox song/color

<nowiki>#E6E8FA</nowiki>

</doc>
<doc id="223183" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223183" title="Geff Harrison">
Geff Harrison

Geff Harrison (also known as Richie West, August 24, 1947, Manchester, United Kingdom), is an English singer-songwriter, mostly known for his bands King Ping Meh and Twenty Sixty Six And Then. He created the band Modern Talking along with Dieter Bohlen.

In January 20, 1986, Harrison filled a lawsuit against Dieter Bohlen claiming that he wrote English lyrics for Modern Talking and C.C.Catch, but the lawsuit was settled out of court. According to the ruling of the court, Bohlen and Harrison created the group Modern Talking together.


</doc>
<doc id="223202" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223202" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Desert Combat">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Desert Combat


</doc>
<doc id="223203" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223203" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Saint Catherine of Alexandria">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Saint Catherine of Alexandria


</doc>
<doc id="223209" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223209" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Oracle database">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Oracle database


</doc>
<doc id="223210" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223210" title="James McAuley">
James McAuley

James Phillip McAuley (12 October 1917 – 15 October 1976) an Australian poet who also composed hymns used in Catholic liturgy and now in 'Together in Song' and so used by other denominations. One of his popular hymns is "Seek, O seek the lord" another is "Sing a new song". Others are; "O Jesus crucified","May this Lenten discipline",and "The law of Christ alone can make us free".


</doc>
<doc id="223236" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223236" title="Template:Infobox sports season/doc">
Template:Infobox sports season/doc

<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="223237" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223237" title="Template:Infobox Sports league/doc">
Template:Infobox Sports league/doc

<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="223238" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223238" title="Template:Infobox monarch/doc">
Template:Infobox monarch/doc

<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="223243" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223243" title="Freedom of information">
Freedom of information

Freedom of information is the right to freedom of expression on the Internet and other information technology. Freedom of information is the ability to access the Web without censorship or restrictions. 

Freedom of information is a human right recognised in international law. Freedom of speech includes not only the text and pictures but also the means of expression. Freedom of information may also refer to the right to privacy in the context of the Internet and information technology. The "right to privacy" is a human right and freedom of information is an extension of this right.



</doc>
<doc id="223250" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223250" title="Elijah">
Elijah

Elijah of Tishbe, whose name means "Yahweh is God," was a prophet in Israel in the 9th century BC. He appears in the Hebrew Bible, Talmud, Mishnah, New Testament, and the Qur'an. He is best known for being Israel's most famous prophet, his brave challenge to Baal's prophets on Mt. Carmel, and going up to heaven in a whirlwind.

Elijah went to the king, Ahab, who rejected God because of his even more sinful wife, Jezebel of Tyre, who stood as a symbol of Israel's unfaithfulness. He went to Ahab and God said through his lips (1 Kings chapter 17, NIV), "As the Lord, the God of Israel lives, whom I serve, there will be neither dew nor rain in the next few years except at my word."
Then Elijah followed the Lord's command and "went eastward and hid in the Kerith Ravine, east of the Jordan."
He "drank from the brook, and God had ordered the ravens to feed him there". 
The ravens brought him bread and meat in the morning and bread and meat in the evening, and he drank from the brook (because it did not rain, as he prophesied).

But then the brook dried up because of so little rain, and Elijah received the message from the Lord: "Go at once to Zarephath of Sidon and stay there. I have commanded a widow in the place to supply you with food" (1 Kings 17:9). 
So Elijah went, and met the widow gathering sticks to make the last meal for her son and herself. 
But when he called her and requested her to get himself some jar in a water and bread, she objected, (1 Kings 17:12) "As surely as the Lord your God lives, I don't have any bread - only a handful of flour in a jar and a little oil in a jug. I am gathering a few sticks to take home and make a meal for myself and my son, that we may eat it - and die." 
Then Elijah said to the widow, "Don't be afraid. Go home and do as you have said. But first make a small cake of bread for me from what you have and bring it to me, and then make something for yourself and your son. For this is what the Lord, the God of Israel says: 'The jar of flour will not be used up nd the jug of oil will not run dry until the day the Lord gives rain on the land.'" So the widow did as Elijah told her to do, and there was enough food in the widow's house for everybody.

But then the son of the widow grew ill. He finally, after growing more and more worse, stopped breathing. 
The widow became so very worried, and called Elijah--"What do you have against me, man of God? Did you come to remind me of my sin and kill my son?" 
And Elijah replied, "Give me your son." He took him and carried him to the upper room where he was staying, and laid him on his bed. Then he cried out to the Lord, "O Lord my God, have you brought tragedy also upon this widow I am staying with, by causing her son to die?" Then he stretched himself upon the boy three times (probably to give to the boy his body warmth, though his prayer shows that he expected the life of the child to come back as an answer to prayer, not by physical touch), and cried out to the Lord, "O Lord my God, let this boy's life return to him!"
And the boy returned to life, making the woman admit that Elijah is "a man of God and that the word of the Lord from your mouth is the truth": a confession the Lord's own people Israel had not made. This is the first example of raising the dead in the Bible.

Then Elijah went to "present himself to Ahab" as the Lord commanded him to, and he met Obadiah, the honorable man who had kept loyal to the Lord and had hidden 100 priests of God that King Ahab had tried to kill. Obadiah recognized Elijah and respectfully bowed down to the ground, exclaiming, "Is it really you, my lord Elijah?" 
Elijah replied yes, and ordered him to go and tell Ahab that he is here. Obadiah refused, crying, "What have I done you wrong that you are handing your servant over to Ahab to be put to death?" and declaring how he had "hid a hundred of the Lord's prophets in two caves, fifty in each, and supplied them with food and water." and that if Ahab came and saw that Elijah was gone and not here, he would surely kill him.

Elijah replied, the more the calmly, "As the Lord Almighty lives, whom I serve, I will surely present myself to Ahab today."
So Obadiah went to meet Ahab and told him, and Ahab went to meet Elijah. They argued, and Elijah told Ahab to "summon the people from all over Israel" to meet him on the Mount Carmel, and to "bring the four hundred and fifty prophets of Baal and the four hundred prophets of Asherah, who eat at Jezebel's table". And surprisingly, Ahab obeyed him.

Then, when all the Israelis and prophets of Baal were summoned, they prepared two altars - one for Elijah, and for the Lord the God of Israel - and one for the priests of Baal. Then Elijah went to the people and said, "How long will you waver between two opinions? If the Lord is God, follow him; but if Baal is God, follow him." but the people did nor say anything, so he continued: "I am the only one of the Lord's prophets left, but Baal has four hundred and fifty prophets. Get two bulls for us. Let them choose one for themselves, and let them cut it into pieces and put it on the wood but not set fire to it. I will prepare the other bull and put it on the wood but not set fire to it. Then you call on the name of your god, and I will call on the name of the Lord. The god who answers by fire--he is the God." (1 Kings 18:20)

The people agreed to this, and they did as Elijah said. Then the priests of Baal all prepared the bull, and called to Baal all morning till noon. "O Baal, answer us!" but the so-called "Baal" made no reply at all - and the prophets grew weary and discouraged. Elijah, however, was pleased, and he teased them (1 King 18:27), "Shout louder! Surely he is a god! Perhaps he is deep in thought, or busy, or traveling. Maybe he is sleeping and must be awakened." So they shouted even louder and slashed themselves with swords and spears wildly, as was their custom, until the blood flowed from their wounds. After midday passed, it was Elijah's turn - and nobody paid attention to the Baal prophets anymore - so he prepared the sacrifice, and ordered (1 Kings 18:33), "Fill four large jars with water and pour it on the offering and on the wood."

(verse 34) And he said, "Do it again." and they did it again, and a third time, as he said.
Then, after there was so much water it ran down the trench, he stepped forward and prayed (1 Kings 18:36 to 37): "O Lord, God of Abraham, Isaac and Israel, let it be known today that you are God in Israel and that I am your servant and have done all these things at your command. Answer me, O Lord, answer me, so these people will know that you, O Lord, are God, and that you are turning their hearts back again."

Then the fire of the Lord fell and burned up the sacrifice, the wood, the stones and the soil, and also licked up the water in the trench. All the people were awed, and they "fell prostrate" and repented. Then they all seized the prophets of Baal, as Elijah had told them to, and slaughtered them at Kishon Valley. And Ahab went off to eat and drink as Elijah told him to. Then, after climbing the mountain of Carmel and asking his servant seven times if he saw anything above the ocean, the servant answered him at the seventh time--"A cloud as small as a man's hand is rising from the sea." And Elijah told his servant to inform Ahab to go home, because a big rainstorm was coming. Ahab rushed into his chariot and raced home, but the "Power of the Lord came upon Elijah and, tucking his cloak into his belt, he ran ahead of Ahab all the way to Jezreel".

After that, Ahab told to Jezebel about what had happened about Elijah and how the prophets of Baal had been killed by the people of Israel. Jezebel got angry, and sent a message to Elijah that "by this time of the day tomorrow" she would make his "life like that of one of them", referring to the prophets of Baal. 
Elijah became scared, and ran away to Beersheba in Judah, left his servant there, and went ahead for a day's journey in the desert. Finally, he came to a broom tree, sat down under it and prayed that he might die (1 Kings 19:4). "I have had enough, Lord," he complained unhappily, "Take my life; I am no better than my ancestors." And he lay down and fell asleep. But the Lord sent an angel to wake him up and feed him some water and a cake of bread "baked over hot coals". Elijah ate and drank and lay down again, and the angel came back again and woke him, and gave him more food. Strengthened by that food, Elijah got up and traveled forty days and forty nights until he reached Horeb, the mountain of God. There he went into a cave and spent the night. 

And the Lord appeared to him and asked, "What are you doing here, Elijah?"
He replied not the answer to the Lord's question, but instead of how he had "been very zealous for the Lord God Almighty" and how the Israelites were being unfair to him. The Lord told him to go out and stand on the mountain in the presence of the Lord.
Then the Lord sent a great and powerful wind, and an earthquake, a fire, but the Lord was not in neither: and finally he came in a gentle whisper, and Elijah went out, pulling his cloak over his face. The Lord had tried to show him through all those winds and earthquakes and fires that the Lord was not always harsh, but was more gentle. The Lord asked once again, "What are you doing here, Elijah?" but Elijah again ignored the question and complained about how he had been "Zealous for the Lord God Almighty". So the Lord told him to go anoint many new political and religious leaders, and he did. And he took Elisha, for his next prophet and companion.

After Ahab died, Ahaziah was crowned king, and he became ill. So he sent some people to consult Baal-Zebub, the god of Ekron, to see if he would recover. However, God was very angry and told Elijah to prophesy against Ahaziah. So on the way, Elijah went and met the servants, and told them (2 Kings 1:6) as the Lord had instructed him, "Go back to the king who sent you and tell him, 'This is what the Lord says:Is it because there was no God in Israel that you are sending men to consult Baal-Zebub, the god of Ekron? Therefore (Because of this) you will not leave the bed you are lying on. You will certainly (surely) die!'" And the messengers did has he was told. At King Ahaziah's questions, they described Elijah as "a man with a garment of hair and with a leather belt around his waist". Elijah's cloak was probably of sheepskin or camel's hair, like John the Baptist's, and showed a big difference from the other rich, well-dressed people at that time. He was protesting against the selfishness of the king and the upper classes. The king recognized Elijah by that description (because Elijah had met Ahab, his father, many times), and sent a captain and fifty men to get him. Maybe Ahaziah thought, like many people at that time who did not believe in God, that if he killed Elijah or forced him to change the curse, it would not happen.

The captain he sent said to Elijah, who was sitting on the top of a hill, "Man of God, the king says, 'Come down!'" Ahaziah was trying to place Elijah, the prophet, under his, a king's, power. According to Israel's covenant (promise) with God, the king was supposed to be under the power of the word of the Lord spoken by his prophets.

But Elijah did not come down instead said (2 Kings 1:10, NIV) "If I am a man of God, may fire come down from heaven and consume you and your fifty men! Then fire fell from heaven and consumed the captain and his men. With this, Elijah was showing the king that in Israel, a king was only a servant of the real king, God. Later, Jesus's warning to his disciples when they were trying to call fire down to destroy the Samaritans was not to disapprove of what Elijah did, but to show his disciples that the problem between Elijah and the king and the unfaithfulness of the Samaritans was very different.

The king sent to Elijah another captain with his fifty men, and they, too, were burned up by fire. Finally, the king sent a third captain with his fifty men, who "...fell on his knees before Elijah..." and bowed before him, humbly asking him to come. Elijah was told by the angel of the Lord to go down, so he went down and told the king again, "You will certainly die!" "So he died, according to the word of the Lord that Elijah had spoken". (2 Kings 1:17, NIV)

After that, Elijah went to Elisha, and they both went on their way from Gilgal. Elijah said to Elisha, "Stay here; the Lord has sent me to Bethel." but Elijah insisted upon going, so they went down together to Bethel. 
The company of the prophets at Bethel came out to Elisha and asked, "Do you know that the Lord is going to take your master from you today?"
Elisha said that he knew; but warned them not to speak of it. Then Elijah said to him to stay there, and that the Lord had sent him to the Jordan by himself, but Elisha did not obey, and insisted on going with Elijah. Elijah then asked, "Tell me, what can I do for you before I am taken from you?" and Elisha replied: "Let me inherit a double portion of your spirit."
Elijah then agreed, but only if Elisha would see him be taken to heaven. They were walking along when suddenly a chariot of fire and horses of fire appeared and separated the two of them, and Elijah went up to heaven in a whirlwind. Elisha cried, "My father! My father! The chariots and horsemen of Israel!" Elisha showed Elijah as a symbol of the true strength of Israel. Elisha picked up Elijah's cloak and used it to divide the water in the river of Jordan: so this cloak symbolized that Elisha had now taken Elijah's place.



</doc>
<doc id="223284" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223284" title="Isaac Watts">
Isaac Watts

Isaac Watts (17 July 1674 – 25 November 1748) was an English pastor, preacher, poet, and hymn writer. He is often called the "Father of English Hymnody": he was the first popular English hymn writer. Because of his short height and large head, in all his portraits Isaac Watts wore a large gown. He wrote about 600 hymns including "When I Survey the Wondrous Cross", "Am I a Soldier of the Cross", and "Joy to the World". He is buried today in Bun­hill Fields Cem­etery, Lon­don, Eng­land.

Isaac Watts was born in 1674 as a small and sickly child. At this time, his father was in prison for being a nonconformist preacher. At that time in England, a man who did not preach the way the leaders of the Church of England thought about God could go to prison. Christians who were "dissenters" met secretly in fields and barns to hide from people who would report them. Dissenters were fined for preaching anywhere if five or more people were there. Isaac Watts gave much encouragement for people to continue to believe in Christ.

Isaac, even when he was young, was good at and liked rhyming. He was a good student and liked books. Once, when his mother said she would give a farthing (a coin) to one of her husband's students who could make the best rhyme, Isaac tried and made this couplet:

"I write not this for a farthing, but to try 
How I your farthing writers can outvie’."

When he was six, he made some verses. When his mother saw them, she could hardly believe he had written them. So Isaac gave his mother a poem he had made with his name:

I am a vile polluted lump of earth
S-o I've continu'd ever since my birth
A-lthough Jehovah grace does daily give me
A-ssure this monster Satan will deceive me
C-ome, therefore, Lord, from Satan's claws relieve me.

W-ash me in thy blood, O Christ
A-nd grace divine impart
T-hen search and try the corners of my heart
T-hat I in all things may be fit to do
S-ervice to thee, and sing thy praises too.

When he was in his early tewnties, Isaac saw a need in the church. He told his father that the psalms sung in the church were rough and hard. Isaac's father challenged him to write better songs, and Isaac began writing hymns. Watts produced many hymns for which he is now famous.

Watts also saw that children needed to have hymns that suited their age, hymns that they could sing in their everyday life. Because of this, in 1720 he wrote "Divine and Moral Songs, for the Use of Children". These songs were about problems of youth at that time and still today, with titles like "Against Evil Company" and "Against Pride in Clothes". 

Watts lived a long and full life preaching about Jesus, teaching, and writing books and hymns. When he died, his papers were given to Yale University.

Some of Isaac Watts' most well known and loved songs are:


</doc>
<doc id="223306" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223306" title="Nowy Dwór Królewski">
Nowy Dwór Królewski

Nowy Dwór Królewski is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Papowo Biskupie, within Chełmno County, Kuyavian-Pomeranian Voivodeship, in north-central Poland.


</doc>
<doc id="223316" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223316" title="Brecht (disambiguation)">
Brecht (disambiguation)

Brecht can be any of the following:




</doc>
<doc id="223318" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223318" title="Arpin, Wisconsin">
Arpin, Wisconsin

Arpin is a village of Wood County in the state of Wisconsin in the United States. 337 people were living in Arpin as of 2000. Arpin has a total area of 0.9 square miles, says the the United States Census Bureau.


</doc>
<doc id="223320" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223320" title="Wood County, Wisconsin">
Wood County, Wisconsin

Wood County is a county in the state of Wisconsin in the United States. 75,555 people were living in Wood County as of 2000. The county seat of Wood County is Wisconsin Rapids. 

Wood County has a total area of 809 square miles, says the U.S. Census Bureau.


The following are the cities, villages, and towns of Wood County:


The following are the unincorporated communities of Wood County:




</doc>
<doc id="223321" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223321" title="Template:Wood County, Wisconsin">
Template:Wood County, Wisconsin


</doc>
<doc id="223322" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223322" title="Category:Wood County, Wisconsin">
Category:Wood County, Wisconsin


</doc>
<doc id="223323" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223323" title="Category:1856 establishments">
Category:1856 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="223325" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223325" title="Category:Juneau County, Wisconsin">
Category:Juneau County, Wisconsin


</doc>
<doc id="223326" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223326" title="Template:Juneau County, Wisconsin">
Template:Juneau County, Wisconsin


</doc>
<doc id="223333" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223333" title="Invasion of the Bane">
Invasion of the Bane

"Invasion of the Bane" is the first episode of The Sarah Jane Adventures, which is a British science fiction television series about a woman called Sarah Jane Smith (Elisabeth Sladen). It was broadcast on 1st January 2007 and although it is written as a pilot episode, it is not. This is because a series was agreed before the pilot episode was actually written.
In this episode, a young girl called Maria Jackson discovers aliens. When she discovers that an alien race called the Bane have created a drink that can control people's minds, she decides to team up with Sarah Jane Smith, a journalist, to stop them.

This episode begins with Maria Jackson (Yasmin Paige) and her divorced father, Alan Jackson (Joseph Millson), moving into the house across the road from Sarah Jane Smith. That night, a bright, light that is coming from Sarah Jane's house wakes Maria up. Maria decides to find out what it is and find that it is an alien called a Star Poet.
The next morning, her friend and neighbour, Kelsey Hooper (Porsha Lawrence Mavour) invites her to go to the Bubble Shock open day. They hop onto the free Bubble Shock bus and get taken to the factory. When they arrive, a guard takes them to a security scanner. The scanner takes their DNA and transfers it to "the Archetype" (Thomas Knight) whilst being watched by Mrs Wormwood (Samantha Bond).
Sarah Jane has overheard the girls' plans and decides to follow them. When she is the factory she interviews Mrs Wormwood. She asks her how she gained approval of her drink so quickly and why she was not able to analyse "Bane", an ingredient only found in Bubble Shock. Mrs Wormwood simply says that Bubble Shock satisfies the needs of the Western world. She then throws Sarah Jane out. Sarah Jane is almost killed by a secretary of Mrs Wormwood.
Kelsey gets bored and walks out of the tour to phone her friend, but disturbs the Bane Mother. Mrs Wormwood tells her staff not to ring any sirens and to kill Sarah Jane Smith. When Maria tries to phone Kelsey, she sets off more alarms. These alarms cause the Archetype to escape. While Maria is escaping, she bumps into the Archetpye and takes him to the safety of the women's bathroom. He can only mimic her. Sarah Jane then finds them and helps them to escape. When they are at home, Sarah Jane warns Maria not to keep following her because her life is too dangerous.
Meanwhile, the guards at the factory are speaking to Kelsey. She complains about her treatment and to shut her up, Mrs Wormwood reveals her true, alien body. She then finds out that Kelsey and Sarah Jane live on the same street and, therefore, tells her PR (Jamie Davis) to take Kelsey home. Maria then realises that the Bane know about Sarah Jane and the PR reveals his true body as well, chasing Maria, Sarah Jane and Kelsey into Sarah Jane's house.
After stopping the PR, Sarah Jane takes the kids to her attic and tells them the truth. She tells them that aliens exist and then years ago, she met a wonderful man called "The Doctor". She travelled in Time and Space but then, the adventures stopped and she was back on Earth. She then told them that by accident, she and The Doctor met again and she then found out that he still liked her.
Sarah Jane Smith finally understands that the ingredient was sentient and rings up Mrs Wormwood and asks her to leave Earth. But Mrs Wormwood refuses and uses Bubble Shock to control the majority of the human race. Sarah Jane breaks into the factory immediately by driving the bus into the wall and the Bane Mother is revealed. She explains that she made the Archetype with different people's DNA and that the Archetype is the perfect human being. The Archetype uses the Bane technology to rescue the gang and to explode the factory.
Later on, Sarah Jane agrees to adopt the Archetype and they decide to call him "Luke" because Sarah Jane said that if she ever had a son, she would call it "Luke". The episode ends with Sarah Jane telling us that if we look hard enough, we might just find aliens.

Elisabeth Sladen played Sarah Jane Smith in Doctor Who between the years of 1973 and 1976. She played along side Jon Pertwee (The Third Doctor) and Tom Baker (The Forth Doctor). The BBC wanted her to return for some more adventures with the Fourth and Fifth Doctors but she declines. However, she agreed to star in the Special, The Five Doctors. She also agreed to star in one episode of a spin-off series K-9 and Company. She took a break from acting to raise a family but returned in the 2006 episode School Reunion starring David Tennant as the Tenth Doctor. And then she and Thomas Knight starred in the Series Four finale The Stolen Earth/Journey's End. The Sarah Jane adventures is still ongoing and it is in its third series.
On the 8th December 2008, the first scene of this episode was shown on BBC Breakfast and online, on the Doctor Who Advent Calendar. The clip showed Sarah Jane interviewing Mrs Wormwood.
When the episode was first broadcast, it received 2.9 million viewers, 15% of the audience share, of which 20% were under 16., but lost out to a showing of "Chitty Chitty Bang Bang" on ITV1.



</doc>
<doc id="223346" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223346" title="List of Characters in The Sarah Jane Adventures">
List of Characters in The Sarah Jane Adventures

This is a list of the characters in "The Sarah Jane Adventures" series.
Sarah Jane Smith is a trustworthy journalist who writes about and fights aliens. She used to travel through time and space with a man called The Doctor. Now she lives on Bannerman road with her adopted son, Luke.

Luke Smith was created by the Bane to observe human brain patterns. Because created by the Bane, Luke is an assembly for six million human beings and he
children in Park veil call Luke Brain box.

Maria Jackson is a loyal friend to Sarah jane. Her first appearance in the Sarah Jane adventures was the invasion of the bane to the last sontaran. She also appears in the mark of the Berzerker. Her friend, kealsy hooper took maria in to the bubble shock factory were Marias life would change for ever.

This is the joker of the class and is normally found being cheeky and causing trouble. However, in the centre, you'll find someone who is dedicated to helping Sarah Jane and to stopping the terrible evils of the universe.
This young investigator arrived on Bannerman Road when her dad became headmaster of the local school. She is the bravest girl you'll ever meet.
He is Sarah Jane's robot dog. He may look a bit "retro" but with K-9 as man's best friend, you can't go wrong.

He is Maria's father. He is divorced and for the majority of the series, he was unaware that his daughter was secretly fighting aliens. At the end of Series One, he found out and decided that he was going to help. He recently took a job in America, meaning that he had to take Maria with him.
Maria's mum. She is kind-hearted but she can't for the life of her, remember Sarah Jane's name and has been heard calling her Suzie-Q, Sally-Anne, Mary Jane and Calamity Jane.
Rani's parents. Haresh is the headmaster of the local High School and although his is very friendly, he does dislike it when children are naughty. His Sunday dinner's are amazing, apparently. In comparison, his wife, Gita is very forgetful. She, like Chrissie, who is Maria's mum, cannot get Sarah Jane's name right, and insists on calling her Sarah.
He's a Time Lord from the planet Gallifrey. Sarah Jane once travelled with him in Time and Space and after telling the others about her wonderful adventures, they eventually get to meet him... at Sarah Jane's wedding. He has two hearts and when he dying, he can regenerate, literally changing every single cell in his body.

This alien can enter people's body's and take over speech and movement. They are very tricky to spot because of this.
These are lights from before the Big Bang with powers bigger than you can imagine. The Ancient Lights took over Martin Trueman and started to use him to prophesise an end to the world. They tried to take over people starsign by starsign.
Large, tentacle-covered aliens which can disguise themselves as humans. They can slightly mind-read and tried to enslave the human race with Bubble Shock, Invasion of the Bane. They also tried to create the Perfect Human and this was Luke Smith.
These were a group of aliens which wore pendants, allowing them to obtain psychic powers. A Beserker Pendant was found by a boy at Park Vale School and this allowed his to do as he pleased. It was later found by Clyde's father.
The Blathereen are similar to the Slitheen (see below) in the fact that they are a family and not a species. The Blathereen, unlike the Slitheen, are orange and their main aim is to spread peace throughout the universe. Sarah Jane and the gang was tricked by a pair of Blathereen-Slitheen to trust them. They planted a poisonous plant around the Earth and people everywhere grew sick.
She is a red alien from an unknown species that escaped during a war between her people and the Daleks. Her Ship crashed in a seaside resort in Danemouth and Ship ordered the caretaker of a funfair to look after her until it had rebuilt.
One look at the Gorgon and you'll turn to stone. That's what happened to Maria's father. They originate from the planet Gorgos.
The Groske are a different race to the Graske, they are notably blue instead of pink in skin colour. Some Groske crash-landed and were found by U.N.I.T. in 2006. Since then they have earned their keep as workmen in U.N.I.T. bases. Groske can be mistaken for Graske if you have not met them before, as Clyde, Rani and Sarah-Jane find out in Death of the Doctor, but Groske seem to have a hatred for the Graske. This two-part episode is the first appearance of the Groske. 

Interstellar thug police from the planet Jadoon and resemble rhino-headed soldiers. They are hired by others to solve crimes. In Prisoner of the Judoon, one was seen chasing an Androvax.
From the planet Griffoth, Krislok works for the Trickster and steals people from Time and Space and allows the Trickster to make them vanish from the Time Lines. Krislok was also tricked by the Trickster as his spaceship was about to crash into working for him for Eternity.

He is a member of the bug-like species Uvodni. He was a warrior for his species until he was injured and had to stop. He took control of Laser Tag centres across the world and the winning children were beamed up to a space station far above Earth to be prepared to fight in a war. Little did the General know, the war was actually over. With that, the children were returned.
The famous painting by Leonardo Da Vinci came alive due to an alien organism in the paint that Leonardo used. Hidden below the art gallery is a painting so terrifying that they call it The Abomination.
Mr Smith is Sarah Jane's supercomputer that she hides in her wall. It is really a Xylock- an alien race that has a huge memory store. It first communicated with Sarah Jane's laptop when she bought the house and it promised Sarah Jane that he would help her in keeping the Earth safe for as long as he was functional. There is occassional banter between it and K-9.
The Slitheen are a family of aliens from the planet Raxacoricofallapatorius. They go around the galaxy causing trouble and their main aim in life is to make as much money as possible regardless of whom they harm in the process. In The Lost Boy, they planned to bring the moon crashing down. To defeat these green monsters, you need to throw vinegar-based products on them, as they are made of calcium and the result is a huge, gooey explosion.
Clone species from the planet Sontar. They love wars and will do anything for a fight. They complained in "Doctor Who" for not being allowed to take part in the Time War.

Star Poets are a race of fictional aliens. After Maria Jackson saw Sarah Jane Smith talking to one in the "The Sarah Jane Adventures" episode called Invasion of the Bane. It was revealed that Sarah Jane was using the Star Poet for help with a poem. Sarah Jane was given a device that would bring the Star Poet back, if she ever needed its help again. Another member of the same species, with the name Mary, was seen in the "Torchwood" episode "Greeks Bearing Gifts". Torchwood showed that the race can communicate telepathically using pendants and Sarah Jane Adventures showed that they could also fly. On the official Sarah Jane Adventures website, Mr Smith stated that they were "Butterfly People"", but there have been many Torchwood references to them as being "Arcateenian".. In situations like this, the continuity is left unknown.
An evil being with no eyes hidden within a veil. All he wants to do is wreak havoc. He first took Sarah Jane out of her Time Line and replaced her with Andrea Yates- something that never happened. Because of this, the end of the world nearly happened. Secondly, he tempted Sarah Jane to save her parents that she never knew before they died and she did so and the whole Earth paid the price. Without parents, she never met the Doctor and without Sarah Jane, the Doctor failed to save the Earth and it was enslaved by the Trickster. During an episode of Doctor Who, Turn Left, one of the Trickster's Brigade, a Time Beetle, latched onto Donna Noble and made her turn right instead of left. She never met the Doctor, the Doctor died and so did everyone else in the whole universe. Finally, the Trickster tricked Sarah Jane's fiancé into saving his own life and marrying Sarah Jane. Although he did love Sarah Jane, if Sarah Jane married him, she'd forget about the Earth and leave it wide open to attacks. With the help of the Doctor and the sacrifice of her fiancé, the Earth was once again safe.


</doc>
<doc id="223352" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223352" title="Acarina">
Acarina

The Acarina, or Acari, are the mites and ticks. They are an order of Arachnids.

Their fossil history goes back to the Devonian era. Most acarines are tiny: less than a millimetre. It is estimated that over 50,000 species have been described, but a million or more species may be currently living. The study of mites and ticks is called acarology.

Acarines live in practically every habitat, and include aquatic (freshwater and sea water) and terrestrial species. They outnumber other arthropods in the soil and detritus. Many are parasitic, and they affect both vertebrates and invertebrates. Most parasitic forms are external parasites, while the free living forms are generally predators and may even be used to control undesirable arthropods. Others help to break down forest litter and dead organic matter such as skin cells. Others still are herbivorous and may damage crops. Damage to crops is perhaps the most costly economic effect of mites, especially by the spider mites and their relatives, earth mites, thread-footed mites and the gall and rust mites. 

Some parasitic forms affect humans and other mammals, causing damage by their feeding, and can even be vectors of diseases such as scrub typhus and rickettsia. A well-known effect of mites on humans is as an allergen which stimulates asthma. Predatory mites may be used in pest control and herbivorous mites used to attack weeds. A positive contribution of the Acari is their normal functioning in ecosystems, especially their roles in the decomposer subsystem.

A hugely successful group with a large number of species. Mites are among the most diverse and successful of all the invertebrate groups. They have exploited an incredible array of habitats, and because of their small size (most are microscopic) go largely unnoticed. Many live freely in the soil or water, but there are also a large number of species that live as parasites on plants, animals, and some that feed on mould (fungi).

Ticks are blood-sucking ectoparasites, mostly of mammals and birds. They wait on grass or bushes, and jump onto passing animals. A number of birds specialise in picking them off larger animals: the Cattle Egret and the Oxpecker for example. They are quite serious pests, and can be hard to get rid of. They are vectors, carrying diseases such as Lyme disease.


</doc>
<doc id="223386" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223386" title="Ahab">
Ahab

Ahab or Ach'av or Achab in Douay-Rheims (; ; ) was King of Israel and the son of Omri. He is written about in the Books of Kings and the Books of Chronicles.

Ahab son of Omri did "more evil in the eyes of the LORD than any of those before him" (1 Kings 16:30), as it is written in the Bible. Many think - and say - that it is probably because of his evil wife, Queen Jezebel, daughter of Ethbaal king of the Sidonians. She was even more sinful than Ahab, and comes out in the Bible, commanding Ahab to do most of the things she wants. She serves the idol Baal and tries to make Ahab and all the Israelites worship it as well.
One of Ahab's most famous enemies is an old prophet (a man of God) named Elijah. He continually rebukes Ahab for being so disobeying to the LORD, and when Ahab summoned all the prophets of Baal against Elijah at Mount Carmel, and set two altars for them, Elijah won by calling on God and letting fire come and burn the sacrifice, and the prophets of Baal were immediately killed by the Israelites. Importantly, even here Ahab does nothing, either to stop or help Elijah.

Once, there was a quite well-known war between Ben-Hadad king of Aram and King Ahab. Ben-Hadad came and, "with thirty-two kings with horses and chariots" (1 Kings 20), he attacked Samaria. He said to King Ahab: 
"Your silver and gold are mine, and the best of your wives and children are mine."
This King Ahab agreed with--but after that, Ben-Hadad sent another more demanding command: "I sent to demand your silver and gold, your wives and children. But about this time tomorrow I am going to send my officials to search your palace and the houses of your officials. They will seize everything you value and carry it away."--and King Ahab grew annoyed. He rejected that command, and so Ben-Hadad decided to battle against Ahab. And after that the LORD sent a prophet and said, "Do you see this vast army? I will give it into your hand today, and then you will know that I am the LORD."
And he also added that the young officers of the commanders will do it, and that King Ahab would start the battle.

Encouraged by this, Ahab took the young officers of the comanders, 232 men. Then he assembled the rest of the Israelites, 7,000 in all. They set out at noon while Ben-Hadad and the 32 kings with him were in their tents getting drunk, and defeated them all, because God was with them. 
After that, later at spring, as a prophet prophesied to Ahab, Ben-Hadad came again, mustering all his army. They came to the valleys, declaring triumphantly that God was a "gods of hills" and that was why the Israelites were strong; and now that they were in the valleys, they would surely win the battle. But God wanted to prove that he was the God of everything and not only of the hills, so he helped Ahab defeat them there, too. Ahab then spared Ben-Hadad's life later, causing God to get angry at Ahab and say through a prophet (1 Kings 20:42)--"This is what the LORD says: 'You have set free a man that I had determined should die. Therefore it is your life for his life, your people for his people.'" 

Ahab also once did a great sin that the LORD was very angry at, and it included a vineyard of Naboh the Jezreelite. 
He wanted a vineyard belonging to Naboth the Jezreelite, because it was in Jezreel and close to his palace. So Ahab said to Naboth (1 Kings 21:2), "Let me have your vineyard to use for a vegetable garden, since it is close to my palace. In exchange I will give you a better vineyard or, if you prefer, I will pay you whatever it is worth."
But Naboth was unwilling because "the LORD forbid" that he should give Ahab "the inheritance of his fathers". So Ahab was very angry and sulky, and when he was at home he wouldn't eat, and pouted on his bed. Then Jezebel came over and asked (1 Kings 21:5), "Why are you so ? Why won't you eat?" And Ahab explained to her the situation. Jezebeel told him to get up, and said that she would get him the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite. 
So she wrote some letters in Ahab's name, placed his seal on them, and sent them to the elders and nobles who lived in Naboth's city. It said: 
(1 Kings 21:9-10) "Proclaim a day of fasting and seat Naboth in a prominent place among the people. But seat two scoundrels opposite him and have them testify that he has cursed both God and the king. Then take him out and stone him to death." 
So the elders and nobles did as she told him to, and Naboth died a bitter, meaningless death. 
Then Jezebel declared to Ahab that Naboth was "no longer alive, but dead" and Ahab got up and took possession of Nahab's vineyard. The Lord was very angry at Ahab for this, and said to Elijah the Tishbite, a prophet--(1 Kings 21:18)"Go down to meet Ahab the king of Israel, who rules in Samaria. He is now in Naboth's vineyard, where he has gone to take possession of it. Say to him, "This is what the LORD says: 'have you not murdered a man and seized his property?' Then say to him, 'This is what the LORD says, in the place where dogs licked up Naboth's blood, dogs will lick up your blood - yes, yours!'"
King Ahab said to Elijah, when he met him (1 Kings 21:20), "So you have found me, my enemy!" 
Elijah replied, "I have found you, because you have sold yourself to do evil in the eyes of the LORD. 'I am going to bring disaster on you. I will consume your descendants and cut off from Ahab every last male in Israel - slave or free. I will make your house like that of Jeroboam son of Nebat and that of Baasha son of Ahijah, becauase you have provoked me to anger and have caused Israel to sin.' And also concerning Jezebel the LORD says: 'Dogs will devour Jezebel by the wall of Jezreel.' Dogs will eat those belonging to Ahab who die in the city, and the birds of the air will feed on those who die in the country." 
At hearing this, Ahab grew afraid, and humbled himself by tearing his clothes, putting on sackcloth, and fasting. He 'lay in sackcloth and went around meekly.' The LORD felt compassionate, and said to Elijah, "Have you noticed how Ahab has humbled himself before me? Because he has humbled himself, I will not bring this disaster in his day, but I will bring it on his house in the days of his son."

According to the Bible, for three years there was no war between Aram and Israel. But in the third year, when Jehoshaphat king of Judah went down to see Ahab (who was now his father-in-law, since Jehoshaphat had married Athaliah, his daughter), Ahab said, "Let's go retake Ramoth Gilead from the king of Aram! Will you go with me?" Jehoshaphat replied, "I am as you are, my people as your people, my horses as your horses." For this, he would later be by the prophet Jehu. But he added: "First seek the counsel of the Lord."

King Ahab called together the prophets—"about four hundred men"—and asked them, "Shall I go to attack Ramoth Gilead or not?" And they said, "Go." These prophets were not really prophets, but simply did their "job" by saying things that they thought would make the king happy - not what the Lord really said. King Jehoshaphat saw that the 400 prophets were not to be trusted, and asked to see a real prophet of the Lord, saying, "Is there not a prophet of the Lord here...?" King Ahab said that there was Micaiah son of Imlah, but "...he never prophesies anything good about me, but always bad." Jehoshaphat wanted to see him, so Ahab called him. Meanwhile, Zedekiah son of Kenaanah, one of the 400 prophets, had made iron horns and he cried, "This is what the Lord says: 'With these you will the Arameans until they are destroyed.'" All the other prophets said the same thing. Even the messenger who had gone to call Micaiah said to him, "Let your word agree with theirs..."

When Micaiah came, he said, "Attack, and be victorious (win)." But Ahab probably saw that Micaiah was not being serious, and he said, "...tell me nothing but the truth..." So Micaiah said that he saw the Lord sitting on his throne in heaven, and that the Lord had put a "lying spirit" in the mouths of all the prophets, because they did not love the truth and had chosen to speak out of their own hearts. At this, one of the prophets, Zedekiah son of Kenaanah was so enraged he went to Micaiah and slapped him in the face, saying sarcastically, "Which way did the spirit from the Lord go when he went from me to speak (talk) to you?" (1 Kings 22:24, NIV) Micaiah replied, "You will find out...[when] you go to hide in an inner room." King Ahab put Micaiah and prison and went to battle in disguise, thinking that this way nobody would know who he was and so Micaiah's prophecy would not be fulfilled (come true). But one of the soldiers shot him by mistake, and he had a deep wound and died in his chariot, watching the battle sadly. As in the prophecy of Elijah, the dogs licked up his blood. After him, his sons succeeded as king, Ahaziah and Jehoram.



</doc>
<doc id="223389" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223389" title="Eppertshausen">
Eppertshausen

Eppertshausen is a municipality in the Darmstadt-Dieburg Rural District in the state of Hesse, Germany. 

Eppertshausen is located in the "Rhine-Main area" 15 km northeast of Darmstadt. The whole area of the village is 13.11 km large and it lies 130 – 190 m above sea level. It is a plain area with a few hills.

About 35 to 20 million years ago in the age of tertiary the whole region was lying under sea level. At that time it was covered by an ocean which was warm and not very deep. Lots of sediments sank to its bottom. Then the region rose again and the water left, leaving soil which is mostly sandy and poor. 

The neighbours of Eppertshausen are: 

Eppertshausen has 5,829 inhabitants (2008). 

The climate of the town is mild. There is less rain than in other parts of Germany.

Some local people are speaking a regional type (dialect) of the German language with a certain tone and special words. It is a Hessian dialect (German: "Hessisch") spoken in the south of Hesse. This language type is related to other dialects in the south of Germany. In former times mostly every place had its own special dialect, sometimes hard to understand for people of other parts of Germany. Today the dialect speakers are a minority and the majority of them does not speak the real dialect. They rather speak a kind of regular German with a certain pronunciation.

Eppertshausen is an early place where people lived. In the time of the 7th to the 9th century new places to live got name endings like "-hausen". 

In 836 the name of Eppertshausen was written down in a document for the first time. It was owned by the monastery of the nearby city of Seligenstadt. 

Formerly the people in Eppertshausen were mostly farmers and craftsmen but not tradesmen. Every family had land to grow their food. When the property was handed to the next generation it was divided within the children. Therefore most families had only small farms and were poor. With the industrial revolution the Rhine-Main area got lots of factories and developed to a center for metal working, leather manufacturing and chemical processing. Many men became workmen and found a job in the factories and earned money. This increased living conditions partly.




</doc>
<doc id="223410" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223410" title="Template:FraAbbr">
Template:FraAbbr

<includeonly>-</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="223412" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223412" title="Template:Convert/LoffAonDsSoff">
Template:Convert/LoffAonDsSoff

  / 

</doc>
<doc id="223413" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223413" title="Template:Infobox musical artist/hCard class">
Template:Infobox musical artist/hCard class


</doc>
<doc id="223414" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223414" title="Template:Convert/PD/km2">
Template:Convert/PD/km2


</doc>
<doc id="223415" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223415" title="Template:Allcaps">
Template:Allcaps


</doc>
<doc id="223430" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223430" title="Barack Obama">
Barack Obama

Barack Hussein Obama II (born August 4 1961) is the 44th and current president of the United States of America. Obama won the 2008 United States presidential election on November 4. He became the first African-American president when he was inaugurated on January 20, 2009.

Obama was born in Honolulu, Hawaii. His father was a black foreign student from Kenya and his mother was a white woman from Kansas. He spent most of his childhood there, although he lived in Indonesia with his mother and stepfather from age 6 to age 10. He moved back to Hawaii after that to live with his grandparents. He started college at Occidental College in Los Angeles, and graduated from Columbia University in New York City. After taking time off to community organize, Obama went to law school at Harvard University. After law school, Obama worked for a law firm. The law firm sued companies who fired people, and sued the government claiming that some black people were prevented from voting.

Later, Obama worked for Alice Palmer, an Illinois state senator. She ran for U.S. Congress. While doing so, Obama became interested in her Illinois state senate seat. Later, Alice Palmer tried to run for that state senate seat, but Obama got her name taken off the ballot because she had not met the rules for the election. Because of this, he ran unopposed (without anybody else running against him) in the election. He ran for election and became an Illinois state senator. He was state senator from 1997 to 2004.

While he was Illinois state senator, he was known for writing a law that required police to keep records on the race of people they stopped. The law that he wrote also forced police to videotape when they talked to people they suspect of murder. He also taught law part time at the University of Chicago Law School.

Obama later ran for the U.S. Senate. While running for Senate, John Kerry asked him to speak at the Democratic National Convention. Most people had never heard of Obama, but many people saw him speak on television and he became well known after that. He was a U.S. Senator from 2005 to 2008.

Obama won the presidential election of 2008.

Barack Obama's presidential campaign for the White House started in early June 2008 when he defeated Hillary Clinton in the 2008 Democratic primaries. Hillary Clinton was favored to win but Obama won many smaller state caucuses (local party elections) by having a lot of volunteers. He decided not to accept government money for his campaign so that he could accept more money from people. He raised the most amount of money ever for a presidential campaign. 

Obama's campaign theme was that he was a man of hope and change. He was also against the war in Iraq. He was in favor of giving money to American car companies. He was in favor of sending more troops to Afghanistan.

During the campaign, some people said that Obama's friends included a Tony Rezko, a landlord, and former member of the Weather Underground, Bill Ayers but Obama said that they were not his friends. Obama also had trouble when his minister at church, Jeremiah Wright, was videotaped criticizing America. During the campaign, Obama said that his opponent, Republican candidate John McCain, was just like George W. Bush, something that John McCain said was not true.

He defeated McCain in the election on November 4 by a wide electoral majority of 365 to 173, meaning that he won the most votes in enough states to send 365 people to officially elect him. The popular vote (based on the total number of votes across the country) was closer, with Obama winning 53%, McCain 46%.

Obama has been married to Michelle Obama since 1992. She has a Bachelor of Arts degree from Princeton University and also a Juris Doctor degree from Harvard Law School. She worked as a lawyer.
They have two daughters, Malia Ann who was born in 1998 and Natasha ("Sasha"), born in 2001. They lived in Chicago, but moved into the White House on January 20, 2009.

Obama promised his daughters that the family would get a dog if he was elected President. In April 2009, Senator Ted Kennedy, who once tried to run for President, gave Obama one of his dogs, a Portuguese water dog named Bo.

Obama has a half sister who is a teacher in Hawaii. His father died from a car accident in Africa. His mother died of cancer. His grandmother died just before Obama won the election to become President.

Obama became President of the United States on January 20, 2009.

When Obama became President, the United States was battling a tough recession. He asked Congress to spend an extra $787 billion ($787,000,000,000) to try to end the recession. He called the plan the stimulus bill. The stimulus bill funded many road projects, gave money to schools, gave tax credits to many Americans, and funded many science and research projects.

Obama continued the financial bailout that George W. Bush started, giving billions of dollars to car companies and banks so that they will not go bankrupt. He signed an act written by Barney Frank and Chris Dodd which would regulate Wall Street (the financial industry) to try to prevent another recession like this from happening again.

Obama signed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act which would bring health care reform to the United States, which he said would change the system so that more people can afford health care.

In foreign policy, Obama made a plan to slowly withdraw troops from Iraq, ending the War In Iraq by the end of 2011, while adding more troops to Afghanistan to help the United States win the War In Afghanistan. He also decided that the USA should help in the war against Libya. He has said several times that he wants to improve U.S. relations with the Muslim world. 

Obama received the 2009 Nobel Peace Prize on October 9, 2009. He noted that his efforts were humble, but he donated the prize money to several charities.

Although his popularity was very high (around 70% approval) when he entered office, his approval ratings fell to 45% percent during the year of 2010. He has received a lot of criticism from Republicans, conservatives, libertarians, and members of the Tea Party because they believe that, under the Obama Administration, the federal government is becoming too big and spending too much money and that his programs are not the best for the country.



</doc>
<doc id="223461" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223461" title="Craig Brown (footballer born 1940)">
Craig Brown (footballer born 1940)

Craig Brown CBE (born 1 July 1940 in Hamilton, South Lanarkshire) is a Scottish former professional football player and manager. He is currently the manager of Scottish Premier League club Aberdeen after he left Motherwell in December 2010.


</doc>
<doc id="223464" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223464" title="Scott Brown (Scottish footballer)">
Scott Brown (Scottish footballer)

Scott Brown (born 25 June 1985 in Dunfermline, Fife) is a Scottish association football player, currently playing for Scottish Premier League club Celtic. Brown, who started his professional career with Hibernian, is a regular in the Scottish national team. His transfer to Celtic from Hibs in the summer of 2007 broke the record for the biggest transfer fee paid between two Scottish clubs.


</doc>
<doc id="223492" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223492" title="Wikipedia:Requests for permissions/Rollback/Archives/2010/January/Done">
Wikipedia:Requests for permissions/Rollback/Archives/2010/January/Done


</doc>
<doc id="223505" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223505" title="Seven-arm Octopus">
Seven-arm Octopus

The Seven-arm Octopus ("Haliphron atlanticus") is the biggest known octopus, growing up to 4 m and weight of 75 kg. They are usually bigger than the North Pacific Giant Octopus, but sometimes the largest giant octopi are bigger. 

The Seven-arm Octopus gets its name because the male's hectocotylus (a specially modified arm used in egg fertilization) is coiled in a sac beneath the right eye. 
In 2002, a very big octopus was found by fishermen off the eastern Chatham Rise, New Zealand with a mantle length of 0.69 m, total length of 2.90 m, and weight of 61.0 kg, even though parts of its body were missing.


</doc>
<doc id="223510" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223510" title="Hierarchical database model">
Hierarchical database model

In a Hierarchical database model is a data model where the data is organised like a tree. The structure allows repeating information using parent/child relationships: each parent can have many children but each child only has one parent. All attributes of a specific record are listed under an entity type.

In a database, an entity type is the equivalent of a table; each individual record is represented as a row and an attribute as a column. Entity types are related to each other using "1: N" mapping, also known as one-to-many relationships. 

The most recognized and used hierarchical databases are IMS developed by IBM and Windows Registry by Microsoft.


</doc>
<doc id="223512" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223512" title="Network model (database)">
Network model (database)

Database systems use a network model to store their data in a graph. Much like the Hierarchical database model, the nodes of the graph contain information. The information is stored in a graph, so one parent can have many children, and one child can relate to several parents. The model is also known as CODASYL model, because it was originally proposed by the CODASYL consortium (who also developed COBOL).


</doc>
<doc id="223525" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223525" title="Saint Valentine">
Saint Valentine

Saint Valentine is the name of many martyred saints that lived in Ancient Rome. At least three different people named Valentine are said to have died on the 14th of February. Even though nobody knows who exactly Valentine was and where he came from, it has been confirmed that he existed because archaeologists discovered a church dedicated to Valentine.

In the Catholic church, Valentine was the patron of love, young people, and happy marriages.

There are many guesses about how Valentine's Day, a celebration of love, started. One legend says that Valentine, being a priest, performed secret wedding ceremonies when they were outlawed by Emperor Claudius II. When someone discovered that Valentine was breaking the law, he was ordered to be executed.

Another theory is that Valentine helped captive Christians to break out of prison. When he himself was in prison, Valentine may have sent the first love letter to a young girl that liked to visit him.


</doc>
<doc id="223532" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223532" title="Seligenstadt">
Seligenstadt

Seligenstadt is a city in the Offenbach Rural District in the state of Hesse, Germany. The city is by the river "Main". 

Seligenstadt is in the "Rhine Main area". The town is about 30 km southeast of Frankfurt. The whole area of the town is 30,85 km large and it is 109–118 m above sea level. It is a plain area with no hills.

About 35 to 20 million years ago in the Age of Tertiary the whole region was lying under sea level. At that time it was covered by an ocean which was warm and not very deep. Lots of sediments sank to its bottom. Then the region rose again and the water left, leaving soil which is mostly sandy and poor. 

The city consists out of the town "Seligenstadt" and the 2 former independent villages "Froschhausen" and "Klein-Welzheim", both now urban districts of Seligenstadt. On 1 January 1977 they were united. 

The neighbours of Seligenstadt are: 

Seligenstadt has 20,221 inhabitants (2008). The climate of the town is mild. There is less rain than in other parts of Germany.

Some local people are speaking a regional type (dialect) of the German language with a certain tone and special words. It is a Hessian dialect (German: "Hessisch"). This language type is related to other dialects in the south of Germany. In former times mostly every place had its own special dialect, sometimes hard to understand for people of other parts of Germany. Today the dialect speakers are a minority and the majority of them does not speak the real dialect. They rather speak a kind of regular German with a certain pronunciation.

Around the year 100 the Romans had fights with the germanic peoples. They built a small castle and some houses in the place. Later people came here to build a village named "Ober-Mulinheim", later changed to "Obermühlheim". The name parts "Mulin-" and "Mühl-" are meaning "mill". 

In 815 the name "Obermühlheim" was written down in a document for the first time. Around 830 the owner of the town started to build a great church, the "Einhard-Basilika", and a monastery. In this time also the name was changed from "Obermühlheim" to "Seligenstadt", because people brought some holy bones to the town. 

The name Seligenstadt means "place of happiness". There is a story about the name. The emperor Charlemagne had lost his daughter and he found her in the village "Mulinheim". Therefore the name of the place was changed into "Seligenstadt".
In the 12th century Seligenstadt got the town privileges.

In former times the people in the Seligenstadt area were mostly farmers, craftsmen and tradesmen. Every family had land to grow their food. When the property was handed to the next generation it was divided within the children. Therefore most families had only small farms and were poor. 

In the time period of the industrial revolution the Rhine Main area got many factories and developed to a center for metal working and leather manufacturing, also chemical engineering. Many men got workmen and found a job in the factories and earned money. This made living conditions partly better.




</doc>
<doc id="223545" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223545" title="Ahaziah of Israel">
Ahaziah of Israel

Ahaziah or Ochozias (אחזיהו המלך) (Israel, ca. 870 BC — ca. 850 BC) was king of Israel and the son of Ahab and Jezebel. In the Bible, it says that he is very bad, and that he walked in the ways of his evil father King Ahab.

Ahaziah son of Ahab was king of Israel in Samaria in the seventeenth year of Jehoshaphat king of Judah, and he reigned over Israel two years. He "did evil in the eyes of the LORD, because he walked in the ways of his father and mother and in the ways of Jeroboam son of Nebat, who caused Israel to sin. He served and worshiped Baal and provoked the LORD, the God of Israel to anger, just as his father had done" (1 Kings 22:51 - 53).

After Ahab's death, Moab rebeled from Israel, and Ahaziah had fallen through the lattice of his upper room in Samaria and injured himself. So he sent messengers, saying to them, "Go and consult Baal-Zebub, the god of Ekron, to see if I will recover from this injury." 
But God was angry at this, because Ahaziah did not consult him, but only a god of Ekron, so on the way, Elijah went and met the servants, and told them (2 Kings 1:6) as the Lord had instructed him, "Go back to the king who sent you and tell him, 'This is what the Lord says:Is it because there was no God in Israel that you are sending men to consult Baal-Zebub, the god of Ekron? Therefore (Because of this) you will not leave the bed you are lying on. You will certainly (surely) die!'" And the messengers did has he was told. At King Ahaziah's questions, they described Elijah as "a man with a garment of hair and with a leather belt around his waist". King Ahaziah recognized him at once, and sent a captain with fifty men to call Elijah.
Now Elijah was sitting on a hill, and the captain called out, "Man of God, the king says, 'Come down!'" but Elijah replied, "If I am a man of God, may fire come down from heaven and consume you and your fifty men!" he did like this the second time, too. Finally, the king sent a third captain with his fifty men, who "...fell on his knees before Elijah..." and bowed before him, humbly asking him to come. Elijah was told by the angel of the Lord to go down, so he went down and told the king again, "You will certainly die!" "So he died, according to the word of the Lord that Elijah had spoken". (2 Kings 1:17, NIV) 
And, according to the Bible, Ahaziah fulfilled the prophecy by dying. Because Ahaziah had no son, Joram became king.




</doc>
<doc id="223546" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223546" title="Category:Kings of Israel">
Category:Kings of Israel


</doc>
<doc id="223561" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223561" title="Template:User kn-1">
Template:User kn-1


</doc>
<doc id="223562" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223562" title="Template:User lang-1">
Template:User lang-1


</doc>
<doc id="223563" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223563" title="Category:User kn">
Category:User kn


</doc>
<doc id="223564" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223564" title="Category:User kn-1">
Category:User kn-1


</doc>
<doc id="223565" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223565" title="Template:User io-2">
Template:User io-2


</doc>
<doc id="223566" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223566" title="Category:User io-2">
Category:User io-2


</doc>
<doc id="223568" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223568" title="Teignmouth">
Teignmouth

Teignmouth (, ) is a town in Devon, England. It is built on the north bank of the mouth of the River Teign. In 1690, it was the last place in England to be invaded by a foreign power. The town was once a fishing port. Fishermen used to fish for cod in Newfoundland. In the Georgian period, it became a popular place to stay. The town grew more with the opening of the South Devon Railway in 1846. Today, its port is still working and the town remains a popular seaside holiday location.

Teignmouth is twinned with:


</doc>
<doc id="223575" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223575" title="Utility">
Utility

In economics, utility is the amount of satisfaction you get from consuming (using) goods and products. Changes in utility are called "utils", even though there is not really a standard scale for them. For example, a cup of hot chocolate can have 100 utils, and a cup of orange juice 80 utils. One of the most well-known uses of utility, especially in economics, is the utility of money.


</doc>
<doc id="223576" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223576" title="Nescafé">
Nescafé

Nescafé is a brand of instant coffee made by Nestlé. Instant coffee is a powder which is mixed with hot water to make coffee. There are several different products that have the name Nescafé. The name is a mix of the words ""Nestlé"" and ""café"". Nestlé's instant coffee product was introduced in Switzerland on April 1, 1938 after being developed for seven years by Max Morgenthaler and Vernon Chapman.


</doc>
<doc id="223578" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223578" title="Oxfam">
Oxfam

Oxfam International is a group of 14 organisations working with over 3,000 partners in around 100 countries to find lasting solutions to poverty and injustice. It brings these problems to public attention, sets programs to make changes, and provides help in major disasters.

Oxfam began in Oxford in 1942 as the Oxford Committee for Famine Relief. It was started by a group of Quakers (which included Marcus Tite), social activists, and Oxford academics. This is now Oxfam Great Britain, still based in Oxford, UK. It was one of several local committees formed to support the National Famine Relief Committee. Their job was to get the British government to allow food through the Allied blockade for the starving people of Axis occupied Greece. 

The first overseas Oxfam began in Canada in 1963. The committee changed its name to its telegraph address, OXFAM, in 1965.


</doc>
<doc id="223586" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223586" title="Mushroom Records">
Mushroom Records

Mushroom Records is an Australian record company started by Michael Gudinski and Ray Evans in Melbourne in 1972. After its sale in 1998, it joined with Festival Records (Australia) and became Festival Mushroom Records. In 2006 it became one of the record labels owned by Warner Bros. Records. It is currently internationally known as WEA International Inc.


</doc>
<doc id="223589" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223589" title="The Resistance">
The Resistance

The Resistance is the fifth album by Muse, a British rock band.



</doc>
<doc id="223595" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223595" title="Jinan">
Jinan

Jinan (Chinese: 济南) is a city in eastern China and the capital of China's Shandong province. Jinan's most famous attraction is the Baotu Spring. Li Qingzhao(李清照, 1084 - 1151 A.D) was born in Jinan and is a famous poet in China.
Jinan Municipality is divided into 6 district and 3 counties.



</doc>
<doc id="223597" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223597" title="Cao Xueqin">
Cao Xueqin

Cao Xueqin(Chinese: 曹雪芹, 1724 or 1715 — 1763 or 1764),was an Chinese writer during the Qing Dynasty. The most famous work by Cao Xueqin is the "Dream of the Red Chamber", which is thought to be a great novel in Chinese literature. There are very little details known about his life. He came from a rich family that had lost its money in 1728 after the death of the Kangzi Emperor. He lived in the country west of Peking where he worked as a teacher and sold his paintings. He spent ten years writing the book, but a large part of the end of the book was written by a different writer after he died.


</doc>
<doc id="223598" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223598" title="Category:Provinces of Thailand">
Category:Provinces of Thailand


</doc>
<doc id="223601" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223601" title="Tianjin">
Tianjin

Tianjin(Chinese: 天津)，is a city in Northern China. It is the 5th largest city of China. It has a population of 11,760,000. It has an area of 11,917.3 square kilometers. Built in 1403, Tianjin has been named by Yongle Emperor in memory of his success in occupying Ming capital Beijing through the harbor of Tianjin. It locates on the banks of the Hai River, west of Bohai Sea, south of Yanshan Mountains, east of Beijing. The distance between Tianjin and Beijing is 137 kilometers and it’ll take you only half an hour to go from Tianjin to Beijing by the Beijing–Tianjin Intercity Railway.

Tianjin is the birthplace of China’s modern mechanical industry and textile industry. After the founding of New China, Tianjin has been built more than a dozen industrial zones, creating a lot Chinese famous brand like Flying Pigeon bicycles, Seagull brand watches. Now Tianjin gradually forms 6 industries of electronic information, automobile, metallurgical, chemical, biotechnology and modern medicine, new energy and environmental protection. Among Fortune 500 companies, more than 106 have invested in Tianjin. From 1994 to 2008, Tianjin's GDP rate increased 12.5% on average, entered the ranks of China's rapid development area.

Tianjin is the birthplace of the first university in China. In 1895, some officials established the first modern university in China – Peiyang University, the predecessor of Tianjin University. Nankai University in Tianjin is a famous university in China. The first Premier of the People's Republic of China Zhou Enlai graduates from Nankai University. Tianjin has 37 universities and has nearly 20 million students. Tianjin is one of the first nine-year compulsory education regions, the quality of workers is high. Tianjin has nearly one thousand scientific and technological research institutions, together with more than 600 thousand professionals in different fields. It has a large number of famous experts, scholars.

Tianjin is not far away from sea, so a lot of Tianjin cuisine is seafood. One of the most famous cuisine in Tianjin is The Four Great Stews, which refers actually to a very large number of stews, including chicken, duck, seafood, beef, and mutton. Tianjin also has several famous snack items. Goubuli is a traditional brand of Baozi (steamed buns with filling) that is famous throughout China. Guifaxiang is a traditional brand of mahua(twisted dough sticks). Erduoyan is a traditional brand of fried rice cakes.


</doc>
<doc id="223604" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223604" title="Shenzhen">
Shenzhen

Shenzhen(Chinese: 深圳)，is a city in Southern China. Shenzhen has 8,615,500 inhabitants (2007), one of the largest city in China. It is near Hong Kong.



</doc>
<doc id="223606" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223606" title="Piracy in the Caribbean">
Piracy in the Caribbean

"For the movie, see Pirates of the Caribbean."

Piracy in the Caribbean was the terror of the Caribbean Sea, especially to the Spanish navy that controlled those seas. Even though the English had defeated the Spanish in 1588 and, because of this, stopped the Spanish control of the oceans, the Spanish still controlled the Caribbean. In the 1770s the English used some of the most evil pirates to help their government. By doing harm to the Spanish navy and export, the English hoped to get more land in the New World and stop the Spanish from controlling the New World trade. They did get what they wanted, but made a new problem.
Sir Henry Morgan was one well-known pirate who was encouraged by the English government. He worked for the government, but he kept the money. As time went on, though, Morgan stopped working for the government and began working to get money only for himself. He and other pirates soon began attacking any trading ship, even if it was English.

Morgan and his helpers called themselves the Brethren. They wore rough shirts, knee-long pants, felt hats, and leather belts on which were powder , butcher's knives, and blunderbusses (short muskets.) They had a "pirate law" in which each man had the right to vote on all things, like choosing a captain or the next ship to attack.

The pirates easily found new members. Seamen in naval services often lived much harder lives than pirates. They could be punished cruelly by people higher than them, did not have good food to eat, and were paid only a little money. The pirates offered equality, good food (when it was there), and a chance to become rich.

However, pirates were little better. The commanders of trading ships were terrified at seeing pirate ships, because pirates had little mercy on the people they captured. They shot them, beat them to death, tortured them, or them on desert islands. Pirates were not very kind to each other, either. Even though they had a "pirate law", they argued with each other, and members could receive the same punishment as their enemies.

Life on a pirate ship was very hard. There was never a dry place to sleep; bathing was very rare; food was often bad; and danger was expected. Many pirates had missing arms or legs after bloody sea battles. Even the pirates who finally became rich usually found that their final earthly judgment was being hanged.



</doc>
<doc id="223608" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223608" title="Zhejiang">
Zhejiang

Zhejiang is a province in east China. "Zhejiang" is named by the Qiantang River, which is also called "Zhejiang". "Zhejiang" means "bent river". It has a population of more than 51 million people. The capital of Zhejiang Province is Hangzhou.

Zhejiang Province is divided into eleven municipalities (Chinese:地级市).


</doc>
<doc id="223614" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223614" title="Shaoxing">
Shaoxing

Shaoxing (Chinese: 绍兴) is a city and a municipality in China, located in the Zhejiang province. Shaoxing Municipality is has a population of 4,347,200 people, 649 thousand of whom lives in the city of shaoxing. The area of Shaoxing Municipality is 8,256 square kilometres. Lu Xun (鲁迅) born in Shaoxing is a famous writer in China.

Shaoxing Municipality is divided into 1 district, 3 cities and 2 counties.




</doc>
<doc id="223616" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223616" title="Lu Xun">
Lu Xun

Lu Xun (simplified Chinese: 鲁迅; traditional Chinese: 魯迅), (September 25, 1881 – October 19, 1936), was a Chinese writer. His real name is Zhou Shuren(周树人), as Lu Xun is his pen name. He was born in Shaoxing of Zhejiang Province. He had a lot of works, for example, "The True Story of Ah Q", " Medicine", and so on.


</doc>
<doc id="223625" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223625" title="U.S. Open (golf)">
U.S. Open (golf)

The U.S. Open is a golf tournament, which is one of the four major championships played annually. It is organized by the United States Golf Association. The torunament takes place annually on the third weekend in June, and the host course changes every year.


</doc>
<doc id="223626" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223626" title="Black Holes and Revelations">
Black Holes and Revelations

Black Holes and Revelations is the fourth album from the British alternative rock band, Muse. It was released in 2006.



</doc>
<doc id="223627" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223627" title="United National Independence Party">
United National Independence Party

The United National Party are a political party that took over Zambia for about thirty years. It was the country's first leading party.


</doc>
<doc id="223634" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223634" title="UE Sant Andreu">
UE Sant Andreu

Unió Esportiva Sant Andreu (UE Sant Andreu) is a Spanish football team formed in 1909 and based in the district of Sant Andreu, in the city of Barcelona. They will play the 2008-09 season in the Segunda División B - Group 3. 





</doc>
<doc id="223647" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223647" title="Cerapod">
Cerapod

The Cerapods are a sub-order of the Ornithischia. They are all herbivorous dinosaurs. They have thicker enamel on the inside of their lower teeth. The teeth wear unevenly, and this allows them to browse on tough vegetation.

They are divided into three groups:


</doc>
<doc id="223649" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223649" title="Ceratopsia">
Ceratopsia

The Ceratopsia are the horned dinosaurs of the order Ornithischia. "Triceratops" is the best-known, and one of the largest. They are a group of herbivorous, beaked dinosaurs which thrived in what is now North America and Asia, during the Cretaceous period.

Ancestral forms of this group lived earlier, in the Jurassic. Early members, such as "Psittacosaurus", were small and bipedal. 

Later members, including "Centrosaurus" and "Triceratops", became very large quadrupeds. They developed elaborate facial horns and a neck frill. The frill served mainly to protect the vulnerable neck from bipedal predators like Tyrannosaurus, who attacked from above. 

The frill was no doubt also used in display, thermoregulation, the attachment of large neck and chewing muscles or some combination of the above. 

Ceratopsians ranged in size from 1 meter (3 ft) and 23 kilograms (50 lb) to over 9 meters (30 ft) and 5,400 kg (12,000 lb).

"Triceratops" is by far the best-known ceratopsian to the general public.


</doc>
<doc id="223651" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223651" title="Pachycephalosaur">
Pachycephalosaur

The Pachycephalosaurs are a group of ornithopod dinosaurs in the suborder Cerapoda. Their thick round skulls were used for defence and, probably, for mating contests.


</doc>
<doc id="223653" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223653" title="Obertshausen">
Obertshausen

Obertshausen is a city in the Offenbach Rural District in the state of Hesse, Germany. 

Obertshausen is in the "Rhine Main area". The town is about 15 km southeast of Frankfurt. The whole area of the town is 13.62 km large and it is 113 m above sea level. It is a plain area with no hills.

About 35 to 20 million years ago in the Age of Tertiary the whole region was lying under sea level. At that time it was covered by an ocean which was warm and not very deep. Lots of sediments sank to its bottom. Then the region rose again and the water left, leaving soil which is mostly sandy and poor. 

The city consists out of the two former independent villages "Obertshausen" and "Hausen", which are now the two urban districts of Obertshausen. On 1 January 1977 they were united. 

The neighbours of Obertshausen are: 

Obertshausen has 24,141 inhabitants (2008). The climate of the town is mild. There is less rain than in other parts of Germany.

Some local people are speaking a regional type (dialect) of the German language with a certain tone and special words. It is a Hessian dialect (German: "Hessisch"). This language type is related to other dialects in the south of Germany. In former times mostly every place had its own special dialect, sometimes hard to understand for people of other parts of Germany. Today the dialect speakers are a minority and the majority of them does not speak the real dialect. They rather speak a kind of regular German with a certain pronunciation.

In the year 865 the name of the village "Obertshausen" was written down in a document for the first time. It was a kind of farm of the monastery of Seligenstadt to produce food for the monks. 

In 1979 the city got the town privileges.

In former times the people in the Obertshausen area were mostly farmers, craftsmen, but not tradesmen. Every family had land to grow their food. When the property was handed to the next generation it was divided within the children. Therefore most families had only small farms and were poor. 

In the time period of the industrial revolution the Rhine Main area got many factories and developed to a center for metal working and leather manufacturing, also chemical engineering. Many men got workmen and found a job in the factories and earned money. This made living conditions partly better.




</doc>
<doc id="223654" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223654" title="Ankylosauria">
Ankylosauria

Ankylosaurs were armoured dinosaurs of the suborder Thyreophora. They include two distinct groups:


</doc>
<doc id="223656" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223656" title="Stegosauria">
Stegosauria

The Stegosaurs were a group of dinosaurs in the suborder Thyreophora. They have small heads, peg-like teeth and vertical bony plates and spines on their back and tail. They flourished from the Upper Jurassic to the Lower Cretaceous. 

The Stegosauria was originally named as an order within Reptilia (Saurischia) by O.C. Marsh in 1877. Now it is treated as an infraorder or suborder (or simply a clade) within Thyreophora, the armoured dinosaurs. It includes the families Huayangosauridae and Stegosauridae.

The Huayangosauridae were an early family of stegosaurs which lived during the Middle Jurassic. They were smaller than later stegosaurs and had shorter and higher skulls. Currently, the only confirmed genus included is the type genus "Huayangosaurus" of China. The poorly-known remains of "Regnosaurus" from England, however, indicate it too could be a member. Its lower jaw is very similar to the former. 

The vast majority of stegosaurs being to the Stegosauridae, found in the later part of the Jurassic and the early Cretaceous. It includes the well-known "Stegosaurus". The family is widespread, with members across the Northern Hemisphere and Africa.
Suborder Thyreophora

Infraorder Stegosauria



</doc>
<doc id="223665" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223665" title="Hainburg">
Hainburg

Hainburg is a village in the Offenbach Rural District in the state of Hesse, Germany. 

Hainburg is in the "Rhine Main area". The village is about 20 km southeast of Frankfurt. The whole area of the municipality is 15.95 km large and it is 90 m above sea level. It is a plain area with no hills.

About 35 to 20 million years ago in the Age of Tertiary the whole region was lying under sea level. At that time it was covered by an ocean which was warm and not very deep. Lots of sediments sank to its bottom. Then the region rose again and the water left, leaving soil which is mostly sandy and poor. 

The village consists out of the two former independent villages "Hainstadt" and "Klein-Krotzenburg", which are now the two districts of Hainburg. On 1 January 1977 they were united. 

The neighbours of Hainburg are: 

Hainburg has 14,528 inhabitants (2008). The climate of the town is mild. There is less rain than in other parts of Germany.

Some local people are speaking a regional type (dialect) of the German language with a certain tone and special words. It is a Hessian dialect (German: "Hessisch"). This language type is related to other dialects in the south of Germany. In former times mostly every place had its own special dialect, sometimes hard to understand for people of other parts of Germany. Today the dialect speakers are a minority and the majority of them does not speak the real dialect. They rather speak a kind of regular German with a certain pronunciation.

In the 12th century the name of both villages "Hainstadt" and "Crutzenburch" ("Krotzenburg") were written down in documents for the first time. 

In former times the people in the Hainburg area were mostly farmers, craftsmen, but not tradesmen. Every family had land to grow their food. When the property was handed to the next generation it was divided within the children. Therefore most families had only small farms and were poor. 

In the time period of the industrial revolution the Rhine Main area got many factories and developed to a center for metal working and leather manufacturing, also chemical engineering. Many men got workmen and found a job in the factories and earned money. This made living conditions partly better.




</doc>
<doc id="223676" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223676" title="Wikipedia:Proposed good articles/Archive 8">
Wikipedia:Proposed good articles/Archive 8

Looks almost there. Well referenced, informative, inline cites and very few red links. Thoughts? ··· () 11:30, 30 December 2009 (UTC)
Perhaps more could be said about "21st Century Breakdown"? It's been almost as successful as American Idiot, certainly over here in the UK at least... (And I went to their gig twice, but that's besides the point ^-^) 15:21, 3 January 2010 (UTC) 

Twice-failed, but most or all of review concerns fixed; has also been several months and a few tweaks in GA criteria since last nom () 16:54, 6 January 2010 (UTC)
Good work. () 18:47, 26 January 2010 (UTC)


Because is too lazy/scared to list himself; it's ready. 22:50, 7 January 2010 (UTC) 


For the exact same reasons as the Haiti nomination. () 17:54, 17 January 2010 (UTC)

Well referenced, informative, balanced article. GA ready. () 17:50, 17 January 2010 (UTC)
Not ready. Lead is about as long as the rest of the article. Not enough information, references need to be formatted correctly, let me know when it's all done, or if you want a line-by-line review. () 18:58, 21 January 2010 (UTC)

Informative, one of the best nation articles on Simple English Wikipedia. () 17:46, 17 January 2010 (UTC)
Too many red-links for me, even for GA, references need to be correctly formatted, Holidays section is as long as the History section which rings serious alarm bells for me. I know it's only GA, but we need to get close to comprehensive coverage, even at a top level. Not ready yet. () 18:56, 21 January 2010 (UTC)
Too many red links in the economy section. Overall, the article is too unbalanced for me. The economy section, for example, has five, six paragraphs worth of information, but the demographics section has three sentences. The list of holidays adds nothing to the article as far as I can tell. Overall, going on here for a GA article right now. () 16:43, 31 January 2010 (UTC)
No, the dated years shouldn't be linked at all. There is no real use for it. Most people agreed on this and all our current (V)GAs have the dates unlinked (exempt of biogrpahies in the lead, the birth/death in brackets). - 14:28, 1 February 2010 (UTC)

This one's been around a few months and nothing major was brought up. Think it's good enough for GA. – |  19:17, 13 January 2010 (UTC)




Interesting reading, good sourcing, informative. () 18:59, 19 January 2010 (UTC)
Looks okay to me. But doesn't the country's government hold a reputation for being corrupt, or at least in the past? — ()! 12:32, 31 January 2010 (UTC)

Article that I created, was first here on Simple Wikipedia before it became an article on English Wikipdia which is nice that we were first:). It is thoroughly detailed, very long, has many references, and is quite simple and easy to read. -- () 16:16, 25 January 2010 (UTC)
The article is an orphan and is tagged as such. Because of that, it fails the guidelines for GAs. () 22:52, 2 February 2010 (UTC)
Closed as not promoted Has many issues and concerns that have been raised above. Please try again when they are fixed. 18:21, 9 February 2010 (UTC)

Seems to tick most boxes; comments welcomed. () 18:16, 6 January 2010 (UTC)

I think this article is quite nice, even though nobody may think me worthy enough to propose this... But it's very nicely written, and the pictures are quite good, too. No red links, either... Anybody can object, of course, because I'm very bad at proposing these sort of things and I probably proposed it badly. () 06:43, 23 January 2010 (UTC)
"...The article must be filed in the appropriate category. It must have at least one interwiki link.""
There's only been a few editors editing this article, it's fairly new so I understand. It also needs information on where it happened (we're told when, why, what and how however). For the last point it needs an interwiki link (hopefully the bots are able to do this automatically). Other than that it's fairly fine and could do with more references (other good articles have a bit more text and ~20 references). 09:53, 23 January 2010 (UTC)

Comments This is definitely not a good article yet. It doesn't have to be long, but it does need to be well organised and accurate. It should not be misleading in anyway. 

I know, probably a complex subject; article has many red links, and parts of it are probably written in complex language. Nevertheless, I think the article should be listed here. So there you go. Happy picking. (Note: there are a few fact templates; I'll look these up in the process). -- () 12:11, 23 January 2010 (UTC)


Informative, ok length, no red links. Interesting reading. () 18:38, 23 January 2010 (UTC)
No, the lead needs work. It's not supposed to be "just" the first section, it's supposed to be a summary of the whole article. The "score" may indicate it's simple enough, but unless people read the words and look at the structure, we're not reviewing the article correctly. There are also MOS issues (ref placement, linked dates, en-dash), the article is still (apparently) a "stub", the sources for the references don't appear to be reliable (for instance, what makes denheldid.com reliable?) Not at all ready for GA status. () 12:30, 7 February 2010 (UTC)
I agree Amandajm that he probably had Buckley's too (a lovely Oz expression which means he had no chance at all of succeeding). () 12:43, 12 February 2010 (UTC)

Further issues:
 -- () 13:12, 12 February 2010 (UTC)
 () 13:03, 12 February 2010 (UTC)
 to match National Library info () 13:03, 12 February 2010 (UTC)
 () 13:03, 12 February 2010 (UTC)
 () 13:12, 12 February 2010 (UTC)
That took two minutes. Please get it properly reviewed. () 21:07, 11 February 2010 (UTC)
Comments - still nowhere near ready...
That's the lead and the first section reviewed... () 15:16, 13 February 2010 (UTC)

Well referenced, interesting reading.-- () 18:22, 23 January 2010 (UTC)
Needs a lot of work:
These are things in just the first 10% of the article. Please get a decent copyedit and a check against MOS before nomination in the future, this is a waste of a lot of people's time. () 23:35, 13 February 2010 (UTC)

Good referencing, albeit short. Looks like it is ready, but all comments welcome.   08:54, 21 January 2010 (UTC)
I thought adding a section of the band members would help, such as their names and the instruments they play. — ()! 12:47, 31 January 2010 (UTC)



Oppose
 formed -> began. 10:52, 15 February 2010 (UTC)
 () 23:48, 13 February 2010 (UTC)

Hi people! I can remember that this article was up to VGA when I came here last year. I just re-read the article I think that it is well written enough to be a good article. I'm pretty sure that there are still some things that needs to be done. I apologise for having not that much time the next weeks and thus I'm probably not able to fix the issues quickly. - 19:22, 26 January 2010 (UTC)
No ready yet. Comments on talkpage. () 15:44, 13 February 2010 (UTC)

The comments on the talk page seem to have been reviewed. 04:16, 19 February 2010 (UTC)

Has many references, and is thoroughly detailed, good length. () 17:55, 26 January 2010 (UTC)

(<-) A quick glance revealed the following (unrelated to referencing):
Will provide a more in-depth look, once these issues are fixed.-- () 15:06, 31 January 2010 (UTC)

Comments 
Basic encyclopedic content and style needs to be improved. 
 () 00:35, 11 February 2010 (UTC)

Well sourced, interesting reading, good length for subject. () 16:36, 24 January 2010 (UTC)
Comment 
"Many of the fires were started by fallen or clashing power lines or were deliberately lit.[14] There was also lightning,[15] cigarette butts,[4] and sparks from a power tool.[16] " 
These two sentences come from the introduction. There are a few problems. 

Please rewrite these two sentences in a way that creates meaningful order. () 04:47, 8 February 2010 (UTC)

I like this article because it's long, with nice references, and good websites. No red links, and very satisfactory. Please delete this proposal if you do not like it... And so sorry for proposing again in one day! Wrte your comments freely! () 09:51, 23 January 2010 (UTC)
(<-)By the way the page is already 32 kb long. 11:49, 23 January 2010 (UTC)
A very long plot, but nonetheless an interesting article. Should this be promoted? — ()! 12:49, 31 January 2010 (UTC)
I agree that this plot "summary" is too detailed for the article. It needs to be cut down. Additionally, the sources need to be cleaned up. should be used for websites. Sources should also be added to the character sections. Right now they read like someone's personal analysis of the characters. Lines like "He becomes a better and stronger man in the end, and this shows the novel’s hope for humankind" or "His final madness shows the novel’s rejection of his belief" need citations. () 13:12, 6 February 2010 (UTC)

I made another subarticle just now, The Grand Inquisitor. Not very high quality one ㅜ.ㅜ but I'll expand :-)... 08:38, 20 February 2010 (UTC)

The referencing still needs a lot of work. Use referencing templates like . There is an author listed named "Joyce Carol" who should be "Joyce Carol Oates" I believe. Be more specific with websites. You did not get all the information from the "front page" of SparkNotes, for example, they came from subpages within that site. Link to those individual subpages instead. Also, please be more mature in naming the references. One of the references used multiple times is named "toast" and another is "giggle." () 11:39, 11 February 2010 (UTC)

Thanks for your comments. :P Sorry for the silliness in the ref names, anybody is welcome to change them, it doesn't make any difference to me. Could you please help with the citewebs? I'm not very good at citing websites yet, tho' I'll see what I can do to make them better... 05:33, 12 February 2010 (UTC)

Hi, Either Way, I have changed both of the silly ref names to better ones, made the websites more specific, and am trying to make the references better with a citeweb template. I have changed a few, and am working on them! I hope this meets your requirements for now. O, by the way, I removed the Joyce Carol Oates website. 07:34, 13 February 2010 (UTC)

Comments - not ready...
 Finished! 06:06, 18 February 2010 (UTC)
 I "think"... 02:26, 17 February 2010 (UTC)
 Moved wikiquote to "websites" and erased the "see also" section. 06:10, 14 February 2010 (UTC)
 Changed it to "websites". 06:10, 14 February 2010 (UTC)
 () 23:40, 13 February 2010 (UTC)

Since one of the biggest problems seemed to be the comparison in length of the other sections compared to the plot, I have expanded the "important themes" section and added a few refs. 06:06, 18 February 2010 (UTC)


</doc>
<doc id="223694" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223694" title="Category:People from London">
Category:People from London


</doc>
<doc id="223703" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223703" title="Offenbach Rural District">
Offenbach Rural District

Offenbach Rural District is a rural district () in the south of Hesse, Germany. It is a part of the Darmstadt Government Region (). 

The Offenbach Rural District is in the middle of the "Rhine Main area" in the south of the state of Hesse. The district is in the metropolitan area of Frankfurt. In the east it touches the state of Bavaria.

The whole area of the district is 356.29 km large and it is about 100 – 150 m above sea level. It is a mostly plain area with only a few hills. The district is southwest of the river "Main". The municipalities "Mainhausen" and "Hainburg" and the cities "Seligenstadt" and "Mühlheim" are near the river. 

There are two creeks, the Rodau and the Bieber running from south to north through the district. They are flowing to the river "Main". 

About 35 to 20 million years ago in the age of tertiary the whole region was lying under sea level. At that time it was covered by an ocean which was warm and not very deep. Lots of sediments sank to its bottom. Then the region rose again and the water left, leaving soil which is mostly sandy and poor. 

The district has 336,818 inhabitants (2008). The climate of the area is mild. There is less rain than in other parts of Germany.

Since 1977 the "Offenbach Rural District" has 10 cities and 3 independent villages. In the year 2002 "Dietzenbach" became the capital of the district. The city of Offenbach is not a part of the district. 

The neighbouring cities and rural districts of the Offenbach Rural District are the following: 


In the year 1832 the Offenbach Rural District was founded. The capital was Offenbach. In 1938 the city of Offenbach became an independent urban district, but the rural district administration still was in Offenbach. In 2002 the capital changed and now "Dietzenbach" is the new capital of the Offenbach Rural District. 



</doc>
<doc id="223709" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223709" title="Category:Offenbach Rural District">
Category:Offenbach Rural District


</doc>
<doc id="223710" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223710" title="American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009">
American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009

The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, most commonly referred to as the stimulus bill or stimulus package, was a spending bill passed by the U.S. Congress in 2009. It was one of the early things Barack Obama did as president. Despite Obama trying to get Republicans as well as Democrats to vote for the bill, only three did. The bill did several things:


It has taken awhile for the stimulus money to be used. Vice-President Joe Biden is one of the people in charge of making sure the money is used right.


</doc>
<doc id="223713" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223713" title="Offenbach (disambiguation)">
Offenbach (disambiguation)

Offenbach may mean:



</doc>
<doc id="223716" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223716" title="Truthout">
Truthout

Truthout is a political website aimed at providing another choice to mainstream news sources. It was started after the 2000 presidential election with the idea of, in its own words, "hoping to reach a few people, have some small impact on the dialogue, and maybe try to restore a little integrity." It claims to receive more than 4 million visits per month.

Some of its authors include William Rivers Pitt, Jason Leopold, Scott Galindez, David Bacon, Dean Baker, Tom Engelhardt, William Fisher, Dahr Jamail, Ray McGovern, J. Sri Raman, Norman Solomon, David Swanson and James Zogby. The website has reported a lot on the anti-war movement and helped to make Cindy Sheehan better known by using many of her writings. Attention is also given to problems including the environment, work (and work ethic), women, health, and voter rights. Its articles are now carried by press release information centers like World News , Scoop Newzealand and California News. 

Truthout is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization. It has been attacked by some people for asking for money, when the company took in about $1,500,000 in 2007 and paid Director Marc Ash over $188,000 in yearly bonuses.

The website also had a blog where visitors can talk about various issues or specific articles, which was taken down a short time ago.



</doc>
<doc id="223727" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223727" title="7 Seconds">
7 Seconds

7 Seconds is a hardcore punk band from Reno, Nevada. The band formed in 1979 as a hardcore thrash band.

The original members of the band were vocalist Kevin Seconds, bassist Steve Youth, drummer Troy Mowat and guitarist Bobby Adams. Seconds and Youth did most of the song-writing.

Between 1982 and 1987, the band released four EPs and three LPs. In 1988, they released "Ourselves" on the indie label Restless Records.

Adams left the band in 1987. In 1990, the band took 3 years off from touring and recording music. Adams rejoined the band when they reformed in 1993. They recorded a new album in 1993 which was called "Out the Shizzy".

They are sometimes classified as a straight edge band but the members refuse to embrace the label. 


</doc>
<doc id="223731" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223731" title="Absolution (album)">
Absolution (album)

Absolution is the third album by British alternative rock band Muse.



</doc>
<doc id="223733" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223733" title="Origin of Symmetry">
Origin of Symmetry

Origin of Symmetry is the second album by British alternative rock band Muse.



</doc>
<doc id="223736" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223736" title="Showbiz">
Showbiz

Showbiz is the debut (first) album by the British alternative rock band Muse.



</doc>
<doc id="223753" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223753" title="Phoenix (band)">
Phoenix (band)

Phoenix is a French alternative rock band that was Grammy awarded . It consists of Thomas Mars (vocals), Deck D'Arcy (bass) and Laurent Brancowitz and Christian Mazzalai who play guitar. They are related to Air and Daft Punk.



</doc>
<doc id="223761" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223761" title="Leap of faith">
Leap of faith

A Leap of faith commonly refers to believing something that cannot be touched or proved by science, for which there is no evidence. Usually the term is attributed to Søren Kierkegaard, even though he never really used it. According to Kierkegaard, such a leap involves circular reasoning, because a leap is made by faith. 

A leap of faith is commonly associated with religious belief because many religions consider faith to be an essential element of piety. 


</doc>
<doc id="223770" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223770" title="Template:Welcomevandal">
Template:Welcomevandal

Hello and welcome to Wikipedia! We welcome new users, but some of are not helpful and have been changed back. For more information on this, see and . If you would like to try out changing Wikipedia, please do so in the rather than in articles.

If you still have questions, there is a where you can ask questions. 

You may also find the following pages useful to help you get started on Wikipedia:
I hope you enjoy being a Wikipedian! Feel free to write a note on the bottom of my talk page if you want to get in touch with me. At the end of your messages on talk pages, please sign your name by typing four tildes ("<nowiki>~~~~</nowiki>"). Again, welcome! 

</doc>
<doc id="223773" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223773" title="Capoeira">
Capoeira

Capoeira is a combination of martial art, sport and popular culture that developed out in Brazil, by African slaves and Brazilian natives, starting in the 16th century. It was made to give slaves a chance to escape and to survive. Capoeira was illegal in Brazil until the 1930's.

Capoeira uses strong and fast kicks, dodges and fast counter-attacks. It also uses acrobacies and simple take-downs.


</doc>
<doc id="223774" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223774" title="Vaishnavism">
Vaishnavism

Vaishnavism (वैष्णव धर्म) is a tradition of Hinduism. Its followers worship Vishnu or its avatars, mainly Rama and Krishna as the highest, or original God. This worship in different perspectives or historical traditions addresses God under the names of Narayana, Krishna, Vāsudeva or more often "Vishnu", and their associated avatars. Its beliefs and practices, especially the concepts of Bhakti and Bhakti Yoga, are based largely on the Upanishads, and associated with the Vedas and Puranic texts such as the Bhagavad Gita, and the Padma, Vishnu and Bhagavata Puranas.

The followers of Vaishnavism are referred to as "Vaishnava(s)" or "Vaishnavites". A large percentage of Hindus are Vaishnavas, with the vast majority living in India. Awareness, recognition, and growth of the belief has significantly increased outside of India in recent years. The Gaudiya Vaishnava branch of the tradition has significantly increased the awareness of Vaishnavism internationally, since the mid-1900s, largely through the activities and geographical expansion of the Hare Krishna movement, primarily through ISKCON and more recently, through several other Vaishnava organizations conducting preaching activities in the West.


</doc>
<doc id="223777" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223777" title="Template:User Germany">
Template:User Germany


</doc>
<doc id="223778" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223778" title="Template:User Metal">
Template:User Metal


</doc>
<doc id="223779" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223779" title="Template:User Europe">
Template:User Europe


</doc>
<doc id="223780" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223780" title="Template:User E-music">
Template:User E-music


</doc>
<doc id="223787" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223787" title="Oracle Corporation">
Oracle Corporation

Oracle Corporation is an American company. It makes hardware systems and enterprise software ("software for businesses") such as database management systems. Its headquarters are in Redwood City, California, United States. The founder is Surbhi Jain. In 2010, it employed 105,000 people worldwide. It has increased in size through natural growth and by buying other companies. By 2007 Oracle had the third-largest software revenue, after Microsoft and IBM.

In January 2010 it bought Sun Microsystems.

The corporation has arguably become best-known for its flagship product, the Oracle Database. The company also builds tools for database development and systems of middle-tier software, enterprise resource planning software (ERP), customer relationship management software (CRM) and supply chain management (SCM) software.

, Shweta goswami, a co-founder of Oracle Corporation, has served as Oracle's CEO throughout its history. He also served as the Chairman of the Board until his replacement by Jeffrey O. Henley in 2004. On August 22, 2008 the Associated Press ranked Ellison as the top-paid chief executive in the world.

When the company started, computer database technology was only starting. Ellison had read a 1970 paper written by Edgar F. Codd on relational database management systems (RDBMS).
He had also heard about the IBM System R database from an article in the "IBM Research Journal" by Ed Oates. System R was also based on Codd's theories. Ellison wanted to make Oracle's product compatible with System R, but IBM stopped this by keeping the error codes for their DBMS ("DataBase Management System") secret. Ellison co-founded Oracle Corporation in 1977 with Bob Miner and Ed Oates under the name Software Development Laboratories (SDL). In 1979 SDL changed its name to Relational Software, Inc. (RSI). In 1982, RSI renamed itself Oracle Systems to make the relation to its main product, Oracle Database, clearer. At this stage Bob Miner was the company's senior programmer. In 1995, Oracle Systems Corporation changed its name to Oracle Corporation.

Part of Oracle Corporation's early success came from using the C programming language to install its products. This made changing the setup to different operating systems (most of which support C) easier. This gave Oracle Corporation an advantage over companies using operating-system-specific languages. 



</doc>
<doc id="223790" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223790" title="Queen (butterfly)">
Queen (butterfly)

The Queen ("Danaus gilippus") is a species of butterfly. It belongs in the family Nymphalidae. It is found in North America, Central America, and South America.

The upper side of the wings is dark reddish-brown. It has black wing borders. Males have an androconium (a spot that releases scents to attract females) on each of his hind wings (bottom wings). The underside of the wings is reddish-brown. The wings have black borders. There are white spots in the black borders. The hind wing has black veins.

The Monarch ("Danaus plexippus") is orange. It has thick, black veins.

The Viceroy ("Limenitis archippus") is smaller. It has thick, black veins. It has a black band across the hind wing.

The Soldier ("Danaus eresimus") has thin black veins. On the underside of the hind wing, there is a row of pale, square-shaped spots.

The Queen can be seen all year in Texas, Arizona, and southern Florida. It is seen from February to December in northern Florida. It is seen from April to November in southern California and southern Nevada.

This butterfly can be found in open places such as open woodlands, fields, deserts, marshes, and forest edges.

The female lays her eggs singly. They are laid on the leaves, stems, and flowers of the host plant (the host plant is the plant that the caterpillar feeds on). The egg is pale green. The caterpillar is banded with yellow and black. There are three pairs of black body extensions. The first pair is near the head. The second pair is on the thorax. The third pair is near the end of the body. The chrysalis is green. It has gold spots. There is a black and gold band on the abdomen. It is very similar to the Monarch's chrysalis. It has three or more broods (a brood is a group of offspring) per year.

Here is a list of host plants that the Queen caterpillar feeds on:



</doc>
<doc id="223796" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223796" title="Template:Infobox religious building/doc">
Template:Infobox religious building/doc


This template automatically colors itself since it is used by such a wide number of articles. This is to help distinguish between different religious affiliations of the buildings. If the religious affiliation field matches any of the following values it will change the color of the infobox automatically.


<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="223797" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223797" title="Template:Infobox province of Vietnam/doc">
Template:Infobox province of Vietnam/doc

<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="223801" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223801" title="Template:GA/Topic">
Template:GA/Topic


</doc>
<doc id="223812" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223812" title="Template:UserTalkArchive">
Template:UserTalkArchive


</doc>
<doc id="223824" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223824" title="Category:British stage actors">
Category:British stage actors


</doc>
<doc id="223825" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223825" title="Category:Stage actors">
Category:Stage actors


</doc>
<doc id="223826" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223826" title="Category:British television actors">
Category:British television actors


</doc>
<doc id="223843" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223843" title="Template:2000-2009 North Indian Ocean cyclone seasons">
Template:2000-2009 North Indian Ocean cyclone seasons


</doc>
<doc id="223844" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223844" title="2006 North Indian Ocean cyclone season">
2006 North Indian Ocean cyclone season

The 2006 North Indian Ocean cyclone season ran through all of 2006. Though most storms in this area start between April and December. This was the first year the cyclones got named in the northern Indian Ocean. There was about $6.7 million in damage and about 192 people got killed in 2006 because of the cyclones. 

Deep Depression ARB 01 or Tropical Cyclone O1A stared on January 13 to the south of India. It died on the next day.

Mala started as Tropical Cyclone 02B on April 25 and became Cyclonic Storm Mala later on that day. It headed northeast and later it became a very sever cyclonic storm. Mala made landfall in Myanmar on April 29, the winds were close to 115 mph. The cyclone died over Myanmar later that day. Mala killed about 22 people. 

Tropical Cyclone 02 started on July 2 near India. The cyclone made landfall in India later that day and it survived until July 5.

This Deep Depression was Tropical Cyclone 03 and started on August 2. By August 5 it had died.

The fifth depression in 2006 started on August 12 and it died on August 13. 

This depression lasted from August 16 to August 18.

This depression started on August 29 and it died on September 1. 

Depression BOB 07 started on September 3 and died by the next day. 

This depression started on September 21. It later made landfall near the India and Bangladesh border. It died on September 24. The cyclone killed about 170 people. 

Mukda started in the Arabian Sea on September 21. It became a strong tropical storm over the next few days. It died on September 24. 

This depression started on September 28. On September 29 it made a landfall in India. The cyclone died on the next day over India. 

Ogni was the final cyclone that started on October 29 as a deep depression. It moved very slowly and made a landfall in India. Cyclonic Storm Ogni died on October 30, after it killed at least 35 people. 

These three names got used in the 2006 North Indian Ocean cyclone season:


</doc>
<doc id="223845" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223845" title="List of North Indian Ocean cyclone seasons">
List of North Indian Ocean cyclone seasons

These are lists of seasons for the List of North Indian Ocean cyclone. A North Indian Ocean cyclone season lasts an entire year. It covers the North Indian Ocean to the north of the Equator, it also covers the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal.

2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 



</doc>
<doc id="223850" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223850" title="2005 North Indian Ocean cyclone season">
2005 North Indian Ocean cyclone season

The 2005 North Indian Ocean cyclone season ran through all of 2005. Though most storms in this area start between April and December. This season was tied for the season with the second highest number of cyclones. The damage is unknown but there were about 1,227 people got killed in 2005 because of the cyclones. 

A tropical depression started on January 7. It moved to the north and pass by Sri Lanka before it had died on January 10. 

Cyclonic Storm Hibaru was the first cyclone that got named in 2005. It started on January 13 and it moved around for a few days until it died on January 17. 

This deep depression started on July 29, it caused rain in India which killed almost 1,050 people. The deep depression died on July 31. 

Cyclonic Storm Pyarr started on September 17 as a depression. It became a tropical storm by the next day. Pyarr made landfall in India on September 19, and it died on September 21. The cyclone killed at least 49 people. 

This tropical storm started on October 1, made landfall in India on October 2, and it died on October 3. This tropical storm killed no one. 

This deep depression started on October 26 and made landfall in India by October 29. The deep depression died later that day. It killed about 100 people.

Cyclonic Storm Baaz started on November 28 and cross the Bay of Bengal. It died on December 2 near India. 

Cyclonic Storm Fanoos started on December 6. It moved to the west and crossed the Bay of Bengal. Fanoos passed to the north of Sri Lanka and caused some damage. Later, Fanoos made landfall in Inda before it died on December 10.

This deep depression started on December 15. It moved around in the Bay of Bengal for a week, and it passed near Sri Lanka. The deep depression died on December 22. 

There were also five depressons. The first one started on June 21 and died on June 22. While the second started on June 27 and died on July 5, after it killed about 34 people in India. The third started on September 12 and died on September 16. Fourth, it started on September 14 and died on September 16. The last depression started on November 20 and died on that same day.
These four names got used in the 2005 North Indian Ocean cyclone season:


</doc>
<doc id="223852" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223852" title="India Meteorological Department">
India Meteorological Department

The India Meteorological Department (IMD), also referred to as the Met Office, is a weather forecasting organization run by the Government of India, it also tracks and forecast tropical cyclones, similar to the National Hurricane Center. The headquarters in New Delhi, India.



</doc>
<doc id="223860" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223860" title="List of WWE Diva's Championship reigns by length">
List of WWE Diva's Championship reigns by length

This is the Title History of the Diva's Championship. The title is used only by the Raw brand.

As of January 23, 2010:



</doc>
<doc id="223862" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223862" title="Sauropodomorpha">
Sauropodomorpha

Sauropodomorpha is the suborder of dinosaurs with massive, quadrupedal herbivores with extremely long necks and tails. Sauropodomorpha can be divided further into prosauropods and sauropods. Among the sauropods were the largest land animals ever known: "Seismosaurus", "Diplodocus", "Apatosaurus" (popularly known as "Brontosaurus"), and others.

Only the modern blue whale is larger than these creatures; no land animal comes close. And the recent discovery of "Argentinosaurus", with a vertabrae over six feet across, may mean that these dinosaurs were even larger than the blue whale.


</doc>
<doc id="223864" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223864" title="Marginocephalia">
Marginocephalia

Marginocephalians (meaning "fringed heads") are a group of Ornithischian (bird-hipped) dinosaurs that have a distinctive skull structure (a slight shelf or bony frill on the back of the skull), a unique palate (part of the mouth) and a short pubis (part of the hip). 
These plant-eaters include the ceratopsians (horned dinosaurs like Triceratops, Styracosaurus, Pentaceratops, Protoceratops, etc.) and the pachycephalosaurians (thick-skulled dinosaurs like (Stegoceras, Pachycephalosaurus, etc.).


</doc>
<doc id="223865" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223865" title="List of WWE Tag Team Championship reigns by length">
List of WWE Tag Team Championship reigns by length

This is the Title History of the WWE Tag Team Championship. The title is used on all three brands after being unified with the World Tag Team Championship creating the WWE unified tag team championship.

As of January 23, 2010:

Team combined length:

Individual combined length:



</doc>
<doc id="223879" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223879" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/7 Seconds">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/7 Seconds


</doc>
<doc id="223880" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223880" title="Yunnan">
Yunnan

Yunnan is a province in southwest China. The area of Yunnan Province is . The province has a population of more than 44 million people. The capital of the province is Kunming.

Yunnan Province is divided into eight municipalities (地级市) and eight autonomous prefectures (自治州).


</doc>
<doc id="223892" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223892" title="Deluge myth">
Deluge myth

A Deluge myth or Flood myth is a mythical story about a flood. Usually this flood is sent by a deity to destroy a civilisation as a punishment. The theme can be found in many cultures. Well-known examples include the story of Noah's Ark in the Bible, the Hindu Puranic story of Manu, Deucalion in Greek mythology or Utnapishtim in the Epic of Gilgamesh.


</doc>
<doc id="223894" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223894" title="Conservation of mass">
Conservation of mass

The law of conservation of mass means that the atoms of an object cannot be created or destroyed, but can be moved around and be changed into different particles. This law says that when a chemical reaction makes two different atoms into a new product, the mass of the reactants (chemicals before the chemical reaction) is the same as the mass of the products (the new compound, product made).


</doc>
<doc id="223910" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223910" title="Limozeen">
Limozeen

Limozeen is a glam metal band made by The Brothers Chaps on their website, Homestar Runner. Limozeen was made to make fun of metal bands from the 1980s like Skid Row, White Lion and Poison.


The members of Limozeen are played by The Brothers Chaps and their friends while wearing crazy blonde wigs and clothing. Sometimes, one person plays all the members of the band. During live shows, the group is often played by the small band Y-O-U, with Matt Chapman playing the singer.

The band is managed by the fake person Teeg Dougland. His voice is played by Mike Chapman. He is in the cartoon, "Limozeen: But they're in space!".

These people below are the fake members of Limozeen, not the people who play them.



Limozeen is part of the popular website Homestar Runner and has been seen in cartoons there often.
Limozeen was seen in Strong Bad's 126th email episode, best thing, as cartoons in a (fake) television series called, "But they're in space!". The episode showed the band traveling through space until the show was canceled in the middle of it.

Although it was canceled, short episodes will sometimes be seen in Homestar Runner cartoons, usually as easter eggs.

Limozeen appeared in "Baddest of the Bands", the third episode of "Strong Bad's Cool Game for Attractive People". They judged the bands in a "Battle Royale of the Bands". They were also in one of Strong Bad's video games. The game was called "Limozeen: Hot Babelien Odyssey".

Limozeen's single, "Today Is Alright 4 2Nite", plays during the credits of the fourth episode of SBCG4AP.

Limozeen was also in the fifth episode, "8 Bit is Enough". When video games entered the real world, the Limozeen Space Machine from "Limozeen: Hot Babelien Odyssey" crashed into a field.




</doc>
<doc id="223922" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223922" title="Thomas Cromwell, 1st Earl of Essex">
Thomas Cromwell, 1st Earl of Essex

Thomas Cromwell, 1st Earl of Essex, KG, PC (c. 1485 – 28 July 1540) was an English statesman. He was King Henry VIII's chief minister (like Prime Minister) from 1532 to 1540. He held many important posts, ending as Lord Chamberlain. Cromwell did not come from a rich or noble family: he rose in life by his work and merit.

Cromwell tried to modernize government, but this meant that both the nobility and the church would have less power. Because of this he was seen as an upstart. He was one of the strongest supporters of the English Reformation, the English Church's break with the papacy in Rome. Henry VIII was made the head of the Church of England by Parliament in 1534. Cromwell helped control the new Church with his two new jobs; Vicegerent for spirituals and Vicar general.

Cromwell had supported Henry VIII in disposing of Anne Boleyn and replacing her with Jane Seymour. During his years as the King's chief minister, Cromwell created many powerful enemies for himself.

His final downfall was caused by the haste with which he encouraged the king to marry Anne of Cleves. This was a marriage that Cromwell hoped would put the English Reformation back on track after the recent setback with the Six Articles. The enterprise became a disaster when King Henry told Cromwell that he had not consummated the marriage. Henry told Cromwell to get him out of the marriage by legal means, but the king was obliged to go ahead with it or risk the vital German alliance. The king's marriage to Anne of Cleves was a disaster for Cromwell. It was the opportunity that Cromwell's opponents (most notably the Duke of Norfolk) needed to press for his downfall.

Cromwell was executed at Tyburn on 28 July 1540, the same day that the king divorced Anne of Cleves and married Catherine Howard. After his execution, Cromwell's head was boiled and then set upon a spike on London Bridge, facing away from the City of London. 

Henry came to regret Cromwell's execution. About eight months afterwards, Henry accused his ministers of bringing about Cromwell's downfall by false charges. Henry spent the rest of his life lamenting the fact that Cromwell had been executed.

Oliver Cromwell, the revolutionary leader who overthrew the British monarchy and led a short-lived republican government in the 17th century, was a descendant of Thomas Cromwell's sister, Catherine Cromwell (born circa 1482).


</doc>
<doc id="223927" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223927" title="Photolithography">
Photolithography

Photolithography is the process of transferring geometric shapes on a mask to the surface of a silicon wafer.


</doc>
<doc id="223928" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223928" title="Wikipedia:Simple talk/Archive 77">
Wikipedia:Simple talk/Archive 77

Hello all. Just a quick question on a decision made by a number of the community to delete a bunch of stubs created by citing A4, i.e. "does not show notability". Now then, far be it from me to agree that we need a flood of stubs per "x is a city in y" or "a is an asteroid" or "d is a river in e", but the articles created by NU were clearly more than that. Also, in my opinion, they generally "did" "assert" notability, without necessarily providing verifiable evidence. I know he used to add a reference (which seems to have stopped lately), but in a number of recent A4 deletion cases, we've lost international footballers who have represented Juventus (e.g. Cesare Prandelli) and European club and international football managers (e.g. Josip Kuže). At the same time, the community voted to keep Tam, an article without any verifiable sources whatsoever, and with far less information than the stubs created by NU. As an aside, in all cases, the stubs that are created by NU plenty of inter-wiki links.

Some thoughts:

We perpetually bemoan the lack of editors we have, and yes, creating a flood of clearly "useless" stubs (of the "a is a city in b" for "a, b" stubs) is pointless, but NU's stubs "did" assert notability. He also said he didn't feel comfortable expanding them - he's now been blocked for a week. That's probably not going to attract other, foreign-language editors who need a bit of help adding some verification to their stubs. () 15:28, 12 January 2010 (UTC)

Stubs need to show some sort of notability, not just that the thing existed. For example, one of the stubs deleted read: "Josip Kuže (born 13 November, 1952) is a former Croatian football player.". That's it. (Interwiki links are not a sign of notability - in fact, Nameless User creates similar articles on English Wikipedia anyway). We are not a directory for football players. I deliberately didn't delete the stubs which at least contained a table and further prose (such as "He is the manager of...") which therefore showed notability. The example I gave says nothing, not even what team played for, if he even played professionally. No notability was shown at all.

The biggest problem for me is his method in creating the articles en masse, clearly with no care or desire to expand them. As I mentioned, we are not a directory for football players, and when someone presses the random button, they shouldn't have to see a stub on a football player every 10 or so times. People look at these articles to either a) Help their English or b) Get an overview of a topic without it being too detailed and complex. These stubs provide neither of these opportunities. Many are near (or complete) duplicates of their English Wikipedia version, so why would anyone come here to read them? Another problem is the way he floods recent changes with these so-called articles, making watching for vandalism difficult. His refusal to at least slow down and stop flooding new pages (three in a minute) is what has caused me to block him, because such unco-operativeness is not workable on this project. 16:09, 12 January 2010 (UTC)



FWIW, NU has not contacted me about my offer of mentoring, nor has he edited his userpage since the block. So that's one less editor. () 23:34, 16 January 2010 (UTC)

(<-) Hello there. I don't think there are many editors here who do not know it yet, but English is not my first language. I have learnt two other languages (French and Latin) before I could have a go at English. All what I say here is not directed against Nameless User, it should apply to pretty much any stub we have. Articles here should fall into four categories: stubs, "normal articles", GA, and VGA. In this, a stub is at the lowest level. For a stub to "work", it should:
Contrary to what other people think:
If I now look at a random article Nameless User created, say Kim Grant:
When Nameless User comes on, he creates a number of these articles all in a short time. This floods the recent changes, so there he should probably ask for a flood flag. Other that this, I cannot really reproach anything to Nameless User. (Note that I am not interested in football, and therefore cannot judge the content; for a reference is the article about Kim Grant at EnWP). -- () 12:22, 17 January 2010 (UTC)

Hello, I'm Cremepuff222, a new user to the simple wikipedia. On the english wikipedia, where I edited for three years, portals were sorta a big thing. I wasn't aware that simple didn't have portals, until I started to create the origami portal. I realized then that there wasn't even a namespace for portals. I think that as simple becomes larger, portals will become even more necessary to organize related articles and coordinate improvements to articles related to the portal. Does anyone else support implementing portals on simple? -- () 05:35, 13 January 2010 (UTC)



It's almost as if these people don't want to evolve as a community and try new things for the wiki.--     20:21, 13 January 2010 (UTC)

After reading through the above discussion, I too agree that we should not use portals. I mainly started creating the origami portal to organize improvements on origami-related things, but a wikiproject would be just as effective. -- () 22:40, 13 January 2010 (UTC)

Who would actually read this wiki as a non-editor? I would think it would be hard to find. Is there a statistic thing that shows how many people view an article a day/week/month? I think you need to advertise more somehow. We have hardly any editors, and in turn I don't think we have that many readers. 14:26, 14 January 2010 (UTC)


Hey guys. A while ago I and other users created a bunch of soft redirects like the Stirring page. On my return to simple, Jamesofur had nominated one of the articles for QD (before he was an admin) but removed the tagging. Since then coming here asking what the community thought of these pages has been on my agenda, I've just not got around to doing it, so here it is. You can find most of them at . It would also be a good idea to check these redirects and make sure that none of them link to SEWB as it is closing.Thanks,-- |  21:26, 17 January 2010 (UTC)

Hi, everybody. I want to propose the addition of the autoreviewer group in SimpleWP. The patrol backlog is pretty huge and I believe that if a number of trusted users are granted AP, that'll reduce the log significantly. Currently, while a majority of our content editors are admins, there are several who aren't. Rather than admins going to patrol the pages of these editors, I believe that if the had autoreview, their new pages would've been patrolled and reduced the backlog. Regards,   17:15, 20 January 2010 (UTC)

Considering the amount of abuse that it had recently, do you think we should enable cascading for the Recent Changes? () 00:05, 22 January 2010 (UTC)
By any chance is there a guide I can use to get used to editing here? () 00:33, 22 January 2010 (UTC)

While looking over lots of your pages I see that they are devoid of any sources. Do they need to be in simple English or can they be in general English? thanks -- () 02:44, 23 January 2010 (UTC)

Also i was thinking that shouldnt we start/create a bot that list all articles over 2000bytes and 10.000 bytes in an attempt to improve the article length and quality i have seen similar things on other wikipedias(sutch as Sweidhs wikipedia) and that often makes editors to try to atleast write articles over 2000 bytes. Lets say an article named (New articles over 2000 bytes) where the bot automaticly places new articles over 2000 bytes in one section and then 10.000 bytes in one. Also editors can themselves place their new articles on the list. And on Swedish wikipedia every week one perosn that has created most articles over 2000 and 10.000 bytes get a sort of award like we can get today(but that isnt necessary here i guess).because we do have a problem with stubs and very short articles as of today. It could work, consider it.-- () 18:17, 23 January 2010 (UTC)

Hi, i have just seen that their is no way of knowing that the Barack Obama article for example has been up for GA status two times. On English wikipedia they add a"tag" on the articles talk page where it says that this article has been up for Good Article status or Featured article (VGA status here)discussion etc etc.. Couldnt we fix something similar to Simple Wikipedia?-- () 18:17, 23 January 2010 (UTC)

I forgot how to request for deletion, how do I do it? ??? I think I did it wrong... Maybe I should just delete and cover up the request... Help! () 12:45, 27 January 2010 (UTC)

Hey guys. A few of us discussed this criteria over IRC on Tuesday night, and most of us were in favor of bringing it back. The discussion started when created the Atlantic Records article. It was then confirmed that Na'vi 2 was and . then tagged that article for QD per the G5 rationale, and correctly declined that qd as we do not use G5 on simple. We took a look back at the archives, at found that it was removed after a a discussion that lasted 13 minutes. I would propose that we bring this criteria back. With or current problem with Pickmanbothlol and the accounts he is creating, I think G5 would be useful. I think, that deleting all content a banned user like Pickmanbothlol creates would help keep users like him away. I know I am growing weary of his edits. Thoughts?-- |  18:03, 27 January 2010 (UTC)

Not that I'm taking sides, but under the logic I've seen, which is "If it's worth speedy deleting then it's sure to fall under a different QD rationale", we should get rid of all but , and . I'm sure this is not the case.--     00:40, 28 January 2010 (UTC)

Hi. We've been using a verison of simplified English for our AI research, which concerns learning by reading. (see Integrating Natural Language, Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, and Analogical Processing to Learn by Reading). The articles in the Simple English Wikipedia look like a nice fit for what we do. Do you have a database download, like the regular Wikipedia, that we could use? Thanks.

It's my next project. I'm adding lots of content now, and references in a week or two. I'm going to ask for a review soon. My main concern is that it's not clocking simple enough, though I think that proper nouns are throwing it off (please simplify if you can). 05:32, 28 January 2010 (UTC)

Would it be useful to have a template which could be added to an article's talk page if the result of an RfD is either "keep" or "no concensus"? I was thinking of something like this (which I have adapted from the oldafd/oldafdfull templates which can be found on many Wikipedias):

and


For both of them, if they are missing, date defaults to "in the past", page defaults to the article page of the talk page which the template is on, and result defaults to keep.

If you think this would be useful, I am happy to move them to Template: space (as and ). I think it is useful to see if a current article has been put up for deletion in the past when considering whether it should be put up for deletion now.

Regards, -- /|\ 22:12, 27 January 2010 (UTC)

I have also created one for allowing us to link to the archived discussions:

I have been bold and moved it to Template space! Now all we have to do is get them on the various talk pages...

Regards, -- /|\ 21:14, 28 January 2010 (UTC)

I accidently created an account because I was on one of my socks on the English Wikipedia but when I came here it automatically created the account for me. Does this count as socking here? I didn't mean to. I use my old accounts on the English Wikipedia to watch articles since that's the only thing I can do with them. () 04:21, 29 January 2010 (UTC)

I am not a chemist - so I can't do anything about it - but the above article doesn't look like it would mean anything to most readers! I know enough to see that it is about the properties of a kind of steel, but I can't tidy it up or simplify it. I was tempted to RfD it, but I'm not sure what to give as a reason - "looks too complicated" seems a bit harsh! It isn't nonsense ot vandalism, so it can't be QDd. Anyone willing to look at it, or give advice? -- /|\ 07:55, 29 January 2010 (UTC)

Can you create any article for the Simple English Wikipedia that is on the English Wikipedia? () 02:17, 29 January 2010 (UTC)

I accidently used my IP address. I forgot to sign in. Do I have to tag the IP address as mine too? () 06:15, 31 January 2010 (UTC)

Wow... this project is really going to be removed. That's a tough pill so swallow. Thanks to all you who made this a fun and active project, and thanks for the recent reverts to my userpage (SuaveArt has been blocked twice on ENWP for the same type of thing). I hope you'll join me in saying, Goodbye to the Simple English Wikiquote! . () 19:56, 26 January 2010 (UTC)

Goodbye Simple English Wikiquote. :( 13:24, 27 January 2010 (UTC)

I have added the tags to the talk pages of all the articles in Log 1. I'll work on the other archives over the next week or so. -- /|\ 01:33, 2 February 2010 (UTC)

Hi all! I made a new Wikiproject about chess. If you are interested or know how to play chess, please join. Visit if your interested. ♠♣♦♥ 12:50, 4 February 2010 (UTC)

Taking into fact that Simple Wikibooks and Wikiquote are about to be closed down, do you think this is a sign that what ever is left of the Simple Branch will soon follow to their deaths if we can not fix the major issues that currently plague us? () 00:33, 6 February 2010 (UTC)

Hi there all. I am quite tired of seeing people make pages that aren't named the same as they are on the English Wikipedia, and I think that we should adopt a new policy that states that pages should be named the same way that they are on the English Wikipedia, for consistency's sake, and for interwiki correctness. I think that we could implement this by adding a note on the page creation screen that says something along the lines of: WAIT! Please make sure that this is the way the page is named on the English Wikipedia or some such note. Anyways, it just bothers me when pages aren't named appropriately. Thanks, 20:07, 5 February 2010 (UTC)

As to the naming in general, EnWP often pick article names badly; I think a policy that forces us to do the naming the same way as they do would hinder us more than it would help. -- () 19:38, 6 February 2010 (UTC)

Hi all! I've created a user subpage where people can list medical articles they think are in need of work. Please feel free to add to it. It is located at . Thx! 22:06, 8 February 2010 (UTC)

How come when I signed myself in the newspaper and ordered Simple Wiki News it never comes to my user talk? That's a bit fishy to my taste... But could you explain to me? :) () 10:30, 9 February 2010 (UTC)

Hello all,

I know that the US defines city a little differently from how they are defined in Europe. This leaves us with many 'cities' we have articles about, which aren't really notable. We have many articles about US cities with less than 10.000 people. If the same place was in Germany or in France, it would be unlikely to have an article, unless it was historically important. It would therefore be a good thing that based on some census data, we identified the top ten to top twenty population centers for each state. These are the 'cities' probably worth writing about. To these, add perhaps 3-5 "other" places in the state that are worth keeping, because they are historically important. This exercise will permit to reduce the hundreds of articles 'X is a city in Y' to perhaps 25 such articles per state. We can then delete all the other 'X is a city in Y' articles. What do you think, good idea? -- () 08:50, 30 January 2010 (UTC)


Some time back I came up with a vital cities list ...it's not as regimented as Eptalon...some states have 3, others. Here's my proposal:
 08:00, 31 January 2010 (UTC)

Every city, town, and village in the United States is notable because places on geography have inherent notability, regardless of how many people live there. While I do agree that we should be focusing on the ones with more people, we will eventually need them all, so I don't see what the big problem is is people just start making them the way that they should be made here according to their interests. 20:10, 5 February 2010 (UTC)


</doc>
<doc id="223937" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223937" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/DJ ENUFF">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/DJ ENUFF

 () "has nominated this page for deletion for the reason:"


"Please discuss this deletion below, but keep in mind that and that there may be options that are not just "keep" or "delete", such as merging."

This request is due to close seven days after it was filed; that is on approx. Sunday, 31 January 2010 at 8:28 pm, although it may be closed more quickly due to .<br><br>


</doc>
<doc id="223940" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223940" title="Christian liturgy">
Christian liturgy

A liturgy is a special set of rituals done by a group of people as a form of worship. A Christian liturgy is such a liturgy, done by different Christian denominations. The forms of worship changed over time, and different groups also have different prescriptions on how such a celebration should be done. The celebration on a Sunday or a Holiday might be different from that which is done every day.


</doc>
<doc id="223941" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223941" title="Booby prize">
Booby prize

A Booby prize is a prize of low value or a joke prize. It is sometimes given for a terrible performance or last-place finish. Booby prizes are sometimes humorously and jokingly seen as an object of pride as being noticed for doing something special - losing or coming in last-place. A booby prize is usually awarded and received with pleasant humor and understanding, it is not seen as a sign of disgrace. 



</doc>
<doc id="223972" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223972" title="Jerilderie, New South Wales">
Jerilderie, New South Wales

Jerilderie is a town of 768 people in the southern Riverina region of New South Wales, Australia. It is the only town in the Jerilderie Shire Council Local Government Area.

It can be found along the Newell Highway south-west of Sydney and north of the Victorian state border. Jerilderie's post code is 2716.


</doc>
<doc id="223975" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223975" title="Macropod">
Macropod

Macropods are marsupials belonging to the family Macropodidae, which includes kangaroos, wallabies, tree-kangaroos, pademelons, and several others. Before European settlement, there were about 53 species of Macropods. Six species have since become extinct. Another 11 species have been greatly reduced in numbers.


</doc>
<doc id="223982" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223982" title="Shengzhou">
Shengzhou

Shengzhou is a city of Zhejiang Province in China. It is a part of Shaoxing Municipality. Its population(including suburbs) is about 735 000. Yueju Opera ,which is a Chinese opera popular in China, originated in Shengzhou.


</doc>
<doc id="223984" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223984" title="Yueju Opera">
Yueju Opera

Yueju Opera (Chinese: 越剧),is a Chinese opera popular in China. It originated in Shengxian County(namely Shengzhou). The word "Yue" in Chinese means Zhejiang province and the regions around it. "ju" means (Chinese) opera. At present, Yueju Opera is the second most popular opera in China, after the Beijing Opera.


</doc>
<doc id="223985" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223985" title="Harbin">
Harbin

Harbin is a city in Northeast China, located in the Heilongjiang province. It is the largest city and the capital of the Heilongjiang Province. The population of Harbin Municipality is 9,873,743, 4,754,753 of whom lives in the city proper of Harbin.


</doc>
<doc id="223989" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223989" title="Category:Anabaptism">
Category:Anabaptism


</doc>
<doc id="224006" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224006" title="Sirach">
Sirach

Sirach, by Ben Sira, which is also known as Wisdom of Jesus son of Sirach, the Wisdom of Ben Sira, or Ecclesiasticus, is a work from the early second century BC, its original version being written in Hebrew.


</doc>
<doc id="224027" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224027" title="Alveoli">
Alveoli

Alveoli are tiny air flaps in the lungs. In the alveoli, oxygen and carbon dioxide are exchanged in the blood, getting rid of the carbon dioxide and giving the oxygen to the red blood cells to be delivered to all of the muscles and organs. Alveoli are elastic, which means that they can stretch when they are filled with air.

Alveoli exchange oxygen with red blood cells when the heart's Sinoatrial and Atrioventricular nodes send electric signals to the hearts ventricles. The right side of the heart then contracts twice, sending blood shooting into the pulmonary circulatory system, where capillary beds are located in the lungs. The Alveoli then exchange oxygen and discard carbon dioxide with the red blood cells, which then return to the heart's left atrium.

The singular of alveoli is one alveolus. Alveoli are tiny grape-like sacs where gas exchange takes place in the lungs (oxygen and carbon dioxide). When you breathe out, the body delivers carbon dioxide to the alveoli, and you release it in your exhalation. When you breathe in, oxygen fills the alveoli and then enters the blood, so it can be delivered to the rest of the body. In asthma there is no damage to the alveoli, which is different from another common lung disease which is called: chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, in which alveoli are damaged. 


</doc>
<doc id="224031" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224031" title="Imago">
Imago

In biology, the imago is the last stage in the development of an insect. It comes after the last ecdysis of an incomplete metamorphosis, or after emergence from the pupa where the metamorphosis is complete. This is the only stage in which the insect is sexually mature and, if it is a winged species, has functional wings. The imago is often referred to as the "adult stage".


</doc>
<doc id="224032" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224032" title="Jennifer Todd">
Jennifer Todd

Jennifer Todd (born 1969, California) is an American movie producer. She and her sister, Suzanne, run a production company called "Team Todd".

Their credits include the three Austin Powers films, "Boiler Room", "Prime", "Must Love Dogs", and "Memento" for which she won an Independent Spirit Award for best film.

Team Todd's upcoming films include "Across the Universe", starring Evan Rachel Wood and Jim Sturgess, and directed by Julie Taymor, and "The Accidental Husband", directed by Griffin Dunne and starring Uma Thurman, Colin Firth and Jeffrey Dean Morgan.


</doc>
<doc id="224033" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224033" title="Christopher Paolini">
Christopher Paolini

Christopher Paolini (born November 17, 1983 in Southern California) is an American writer. He is best known as the writer of the Inheritance cycle, which has the books "Eragon", "Eldest", "Brisingr", and the fourth book. He lives in Paradise Valley, Montana.

Christopher Paolini is famous for publishing his book, Eragon when he was only seventeen years old. He began writing the book when he was fifteen. His second book, Eldest, was released in 2005. His third book, Brisingr, was released in 2008. The final book of the Inheritance Cycle, Inheritance, will be released on 8 November, 2011.


</doc>
<doc id="224037" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224037" title="Dougie Poynter">
Dougie Poynter

Dougie Lee Poynter (born 30 November 1987) is the bass player and singer for the British pop punk band, "McFly". The band's first single, "Five Colours In Her Hair", reached number one in the charts, as did their first album, "Room On The Third Floor". McFly were signed to Island Records before creating their own indie label, Super Records in December 2007. Poynter is the band's youngest member having joined the band at the age of 15.


</doc>
<doc id="224040" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224040" title="Ali Hassan al-Majid">
Ali Hassan al-Majid

Ali Hassan Abd al-Majid al-Tikritieh ( , 30 November 1941 – 25 January 2010) was an Iraqi minister. He was a member of the Baath Party. During his life, he was Defense Minister, Interior Minister, military commander and chief of the Iraqi Intelligence Service. He was also the governor of occupied Kuwait during the Gulf War.

He was a first cousin to the President of Iraq Saddam Hussein. During the 1980s and 1990s, he became notorious for his role in the Iraqi government's campaigns against internal opposition forces, namely the ethnic Kurdish rebels of the north, and the Shia religious dissidents of the south. Repressive measures included deportations of the population and mass killings; al-Majid was dubbed "Chemical Ali" by Iraqi Kurds for his use of chemical weapons in attacks against them.

Al-Majid was captured after the 2003 invasion of Iraq and was charged with war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide. He was convicted in June 2007 and was sentenced to death for crimes committed in the al-Anfal campaign of the 1980s. His appeal against the death sentence was rejected on 4 September 2007, and was sentenced to death for the fourth time on 17 January 2010. Al-Majid was hanged eight days later.


</doc>
<doc id="224041" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224041" title="Bamba (snack)">
Bamba (snack)

Bamba (Hebrew:בַּמְבָּה) is an Israeli corn snack and is considered to be one of the most popular snacks for children. 

Bamba has been made since 1963 with no decline in sales. Bamba makes up 25% of the Israeli snack market.


</doc>
<doc id="224043" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224043" title="Bamba">
Bamba

Bamba may refer to:




</doc>
<doc id="224056" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224056" title="List of ChuckleVision episodes">
List of ChuckleVision episodes

This is a list of ChuckleVision episodes. ChuckleVision is a popular British children's television series.

All the episodes in Series 12-13 were originally 20 minutes in length, but in 2004 the BBC cut them down to 15 minutes in length to suit their schedule. The original length 20 minute episodes are very rarely broadcast.

2002 Christmas Specials
The Series

2008 Christmas Special

All information in this article is sourced from "http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b006w487/episodes". Due to the fact that not all episodes are displayed on this website at any one time, the information in this article was also confirmed as being correct from the BBC helpline - 03700 100 222.


</doc>
<doc id="224082" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224082" title="Car stereo">
Car stereo

A car stereo is a device that can be in a car to listen to the radio, play cassettes or CDs.


</doc>
<doc id="224085" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224085" title="Eudora Welty">
Eudora Welty

Eudora Alice Welty (April 13, 1909 – July 23, 2001) was an award-winning American author who wrote short stories and novels about the American South. Her book, "The Optimist's Daughter", won the Pulitzer Prize in 1973 and Welty was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom, among numerous awards. She was the first living author to have her works published by the Library of America. Her house in Jackson, Mississippi, is a National Historic Landmark and open to the public as a museum.

Welty worked as a publicity agent for the work progress administration. She had to travel around Mississippi for her job. In her own time,she took memorable photographs. These mostly show how different people from all enonmic and social classes coped with the great depression. Collections of her photograph were published as (one time,one place)1971 and photograph(1989). 
Very often, a photograph was the basis of one of her short stories,including 'why i love at po',which was inspired by a woman she photographed ironing in the back of a small post office.


</doc>
<doc id="224093" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224093" title="Template:The Fauna Barnstar">
Template:The Fauna Barnstar


</doc>
<doc id="224094" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224094" title="Template:The Running Man Barnstar">
Template:The Running Man Barnstar


</doc>
<doc id="224096" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224096" title="Template:The Oddball Barnstar">
Template:The Oddball Barnstar


</doc>
<doc id="224097" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224097" title="Template:The Current Events Barnstar">
Template:The Current Events Barnstar


</doc>
<doc id="224098" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224098" title="Template:The Business and Economics Barnstar">
Template:The Business and Economics Barnstar


</doc>
<doc id="224099" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224099" title="Template:The Barnstar of Liberty">
Template:The Barnstar of Liberty


</doc>
<doc id="224101" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224101" title="Template:The Royalty's Barnstar">
Template:The Royalty's Barnstar


</doc>
<doc id="224102" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224102" title="Template:The Literary Barnstar">
Template:The Literary Barnstar


</doc>
<doc id="224111" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224111" title="Talisman">
Talisman

A talisman is an amulet or stone that is said to have magical powers.


</doc>
<doc id="224112" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224112" title="Category:Iraqi politicians">
Category:Iraqi politicians


</doc>
<doc id="224113" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224113" title="Category:Iraqi people">
Category:Iraqi people


</doc>
<doc id="224116" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224116" title="Eagle Comics">
Eagle Comics

Eagle Comics was a short lived comic book company that existed to reprinting comic serials from the UK's "2000 A.D." magazine for distribution in North American. They existed from 1983 to 1986 and were based in London, England, with product production and distribution located in Canada. The series they brought to American audiences included-



</doc>
<doc id="224134" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224134" title="Tikhon of Zadonsk">
Tikhon of Zadonsk

Saint Tikhon of Moscow was a of Moscow in the beginning of the Soviet Union. His name, before he became a saint, was "Vasily Ivanovich Bellavin"(). He was by the Synod of Bishops. It is possible that the character of the elder Zosimov in the Russian novel "The Brothers Karamazov" was influenced by him.


</doc>
<doc id="224135" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224135" title="Henry James">
Henry James

Henry James OM was an Anglo-American writer, thought of as one of the most important literary people in the 19th century. He was the son of Henry James Senior, a clergyman, and the brother of William and Alice James. His writing style (writing from the eyes of one of the characters in the story) has been compared to impressionist painting.

James often criticized fiction, especially in his thought that writers be allowed the greatest possible freedom in showing the way they look at the world. He published fictional books, articles and books of travel, biography, autobiography, and criticism, and wrote plays, some of which were performed during his lifetime. His plays probably influenced his later novels and tales.


</doc>
<doc id="224140" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224140" title="Velupillai Prabhakaran">
Velupillai Prabhakaran

Velupillai Prabhakaran (November 26 1954 — May 18 2009) was the leader of the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam. He fought to make an independent state for the Tamil people in the north of Sri Lanka. Under his leadership, the Tamil Tigers became one of the most deadly guerilla groups in the world.

Prabhakaran was born in Valvettiturai, a fishing town, on the northern tip of Sri Lanka. His father worked for the government. After Ceylon became independent in 1948, life became very difficult for the small Tamil population. There were laws to limit their chance of getting to university or working for the government. In 1972, Prabhakaran started a group called the Tamil New Tigers (TNT). In July 1975 he shot dead Alfred Duryappa, the mayor of Jaffna. Duryappa was also a Tamil, but Prahbhakaran believed he had become too close to the Sri Lankan government.

Prabhakaran went to India to escape from the police. He hid in the city of Madras (now Chenai), where he turned the TNT into the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE). Each member had cyanide (poison) carried in a necklace which they could swallow if they were captured. Other rules that Prabhakaran made for the LTTE were that members could not smoke, drink alcohol or have sex. The last rule was changed when Prabhakaran married Mathivathani Erambu. The LTTE was secretly helped by the Indian government, and were able to set up training camps in India. Other Tamil guerilla groups were taken over or destroyed by the LTTE. 

In July 1983, there were wide spread attacks against Tamils in Sri Lanka. Many Tamils left the country, and many young people went to the training camps in India. The LTTE fought against the government. They had their own navy, the Sea Tigers, and air force. In July 1987 Prabhakaran started a group called the "Black Tigers". These were a group of male and female suicide bombers. Their explosive belts have been copied by groups in Palestine, Chechnya and Iraq. India sent 100,000 peace keeping soldiers to Sri Lanka in July 1987. The Indian government and the Sri Lankan government signed an agreement, but Prabhakaran did not like it because it did not create a separate Tamil country. The Indian soldiers were soon fighting against the LTTE. 

The Indian army left Sri Lanka in March 1990, having had 1200 soldiers killed. Prabhakaran became ruler of the northern part of Sri Lanka. He attacked everyone he thought was responsible for the war. In May 1991, female suicide bombers killed the former Indian Prime Minister, Rajiv Gandhi, during an election rally. Prabhakaran did not trust other people. He would only drink his own bottled water, he slept with a gun under his pillow.. He thought his cousin, Mahattaya, was plotting against him. He had him and many others tortured and killed.

In 2001, the Sri Lankan government and the LTTE asked Norway to help make a ceasefire to stop the war. This lasted for four years before the fighting started again. This led to increased attacks on the LTTE by the Sri Lankan army. The LTTE were slowly forced back into a very small area. Prabhakaran and his son, Charles Anthony, were killed in the fighting, and the LTTE were defeated.


</doc>
<doc id="224145" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224145" title="Mohs scale of mineral hardness">
Mohs scale of mineral hardness

Mohs scale of mineral hardness is named after the scientist, Friedrich Mohs, who invented a scale of hardness based on the ability of one mineral to scratch another. Rocks are made up of one or more minerals. According to the scale, Talc is the softest: it can be scratched by all other materials. Gypsum is harder: it can scratch talc but not calcite, which is even harder. The hardness of a mineral is mainly controlled by the strength of the bonding between the atoms and partly by the size of the atoms. It is a measure of the resistance of the mineral to scratching.

As it says in Mohs scale, the diamond is always at the most top of the scale, being the hardest mineral. There are ten minerals in Mohs scale, talc, gypsum, calcite, fluorite, apatite, orthoclase, quartz, topaz, corundum, and for last and the hardest, diamond. But since the Mohs scale was made long ago, it is not exactly correct - for example, many have found and reported minerals higher in hardness than the diamond. So the Mohs scale may not be most completely perfect, but it is still quite trustworthy.

2.5
Fingernail
2.5–3
Gold, Silver 
3
Copper penny 
4-4.5
Platinum 
4-5 Iron
5.5 Knife blade
6-7 Glass 
6.5 Iron pyrite
7+ Hardened steel file 


</doc>
<doc id="224146" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224146" title="Chinglish">
Chinglish

Chinglish is the way that English learner whose first language is Chinese use English words in a Chinese language way.

It often happens when those people learning a new language and can not prevent from thinking in an old way.

For example, when people asks another to go out with him/her. In English : Will you go out with me? In Chinese language way: Will you go out and play with me?

So the chinglish can make the English speaker feel confused.


</doc>
<doc id="224147" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224147" title="Friedrich Mohs">
Friedrich Mohs

Friedrich Mohs was a scientist who studied minerals and rocks, a German minerologist.

Scientist Mohs was born in Germany, and he was a minerologist who studied minerals, chemistry, physics, and mathematics. He was born in 1773, January 29th, and died in 1839, September 29.

He moved to Austria in 1801 where he found a job identifying minerals in a collection that belonged to a rich banker. He used physical characteristics of the crystals to decide what they were. One of the characteristics he used to identify minerals was hardness. 

He knew that some of the minerals could scratch others and that if a mineral could make a scratch on another, it must be harder than the mineral that was scratched. He found that all minerals could scratch the mineral talc, so it must be very soft. He also found that diamonds were so hard that no other minerals could scratch them. 

About ten years later, Friedrich made a scale from one to 10 to describe mineral hardness. He gave harder minerals larger numbers and softer minerals smaller numbers. Talc, the softest mineral, he assigned to one, the smallest number on the scale. Diamond, the hardest mineral, he assigned to 10, the largest number on the scale. This scale was called Mohs scale of mineral hardness, named after Friedrich Mohs.

In 1812, Mohs became professor in Graz; in 1818, professor in Freiberg, Saxony; in 1826, professor in ViennaIn 1817, Mohs replaced his mentor Werner, who had died, as a tutor at the mining academy in Freiberg, where he worked for nine more years, until he was appointed as a professor of Mineralogy at the University of Vienna.

Mohs ended his remarkable career as a mining advisor at the Mining University in Leoban and died aged 66, while holidaying in Italy.


</doc>
<doc id="224148" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224148" title="Category:Friedrich Mohs">
Category:Friedrich Mohs


</doc>
<doc id="224172" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224172" title="Chelicerata">
Chelicerata

The Chelicerata are a sub-phylum of the Arthropods. The sub-phylum consists of only two classes: the horseshoe crabs and the arachnids. The horseshoe crabs (Xiphosura) are a small, ancient group which has survived relatively unchanged for millions of years. Groups like this are often called living fossils. The Arachnida is the huge and successful terrestrial (air-breathing) group of spiders and their relatives.

The chelicerates originated as marine animals. The first confirmed chelicerate fossils, the eurypterids, date from 445 million years ago in the Late Ordovician period. Although only four marine species survive, all of them horseshoe crabs, there are over 77,000 species of air-breathing chelicerates, and there may be about 500,000 unidentified species. 

The life-style of chelicerates is largely carnivorous, or other kinds of heterotroph.


</doc>
<doc id="224173" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224173" title="Cameraman">
Cameraman

A cameraman or camera operator, is the person who takes motion pictures of the actors in a movie with a motion picture camera. They also are the people who work the cameras for television shows and news.


</doc>
<doc id="224207" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224207" title="Category:Mammals of Europe">
Category:Mammals of Europe

This is a list of pages about mammals which are found in Europe.


</doc>
<doc id="224208" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224208" title="Category:Mammals of Great Britain">
Category:Mammals of Great Britain

These are pages about mammals which are found in Great Britain.


</doc>
<doc id="224222" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224222" title="Wire-crested Thorntail">
Wire-crested Thorntail

The Wire-crested Thorntail ("Discosura popelairii") is a species of hummingbird. It lives in Colombia, Ecuador and Peru. Their coloring is steel-blue, with white shafts, making a pretty sight when spread. The bird has a crest of bright green feathers. These birds feed on nectar from flowers using their long tongue or catch insects on the wing.


</doc>
<doc id="224232" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224232" title="Avoidant personality disorder">
Avoidant personality disorder

Avoidant personality disorder (AvPD) is a type of personality disorder and mental illness.
People diagnosed with Avoidant personality disorder are socially inhibited, meaning that they are and afraid of social situations. They feel that they are not good people and are afraid of people them. They are very sensitive to other people saying bad or negative things about them.

Psychiatrists and other mental health professionals diagnose people with AvPD using a book called the "Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders" (DSM-IV-TR). They look at a person's behaviour and how they are feeling. If the person has four or more of the following signs, the DSM-IV-TR says that they have AvPD.

The symptoms of AvPD are much more serious than ordinary shyness.


</doc>
<doc id="224240" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224240" title="Cassiopeia (mythology)">
Cassiopeia (mythology)

Cassiopeia was a woman in Greek mythology. She was the wife of Cepheus who was king of a place called Ethiopia. This is not the same place as the African country called Ethiopia. They had a daughter called Andromeda. Cassiopeia was very beautiful but also very arrogant and vain. She thought that she was better than other people. One day, Cassiopeia said that her daughter Andromeda was more beautiful than all of the Nereids. The Nereids were sea-nymphs. When the sea-god Poseidon heard what Cassiopeia had said, he was very angry. He sent floods and a sea monster called Cetus to destroy Ethiopia. Cassiopeia and her husband Cepheus asked an oracle what to do. The oracle said that they must sacrifice their daughter so they chained Andromeda to a rock. A hero called Perseus came and rescued Andromeda. Later, they got married.

Poseidon was still angry with Cassiopeia and wanted to punish her. He placed her in the sky. There is a constellation called Cassiopeia named after her.

There was another woman called Cassiopeia in Greek mythology who was married to a king called Phoenix.


</doc>
<doc id="224241" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224241" title="Cassiopeia">
Cassiopeia

Cassiopeia (or Kassiopeia) can mean:



</doc>
<doc id="224271" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224271" title="Branch line">
Branch line

A branch line is a secondary railway line. It is a more important route, usually a main line. A very short branch line may be called a spur line. David Blyth Hanna, the first president of the Canadian National Railway, said that although most branch lines cannot pay for themselves, they are essential to make main lines pay.


</doc>
<doc id="224293" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224293" title="Hydroid">
Hydroid

Hydroids are similar to Jellyfish. Hydroids live in warm climates in the ocean. The are most commonly found in the Pacific, Indian, and Atlantic Ocean anywhere inshore and offshore. Hydroids consist of solitary organisms and are more commonly found polyps growing on a common stalk. Hydroids usually reproduce asexually. They can grow up to 2 to 2 1/2 meters across and can be as small as 10-12 millilmeters.


</doc>
<doc id="224333" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224333" title="Atlantic Records">
Atlantic Records

Atlantic Records (Atlantic Recording Corporation) is an American record label best known for its many recordings of rhythm & blues, rock and roll, and jazz. It was founded in October 1947 by Ahmet Ertegün and Herb Abramson. It earned a reputation as the most important independent label in the USA. 1967 it was bought by Warner Bros.-Seven Arts, now the Warner Music Group, and expanded into rock and pop music, signing Cream, Led Zeppelin, Yes and Foreigner.



</doc>
<doc id="224334" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224334" title="Amazilia Hummingbird">
Amazilia Hummingbird

The Amazilia Hummingbird ("Amazilia amazilia") is a species of hummingbird. The Loja Hummingbird ("A. alticola") has less tan-brown underparts. It is sometimes thought to be a subspecies of the Amazilia Hummingbird.

The Amazilia Hummingbird lives in western Peru and Ecuador. It is mostly common, and can be seen even in big cities such as Lima and Guayaquil. It likes dry, open or partly-open habitats, but also lives in forests.



</doc>
<doc id="224356" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224356" title="Wikimedia Foundation">
Wikimedia Foundation

The Wikimedia Foundation is a non-profit foundation. Their main headquarters are in the United States. The Wikimedia Foundation runs many projects using the wiki idea and the MediaWiki software. These projects include Wikipedia, Wiktionary, Wikiquote, Wikisource, Wikinews, Wikibooks, Wikiversity, Wikimedia Commons, and Meta-Wiki.

There are many other wikis to do with the foundation, but these are mostly smaller projects. They include the Wikimedia Foundation wiki, the MediaWiki wiki, the Test Wikipedia, the Wikimedia , Bugzilla, and the Wikimania wiki. 

The foundation's creation was officially announced by Wikipedia co-founder Jimmy Wales, who was running Wikipedia within his company Bomis, on June 20, 2003.

The foundation gets most of its funds from , as it is nonprofit. It also looks for grants. Some companies have helped Wikimedia by giving free computer hardware, and by hosting servers. Since people can write the wikis, Wikimedia projects are free to use. 

Ting Chen will be the current Chair of the Wikimedia Foundation Board until July 2011.

These are the members of the Board of Trustees and the expiry of their terms, :

The is an international network of experts who have agreed to give the foundation meaningful help on a regular basis in many different areas, including law, organizational development, technology, policy, and outreach. , the members are:


</doc>
<doc id="224357" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224357" title="David Chalmers">
David Chalmers

David Chalmers was born in 1966. He has lived in Australia all of his life.

Since 2004 he has been a professor of philosophy at the Australian National University. Chalmers was a leading philosopher before he was 30 years old.

People think of him to be one of the best leaders in the study of the philosophy of mind and consciousness.

He has challenged other philosophers to solve the "Hard Problem of consciousness". This is the problem of explaining the relationship between physical and mental states. For example the brain has a physical way of processing information and this makes an experience, a mental state.



</doc>
<doc id="224364" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224364" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Oompa loompa">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Oompa loompa


</doc>
<doc id="224365" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224365" title="Australian Giant Cuttlefish">
Australian Giant Cuttlefish

The Australian Giant Cuttlefish ("Sepia apama") is the biggest species of cuttlefish, growing up to in mantle length length and over pounds in weight. Australian Giant Cuttlefish live in the southern coast of Australia, from from Brisbane in Queensland to Shark Bay in Western Australia. It lives in rocky reefs, seagrass beds, and sand or mud seafloor to a depth of 100 meters. Indo-Pacific bottlenose dolphins have been seen to eat them.


</doc>
<doc id="224369" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224369" title="Panpsychism">
Panpsychism

Panpsychism is the theory that everything in the universe is somehow sentient or conscious. They are all connected parts of the whole. Panpsychists believe that all matter in the universe has some degree of consciousness.In other words the substance of the universe is composed entirely of mind or consciousness. This is not to say that rocks have a mind but that the individual atoms and other particles in the rock have some sort of awareness and are aware of each other. Panpsychism is opposed to materialism or any doctrine that argues that the reality of the universe is composed solely of matter. Panpsychism needs no supernatural miracle to explain consciousness, it is consciousness. In other words we are all part of a grand communication scheme which is the glue that holds the universe together.




</doc>
<doc id="224370" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224370" title="Prosauropod">
Prosauropod

Prosauropoda or prosauropods were a group of early herbivorous dinosaurs that lived during the Triassic and early Jurassic periods. They were frequently the predominant herbivore in their environment, and quickly reached large size (6 to 10 meters long). All prosauropods had a long neck and small head, forelimbs shorter than the hindlimbs, and a very large thumb claw for defense. They were originally thought to be the ancestors of the sauropods, but are now considered a parallel lineage.


</doc>
<doc id="224383" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224383" title="Admiral">
Admiral

Admiral is the highest rank in a navy. The term is used internationally by many countries. It derives originally from the Arabic "amīr" (= commander), and comes down to us by way of Old French and Latin. 

Variations on the term are:


</doc>
<doc id="224410" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224410" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Sims 3">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Sims 3


</doc>
<doc id="224411" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224411" title="Drosera">
Drosera

Drosera, sometimes called Sundews, are carnivorous plants. They use a thick gluey goo called "mucilage" to trap and digest their prey. They are one of the most numerous carnivorous plants, and have at least 188 species. They are found everywhere in the world except Antarctica. Many sundews species usually live for two or more years, while others live for only one year and reproduce by seed. Some sundew species can live for 50 years.

Its scientific name is from the Greek δρόσος: "drosos" = "dew, dewdrops". Its English name is "sundew", from Latin "ros solis", meaning "dew of the sun". Both names describe the sweet-smelling, sticky (goo) that comes down the ends of on each flower . This mucilage rolls down the plant, attracting sugar-loving insects day and night. The mucilage has enzymes which digests them so that the plants can get the nitrogen it needs from it. Like all plants, the sundew makes its own food, and just uses insects for nitrogen and other nutrients. These tiny flowering plants are about tall, about as tall as an adult's hand, though some climbing sundews can be much taller. One species of sundew, the "Drosera erythrogyne", grew up to . Sundew roots are not very strong. They are usually simply for taking in water and keeping the sundew firmly planted to the ground.

A fly, butterfly, or other nectar-loving insect will find the sweet smell of the mucilage that oozes from the plant. Landing on the colorful tip, the insect will immediately be stuck. The plant has cells that make more mucilage in the place where the insect is. The gooey mucilage will completely the insect. Then, the sundew plant wraps its outside tentacles around the insect, absorbing its nutrients. It curls its tentacles around the insect quite quickly: in some species this takes only a few seconds. Some species, like "Drosera glanduligera" can curl its tentacles towards its prey in less than a second. Many sundews can bend parts of themselves so that the prey will be as sticky as possible. One species, "Drosera capensis", actually wraps its leaf around the prey in 30 minutes, as seen in the picture on the right. The prey usually dies in about 15 minutes. The sundew will then eat the entire insect except the outside exoskeleton. When the plant has finished eating, it opens up its tentacles and drops the exoskeleton to the ground.

Sundews have also been used in herbal medicine for a long time. Today they are still used to stop coughs, asthma, and lung .

Because they are carnivorous (eat living things), and because of the beauty of the dew-like mucilage on their tentacles, sundews are also popular as ornamental plants. However, they can be quite hard to grow: they need lots of water (their soil usually has to keep on being very wet), and this water has to be pure (without minerals inside it), because this can stop them from growing or even kill them.

Parts of sundews were also eaten by Australian Aborigines.



</doc>
<doc id="224415" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224415" title="Bee Hummingbird">
Bee Hummingbird

The Bee Hummingbird or "Zunzuncito" ("Mellisuga helenae") is a species of hummingbird. The Bee hummingbird lives in Cuba and Isla de la Juventud. A newly hatched Bee Hummingbird chick of Cuba can weigh as much as about a fingernail clipping. Its weight is less than a tenth of an ounce (2 g). Because of this, it is the smallest living bird as well as (when paleontologist are concerned) the smallest theropod dinosaur on record.


</doc>
<doc id="224421" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224421" title="Blue-capped Hummingbird">
Blue-capped Hummingbird

The Blue-capped Hummingbird or "Oaxaca Hummingbird" ("Eupherusa cyanophrys") is a species of hummingbird. The Blue-capped Hummingbird is endemic to subtropical moist forest in the southernmost part of the Sierra Madre del Sur in the Mexican state of Oaxaca. Its tiny range is threatened by habitat loss.

Like the White-tailed Hummingbird, it is sometimes thought to be a subspecies of the more common Stripe-tailed Hummingbird.



</doc>
<doc id="224449" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224449" title="Cwmbran">
Cwmbran

Cwmbran is a town located just outside of Newport, it had a population of around 47,254 people in 2001, and also has the second biggest undercover shopping center in Wales. Cwmbrân was created under the New Town Act of 1946 to house employees of the nearby steelworks. It has diverse industries, including the production of car parts, nylon yarn, and cookies.


</doc>
<doc id="224466" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224466" title="Template:Intro rewrite">
Template:Intro rewrite


</doc>
<doc id="224475" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224475" title="Raje">
Raje

Raje is a maratha family. Raje (Marathi: राजे) is the Honour of King or Nobleman i.e. King, Maharaj ( your Majesty ) in India. In India some states like Maharashtra, North Indian States (some of which were erstwhile Maratha territories), South Indian States were Ruled by Indian Royal Dynasties , Clans of Kshatriya Community.The Rulers were Addressed by the People as Raje. Also,Other clans of Maratha Community prouds as Raje before their original Clan Name. Like RajeBhosale, RajeShirke, RajeMahadik, RajeNimbalkar, RajeMane etc.
In states like Rajasthan, Rajput Community Chiefs welknown by their titles as Maharawal,Rana,Maharana etc. which are equivalent as that of King/Raje/Maharaja.

History always begins with registering victory tales.during the past era gone by declaring a war for cause of protecting religion or to establish ones own territory depended on assessing the given situation.
The dynasty of Rajeshirke is known to have been from 5th century onwards. Reference's of Rajeshirke is found from 6th century onwards and has been recorded by historians


</doc>
<doc id="224476" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224476" title="Flag of Colorado">
Flag of Colorado

The Flag of the State of Colorado has three horizontal stripes of the same width; the top and bottom stripes are blue, and the middle stripe white. On top of these stripes sits a circular red "C", filled with a golden disk. The blue is meant to represent the skies, the gold stands for the sunshine enjoyed by the state, the white represents the snowcapped mountains and the red represents the earth.

The flag was thought up by Andrew Carlisle Johnson in 1911 and adopted by the state's General Assembly on June 5 of the same year. 

However, the legislature did not specify the size of the "C" or the exact shade of blue or red. Because of this, some flags were in slightly different colors and had the "C" wholly within the center stripe. On February 28, 1929, the General Assembly added to the statement that the flag would be the same color blue and red as the flag of the United States. On March 31, 1964, the legislature further dictated the diameter of the gold disc to be equal to the center stripe.


</doc>
<doc id="224482" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224482" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Rajeshirke">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Rajeshirke


</doc>
<doc id="224489" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224489" title="Amethyst Woodstar">
Amethyst Woodstar

The Amethyst Woodstar ("Calliphlox amethystina") is a species of hummingbird. It is found in most of central, and eastern South America, Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, French Guiana, Guyana, Suriname (the Guianas), Paraguay, Peru, and Venezuela. The bird's range surrounds the "Amazon countries" into the Andes foothills and higher heights of upstream river systems, but is not along the Amazon River proper in the central Amazon Basin, or the central upper Basin; it is in Brazil at the river's outlet, and upstream for about 500 km.

The Amethyst Woodstar's natural habitats are subtropical or tropical moist lowland forests and subtropical or tropical moist montanes.



</doc>
<doc id="224497" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224497" title="Harbor Seal">
Harbor Seal

The Harbor Seal ("Phoca vitulina"), also called the Common Seal, is a true seal. They are found in coastal waters of the northern Atlantic and Pacific ocean as well as Baltic and North Seas making them the most wide-ranging of the pinnipeds (Walruses, eared seals, and true seals).
The females live longer then the males and females usually live to be 30 to 35, while males usually live up to 20 or 25 years old.


</doc>
<doc id="224502" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224502" title="Template:Oldrfd">
Template:Oldrfd


</doc>
<doc id="224503" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224503" title="Template:Oldrfdfull">
Template:Oldrfdfull


</doc>
<doc id="224504" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224504" title="Template:Oldrfdfull/doc">
Template:Oldrfdfull/doc

This template should not be .

None of the parameters are "required".


If the year is missing (or if the page is incorrectly given), then no discussion link will be given.

If the year is present, the discussion will be linked at .

<includeonly>
</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="224508" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224508" title="Template:Oldrfd/doc">
Template:Oldrfd/doc

This template has two parameters; <nowiki></nowiki>


<includeonly>
</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="224513" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224513" title="Merit badge">
Merit badge

A Merit badge is a award earned by youth members of the Boy Scouts of America (BSA), based on things within an area of study by finishing a list of updated . The purpose of the merit badge program is to allow Scouts to find subjects to figure out if they would like to further pursue them as a career or . At first, the program also exposed Scouts to the life skills of contacting an Merit Badge Counselor they had not met before, arranging a meeting and then showing the Merit Badge Counselor their skills, kind of like to a job or college interview.

Merit badges are an important part of earning the high ranks in Scouting (Star, Life, and Eagle). Eagle requires earning 21 merit badges, including 12 in specific areas such as camping, first aid, and citizenship; Life requires eleven and Star six.

At first, there were fifty-seven merit badges; today, there are 122.

Merit badges are also used as ways to move up in Scouting in other countries, such as Ireland.

The following is a list of Boy Scout merit badges. Merit badge that are required for Eagle are in "italics"






</doc>
<doc id="224531" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224531" title="Wikipedia:IRC channels">
Wikipedia:IRC channels

There are three IRC channels for users of Simple English Wikipedia hosted on Freenode:
There is a channel that broadcasts the events in .


</doc>
<doc id="224539" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224539" title="Blue-throated Hummingbird">
Blue-throated Hummingbird

The Blue-Throated Hummingbird, ("Lampornis clemenciae"), is a species of hummingbird. The Blue-throated Hummingbird is a good sized hummingbird, reaching 11.5 to 12.5 cm (4½ to 5 inches) in length and 6 to 10 grams in weight. The Blue-throated Hummingbird is darkish green on the top of its body, blending to medium gray on its belly. It has a bright white stripe behind its eye and a narrower stripe reaching backward from the corner of its bill, bordering a blackish cheek patch. Its tail feathers are blue-black with broad white tips on the outer two to three pairs. The species gets its name from the adult male's iridescent blue throat patch (gorget), but the female doesn't have this, instead having a plain gray throat. Males sing two types of songs: a simple "peep song," which sounds like a squeaky wheel, and a quiet but hard "whisper song." The female is also thought to sing during the breeding season to attract males.


</doc>
<doc id="224547" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224547" title="Elephant seal">
Elephant seal

The Elephant Seal is a huge seal of the genus Mirounga. There are two species, one in each hemisphere. The southern elephant seal, is found in Antarctic waters, while the northern elephant seal lives on islands of California and Mexico. The elephant seal is the largest amphbious animal. The bulls have a huge proboscis, and may weigh 2700 kilograms (6000 lbs), and 5 metres (16ft) in length at maturity although old males can approach 6.6 metres (22ft) long and weigh 5.5 tons (11,000 lbs)in rare cases.

Outside the breeding season, elephant seals come ashore only to shed their skin, a process known as "moulting". In late summer, hundreds of seal gather on beaches and wallow in muddy pools of water. They lie close to gather while they gradually shed patches of hair and skin. Eventually, the old skin replaced by a new coat of sleek fur, and the seal return to water. 

Mating is preceeded by fights between males, who throw their huge bulk against each other. Winners get to mate with females.

Elephant seals dive to 1550 metres beneath the ocean's surface: the deepest recorded dive of an Elephant seal is . The average length of their dives is around 20 min for females and 60 min (1 hour) for males, as they search for their favorite food. Their diet includes skates, rays, squid, octopus, eels, penguin (Southerns only), and small sharks. Their stomachs also often contain gastroliths (stomach stones). 

They are surprisingly good on land, faster than humans when moving over sand dunes.


</doc>
<doc id="224555" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224555" title="James Thomas Humberstone">
James Thomas Humberstone

James Thomas Huberstone (July 8, 1850 - June 12, 1939) he was an English chemical engineer who came to America in 1875 to work in the Company "Salitrera de Tarapaca", Peru (at the moment Chile) and introduced the Schanks System and other innovations to the industry.

Birth the 8 of July of 1850 in, Dover a Town of England, the grandfathers of Humberstone had been director of the band of the Scottish Guard and his father tapeworm a modest use in a post office. 

When transfer next to its family to London was young. When it fulfilled twenty years work like assistant of the laboratory of the arsenal of railroads London Northwestem, and later chemical study ingieneria in the courses of Mechanics Institutes. 

When I graduate offered work to him as engineer in the Company of "Salitrera de Tarapacá" in Peru and I travel to America in 1875. 

I arrive at Pisagua the 6, January and was destined to the Salitrera Office of "San Antonio de Zapiga", introduced of Schanks System (that its name to James Schanks must to him). 

This Serbian system to make Sodium carbonate. But this used serious system in all the offices of the saltpeter was ascending in the industry and was also administrator of several offices. 

Work 34 years in association of producers of saltpeter and when retiring occurred a gold medal him by its services. 

I give a great Innovation in the industry, for that reason the nickname of father of the saltpeter. 1936, occurred him King of England Edward VIII of the United Kingdom conferred the Order of the British Empire to give a great meaning in the name of the United Kingdom. He passed away in Iquique, Chile 12, June, 1939. In its honor I re-baptize the well-known office like the Palm to Humberstone and Santa Laura Saltpeter Works.


</doc>
<doc id="224567" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224567" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Musiquip">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Musiquip


</doc>
<doc id="224576" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224576" title="List of English football teams 2009/10 season">
List of English football teams 2009/10 season

These were the English football (soccer) teams and the leagues they were in for the 2009–10 season.






</doc>
<doc id="224602" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224602" title="Brown Inca">
Brown Inca

The Brown Inca, ("Coeligena wilsoni"), is a species of hummingbird. It is found in Colombia and Ecuador. Unlike most hummingbirds, the brown inca are not brightly colored. Instead they are plain brown with a white patch on the shoulder and an iridescent purple throat that is best seen in the best light.



</doc>
<doc id="224612" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224612" title="Nairobi National Park">
Nairobi National Park

Nairobi National Park is the smallest park in Kenya.

The park has lots of different kinds of animals.

The park has a lot of educational programmes for teaching visitors about the different species of animals, their habitats and their diet.

The park has an area called the Orphanage where orphaned and abandoned animals are looked after.


</doc>
<doc id="224613" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224613" title="Selena">
Selena

Selena Quintanilla–Pérez (April 16, 1971 – March 31, 1995), better known as Selena, was an American singer. She was named the "Queen of Tejano music" and was also known as the "Mexican Madonna". Selena was born the last child of a Mexican-American father and a half-Cherokee Indian mother. She released her first LP record at the age of 12. At the 1987 Tejano Music Awards, she won the "Female Vocalist of the Year" award. She won this award eight times in a row. Selena signed a record deal with EMI Latin in 1989. In 1990, "Ven Conmigo" became the first Tejano album by a female singer to reach gold status. In 1992, "Entre A Mi Mundo" helped Selena to tour in Mexico. The album sold 300,000 copies and became the first Tejano album by a female singer to sell that many.

Her first number-one single "Como La Flor" became one of her signature songs. The next year, "Selena Live!" won a Grammy Award for "Best Mexican/American Album". In 1994, "Amor Prohibido" was released and four of the singles became number-one. Selena became the first Hispanic singer to do this. The album became the fastest-selling Latin album of all time. The song "Amor Prohibido" was nominated for a Grammy Award. Her other single, "Bidi Bidi Bom Bom" became one of her most famous songs. In late 1994, the president of EMI Latin believed that Selena had reached her peak in the Spanish market. They wanted to do a crossover album to expand her career. 

On March 31, 1995, Selena was killed by Yolanda Saldivar. Selena's death affected people in Hispanic communities. Many candlelight vigils took place, as well as memorials from fans. Two weeks later, George W. Bush made April 16 "Selena Day" in Texas. Her crossover album "Dreaming of You" was released on July 18, 1995. It helped Selena to become the second-fastest selling female artist, behind Janet Jackson. Selena's album sold 175,000 copies on the day of its release. It went on to be the second-highest-selling debut album, behind Michael Jackson. In 1997, Warner Bros. released a movie about her life. Jennifer Lopez played the role of "Selena" in the movie. 

In 2005, a tribute concert called Selena ¡VIVE! aired on Univision. The show had the highest ratings in Univision history. It was also the most-watched Spanish-language show in the history of American television. It was watched by 37 million people in the United States. In 2006, a Selena museum was built by Q-Productions. "Mirador de la Flor", a bronze life-sized statue, was created in honor of Selena. These memorials are in Corpus Christi, Texas. The statue is visited by hundreds of fans every week. As of 2010, Selena has sold over 21 million copies in the United States.

Before Selena was born, her mother Marcella Ofelia Samora was told she had a tumor. Doctors told her that it needed to be removed. Because of her religion, she wanted a second opinion. When Samora saw a second doctor, she was told that she was actually pregnant. Selena Quintanilla was born on Easter Sunday in Lake Jackson, Texas. Samora and Selena's father, Abraham Quintanilla Jr, were told they were going to have a son. They did not choose a name for a girl if the baby actually turned out to be a girl. Another mother who shared the room Samora was in had told her about the name "Selena". Selena was raised as a Jehovah's Witness. Abraham was a musician before she was born. He quit his dreams to support his family. One day, Abraham began playing a guitar. He later taught A.B. Quintanilla III, Selena's brother, to play the guitar. Selena then came into the room and started to sing. Abraham was amazed that his daughter had a perfect pitch. He quickly organized his children into a band. He called it "Selena y Los Dinos" which means "Selena and the Boys", which is an Italian slang word. Abraham fell in love with Selena's voice. In 1982, he opened a Mexican restaurant called "PapaGayos" (). He built a dance floor where his children could perform together. However, his restaurant was shut down because of the recession of 1982. The family became bankrupt and were removed from their home. They then moved to Corpus Christi, Texas.

Abraham began asking people throughout town to book "Selena y Los Dinos". They played wherever they could to get money. They performed at street corners, weddings, quinceañeras and fairs. In 1984, Selena recorded her first LP record for Freddie Records. They began recording Tejano music, even though Selena wanted to record pop and soul. Her father did not want them to record those music genres. He wanted them to grow up knowing their heritage. Selena learned Spanish by listening to others speak. The album was not sold in stores. Freddie Records did not believe a female singer could sell a record. Her father bought all of the original copies.

Selena was known by her teachers as a bright student. Selena made the honor rolls and was in several after-school activities. She was also bullied in school by other girls. When Selena was in the eighth grade, her father took her out of school. Her performance schedule was getting bigger, and it was becoming too hard for Selena to stay in public school. She completed and mailed homework on her tour buses. When she was 17, she earned a high school diploma from The American School of Correspondence in Chicago. She was also accepted at Louisiana State University.

In 1985, Selena recorded her second independent LP record, "The New Girl in Town" however the album was pulled off shelves because of copyright problems. Selena became a music guest on the Johnny Canales Show where she performed "Oh Mama" from her second LP. In 1986, she released "Alpha". The album became her first LP to be released successfully and helped her to be discovered by Rick Trevi, the founder for the Tejano Music Awards. Selena won "Female Vocalist of the Year" in 1987 and for eight consecutive years after that. She also released two more LPs, "And The Winner Is..." and "Muñequito de Trapo". Selena released "Preciosa" and "Dulce Amor" in 1988.

In 1989, Selena signed a record deal with the recording company EMI Latin becoming the first artist to sign with them. She also helped other Tejano artists to sign with major recording companies such as EMI Latin, SBK Records and Sony Music Latin. She also made Tejano music popular among younger people. Jose Behar said that he signed Selena because he thought he found the next Gloria Estefan. In the same year, Coca-Cola wanted Selena to become on of their spokespeople in Texas. Around this time, her concerts began to attract thousands of people. Behar and Stephen Finfer asked the record company to begin Selena's crossover album. However, EMI turned them down and told Selena she needed a bigger fan base. Selena released her self-titled album in 1989. The lead single "Contigo Quiero Estar" peaked at number eight on the Latin Regional Mexican Airplay chart.

In the same year, Chris Perez, who was a rock musician, was asked to join "Selena y Los Dinos". Abraham did not like Perez because of his image and believed he would be a bad influence on his children. Selena's brother tried to tell Abraham that Perez would change. Abraham agreed, because they were missing a guitarist. In 1990, Selena released "Ven Conmigo". The album became the first album by a female Tejano singer to reach gold status. Around this time, Perez and Selena fell in love with each other. After noticing this, Selena's father became very angry and fired Perez from the band, Selena was warned never to see him again. Abraham told her that if she followed Perez, he would disband the group. However, Selena secretly met Perez. The two eloped on April 2, 1992. Selena then added Chris' last name to hers. Radio stations publicly announced their marriage, and Abraham found out about what Selena had done. Selena confronted him the next day. Abraham accepted the relationship and Perez into the family. He later said that he felt guilty because he thought that it was his fault that Selena and Perez eloped because he was being overprotective. 

A registered nurse and fan named Yolanda Saldivar asked Selena's father to start a fan club in San Antonio, Texas. Saldivar had the idea after she had attended one of Selena's concerts. Saldivar previously did not like Selena because she was winning all the awards at the Tejano Music Awards, but her friends asked her to give Selena a chance. Abraham approved Saldivar's request. Abraham later said that he felt the fan club would give more exposure to the band. Saldivar soon became a close friend to Selena and the family. She was trusted and became the president of the fan club. In 1992, Selena released "Entre A Mi Mundo". The song "Como La Flor" became Selena's signature song. The song peaked at number-one on the "Billboard" charts. She played to record-breaking audiences every time. Songs such as "La Carcacha" and "¿Qué Creias?" were also asked for in venues across Mexico. Selena recorded a duet with Alvaro Torres called "Buenos Amigos". The song reached number-one on the US Hot Latin Tracks along with "Como La Flor". "Buenos Amigos" allowed Selena to tour in El Salvador. "Entre A Mi Mundo" became the first Tejano album by a female to sell 300,000 copies. The album helped Selena to tour in Mexico.

In 1993, Selena released "Selena Live!". The album won a Grammy Award for "Best Mexican/American Album". The songs "No Debes Jugar", "La Llamada" and "Tu Robaste Mi Corazon" were the top five on "Billboard"s charts. Selena became the first Tejano artist to win a Grammy Award. Around this time, Selena opened two boutiques called "Selena Etc.". She hired Saldivar as the manger. "Hispanic Business" magazine wrote that Selena earned $5 million from her boutiques. Selena also acted in a Spanish soap opera called "Dos Mujeres, Un Camino". When her episode aired, it broke a record rating. She was asked to make a second appearance. In December 1993, Selena was signed with SBK Records. However, preparations would not begin until late-1994, however, she did not start recording songs until a year later. Her record contract was front page news on "Billboard".

In 1994, Selena released "Amor Prohibido". The album became "Latin's best-selling album of all time". It contained four number-one singles. Selena was the first and only Hispanic artist to do this. The album was certified double-platinum by the end of the year. She also won awards from "Premio Lo Nuestro" including "Best Latin Artist" and "Song of the Year". Coca-Cola released a bottle with Selena's name on it to celebrate their five year working relationship. It sold out within one month. "Bidi Bidi Bom Bom" became one of Selena's best songs after it won an award from the Broadcast Music, Inc.. Selena recorded a duet with the Barrio Boyzz called "Donde Quiera Que Estes". The song peaked at number-one on the "Hot Latin Tracks". This allowed Selena to tour in New York City, Argentina, Puerto Rico and Central America, where she was not well known. By the fall, "Amor Prohibido" became a great success after it sold another 400,000 copies. It replaced Gloria Estefan's album "Mi Tierra" at the top of the charts. The album was nominated for a Grammy Award. "Amor Prohibido" and "No Me Queda Mas" became the most successful singles of 1994 and 1995. The song "Amor Prohibido" was nominated for a Grammy Award. She was then called "The Queen of Tejano music".

In late 1994, the president of EMI Latin felt that Selena had reached her peak in the Spanish-speaking market. They now wanted to release a crossover album with Selena. Grammy Award-winning composers began writing songs for Selena to record. Her goal was to become a pop icon such as Donna Summer, Paula Abdul, Madonna and Mariah Carey. Selena continued on her Amor Prohibido Tour while EMI Latin prepared the album. Selena was signed to SBK Records to begin recording songs for her crossover album. In 1995, Selena made a cameo appearance in "Don Juan DeMarco", which starred Marlon Brando, Johnny Depp and Faye Dunaway.

In February 1995, Selena performed at the Houston Astrodome. She performed for a record-breaking audience of over 60,000 fans. This was more than country singers such as George Strait, Vince Gill, Clint Black and Reba McEntire. In March she was the headliner at Miami's Calle Ocho Festival, which attracted over 100,000 fans. Selena visited local schools to talk to students about the importance of education. She spent her free time helping her community. She also worked with D.A.R.E. and planned a fundraising concert to help AIDS patients. Selena also helped victims in Florida after Hurricane Andrew made landfall there in 1992. This helped win loyalty from her fan base. 

Selena was known to never turn her back on her fans. She gave out cupcakes to children in her neighborhood. She also gave them free rides on a go–kart that she bought for the children. She planned to release another Tejano album. She was afraid that her fans would no longer like her if she did a crossover album only. Even at her peak, Selena was worried that no one would show up to her concerts, and she would even ask her father if anyone was there. Meanwhile, she was planning to open two more boutiques. One was scheduled to be opened in Monterrey, Mexico. Selena was called the "Mexican Madonna" but unlike Madonna, Selena valued family and never cursed. She also was known for her "sexy stage costumes" that she wore while performing.

According to the A&E series "Biography", Selena's fans were minorities in the world, she also gave them a voice. She also spoke to them and encouraged them that they can do anything they set their minds to.

Yolanda Saldivar was an employee and manager for Selena's boutiques and fan club. Saldivar was stealing money from these businesses and was eventually caught. Selena did not believe that her best friend could do something like that. She tried to maintain their friendship, but by March 1995, it began to crumble. Selena and her husband Chris Perez visited Saldivar to get the documents that she had stolen. Saldivar did not give Selena all the documents. The next day, Selena and Saldivar met secretly at Saldivar's motel room. On the morning of March 31, 1995, Selena met up with Saldivar to collect paperwork and missing documents for tax preparations. At the hotel, Selena demanded that Saldivar gave her the missing financial papers. Saldivar then claimed that she was raped in Mexico. Selena took her to a local hospital where doctors found that Saldivar was lying. This made Selena end her friendship with Saldivar. When they returned to the hotel, they began arguing even more. When Selena turned to leave, Saldivar took a gun from her purse, pointed it at Selena and pulled the trigger, shooting Selena in the back. Selena ran to the hotel lobby for help. She was seen holding her chest screaming repeatedly, "Help me!". Saldivar chased her and called her a "bitch". Selena fell to the floor and named Saldivar as the shooter. By the time Selena arrived at a local hospital, she was pronounced dead. She was two weeks from her 24th birthday and three days from her third wedding anniversary with Chris Perez. Saldivar went to her pick-up truck and threatened to commit suicide. The SWAT and the FBI Crisis Negotiation Unit were called. She surrendered after nine hours.

Saldivar testified not guilty. She said that the shooting was an accident and that she meant to shoot herself, not Selena. The jury sentenced Saldivar to life imprisonment with eligibility for parole in 2025. Reactions to Selena's death were compared to reactions to Elvis Presley and John Lennon's deaths. Most white Americans in Texas did not believe that Selena's death was something "big". Some white American celebrities such as Howard Stern mocked Selena's funeral and death. Many fans disapproved of such actions and held public boycotts. Selena's death was called "Black Friday" in Texas. George W. Bush declared April 16 as "Selena Day" in Texas. This event had mixed to negative reactions from other Americans as well.

In 1997, Warner Bros. released a movie about Selena's life. It was directed by Gregory Nava. The movie helped Jennifer Lopez's career because she had a breakthrough role as Selena. Because Lopez was a Puerto Rican, a conflict started among Selena fans. After the movie was released, fans changed their views on Lopez, who was given a Golden Globe nomination for her role.

Selena continues to outsell many living artists. Many music critics believed if Selena were alive, she would have surpassed the record sales of Madonna, Gloria Estefan, Paula Abdul and Whitney Houston. By 1996, Selena held the record for most wins at the Latin Music Awards then any other artist.

The Guinness Book of World Records named Selena as the "most dominating artist". She is the only deceased celebrity who continues to compete with today's pop stars. Selena also became the first Hispanic singer to have an album sung mostly in Spanish to peak at number-one. She also became the first female to place five albums at the same time on the "Billboard" 200. The only other artists to have done this were Elvis Presley, The Beatles and Garth Brooks. "Billboard" wrote that the release of "Dreaming of You" was "a historic day in Latin music history". The album helped Selena to become the second-fastest selling female artist, behind Janet Jackson. "Dreaming of You" became the second-highest debuts, behind Michael Jackson. "Dreaming of You" outsold Mariah Carey's "Music Box" (1993) and Whitney Houston's "The Body Guard" (1992).

"People" magazine released a tribute issue for Selena. The magazine sold 1,000,000 copies in one day. This was the only issue to be "sold proof". The company released three more runs, and all sold out in two weeks. This made the company to release "People En Espanol". In 2001, Selena became the only Latin female to receive a Golden Eagle Award because of her positive impact on millions of Hispanics. In 1998, "People" named Selena one of "The Most Intriguing People of The Century". A musical called "Selena Forever", starring Veronica Vasquez as Selena, opened in Los Angeles. The American Bank Center in Corpus Christi renamed its 2,526-seat "Bayfront Auditorium" to "Selena Auditorium".

A tribute concert, "Selena ¡VIVE!", aired on Univision on April 7, 2005. The concert marked the 10th anniversary of Selena's murder. The show had other Latin artists performing covers of Selena's songs. The show was the highest rated and most-watched Spanish-language show in American television history. The show had about 37 million viewers, more than the number of viewers of that night's episode of "American Idol". The show had the highest ratings in Los Angeles, Chicago, San Francisco and New York City.

Tejano music began declining after Selena died. Many artists—including Beyoncé, Myra, Paula DeAnda, 3LW, Christina Aguilera, Shakira, Nadia López, Diana Reyes, Ivy Queen, Fanny Lú, Don Omar, Kat Deluna, Eva Longoria, Wyclef Jean, Daddy Yankee, Aventura, Jennifer Pena, David Archuleta, The Cheetah Girls, Lila Downs, Tito Nieves, Manny Manuel, Girl in a Coma, Malverde, Angel y Khriz, Karen Rodriguez, Sara Tavares, Prince Royce, Bruno Mars, Frankie J, Perez Hilton, Katy Perry, Ashlee Simpson, Q'orianka Kilcher, and Enrique Iglesias—have self-identified as fans of Selena. Selena's fan base continues to stay strong. Selena Gomez, a Mexican-American actress, was named after Selena. Gomez said that Selena means a lot to her and her family. Selena's music has been played in many LGBT clubs in North America. She is also liked by many LGBT people.

Selena's life story has been documented in Oprah Winfrey's "The Oprah Winfrey Show", George Lopez's "Lopez Tonight", María Celeste Arrarás's "Selena's Secret: The Revealing Story Behind Her Tragic Death" and many other English and Spanish specials that interviewed Dave Holmes, Nick Lachey, Mariah Carey, and Lola Ogunnaike about Selena's death.

Selena is one of the most widely known Mexican-American vocal artists and most popular Latin artist in the United States. Documentaries are aired annually marking Selena's death anniversary. "Billboard" named Selena the "Best Selling Latin Artist of the Decade" and "Top Latin Artist of the 90's". As of 2010, Selena has sold over 21 million copies in the United States.






</doc>
<doc id="224615" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224615" title="Salomon Wininger">
Salomon Wininger

Salomon Wininger ‎(13 December 1877, Gura Humora, Bukovina – December 1968, in Ramat Gan, Israel) was an Austrian-Jewish biographer.

Before World War I, Wininger lived in Chernivtsi and moved to Vienna during the war years, ‎where he decided to write biographies of famous Jewish persons.‎ This idea was pushed in order to counter the self-hating mood of Jewish youth in the city, created under the influence of Otto Weininger's works.‎

After his return to Chernivtsi in 1921, Shlomo Wininger wrote about 13,000 biographies and published them in seven volumes between 1925 and 1936. He survived the time of World War II in Chernivtsi and emigrated in 1951 to Israel.

Wininger is considered ‎as one of the greatest Jewish biographers of all time.‎




</doc>
<doc id="224621" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224621" title="Indo-Canadians">
Indo-Canadians

Indo-Canadians are Canadians whose family can trace back to India. The names "East Indian" and "South Asian" are used for people who originate from India, to tell them apart from the First Nations peoples of Canada who are often called Indian, and from the people of the Caribbean, who are sometimes called West Indian. Most Indo-Canadians call themselves "Indian", instead of "East Indian". This is because Christopher Columbus thought the Americas were India, and that Native Americans were Indian.

Most Indo-Canadians come from India, but some come from the Caribbean, South America, Africa, and the Middle East. They usually live in cities like Toronto, Montreal, Ottawa, Calgary, and Vancouver. They are one of the fastest growing races in Canada, because of immigration.


</doc>
<doc id="224646" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224646" title="Category:Asclepias">
Category:Asclepias


</doc>
<doc id="224660" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224660" title="Branko Mikasinovich">
Branko Mikasinovich

Branko Mikasinovich (born November 6, 1938) is one of the foremost scholars of Yugoslav and Serbian literature and a noted Slavist. He has edited "Introduction to Yugoslav Literature" (Twayne, 1973), the most representative anthology of modern Yugoslav prose and poetry in English; "Five Modern Yugoslav Plays" (Cyrco Press, 1977), a unique collection of plays written between 1945 and 1980; "Modern Yugoslav Satire" (Cross-Cultural Communications, 1979). which was selected for "Best Titles of 1979" by Library Journal, and included in the Puschart Prize V: The Best of the Small Presses; "Yugoslav Fantastic Prose" (Proex, 1991), the first anthology of Yugoslav supernatural tales in English, and "Yugoslavia: Crisis and Disintegration" (Plyroma Publishing Co., 1994).

Branko Mikasinovich received his B.A. from Roosevelt University in Chicago (1965), M.A. from Northwestern University, Evanston, IL. (1967), and Ph.D from the University of Belgrade (1984). He has taught Russian language and Slavic Literature at Tulane University and the University of New Orleans, and was president of the Louisiana Association of Professors of Slavic and Eastern European languages. He has appeared as a panelist on Yugoslav press on ABC's "Press International" in Chicago and PBS's "International Dateline" in New Orleans. He also appears on "Voice of America" Serbian Service television program, "Open Studio."

Baron Mihailo Mikasinovich, who was instrumental in opening Serbian schools in Krajina in the 18th century, Stefan Mikasinovich, a teacher of Dositej Obradovic, a prime mover of the Serbian cultural rebirth in the period of Enlightenment, and his father Sava Mikasinovich inspired, to a large extent, the author's scholarly activities.


</doc>
<doc id="224661" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224661" title="Template:List subpages">
Template:List subpages


</doc>
<doc id="224662" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224662" title="Template:List subpages/doc">
Template:List subpages/doc

<includeonly></includeonly>
This template lists all pages in a given namespace and prefix (see Example). All parameters are optional, and default to the current page name, namespace, and corresponding talk space.

<includeonly>==Editing this template==
</includeonly>


<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="224673" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224673" title="Longuemare's Sunangel">
Longuemare's Sunangel

The Longuemare's Sunangel ("Heliangelus clarisse") is a species of hummingbird. It can be found in Venezuela and northeastern Colombia. It is closely related to the Amethyst-throated Sunangel. The Longuemare's Sunangel is 9.4 cm (3.7 inches) long (not with the bill) and normally weighs 5.3 grams. The bill is short for a hummingbird, 1.8 cm or 0.7 in long. The overall coloring is of dark colors.


</doc>
<doc id="224677" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224677" title="Horned Sungem">
Horned Sungem

The Horned Sungem ("Heliactin bilophus") is a species of hummingbird. It can make 90 wingbeats per second when it's hovering to drink nectar from flowers. A wingbeat is one complete up-and-down movement, which means that the horned sungem moves its wing muscles at a rate of more than 10,000 times per minute. It lives in Bolivia, Brazil, and Suriname. It likes mostly dry open or semi-open habitats, such as savanna and Cerrado. It does not like thick humid forest.


</doc>
<doc id="224680" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224680" title="Category:British criminals">
Category:British criminals


</doc>
<doc id="224682" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224682" title="Template:Oldrfdfull-log">
Template:Oldrfdfull-log


</doc>
<doc id="224683" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224683" title="Template:Oldrfdfull-log/doc">
Template:Oldrfdfull-log/doc

This template should not be .

None of the parameters are "required".


If the log is missing (or if the page is incorrectly given), then no discussion link will be given.

If the log is present, the discussion will be linked at .

<includeonly>
</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="224705" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224705" title="Shillong">
Shillong

Shillong (Khasi: Shillong, Hindi: शिलांग) is a city in India. Shillong is the capital of Meghalaya. The East Khasi Hills district is in Shillong. In 2001, the city had a population of 260,520. Shillong is a major place in north-east India for education, because it has many schools and universities.

As of the 2001 India census, Shillong had a population of 232,946. Males and females are both 50% of the population. About 80% of people in Shillong can read, which is higher than the national average of 59.5%. 83% of males can read, and 78% of women can read. In Shillong, 11% of the population is under 6 years of age.

Khasis make up most of the population. However, the percentage of Khasi people is decreasing because many other people are moving there. People of all the other northeast Indian tribes live in Shillong. Many Bengali, Nepali, Assamese, Biharis and Marwaris also live there.

Christianity is the main religion in the city. Protestants make up 75% of the Christian population of Shillong and Catholics make up the remaining 25%. A lot of people in Shillong follow the original Khasi religion. There are also many other religions in the city.



</doc>
<doc id="224715" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224715" title="Gestalt therapy">
Gestalt therapy

Gestalt therapy is a form of psychotherapy. It is a way of treating people who feel ill at ease. It is based on the idea that it is best to experience what we feel "here and now" and not keep thinking about the past or worry about the future.

It forms part of what is called humanistic psychology and was co-founded by Fritz Perls, Laura Perls and Paul Goodman in the 1940s-1950s. 

At the center of Gestalt therapy is the idea of "awareness" (knowing). The person being helped is encouraged to know his or her own feelings and behaviour, and the effect they have upon the world around them. 

With Gestalt therapy, the patient is helped to see that they are trying to avoid feeling emotions from the present. Once the patient realizes this, he or she can begin to get better.


</doc>
<doc id="224724" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224724" title="Weak entity">
Weak entity

A weak entity is part of an ER diagram that relies on other entities ("Strong Entities"). Without the strong entity, the weak entity wouldn't exist.


</doc>
<doc id="224737" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224737" title="Plovercrest">
Plovercrest

The Plovercrest ("Stephanoxis lalandi") is a species of hummingbird. It is found in Argentina, Brazil, and Paraguay. 

Its habitats are subtropical or tropical moist montane forest, and degraded former forest. The Plovercrest has a blue chest, green back and white flanks.



</doc>
<doc id="224739" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224739" title="Special education">
Special education

Some children are disabled, or they have learning difficulties. Special education is about teaching these children. Some of them can be educated with other children of the same age who are not disabled. Others must go to special schools. If the disability is too bad they can not get an education. Students who have emotional problems and act poorly are sometimes expelled from school.

Special needs include speech or hearing difficulties, emotional and behavioral disorders, physical disabilities, and developmental disorders. Students with these special needs often get more educational services. This may mean different approaches to teaching, access to a resource room and use of technology.

Some students are very smart. These students are called gifted. They also have certain needs so they can succeed. These students do better with special teaching styles or different educational programs. The word 'special education' is used for students whose special needs stop them from learning the way normal people learn. Gifted education is handled separately.

Schools provide special education services to special students. 









Most schools around the world use inclusion, which means children with special needs, need to earn their right to be in the regular classroom. Sometimes schools may use full inclusion for certain students such as those with mental retardation. In that case, this is where social tolerance is afforded rather than if these students actually do earn their right to be in regular classroom. Sometimes mainstreaming is used, this is when children with special needs are in regular classroom settings as much as possible and put in special classes for the rest of the day. Social integration is used for students with special needs who are in a resource room or other special class for the rest of the time.

Historically, most students with special needs have been excluded from school, and such exclusion may still occur where there is no legal mandate for special education services, such as in developing countries. 



</doc>
<doc id="224740" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224740" title="Olive-spotted Hummingbird">
Olive-spotted Hummingbird

The Olive-spotted Hummingbird ("Leucippus chlorocercus") is a species of hummingbird. It is found in Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru. Its habitat is subtropical or tropical moist shrubland.



</doc>
<doc id="224744" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224744" title="William A. Shine Great Neck South High School">
William A. Shine Great Neck South High School

William A. Shine Great Neck South High School, also called Great Neck South, is a high school in New York. It is known for its high academic achievement. The school is located in Lake Success. However it is officially listed in Great Neck. It is part of the Great Neck Union Free School District. It teaches students from grade 9 to grade 12.



</doc>
<doc id="224745" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224745" title="Grade retention">
Grade retention

Grade retention is when a child repeats a grade i.e. first grade, second grade, etc. It may also occur in older children in middle school or high school. Some children have disabilities and must repeat a grade due to the school's fault for not meeting their needs in the first place. Either way, grade retention can be emotionally damaging on a child's self-esteem.



</doc>
<doc id="224747" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224747" title="Eleventh grade">
Eleventh grade

Eleventh grade (called Grade 11 in some places, also known as junior year in the United States and Australia) is the second to last year of secondary education in the United States, as well as many other nations. Students are usually 16 or 17 years old at this time, though it may be different because of the country or their birthdays.


</doc>
<doc id="224764" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224764" title="Village School (Great Neck, New York)">
Village School (Great Neck, New York)

Village School (commonly VS) is the oldest public alternative high school in New York State. It was judged very good by the Center for the Study of Educational Alternatives at Hofstra University. The American School Board Journal gave the Magna Award to the School for its excellent, unique, high school program. As a member of the Coalition of Essential Schools, the Village School and its staff work closely with other member schools and with the education faculty of Brown University. The Village School is officially recognized by the Middle States Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools and certified by the New York State Education Department. There are about 50 students enrolled in the Village School each academic year.

Village School is one of three high schools in the Great Neck School District, which includes Great Neck North High School and William A. Shine Great Neck South High School. VS offers its 46 students an individualized system where students earn credits as they meet curriculum goals that have been established by their teachers. Original, performance, and published documents are assessments of these goals have long been part of a Village School student's academic history. About 99 percent of the students continue their education at four-year schools. 

The alternative school provides education for grades 9-12. Many types of students attend the Village School. The Village School's catalogue describes the students saying, 

All have at least average ability, some have exceptional learning abilities and artistic talents, while others have special educational needs. Students who may have felt lost and isolated in a large school often thrive in the smaller and more personalized setting of the Village School. 
The school describes itself as a "college preparatory public high school dedicated to encouraging academic success through a non-traditional, innovative curriculum". Co-founder Arnie Langberg has been called "one of the most important pioneers in the field of public alternative education." The admissions process at Village School is comprehensive. Each student takes part in an on-campus interview and is accompanied by a parent. The children are hand picked and visit the school twice before being considered a candidate for this program.


</doc>
<doc id="224765" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224765" title="Vanessa Hudgens">
Vanessa Hudgens

Vanessa Anne Hudgens (born December 14, 1988) is an American actress. She is most well known for starring in "High School Musical" and "High School Musical 2" on Disney Channel. Hudgens has won many awards and been nominated since "High School Musical". She has been on many TV shows and movies. She began acting and singing at an early age. She is currently dating Zac Efron, with whom she acted in the "High School Musical" movies.


</doc>
<doc id="224787" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224787" title="Twix">
Twix

Twix is a chocolate bar made by Mars, Inc. It is a biscuit covered with caramel and milk chocolate. Twix was called Raider in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and Norway for many years before its name was changed in 1991 (2000 in Finland, Denmark, Norway, Sweden and Turkey).



</doc>
<doc id="224794" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224794" title="Tawny-bellied Hermit">
Tawny-bellied Hermit

The Tawny-bellied Hermit, ("Phaethornis syrmatophorus"), is a species of hummingbird. It is found in Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru.



</doc>
<doc id="224797" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224797" title="Al-Jazira Club">
Al-Jazira Club

Al-Jazira is a sports club in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. 

On 19th March 1974, the club was opened , and The First board of directors was formed in 1974 with H. E. Mohammad Khalifa Al Kindi , H. H. Sheikh Hamdan Bin Hamad Al Nahyan contributed in enhancing the administrative work in the Club for a long period 
H. H. Sheikh Hamdan Bin Zayed AL Nahyan’s assuming the Honorary Chairmanship of the Club and Chairmanship of the Honorary Panel, along with H. H. Sheikh Mansour Bin Zayed Al Nahyan .

Jazira club is located in the capital Abu Dhabi ,As part of the Al Jazira Club’s future plans and projects, new branches of the club will be started in the Al Shawamikh, Al Bahya and Wathba areas , to encourage the discovery of new talented players and add them to the club teams , The total cost of these branches will be 60 million dirhams.


</doc>
<doc id="224819" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224819" title="Rose (disambiguation)">
Rose (disambiguation)

Rose can mean:



</doc>
<doc id="224821" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224821" title="Mad Max">
Mad Max

Mad Max is a 1979 movie. It is an Australian action film directed by George Miller. It is the first role of Mel Gibson. "Mad Max" tells a story about life in an apocalyptic world.


</doc>
<doc id="224822" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224822" title="Goro">
Goro

Goro can mean:


</doc>
<doc id="224856" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224856" title="Sooty Barbthroat">
Sooty Barbthroat

The Sooty Barbthroat ("Threnetes niger") is a species of hummingbird. It is found in French Guiana and far north-eastern Brazil. Its habitat is humid tropical lowland forest. Though normally restricted in range, it is common enough to be thought a Species of Least Concern by the IUCN.

The taxonomy and systematics of the Sooty Barbthroat complex has made much confusion. Some authors thought the Sooty Barbthroat to be a "melanistic variant" of the Pale-tailed Barbthroat ("T. leucurus").

Not only that, but some suggest that the Bronze-tailed Barbthroat ("T. n. loehkeni") should also be thought a valid species and have the doubtful Christina's Barbthroat ("T. n. christinae") as a subspecies. Freire's Sooty Barbthroat (T. n. freirei) is average between the Sooty and Bronze-tailed Barbthroats however, and thus its status needs to be more clear before the problem is fixed.


</doc>
<doc id="224859" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224859" title="Rutland County, Vermont">
Rutland County, Vermont

Rutland County is a county in the U.S. state of Vermont. In 2005, 63,743 people lived there. Its county seat is Rutland. The U.S. Census Bureau says that the county has 945 square miles (2,447 km²) of total area. Out of that, 933 square miles (2,415 km²) is land and 12 square miles (32 km²) is water. 



</doc>
<doc id="224861" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224861" title="Esmeraldas Woodstar">
Esmeraldas Woodstar

The Esmeraldas Woodstar, ("Chaetocercus berlepschi") is a species of hummingbird. It is found only in Ecuador. Its habitat is subtropical or tropical moist lowland forests. It is threatened by habitat loss.



</doc>
<doc id="224880" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224880" title="Stonewall Jackson">
Stonewall Jackson

Thomas Jonathan Jackson (1824-63) was a General for the South in the American Civil War. He earned the name "Stonewall" after the First Battle of Manassas. He was killed after the Battle of Chancellorsville, Virginia.


</doc>
<doc id="224883" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224883" title="Gettysburg">
Gettysburg

Gettysburg can refer to:


</doc>
<doc id="224896" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224896" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Ophélie Bretnacher disappearance">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Ophélie Bretnacher disappearance


</doc>
<doc id="224897" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224897" title="Billboard Hot 100 songs 2009">
Billboard Hot 100 songs 2009

These are the "Billboard magazine" Hot 100 number one hits of 2009.

Hot 100


</doc>
<doc id="224898" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224898" title="Category:Selena">
Category:Selena

This is a category for anything in realtion to Grammy-award winning singer Selena.


</doc>
<doc id="224902" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224902" title="Treaty of Paris (1783)">
Treaty of Paris (1783)

The Treaty of Paris, signed on September 3, 1783, by the Congress of the Confederation on January 14 1784 and by the King of Great Britain on April 9 1784 formally ended the American Revolutionary War between the Kingdom of Great Britain and the United States of America. Under the terms of the treaty, Britain recognized the new nation.It agreed to remove all troops from the nation and also set new borders of the United States. the United states agreed to allow British troops to leave and to pay all debts owed to Britain. They also agreed not to persecute the Tories (people loyal to the king, also known as loyalists)still in the United States and allow those who left America to return.


</doc>
<doc id="224903" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224903" title="Treaty of Paris">
Treaty of Paris

Treaty of Paris could refer to: 


</doc>
<doc id="224905" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224905" title="Category:House of Bonaparte">
Category:House of Bonaparte


</doc>
<doc id="224912" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224912" title="Earmuffs">
Earmuffs

Earmuffs are objects that are made to cover and protect a person's ears. A plastic or metal band fits over the top of the head, and there are two pads at the ends that cover the ears warmly.

Chester Greenwood invented the earmuffs when he was 15. His ears would turn into unusual colors like red, white, purple, or blue and begin to hurt when it was cold (he lived in Maine). Because of this, he couldn't try out the new ice skates he'd gotten for his fifteenth birthday. Chester had tried wrapping a scarf around his head, but it was too bulky. So Chester twisted some wire so that it went across the top of his head, and made a loop on each end near his ears. Then he asked his grandmother to sew some material on the end of each loop. She put black velvet on the inside of the ears, and beaver fur on the outside of each loop, then sewed the wire across Chester's hat to make it stay.Soon lots of people in his town wanted ear warmers like Chester's, and he opened a factory when he was 19 to make them.

There are two kinds of earmuffs: "thermal earmuffs", which keep a person's ears warm, and "acoustic earmuffs", also called "ear defenders", which block out a lot of sound and noise and can be used in construction (building) sites, for example, when jackhammering.


</doc>
<doc id="224913" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224913" title="Rigel">
Rigel

Rigel is a hot supergiant star in the Milky Way Galaxy. It is classified as a blue supergiant. It is located in the constellation Orion. Many scientists believe that Rigel was the youngest star even if it is the same size with the biggest star, Betelgeuse. Rigel is much bigger than our star here in the solar system, the Sun.

The color of this star is bluish-white, hotter than a star with a yellow color, meaning it will use more energy quickly. The Sun runs off the same as gases as Rigel; hydrogen and helium that makes it shine.


</doc>
<doc id="224917" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224917" title="Agence France-Presse">
Agence France-Presse

Agence France-Presse (AFP) is a French news agency. It is the oldest one in the world, and also among the largest with Associated Press and Reuters. It is also the largest French news agency.


</doc>
<doc id="224919" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224919" title="Cathode ray">
Cathode ray

A Cathode ray is a stream of electrons that are seen in vacuum tubes.
It was first discovered by J.J Thomson in 1897 .


</doc>
<doc id="224923" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224923" title="Lewis structure">
Lewis structure

The Lewis structures, also called Lewis-dot diagrams or electron dot diagrams are pictures that show the bonding between a pair of electrons and the atoms of a molecule.


</doc>
<doc id="224926" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224926" title="Sentience">
Sentience

Sentience is being capable of feeling, consciousness or having some form of mind.


</doc>
<doc id="224935" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224935" title="Mansfield, Victoria">
Mansfield, Victoria

Mansfield is a small town at the base of the Victorian part of the Australian Alps. It is about north-east of Melbourne. In 2006 there were 4052 people living in Mansfield.

Mansfield is the centre of a large shire; it was made to join with the nearby town of Benalla away, to form Delatite Shire. Many people did not like this change and Mansfield became the first de-amalgamation in Victoria. Mansfield was once mainly a farming and logging town, but is now a tourist-centre. It is the support town for the large Australia ski resort Mt Buller. It is well known for the High Country tradition of alpine grazing, made famous in the movie "The Man from Snowy River". This was made around Mansfield, based on the poem by Banjo Paterson.

Mansfield, first known as Mount Battery, was at the boundary of a number of pastoral runs (very large farms). A township was surveyed in 1851 and named after Mansfield in Nottinghamshire, England. People came to live in the town after the discovery of gold nearby and the Post Office opened on January 1, 1858.

The Mansfield railway line, reached the town from Tallarook in 1891, and was closed on November 18, 1978. The last passenger train was on May 28, 1977.

The area round Mansfield named as "Banbury" was also the location of the novel "The Far Country" by Nevil Shute. It was about logging on Mount Buller and previous forest fires, which having burnt through Howqua, removed almost all evidence of an older settlement.

Dr. John Pearson Rowe (1810–1878) was an army surgeon and squatter (farmer) who owned the 'Loyola Run' (also known as Mt Battery) near Mansfield. He is said to be the first catholic person to live in the district. It is recorded that the the nearby town of Rochester was named after J.P.Rowe, as he owned land on the Campaspe River. Rowe was a principal founder of the University of Melbourne. He fired a shot at a 14 year old bushranger, Ned Kelly and Harry Power on 27 May 1869. Rowe stood for parliament, in the Upper House seat of the Murray District in 1859 and was defeated. In October 1878, Rowe gave information to police Sergeant Kennedy about where Ned Kelly was hiding. Using Rowe's information, Kennedy and three other policemen rode into the Wombat Ranges to find him. Three of them were killed at Stringybark Creeka, and the Kelly Gang was born. 

Mansfield is very close to two large lakes, Lake Eildon and Lake Nillahcootie. During the summer many people go to the lakes to water ski.

The nearby mountains, Mount Buller and Mount Stirling offer attractions all year round. During winter they are visited for skiing, both downhill skiing and cross country skiing. In the summer hiking and mountain biking are popular. Ski lifts work year-round at Mount Buller which help bike riders to easily get to the top of downhill mountain biking runs.

The bush around Mansfield is used for horse riding, trail biking and four wheel driving on the many tracks throughout the region.

In past years, the "Mansfield Balloon Festival" celebrated hot air balloons, and many people came from from across the state. The Balloon Festival has not been held in Mansfield for several years. 

Mansfield has a football team, the Mansfield Eagles, an Australian Rules team which plays in the Goulburn Valley Football League.

Mansfield has a horse racing club, the Mansfield District Racing Club, which holds two race meetings a year in November and December.

Golfers play at the Mansfield Golf Club on Kidston Parade.



</doc>
<doc id="224936" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224936" title="Airbus A330">
Airbus A330

The Airbus A330 is a two engine, wide-body passenger aeroplane made by Airbus. It was designed at the same time as the Airbus A340, so it has the same body and wings.

It first flew in 1992 and the first one was given to Air Inter in 1994. It was a 300 series. Just after this, Airbus made the shorter 200 series. Now, Airbus has made a freighter version (which carries cargo instead of people) and a tanker version (which carries lots of fuel so it can give some to other planes). 

There are also 394 A330s that need to be made and given to airlines. Most of these are the smaller 200 series version.

Airlines wanted a new aeroplane to replace their McDonnell Douglas DC-10 aeroplanes which were getting old. So, Airbus started a new project in November 1987: the A330 and A340 programs. In the end, it was found that the A330 is almost 38% more fuel efficient than the DC-10.

Airbus designed the A330 to be in the market for ETOPS aeroplanes. This market already had planes like the Boeing 767. In November 2009, the A330 was the first aeroplane to get the ETOPS-240 approval, which means that the plane is allowed to fly up to 240 minutes away from any airport. This means it can fly over large oceans or places like the Antarctic where there are no airports nearby. 

The A330's and wings are nearly exactly the same as the smaller versions of the A340's wings and body, but they have different engines. The A330's body is also similar to the older Airbus A300, and the computers and systems (like the fly-by-wire system) are similar to the Airbus A320 family of aeroplanes. Also, both the A330 and A340 are built at the same place: Toulouse-Blagnac Airport in Toulouse in France.

The 1000th A330 was ordered at the 2008 Farnborough Air Show.

Airbus thinks that it will keep building the A330 until at least 2015.

There are two main types of Airbus A330: the 200 series and the 300 series. There is also the freighter version, which carries cargo instead of people, and the tanker version which carries lots of fuel (usually to give to other planes).

The A330-200 was made to compete with Boeing's 767-300ER. It is a shorter version of the A330-300 and is like the A340-200.

In the 1990s, Airbus was not selling very many A340-200s (only 28 were built). So, Airbus used the body of the A340-200 and took the wings and engines of the A330-300. This made the plane much more efficient and the A330-200 was much more popular than the A340-200.

The tail fin (called the rudder) of the A330-200 is a little bit taller than the 300 version to produce the same torque as the A330-300.

It has the same MTOW (Maximum Take-Off Weight) as the A330-300, so it can take more fuel than the A330-300. This means the A330-200 can fly further than the A330-300. It has a range of 12,500 km which is the same as 6,750 nmi.

It has two engines: either two General Electric CF6-80E engines, two Pratt & Whitney PW4000 engines or two Rolls-Royce Trent 700 engines.

In May 2009, Airbus said they have plans to make a version of the A330-200 that can take off with a higher weight. This is because they want to compete with Boeing and their 787-8 aircraft.

It will have a new MTOW of 238 tonnes and a new range of 13,300 km which is 7,200 nmi. Airbus thinks that the 787-8 will have a range of 6,720 nmi (12,450 km) which is about 1000 nmi (1,900 km) less than what Boeing said it would be.

Korean Air will be the first airline to have the A330-200HGW. It ordered the aeroplanes on 27 February 2009 and will get the first one in 2010.

Because the Airbus A300-600F and Airbus A310F were getting old and companies had stopped ordering them, Airbus decided to make a new freighter plane to replace them. It started offering the aeroplane around the years 2000–2001. The aeroplane was talked about again at the 2006 Farnborough Airshow. Airbus got permission to sell the plane in January 2007 and the first plane came out of the factory on 20 October 2009. The aircraft first flew on 5 November 2009.

It can fly 64 tonnes of cargo over 4,000 nmi (7,400 km) or 69 tonnes over 3,200 nmi (5,930 km). The aeroplane was designed to use a new loading system that can use two different ways of holding cargo: containers or pallets (either smaller side by side pallets or larger single row pallets). 

It has a new front landing gear system. Normally the A330-200 points slightly downwards when it is on the ground. This is good because the pilots can see the ground better but it makes loading the cargo harder. With this new gear, the aircraft sits straight so it is easier to load the cargo. It works by making the point where the plane attaches to the gear lower. This means that the nose has a bubble on the bottom to make sure the gear fits properly.

Airbus has 67 orders for the A330-200F. The customer who ordered the most planes is Intrepid Aviation Group who have ordered 20.

This version is a tanker aircraft, which means that it carries a lot of jet fuel to give to other planes. It also has a few seats so that it can be used to carry passengers. It is used by the military.

The plane has been ordered by the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF), the UK's Royal Air Force (RAF), the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia.

The plane was also offered to the U.S. Air Force as a replacement for some of their Boeing KC-135 'Stratotankers'. Eventually in 2002, they chose Boeing's offering: the KC-767. But this order was cancelled after a lot of political controversy. In 2006, the Air Force started again. Boeing again offered the KC-767 and Airbus teamed up with Northrop Grumman to make the KC-30. This time, they chose the KC-30 and renamed it the KC-45A. But Boeing complained that the ruling was not fair and the US Government Accountability Office agreed with Boeing. The bid was cancelled again. Northrop Grumman has decided not to offer the KC-45A again.

The A330-300 started working in 1993. It competes with Boeing's 777-200 and 767-400ER. It was made as a replacement for the Airbus A300. It has a similar body to the A300-600, but it has new wings and systems.

It carries 295 passengers in three classes or 335 in two classes or 440 in one class. It can fly up to 5,650 nmi (10,500 km).

It has either two General Electric CF6-80E engines, two Pratt & Whitney PW4000 engines or two Rolls Royce Trent 700 engines. All the engines are ETOPS rated at ETOPS-180 which means that the A330-300 can fly up to 180 minutes away from an airport that it can land at.

80 airlines or companies currently use the A330. The ones with the most A330s are Cathay Pacific from Hong Kong who have 32, Delta Air Lines from the United States of America who have 32, Emirates Airline from the United Arab Emirates who have 29, Qatar Airways from Qatar who have 29 and Air China and China Eastern Airlines who are both in China and have 20 each.

The A330 has had ten accidents: two hull-loss accidents (crashes where the plane cannot be fixed and cannot be used any more). There has been a total of 235 fatalities in the accidents.











</doc>
<doc id="224944" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224944" title="Germination">
Germination

Germination occurs when a spore or seed starts to grow. It is a term used in botany. When a spore or seed germinates, it produces a shoot or seedling, or (in the case of fungi) a hypha. The biology of spores is different from seeds. 

A "spore" germinates if and when conditions are right. It has a very limited lifespan. The method of spore-bearers, which are lower plants such as mosses, ferns and also fungi, is to produce vast numbers of spores, of which only a small percentage germinate.

"Seeds" contain an embryo, a store of food (the endosperm), and a protective coat. Seed plants include Gymnosperms (such as conifers) and Angiosperms (such as flowering plants). Seeds can survive much longer than spores, sometimes for hundreds of years. The strategy of seed-bearing plants is to invest energy and material in the substance of seeds, and they have evolved more sophisticated methods of dispersal than just wind.

Seeds do not germinate until their requirements are met, and these needs differ from species to species.

The requirements for fruits is the same as for seeds. A fruit is just a seed with one or more extra layers derived from parts of the flower.



</doc>
<doc id="224952" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224952" title="Fractal">
Fractal

A fractal is any equation or pattern, that when seen as an image, produces a picture, which can be zoomed into infinity and will still produce the same picture. The word "fractal" was made by Benoît Mandelbrot in 1975 from the Latin word "fractus", which means "broken" or "fractured". A simple example is a tree that branches infinitely into smaller branches, and those branches into smaller branches and so on. Fractals are not only beautiful, but also have many practical applications.

There are many types of fractals, made in a large variety of ways. One example is the Sierpinski triangle, where there are an infinite number of small triangles inside the large one. Another example is the Mandelbrot set, named for Benoît Mandelbrot. The Sierpinksi triangle is constructed using patterns, but the Mandelbrot set is based on an equation.

There are also many natural examples of fractals in nature including trees, snowflakes, some vegetables and coastlines.

Some fractals exist only for artistic reasons, but others are very useful. Fractals are very efficient shapes for radio antennas and are used in computer chips to efficiently connect all the components. Also, coastlines can be thought of as fractals.


</doc>
<doc id="224956" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224956" title="Main line">
Main line

A main line is a railway line that is a main trunk route and connects large cities.


</doc>
<doc id="224957" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224957" title="Newark North Gate railway station">
Newark North Gate railway station

Newark North Gate train station is a train station that serves the town of Newark in Nottinghamshire, England. It is served by east coast trains and East Midland trains. East coast does intercity trains from King's Cross to Leads, Newcastle, York, Edinburgh, and Glasgow.


</doc>
<doc id="224963" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224963" title="Template:USFancy">
Template:USFancy


</doc>
<doc id="224970" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224970" title="Iyaz">
Iyaz

Keidran Jones (born 1987), better known by his stage name Iyaz, is a singer and rapper. His song "Replay" reached number two on the "Billboard" Hot 100 in 2009. In December 2009, "Replay" was number one on the "Billboard" Pop Songs chart. It also reached number one in the UK Singles Chart on January 10, 2010.

http://www.andpop.com/2009/11/08/iyaz-and-replay-climbing-to-the-top/



</doc>
<doc id="224996" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224996" title="Community (TV series)">
Community (TV series)

Community is an American comedy series on NBC. The show is about the lives of students at a community college in Denver, Colorado. "Community" first aired on September 17, 2009, at 9:30 PM (EST). However, it was moved to 8:00 PM (EST) by its fourth episode.



</doc>
<doc id="224997" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224997" title="Orchestre de Paris">
Orchestre de Paris

The Orchestre de Paris is a French orchestra based in Paris which was started in 1967. The orchestra's music director is Christoph Eschenbach and most of its concerts are performed at the Salle Pleyel.



</doc>
<doc id="224999" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224999" title="Berlin Staatskapelle">
Berlin Staatskapelle

The Staatskapelle Berlin is a German orchestra. It is the orchestra of the Berlin State Opera (Berliner Staatsoper Unter den Linden).

The history of the orchestra goes back to 1570, when the Elector of Brandenburg started an orchestra at his court. By the mid 18th century it was linked to the Royal Court Opera, started in 1742 by Frederick the Great. Famous musicians who have played with the orchestra include Carl Philipp Emanuel Bach, Franz Benda, and Johann Joachim Quantz

Giacomo Meyerbeer became "Kapellmeister" (Music Director), from 1842. The orchestra started a series of public concerts. They were the first orchestra to play the first performances of many famous pieces of music by Richard Wagner, Felix Mendelssohn, and Otto Nicolai. 

The orchestra's music director is called the "Staatskapellmeister". He is also the music director of the Berlin State Opera. Today the music director is Daniel Barenboim, who has had the job since 1992. In 2000 Barenboim was given the title of "conductor for life". Barenboim and the orchestra have made several recordings.



</doc>
<doc id="225000" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225000" title="Stephen Sondheim">
Stephen Sondheim

Steven Sondheim (born in 1930) is an American composer and lyricist (he writes the words for songs). He wrote the words for songs in "Gypsy" and "West Side Story". Of the American composers still living, he has gotten the most awards. He has:

Sondheim writes both the music and the words to his musicals.
Many critics like his work, but some people do not like it. "Sweeney Todd" is much different from the music of Rogers and Hammerstein.



</doc>
<doc id="225001" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225001" title="Berlin State Opera">
Berlin State Opera

The Berlin State Opera, known in Germany as Staatsoper Unter den Linden is a world famous German opera company. Its permanent home is the Opera House on the Unter den Linden boulevard in Berlin.

The opera house was opened on 7 December 1742. It was the beginning of a 250-year co-operation between the Staatsoper and the orchestra called Berlin Staatskapelle. Famous conductors and composers associated with the opera house include Gaspare Spontini, Giacomo Meyerbeer and Richard Strauss.

On 18 August 1843 the Linden Opera was destroyed by fire. The new building was built a year later. It was called Königliches Opernhaus (Royal Opera House), and it opened with a performance of Meyerbeer's "Ein Feldlager in Schlesien".

In 1821, the Berlin Opera gave the first performance of Weber's "Der Freischütz". In 1849, it gave the first performance of Otto Nicolai's "The Merry Wives of Windsor", conducted by the composer himself.

At the end of the 19th century and the beginning of the 20th century, the Royal Court Opera, Berlin, had many famous conductors. They included Felix von Weingartner, Karl Muck, Richard Strauss, and Leo Blech.

After the collapse of the German Empire in 1918, the Opera was renamed "Staatsoper unter den Linden" and the "Königliche Kapelle" became "Kapelle der Staatsoper".

In the 1920s, Wilhelm Furtwängler, Erich Kleiber, Otto Klemperer, Alexander von Zemlinsky, Bruno Walter 
conducted. In 1925, Alban Berg's "Wozzeck", was given its first performance conducted by Erich Kleiber with the composer in the audience.

After having had many repairs and improvements, the Linden Opera reopened in April 1928 with a new production of "Die Zauberflöte". In the same year, the famous Russian bass Feodor Chaliapin and Serge Diaghilev's Ballets Russes with conductor Ernest Ansermet were guest performers. In 1930 Erich Kleiber conducted the first performance of Darius Milhaud's "Christoph Columbus".

In 1934, when symphonic pieces from Alban Berg's "Lulu" were performed by Kleiber, the Nazis created a scandal and Kleiber had to go into exile.

When Hitler came to power all the Jews in the orchestra had to leave. Many went into exile, including the conductors Otto Klemperer and Fritz Busch. During the Third Reich, Robert Heger, Herbert von Karajan (1939-1945) and Johannes Schüler were the "Staatskapellmeister". 

In 1945 The Lindenoper was once again destroyed on 3 February. The second rebuilding took a long time. From 1945, the opera company played in the former "Admiralspalast" (today's Metropoltheater). From 1949, the company served as state opera of the GDR. It moved back to its original home after the rebuilding in 1955. The newly rebuilt opera house was opened, again, with Wagner's "Die Meistersinger von Nürnberg".

After the Berlin Wall was built in 1961, the Opera continued to perform music from the classical and romantic periods together with contemporary ballet and operas.

After the Germany Reunification, the Linden Opera had links again with the operatic world. In the 1990s, the opera was officially renamed "Staatsoper Unter den Linden".

In 1992, the Argentine-Israeli conductor Daniel Barenboim was appointed Music Director. In 2000, the orchestra (according to its official website) gave Barenboim the title "conductor for life." During the 2002 "Festtage", he led a Wagner cycle in ten parts.




</doc>
<doc id="225003" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225003" title="Category:Jerusalem">
Category:Jerusalem

Jerusalem - City
Articles about the city of Jerusalem in Israel, including famous people, statues and pictures


</doc>
<doc id="225009" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225009" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Harmony Heights School">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Harmony Heights School


</doc>
<doc id="225020" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225020" title="Peramelemorphia">
Peramelemorphia

The order Peramelemorphia includes the bandicoots and bilbies: it equates approximately to the mainstream of marsupial omnivores. This small order of mammals consists of some lesser known marsupials, which are native to New Guinea and Australia.


</doc>
<doc id="225025" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225025" title="Template:Broken ref">
Template:Broken ref

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="225026" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225026" title="Template:Namespace detect showall">
Template:Namespace detect showall


</doc>
<doc id="225027" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225027" title="Vascular dementia">
Vascular dementia

Vascular Dementia is the second most common form of dementia after Alzheimer's disease. It is a type of dementia caused by problems in the supply of blood to the brain.

Brain cells need a good supply of blood to stay healthy and function properly. The blood is delivered through a network of blood vessels called the vascular system. If the vascular system within the brain becomes damaged and blood cannot reach the brain cells, the cells will eventually die. This can lead to the onset of vascular dementia. 


</doc>
<doc id="225029" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225029" title="West End theatre">
West End theatre

The West End Theatre is an area of London where musicals and plays are shown at several theaters. It is like New York's Broadway theatre. 


</doc>
<doc id="225030" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225030" title="Ann Coulter">
Ann Coulter

Ann Coulter (born December 8, 1961) is from the United States. She is a writer and is known for her controversial opinions about politics. She was asked to go on television, radio and speaks at public and private events. Coulter has described herself as a "polemicist" or someone who tells the truth even if it will cause problems. She does not want to "pretend to be impartial or balanced."


</doc>
<doc id="225031" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225031" title="West End">
West End

The West End in London, is like New York's Broadway where musicals and plays are shown at number of theatres. In 2007, 13.6 million people went to see a show at the West End. The shows that were on in 2007 included: "Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat", "The Sound of Music", "Dirty Dancing", "Billy Elliot", "Hairspray", "Spamalot", "Avenue Q", "Wicked", "Equus", "Macbeth", "King Lear", "Othello" and "Grease".


</doc>
<doc id="225032" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225032" title="No Child Left Behind Act">
No Child Left Behind Act

The No Child Left Behind Act is a United States law that was to help students meet higher standards. This law started during President George W. Bush's time in the White House. President Bush made the law official on January 8, 2002. Schools around the US now have to test their students. If they don't, the schools risk losing funds given to them by the federal government. Some parts of this rule include bilingualism standards. All students must be on at least a proficient level(B+)by the 2013-14 school year. 

Since the law started, Congress gave more money to schools from $42.2 billion in 2001 to $54.4 billion in 2007. No Child Left Behind received a 40.4% increase from $17.4 billion in 2001 to $24.4 billion. The funding for reading quadrupled from $286 million in 2001 to $1.2 billion.


</doc>
<doc id="225033" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225033" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/National Sheriffs Patriot Posse">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/National Sheriffs Patriot Posse


</doc>
<doc id="225035" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225035" title="Resource room">
Resource room

Resource room is a place where special education students attend daily classes. These students are usually included in the general classroom and just need more support. Students are taught individually and in small groups. The number of students in a resource room is at most five students per teacher. Mainstreaming in education typically includes this service. Students in separate classes generally do not need the resource room because all the support they need is in the self-contained classroom. 

Special education teachers in resource rooms focus on the goals set by an Individualized Education Program. These goals are based on the individual student's need to develop executive skills, complete their homework and behave. The programs can help students with language-based learning disabilities like dyslexia. Visuo-motor perception, arithmetic, spelling and overall self-perception improve after time in the resource room classroom. The small-group instructional model leads to achievement in students with a multitude of educational disabilities. 

Their peers also benefit when the concepts they learned in general education are reinforced in resource rooms.



</doc>
<doc id="225040" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225040" title="Peanut butter">
Peanut butter

Peanut butter is a type of paste that is made of crushed roasted peanuts. There are two kinds of peanut butter: "crunchy/chunky" peanut butter and "smooth/creamy" peanut butter. It can be eaten, for example on bread, usually with jelly to make a peanut butter and jelly sandwich. Peanut butter was invented by George Washington Carver in the late 1890s.

January 24 is National Peanut Butter Day.

Peanut butter can protect people from sickness. Peanut butter (and peanuts) have lots of protein, E, magnesium, , food fiber, and . However, some people with peanut allergies can have a shock or alergic reaction from eating or smelling it, which has made some schools decide not to let their students eat peanut butter in their schools. Some oils put inside peanut butter to make it easier to spread can also make people have heart disease. Peanut butter can also carry salmonella and make people sick because of it.



</doc>
<doc id="225042" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225042" title="War Memorial Opera House">
War Memorial Opera House

The War Memorial Opera House in San Francisco, California is home to the second largest opera company in the United States. It was built in 1932 and seats 3123 people. Its interior is in the Beaux-Arts design.


</doc>
<doc id="225049" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225049" title="Template:Explain">
Template:Explain


</doc>
<doc id="225050" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225050" title="Template:Explain/doc">
Template:Explain/doc

The 'date' parameter is optional.

This template is used to show a word, phrase or sentence which the reader may not understand without further explanation.

Example:

will look like this:

<includeonly>
</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="225051" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225051" title="Category:Articles needing a sentence or phrase to be explained">
Category:Articles needing a sentence or phrase to be explained

These are articles which have been tagged with or . They contain a word, phrase or sentence which needs to be explained so that readers can understand it.


</doc>
<doc id="225061" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225061" title="La Garde">
La Garde

La Garde is a city in the south of France. La Garde is the capital of the canton of La Garde

La Garde is on the east of Toulon between Marseille and Nice. It's area land is 15.54 km²


</doc>
<doc id="225076" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225076" title="End–Ordovician extinction event">
End–Ordovician extinction event

The End–Ordovician extinction event is the third-largest extinction event of the Phanerozoic era. The Ordovician period followed the Cambrian and was followed by the Silurian. There were no living things on the land except for bacteria and perhaps some single-celled algae. The biota was almost entirely marine.

The extinction came in two steps, at the start and the finish of the "Hirnantian" stage, which was the last stage of the Ordovician. 

Basic mechanism: climate changes from very warm to very cold and back to very warm. Changes in ocean circulation were the results of the climate changes. Both benthic (ocean bottom) and pelagic fauna were faced with conditions they were unable to cope with.

More than 100 invertebrate families becam extinct in the End–Ordovician extinction event, and a total of almost half the genera. The brachiopods and bryozoans were decimated, along with many of the trilobite, conodont and graptolite families. 



</doc>
<doc id="225081" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225081" title="Category:Wikipedians who have adopted a user">
Category:Wikipedians who have adopted a user


</doc>
<doc id="225084" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225084" title="Ningaloo Reef">
Ningaloo Reef

Ningaloo Reef is one of the largest coral reefs in the world. It is off the North West Cape in Western Australia. It is about long. The Ningaloo Reef Marine Park covers an area of about 5000 square kilometers. It has about 200 species of hard coral and 50 species of soft coral. More than 520 species of fish live on the reef. Species that can be found at the reef include whale sharks, manta rays, humpback whales, dugongs, and Potato Cod. There are also six of the world's seven sea turtles including the Green turtle, Loggerhead Sea Turtle, Hawksbill turtle and Flatback turtle. The reef is popular with people from all over the world who come to go scuba diving and snorkeling.


</doc>
<doc id="225097" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225097" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Enhanced Programmable ircII Client">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Enhanced Programmable ircII Client


</doc>
<doc id="225104" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225104" title="Template:Collapse">
Template:Collapse

! style="background-color: ;" | 


</doc>
<doc id="225106" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225106" title="Template:Collapse/doc">
Template:Collapse/doc

The Collapse template is used for placing collapse boxes around "short" discussions and bits of discussions (tables, long code samples, etc.). For entire discussion threads, use and instead.

Note: needs to be substed in order for the time stamp functionality to work properly.

It is definitely safest to use the named and parameters, because otherwise any "=" character will break the template.

The bg parameter is Optional. It changes the background color. use Web color values (e.g. #F0F2F5).


The padding parameter adjusts the amount of cell padding (defaults to 8px):

When used with a section of text, include the section header in the collapsed portion of text. For example, given:

Replace with:

Simply add to have the box show up in expanded form with a "hide" link, instead of collapsed form with a "show" link. Note: does not work, which is lame; to disable the feature, you have to remove the entire parameter and value.


<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="225112" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225112" title="Template:Collapse top">
Template:Collapse top

! style="background-color: ;" | 

</doc>
<doc id="225115" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225115" title="Template:Collapse top/doc">
Template:Collapse top/doc

The Collapse template is used for placing collapse boxes around discussions.

Note: and need to be substed in order for the time stamp functionality to work properly.

DISCUSSION

The bg parameter is Optional. It changes the background color. use Web color values (e.g. #F0F2F5).


<nowiki> or </nowiki> creates:
Text here.
The padding parameter adjusts the amount of cell padding (defaults to 8px)

When used with a section of text, include the section header in the collapsed portion of text. For example, given:
Replace with:

Add to have the box show up in expanded form with a "hide" link, instead of collapsed form with a "show" link. use (an empty value) or omit the expand parameter to have the box show up in collapsed form.


<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="225122" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225122" title="Template:Collapse bottom">
Template:Collapse bottom


</doc>
<doc id="225125" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225125" title="Codeshare agreement">
Codeshare agreement

Codesharing is a type of partnership airlines have. Airlines agree to sell each other's tickets on some routes. This means that both airlines sell more tickets.

Sometimes, airlines join groups (called ) which all agree to sell each other's tickets. For example, both United Airlines and Lufthansa are part of Star Alliance. This means that Lufthansa can sell tickets for United Airlines and United Airlines can sell Lufthansa's tickets.

Because airlines sell each other's tickets, some flights will have more than one flight number.


</doc>
<doc id="225129" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225129" title="Le Pradet">
Le Pradet

Le Pradet is a small town in the south of France.


</doc>
<doc id="225131" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225131" title="Template:Progress">
Template:Progress


</doc>
<doc id="225132" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225132" title="Template:Progress/doc">
Template:Progress/doc

<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="225133" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225133" title="Canton of La Garde">
Canton of La Garde

The Canton of La Garde is a French canton near Toulon, in the department of Var. It is made up of La Garde and Le Pradet.


</doc>
<doc id="225143" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225143" title="Command responsibility">
Command responsibility

Command Responsibility is an idea that Military Officers are responsible for making sure that the soldiers under their command do not commit war crimes, and if they do, make sure that the soldiers involved are punished.

^ Guilty Associations: Joint Criminal Enterprise, Command Responsibility, and the Development of International Criminal Law HTML version by Allison Marston Danner and Jenny S. Martinez, September 15, 2004


</doc>
<doc id="225146" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225146" title="Nikos Sampson">
Nikos Sampson

Nikos Sampson was the leader of Cyprus for eight days in 1974. He had been active in EOKA before Cyprus became independent from the United Kingdom. EOKA wanted Cyprus and Greece to become a single country, and fought with the Turks in Cyprus. Afterwards, he became active in EOKA-B, which was a continuation of EOKA. In 1974, EOKA-B overthrew the government of Cyprus, and chose Nikos Sampson as President. Soon afterward, Turkey invaded Cyprus, and Nikos Sampson resigned from office. Afterward, he was tried for treason, and sent to prison for twenty years. Nikos Sampson died in 2001.



</doc>
<doc id="225156" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225156" title="Bitola">
Bitola

Bitola () is the second-largest city in the Republic of Macedonia. It is located in the southwestern part of the country, near the border with Greece.


</doc>
<doc id="225158" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225158" title="Arlington, Virginia">
Arlington, Virginia

Arlington, Virginia is a county in Virginia. It has so many buildings that it looks like a city. It is one of the smallest counties in the United States by area. It is across the Potomac River from Washington, D.C., and parts of it were once part of Washington. 210,000 people live there. It where many U.S. government offices, including The Pentagon, are. It also the location of Arlington National Cemetery, which was built at the former plantation of Robert E. Lee. ANC is where John F. Kennedy and many American soldiers are buried. Several battles of the American Civil War were fought in and around Arlington.

The District of Columbia was made with land contributed by Virginia and Maryland. In 1846, Congress agreed to give the land south of the Potomac back to Virginia. Most of the returned land became Arlington.


</doc>
<doc id="225162" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225162" title="Roman law">
Roman law

Roman law is the name used for a system of laws used by the Roman Empire. It started with the twelve tablets, , and ended with the law code ordered by . As such, Roman law is the foundation of most legal systems in Europe, and its former colonies, as well as Japan.


</doc>
<doc id="225163" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225163" title="Flag of Arizona">
Flag of Arizona

The Flag of the State of Arizona has 13 rays of red and gold (the conquistador colors and of the flag of Spain) on the top half, representing the 13 first counties of Arizona (there are 15 counties today), as well as telling of Arizona's picturesque sunsets. There is a copper colored star in the center representing Arizona's copper-mining company. The rest of the flag is colored blue, representing liberty.

In 1910, Colonel Charles W. Harris, head of the Arizona National Guard, made a flag for the Arizona Rifle Team when they attend the National Matches at Camp Perry. Arizona had been the only team in past matches to compete without a flag.


</doc>
<doc id="225166" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225166" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Louise and Charmian Faulkner disappearance">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Louise and Charmian Faulkner disappearance


</doc>
<doc id="225175" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225175" title="Chef salad">
Chef salad

Chef salad (sometimes called chef's salad) is a type of salad. It usually includes a bed of leaf vegetables or lettuce, which can be served with hard boiled eggs, strips of meat (such as ham, roast beef, or turkey), cheese, cucumbers, croutons, and tomatoes. Chef salad is usually topped with Thousand Island dressing, but can be served with any type of dressing.

Chef salad is thought to be invented by chef Victor Seydoux at the Hotel Buffalo in Buffalo, New York. Trying to save money, he started putting small slices of meat and cheese in salads for some of his customers. When his customers started to ask for their salad this way, it was added to the menu.


</doc>
<doc id="225176" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225176" title="Pinchas Zukerman">
Pinchas Zukerman

Pinchas Zukerman (, (born Tel Aviv, 16 July 1948) is a famous Israeli violinist, violist, and conductor. He is widely thought of as one of the world’s greatest violinists. Since 1971 he has also conducted many orchestras.

Pinchas Zukerman was born in Tel Aviv. His parents were Jews who had survived the Nazi concentration camps and had moved from Poland to Israel in 1947. By the time he was eight he showed great musical promise and started to learn music at the Academy of Music in Tel Aviv. When the violinist Isaac Stern heard him play he was so impressed that he helped him to go to the Julliard School of Music in New York. There he studied with Ivan Galanian.
In 1967 Zukerman shared a joint first prize in the Leventritt International Competition with Kyung Wha Chung. Then Stern became ill and could not play in some concerts, so Zukerman played instead. This made him very famous.

After hearing Daniel Barenboim conduct the English Chamber Orchestra he became very interested in conducting. He started to conduct orchestras while playing the solo parts of works by Bach and Vivaldi. This conducting (leading) from the concertmaster’s chair had been the tradition in the 17th and 18th centuries. In 1974 he conducted the English Chamber Orchestra. Then he got opportunities to conduct New York Philharmonic, the National Symphony, Boston Symphony, and Los Angeles Philharmonic orchestras. In the 1980s he was the musical director of the St Paul Chamber Orchestra. For many years he continued to appear as soloist with some of the best orchestras in the world. He won many awards, including two Grammy Awards. 
In April 1998, he became music director of the National Arts Centre Orchestra in Ottawa. He took them on a tour of Europe in 1990.

In recent years Zukerman has worked hard to help young musicians. As music director of the National Arts Centre Orchestra, he started the Young Artists Program, a summer training program for talented young classical musicians. It soon became very popular, with students from all over the world.

Although he had a lot of work in Ottawa he also found time to be music director of the Ilona Feher Music Center in Holon, Israel, which he started. He became chairman of the Pinchas Zukerman Performance Program at the Manhattan School of Music in New York City. He was also artist in residence of the Milwaukee Symphony Orchestra.

In 1968 he married Eugenia Rich. They had two daughters. Later they divorced. In 1985 he married the actress Tuesday Weld. They later divorced.


</doc>
<doc id="225180" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225180" title="National Arts Centre Orchestra">
National Arts Centre Orchestra

The National Arts Centre Orchestra is an orchestra in Ottawa, Canada's capital. Since 1998 their conductor (musical director) has been Pinchas Zukerman. The orchestra was started in 1969. It has made more than 40 recordings and toured widely throughout the world. 




</doc>
<doc id="225192" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225192" title="Christian de Quincey">
Christian de Quincey

Christian de Quincey, Ph.D., is an author and philosopher who teaches cosmology and spirituality at colleges in the United States and Europe. He is an internationally known author and speaker on consciousness. He is on the faculty of several U.S. universities and think tanks, and at Schumacher College, Devon, England. He has written 5 books on consciousness.


</doc>
<doc id="225204" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225204" title="Velvet worm">
Velvet worm

The velvet worms (Onychophora — literally "claw bearers") are a minor Ecdysozoan phylum. 

There are two families and 110 living species. All living species are terrestrial, in moist or wet tropical areas. However, the phylum goes back to the Cambrian, and all the early specimens are from marine strata.

The two living families are the Peripatidae and the Peripatopsidae. They show a peculiar distribution, with the peripatids being predominantly equatorial and tropical, while the peripatopsids are all found in what used to be Gondwana.

The segmented worm-like organisms have tiny eyes, antennae, multiple pairs of legs and slime glands. The group is thought to be related to arthropods. They prey on smaller animals such as insects, which they catch by squirting a sticky slime.



</doc>
<doc id="225205" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225205" title="Tardigrade">
Tardigrade

Tardigrades ('water bears') form the phylum Tardigrada, part of the superphylum Ecdysozoa. They are microscopic, water-dwelling, segmented animals. 

Tardigrades were first described in 1773. There are more than 1000 different species of tardigrade. 
Tardigrades have a cylindrical shape with four segments, each with two legs. Each of their limbs have little claws. The biggest adults may reach a body length of 1.2 mm, the smallest below 0.1 mm. Freshly hatched larvae may be smaller than 0.05 mm. Tardigrades feed on plant cells by penetrating the cell wall and eating what is inside. Some tardigrades are carnivores.

Tardigrades can be found in many habitats: in moss, freshwater, the Himalayas, and the ocean. They are one of the few animals that can be found on the highest mountains and the deepest seas. About 83 percent of the species live on land, the other 17 percent live in water.

Tardigrades are able to live in environments that would kill most animals. In 2007, scientists discovered that some tardigrades were able to survive 10 days in outer space. Tardigrades can survive more than ten years without water. Tardigrates can survive a few hours in temperatures close to absolute zero and above boiling point. 


</doc>
<doc id="225229" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225229" title="Bond (finance)">
Bond (finance)

A bond is a contract between two parties.

Companies or governments issue bonds because they need to borrow big amounts of money. They issue bonds and investors buy them (thereby giving the people who issued the bond money). 

Bonds have a maturity date. This means that at some point, the bond issuer has to pay back the money to the investors. They also have to pay the investors a little bit more than they borrowed.

Bonds are usually traded through brokers and are part of a financial instrument group called Fixed Income.
banks and financial institutions offers loans on different terms aganist the security of assets.


</doc>
<doc id="225282" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225282" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/User:Fire in the Hole/deleted pages">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/User:Fire in the Hole/deleted pages


</doc>
<doc id="225287" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225287" title="Taki">
Taki

Taki (Hebrew: טאקי‎) is an Israeli game which is an expansion of Crazy Eights. It is made by Shafir games. The game's creator is Haim Shafir. The game takes about 20 minutes, is for 2-10 players, and is for ages 5 and up. It is very popular in Israel. It is similar to the American game Uno. 

The Taki cards consist of the colors red, blue, green, and yellow. The objective of the game is to get rid of all your cards before everyone else.


</doc>
<doc id="225302" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225302" title="Scissor-tailed Hummingbird">
Scissor-tailed Hummingbird

The Scissor-tailed Hummingbird ("Hylonympha macrocerca") is a species of hummingbird. It is found only in Venezuela. Its habitat is subtropical or tropical moist montane forests. It is by habitat loss. It was first classified as a Vulnerable species by the IUCN. But new research has shown it to be rarer than it was thought. Because of this, it is uplisted to "Endangered status" in 2008.


</doc>
<doc id="225304" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225304" title="Greenish Puffleg">
Greenish Puffleg

The Greenish Puffleg ("Haplophaedia aureliae") is a species of hummingbird. It is found in Colombia, Ecuador, and Panama. Its habitats are subtropical or tropical moist montanes and fairly former forests.



</doc>
<doc id="225306" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225306" title="Yellow journalism">
Yellow journalism

Yellow journalism or the yellow press is a type of journalism that does not report much real news with facts. It uses shocking headlines that catch people's attention to sell more newspapers. Yellow journalism might include exaggerating facts or spreading rumors. The words "yellow journalism" are often used today to talk about journalism that the person talking does not like because he or she does not think it is serious journalism.

In 1941, Frank Luther Mott said that there were five things that made up yellow journalism:

The term came from the American Gilded Age of the late 1800s with two newspaper owners who fought to get more readers and sell more newspapers than the other. These were Joseph Pulitzer's and the "New York World" and William Randolph Hearst with the "New York Journal". The most important part of this fight was from 1895 to about 1898. When people talk about "yellow journalism" in history, they are often talking about these years. Both papers were accused of sensationalizing the news (making it seem much more important than it really was) in order to sell more newspapers, although the newspapers did serious reporting as well. The "New York Press" came up with the term "yellow kid journalism" in early 1897 after a then-popular comic strip to talk about the newspapers of Pulitzer and Hearst, which both published versions of it during a circulation war. Ervin Wardman, publisher of the "New York Herald" (which was not "yellow journalism") came up with the term.

Joseph Pulitzer bought the "New York World" in 1883 after making the "St. Louis Post-Dispatch" the biggest daily newspaper in that city. Pulitzer tried to make the "New York World" fun to read, and filled his paper with pictures, games and contests that brought in new readers. Crime stories filled many of the pages, with headlines like "Was He a Suicide?" and "Screaming for Mercy." Also, Pulitzer only charged readers two cents per issue but gave readers eight and sometimes 12 pages of information (the only other two cent paper in the city was never longer than four pages).

While there were many sensational stories in the "New York World", they were by no means the only stories, or even the biggest ones. Pulitzer believed that newspapers were important and had a duty to make society better, and he tried to do this with his newspaper.

Just two years after Pulitzer took it over, the "World" sold more copies than any other newspaper in New York. Part of this was because he was connected to the Democratic Party. Older publishers, who were jealous of Pulitzer's success, began saying bad things about the "World". They talked about how he had crime stories and stunts but ignored its more serious reporting. Charles Anderson Dana|Charles Dana, editor of the "New York Sun", attacked "The World" and said Pulitzer was "deficient in judgment and in staying power."

William Randolph Hearst, a mining heir who bought the "San Francisco Examiner" from his father in 1887, noticed what Pulitzer was doing. Hearst read the "World" while studying at Harvard University and decided to try to make the "Examiner" as bright as Pulitzer's paper. While he was in charge, the "Examiner" gave 24 percent of its space to crime, presenting the stories as morality plays, and put adultery and "nudity" (by 19th century standards) on the front page. A month after Hearst took over the paper, the "Examiner" ran this headline about a hotel fire:
HUNGRY, FRANTIC FLAMES. They Leap Madly Upon the Splendid Pleasure Palace by the Bay of Monterey, Encircling Del Monte in Their Ravenous Embrace From Pinnacle to Foundation. Leaping Higher, Higher, Higher, With Desperate Desire. Running Madly Riotous Through Cornice, Archway and Facade. Rushing in Upon the Trembling Guests with Savage Fury. Appalled and Panic-Striken the Breathless Fugitives Gaze Upon the Scene of Terror. The Magnificent Hotel and Its Rich Adornments Now a Smoldering heap of Ashes. The "Examiner" Sends a Special Train to Monterey to Gather Full Details of the Terrible Disaster. Arrival of the Unfortunate Victims on the Morning's Train — A History of Hotel del Monte — The Plans for Rebuilding the Celebrated Hostelry — Particulars and Supposed Origin of the Fire."

Hearst could be hyperbolic in his crime coverage; one of his early stories, about a "band of murderers," attacked the police for forcing "Examiner" reporters to do their work for them. But while doing these things, the "Examiner" also increased its space for international news, and sent reporters out to uncover corruption and inefficiency in the city government. In one story, "Examiner" reporter Winifred Black went into a San Francisco hospital as a patient and discovered that the women there were treated with "gross cruelty." The entire hospital staff was fired the morning the story was printed.

With the "Examiner"' having success by the early 1890s, Hearst began looking for a New York newspaper to buy, and bought the "New York Journal" in 1895, a newspaper that sold for oen penny which Pulitzer's brother Albert had sold to a Cincinnati publisher the year before.

After noticing what Pulitzer had done by keeping his newspaper at two cents, Hearst made the "Journal's" only cost one cent, while providing as much information as rival newspapers. This worked, and as the "Journal's" had 150,000 people subscribe to it, Pulitzer cut his price to a penny, hoping to make Hearst (who was subsidized by his family's fortune) run out of money. Hearst then hired many people who were working for "World" in 1896. While most sources say that Hearst simply offered more money, Pulitzer — who had grown more abusive to his employees — had become a very difficult man to work for, and many "World" employees were willing to switch newspapers just to get away from him.

Although the competition between the "World" and the "Journal" was fierce, the newspapers had a lot in common. Both were Democratic, both took the side of organized labor and immigrants (unlike publishers like the "New York Tribune's "Whitelaw Reid, who blamed their poverty on moral defects), and both spent a lot of money making their Sunday publications, which were like weekly magazines, going beyond just daily journalism.

Their Sunday entertainment features included the first color comic strip pages, and some think that the term yellow journalism originated there, while as noted above, the "New York Press" left the term it invented undefined. "Hogan's Alley," a comic strip about a bald child in a yellow nightshirt (nicknamed The Yellow Kid), became very popular when cartoonist Richard F. Outcault began drawing it in the "World" in early 1896. When Hearst hired Outcault away, Pulitzer asked artist George Luks to continue drawing the strip with his characters, giving the city two Yellow Kids. The use of "yellow journalism" as a term for over-the-top sensationalism in the U.S. apparently started with more serious newspapers commenting how far "the Yellow Kid papers" went.

Pulitzer and Hearst are often credited (or blamed) for drawing the nation into the Spanish-American War with their sensationalism. However, most of Americans did not live in New York City, and the decision makers who did live there probably read less sensationalist newspapers like the "Times," "The Sun" or the "Post." The most famous example of the exaggeration is the story, which probably is not actually true, that artist Frederic Remington sent Hearst a telegram to tell him that not much was going on in Cuba and "There will be no war." Hearst responded "Please remain. You furnish the pictures and I'll furnish the war." The story (a version of which appears in the Hearst-inspired Orson Welles film "Citizen Kane") first showed up in the memoirs of reporter James Creelman in 1901, and there is no other source for it.

But Hearst did want the United States to go to war after a rebellion broke out in Cuba in 1895. Stories about Cubans being good people and Spain treating Cuba badly soon showed up on his front page. While the stories were probably not very accurate, the newspaper readers of the 19th century did not expect, or necessarily want, his stories to be pure nonfiction. Historian Michael Robertson has said that "Newspaper reporters and readers of the 1890s were much less concerned with distinguishing among fact-based reporting, opinion and literature."

Pulitzer, although he did not have Hearst's resources, kept the story on his front page. The yellow press published a lot about the revolution (much of which was not quite true), but conditions on Cuba were bad enough. The island was in a bad economic depression, and Spanish general Valeriano Weyler, sent to crush the rebellion, herded Cuban peasants into concentration camps leading hundreds of Cubans to their deaths. Having fought for a fight for two years, Hearst took credit for the conflict when it came: A week after the United States declared war on Spain, he ran "How do you like the "Journal's" war?" on his front page. In fact, President William McKinley never read the "Journal", and newspapers like the "Tribune" and the "New York Evening Post". Also, journalism historians have noted that yellow journalism mostly only happened in New York City, and that newspapers in the rest of the country did not do it. The "Journal" and the "World" were not among the top ten sources of news in regional papers, and their stories did not catch people's attention outside New York City. 

Hearst sailed to Cuba, when the invasion began, as a war correspondent, providing sober and accurate accounts of the fighting. Creelman later praised the work of the reporters for writing about how Spain treated Cuba, arguing, " no true history of the war . . . can be written without an acknowledgment that whatever of justice and freedom and progress was accomplished by the Spanish-American war was due to the enterprise and tenacity of "yellow journalists," many of whom lie in unremembered graves."

Hearst was a well-known Democrat who promoted William Jennings Bryan for president in 1896 and 1900 (Bryan did not win either election). He later ran for mayor and governor and even tried to get nominated for president, but his reputation was hurt in 1901 after columnist Ambrose Bierce and editor Arthur Brisbane published separate columns months apart that suggested that President William McKinley be assassinated. When McKinley was shot on September 6, 1901, critics accused Hearst's Yellow Journalism of driving Leon Czolgosz to the deed. Hearst did not know of Bierce's column and claimed to have pulled Brisbane's after it ran in a first edition, but the incident would haunt him for the rest of his life and all but destroyed his dream to be president.

Pulitzer, haunted by what had happened," returned the "World" to its crusading roots as the new century dawned. By the time of his death in 1911, the "World" was a widely-respected publication, and would remain a leading progressive paper until its demise in 1931.




</doc>
<doc id="225311" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225311" title="Volkswagen Type 2">
Volkswagen Type 2

Volkswagen Type 2 are made by Volkswagen and are often painted bright colors. They are also called the Transporter, Kombi, Bus (US) or Camper (UK). 


</doc>
<doc id="225319" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225319" title="Lavatory – Lovestory">
Lavatory – Lovestory

Lavatory – Lovestory is a short film that is about a lavatory attendant that finds a bunch of flowers in her tip jar (a tin where customers give her money as a reward for a good job). The film was nominated for an Academy Award in the 81st Annual Academy Awards and won many awards at film festivals.


</doc>
<doc id="225333" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225333" title="University of Notre Dame">
University of Notre Dame

The University of Notre Dame (or simply Notre Dame) is a private Catholic university in the state of Indiana.

The University of Notre Dame was founded by Father Edward Sorin, of the Congregation of Holy Cross, who was also the school's first president. At first, it was an all-male school until 1972, when females were first allowed. Today, about 47 percent of the students are female.

The university has five colleges and one professional school. The undergraduate program was ranked 20th among national universities by "U.S. News & World Report" for 2009-2010. Notre Dame offers 32 master's degrees and 25 doctoral degrees ("higher degrees earned after greater levels of study").

More than 80% of the university's 8,000 undergraduates live on campus in one of 29 single-gendered residence halls ("buildings where students live"), each of which has their own minor sports teams. Notre Dame's about 120,000 alumni are located around the world.



</doc>
<doc id="225340" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225340" title="Campus">
Campus

A campus is land where a college or university buildings are placed. Campuses can have libraries, lecture halls, and parks. Campuses can consist of both academic ("school and studying-related") buildings and non-academic buildings.


</doc>
<doc id="225370" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225370" title="Pleasant Grove Township, Des Moines County, Iowa">
Pleasant Grove Township, Des Moines County, Iowa

Pleasant Grove Township is a township in the County of Des Moines in Iowa. The population is 457 with 227 males and 230 females.






</doc>
<doc id="225371" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225371" title="Category:Townships in Iowa">
Category:Townships in Iowa

This is category for townships in Iowa.


</doc>
<doc id="225373" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225373" title="Category:Townships in Nebraska">
Category:Townships in Nebraska

This is a category for townships in Nebraska.


</doc>
<doc id="225375" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225375" title="Category:Townships in New Jersey">
Category:Townships in New Jersey

This is a category for townships in New Jersey.


</doc>
<doc id="225376" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225376" title="Category:Townships in Michigan">
Category:Townships in Michigan

This is category for townships in Michigan.


</doc>
<doc id="225380" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225380" title="Blocked">
Blocked

Blocked is a game for the iPhone and iPod Touch that is like a puzzle. 

The player has to move around gray blocks until a blue rock is free and the blocks can only go left and right or up and down. The game has many challenges and levels. There are five difficulty levels in Blocked: easy, medium, hard, harder, and hardest.

James Savager, a reviewer on Macworld, said that the game is the perfect puzzle game for those quick moments during the day when you’ve got some time to kill and a puzzle to solve. Lew Reed, a reviewer on Slide To Play, said the game being easy to play is crucial to the game's success.


</doc>
<doc id="225387" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225387" title="Oliver Goldsmith">
Oliver Goldsmith

Oliver Goldsmith (10 November 1730 – 4 April 1774) was writer, poet, and physician famous for his novel, ""(1776). He first succesful literary work was "The Traveller" (1764), a poem about British rule. Like Jonathan Swift, Goldsmith society, but he did not use biting satire like Swift. Goldsmith's greatest poem, "The Deserted Village" (1770), was a sad poem about how simple country life was being destroyed by great landowners. The same theme is inside "The Vicar of Wakefield". Goldsmith's biggest work at that time was "The Citizen of the World" (1762), a collection of soft-satire essays on English life seen by an imaginary Chinese visitor. He also wrote two plays, "The Good Natured Man" (1768), and "She Stoops to Conquer (1773).(He is also thought to have written the classic children's story, "The History of Little Goody Two-Shoes".)

It is not known for sure when he was born. Most people now think that he was born in 10 November 1730. He was the second son of Charles Goldsmith, curate of Kilkenny West in West Meath in Ireland. In 1745 he went to Trinity College Dublin. He quickly spent all his money by gambling, which he became to. After spending some time at the Universities of Edinburgh and Leyden he spent 1755 – 1756 travelling in Europe, where it is said that he lived by playing the flute. Before starting to write he worked in London as a doctor's helper, a doctor, and a school . He died in 1774 and was buried in Temple Church.



</doc>
<doc id="225388" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225388" title="Template:User kn-0">
Template:User kn-0


</doc>
<doc id="225389" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225389" title="Category:User kn-0">
Category:User kn-0


</doc>
<doc id="225390" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225390" title="Template:User ro-0">
Template:User ro-0


</doc>
<doc id="225391" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225391" title="Category:User ro-0">
Category:User ro-0


</doc>
<doc id="225396" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225396" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/FreeOTFE">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/FreeOTFE


</doc>
<doc id="225405" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225405" title="Sea spider">
Sea spider

The Sea spiders belong to the class Pycnogonida of the phylum Arthropoda. Sea spider, are sea-dwelling animal that looks somewhat like a spider. There are about 500 species. Sea spiders are found in all oceans. Species found in coastal waters are usually small and have a leg span of about 1 inch (2.5 cm), those living at great depths, up to 24 inches (60 cm).
The sea spider has a small, narrow body. It usually has four pairs of long, thin legs attached to the abdomen. Attached to the head there are usually three other pairs of appendages—a pair called chelicerae, used for grasping food; a pair of sensory projections called palps; and a pair of egg-carrying legs (sometimes underdeveloped or absent in the female). The female lays round masses of eggs upon the egg-carrying legs of the male, which carries the eggs until they hatch.
On top of its head, the sea spider has a knobby projection bearing two, three, or four simple eyes. The head ends in a snout with a sucking mouth. Sea spiders feed by sucking the body juices of such marine animals as sea anemones, sponges, and sea squirts.


</doc>
<doc id="225418" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225418" title="Caving">
Caving

Caving, also called Spelunking, is the hobby of exploring caves. People who explore or study caves are called "Spelunkers". Spelunking is the recreational sport of exploring caves.

Wise spelunkers explore in groups, to prevent being lost or stranded in a cave. Spelunkers need reliable equipment, because the descent into a cave is like mountain climbing in the opposite direction. Basic spelunking equipment is similar to what mountain climbers use. Strong ropes make climbing possible and special tools attach ropes to cave walls. Special footwear makes it easier to explore hard to reach places, and hard hats protect spelunkers from falling rocks above. Caves are extremely dark, so spelunkers have to carry at least three light sources. One light source attaches to a spelunkers' helmet so it is with him or her at all times. Caves are also very cold, so most spelunkers wear heavy clothing for warmth.

Spelunkers tie their ropes with different kinds of knots. From the "farmer's hitch knot" to the "alpine butterfly knot", spelunkers choose knots for different purposes. Some knots work well to hold people as they climb. Other knots are best for tying ropes together.
Caving today has become a hobby for many different reasons. Some cavers are interested in conservation. Others are interested in gathering hard data about caves (also known as speleology). Geologists explore caves for the purpose of learning about the formation of rocks, and formations. But, for most of the rest, the purpose of caving is just to have fun. 

Getting involved in caving in the United States is through the National Speleological Society or NSS for short. There, one can find a local chapter, or grotto, and hook up with individuals who will help train and educate the novice caver and point to the right type of gear to be purchased. 
Caves can generally be explored during any season of the year. Most caves remain at the same temperature year round.

The common rules of thumb apply:





</doc>
<doc id="225425" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225425" title="Poygan, Wisconsin">
Poygan, Wisconsin

Poygan is a town in Winnebago County of the state of Wisconsin in the United States. 1,037 people were living in Poygan as of the 2000 census. Poygan has a total area of 41.9 square miles, says the United States Census Bureau.


</doc>
<doc id="225426" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225426" title="Wikipedia:Requests for importer/Razorflame">
Wikipedia:Requests for importer/Razorflame


</doc>
<doc id="225428" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225428" title="Template:Winnebago County, Wisconsin">
Template:Winnebago County, Wisconsin


</doc>
<doc id="225429" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225429" title="Category:Wisconsin county navigational boxes">
Category:Wisconsin county navigational boxes


</doc>
<doc id="225430" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225430" title="Category:Adams County, Wisconsin">
Category:Adams County, Wisconsin


</doc>
<doc id="225431" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225431" title="Template:Adams County, Wisconsin">
Template:Adams County, Wisconsin


</doc>
<doc id="225432" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225432" title="Category:Winnebago County, Wisconsin">
Category:Winnebago County, Wisconsin


</doc>
<doc id="225433" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225433" title="Category:Langlade County, Wisconsin">
Category:Langlade County, Wisconsin


</doc>
<doc id="225434" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225434" title="Template:Langlade County, Wisconsin">
Template:Langlade County, Wisconsin


</doc>
<doc id="225438" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225438" title="Category:Oconto County, Wisconsin">
Category:Oconto County, Wisconsin


</doc>
<doc id="225439" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225439" title="Template:Oconto County, Wisconsin">
Template:Oconto County, Wisconsin


</doc>
<doc id="225440" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225440" title="Winnebago County, Wisconsin">
Winnebago County, Wisconsin

Winnebago County is a county of the state of Wisconsin in the United States. 156,763 people were living in Winnebage County as of the census of 2000. The county seat of Winnebago County is Oshkosh.

Winnebago County has an area of , says the U.S. Census Bureau.


The following is a list of cities, villages, and towns found in Winnebago County:




</doc>
<doc id="225444" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225444" title="Category:1835 establishments">
Category:1835 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="225445" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225445" title="Category:Marathon County, Wisconsin">
Category:Marathon County, Wisconsin


</doc>
<doc id="225446" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225446" title="Category:Clark County, Wisconsin">
Category:Clark County, Wisconsin


</doc>
<doc id="225447" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225447" title="Category:Trempealeau County, Wisconsin">
Category:Trempealeau County, Wisconsin


</doc>
<doc id="225448" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225448" title="Category:Brown County, Wisconsin">
Category:Brown County, Wisconsin


</doc>
<doc id="225449" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225449" title="Category:Kenosha County, Wisconsin">
Category:Kenosha County, Wisconsin


</doc>
<doc id="225450" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225450" title="Category:Dane County, Wisconsin">
Category:Dane County, Wisconsin


</doc>
<doc id="225451" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225451" title="Category:Milwaukee County, Wisconsin">
Category:Milwaukee County, Wisconsin


</doc>
<doc id="225452" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225452" title="Category:Door County, Wisconsin">
Category:Door County, Wisconsin


</doc>
<doc id="225453" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225453" title="Category:Sheboygan County, Wisconsin">
Category:Sheboygan County, Wisconsin


</doc>
<doc id="225455" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225455" title="Category:Jackson County, Wisconsin">
Category:Jackson County, Wisconsin


</doc>
<doc id="225456" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225456" title="Category:Barron County, Wisconsin">
Category:Barron County, Wisconsin


</doc>
<doc id="225457" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225457" title="Category:Portage County, Wisconsin">
Category:Portage County, Wisconsin


</doc>
<doc id="225458" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225458" title="Category:Shawano County, Wisconsin">
Category:Shawano County, Wisconsin


</doc>
<doc id="225459" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225459" title="Category:Iowa County, Wisconsin">
Category:Iowa County, Wisconsin


</doc>
<doc id="225460" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225460" title="Category:Lafayette County, Wisconsin">
Category:Lafayette County, Wisconsin


</doc>
<doc id="225461" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225461" title="Category:Columbia County, Wisconsin">
Category:Columbia County, Wisconsin


</doc>
<doc id="225462" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225462" title="Category:Polk County, Wisconsin">
Category:Polk County, Wisconsin


</doc>
<doc id="225463" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225463" title="Category:Sawyer County, Wisconsin">
Category:Sawyer County, Wisconsin


</doc>
<doc id="225464" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225464" title="Category:Dodge County, Wisconsin">
Category:Dodge County, Wisconsin


</doc>
<doc id="225465" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225465" title="Category:Green Lake County, Wisconsin">
Category:Green Lake County, Wisconsin


</doc>
<doc id="225466" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225466" title="Category:Sauk County, Wisconsin">
Category:Sauk County, Wisconsin


</doc>
<doc id="225467" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225467" title="Category:Taylor County, Wisconsin">
Category:Taylor County, Wisconsin


</doc>
<doc id="225468" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225468" title="Category:Fond du Lac County, Wisconsin">
Category:Fond du Lac County, Wisconsin


</doc>
<doc id="225469" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225469" title="Category:Eau Claire County, Wisconsin">
Category:Eau Claire County, Wisconsin


</doc>
<doc id="225470" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225470" title="Category:Grant County, Wisconsin">
Category:Grant County, Wisconsin


</doc>
<doc id="225471" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225471" title="Category:Pepin County, Wisconsin">
Category:Pepin County, Wisconsin


</doc>
<doc id="225472" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225472" title="Category:Richland County, Wisconson">
Category:Richland County, Wisconson


</doc>
<doc id="225473" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225473" title="Category:Kewaunee County, Wisconson">
Category:Kewaunee County, Wisconson


</doc>
<doc id="225475" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225475" title="Category:Monroe County, Wisconsin">
Category:Monroe County, Wisconsin


</doc>
<doc id="225476" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225476" title="Category:Washington County, Wisconsin">
Category:Washington County, Wisconsin


</doc>
<doc id="225483" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225483" title="Chiton">
Chiton

Chitons are primitive marine molluscs in the class Polyplacophora. There are 900 to 1,000 extant species of chitons in the class, which was formerly known as "Amphineura". Their size ranges from 0.5 to 30cm in length; most are quite small. 

Chitons are also called "sea cradles" or "coat-of-mail shells". They are more formally called loricates or polyplacophorans. They have a single shell that sticks to rocks, like a limpet. The shell is made of hard plates that fit tightly together, overlapping one another. The shell plates are surrounded by a structure known as a "girdle".

Chitons are in their own class, Polyplacophora, which means "many plates". The plates refer to its shell, which is made of aragonite, a calcium carbonate mineral. The shell is quite flexible, and the chiton can even roll into a ball. The chiton has eight plates, and underneath the plates is a muscular foot that moves the chiton over rocks and other structures, both in and out of the water. It also has a tongue-shaped structure called the , which has many rows of 17 teeth each. Some use it to scrape algae off rocks, while others are carnivorous, catching tiny zooplankton and other small animals that live in shallow water.

Chitons can be less than an inch long, or up to a foot long. They come in many different colors: black, red, pink, and even blue. The shell might be shiny or dull, or smooth, hairy, scaly, or spiny depending on the species.

If a chiton was picked up and turned over, there would be no eyes, legs, or arms. There would only be a wide foot with a radula that it uses for scraping surfaces. Its mantle is right under the shell, with the lowest part of the mantle coming out under the edge of the shell to help its foot grip the surfaces on which it clings or slides along. The part of the mantle which sticks out is called the "girdle". Like the moon snail, the girdle may extend out over the bottom part of the shell covering the bottom half of the chiton. 

Most chitons are "nocturnal", so they feed at night, and hide under rocks during the day. Their main habitat is the intertidal zone. They live on hard surfaces, such as on or under rocks, or in rock crevices. Some species live quite high in the intertidal zone and are exposed to the air and light for long periods. Others live subtidally. A few species live in deep water, as deep as 6,000 m (about 20,000 ft).

Chitons have a relatively good fossil record, stretching back 400 million years to the Devonian. Before this, some organisms have been interpreted (tentatively) as stem-group polyplacophora; the record of polyplacophora stretches back to the Upper Cambrian.

"Kimberella" and "Wiwaxia " of the Precambrian and Cambrian may be related to ancestral polyplacophora. "Matthevia" is a late Cambrian polyplacophoran preserved as individual pointed valves, and sometimes considered to be a chiton. The polyplacophorans may have formed when an aberrant monoplacophoran was born with multiple centres of calcification, rather than the usual one. Selection acted on the resultant conical shells to form them to overlap into protective armour. Their original cones are homologous with the tips of the plates of modern chitons.



</doc>
<doc id="225491" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225491" title="Sand dollar">
Sand dollar

The Sand dollars, are species of flattened, burrowing sea urchins belonging to the order Clypeasteroida. "Echinarachnius parma", the Common Sand Dollar, is widespread in the Northern Hemisphere, from the intertidal zone to considerable depths. Sand dollars can be found in temperate and tropical zones, but not in Great Britain.

All sand dollars have a rigid skeleton known as a "test". This is the typical white disk found washed up on beaches. The living animals have a skin of movable spines on the test. Movement is done by the action of the spines. Like other sea urchins, sand dollars have five paired rows of pores. The pores are arranged in a petal-like pattern. These pores are perforations in the endoskeleton through which the tube feet, used in gas exchange, project from the body.

Living sand dollars have small spines covering its entire body. They are softer and much shorter than those of the sea urchin. Like all echinoderms, sand dollars have tube feet. They are not used to move around, but simply to breathe. The sand dollar's tube feet actually stick out of the top of the sand dollar. On a sand dollar test, there is usually a pattern that looks like the petals of a flower. That pattern is made up of many tiny holes, and it is through these holes that the sand dollar's tube feet came out when it was alive.

A sand dollar uses its tiny spines to move around, and to dig into the sand. It often does this to bury itself in the sand. Sometimes, a sand dollar will only partially bury itself in the sand, and ends up poking up from the sand, standing on its side.

On the underside of a sand dollar, there is a star pattern spreading out from the center where the mouth is. This star pattern is made up of that are called "food grooves". Sand dollars filter sand and water, catching plankton and other things on their spines. Then, with cilia, the spines move the food into a food groove, and the food travels down the food groove to the mouth. Its food consists of crustacean larvae, small copepods, diatoms, algae and detritus.

The sand dollars are the most specialised sea urchins. All their features are adaptations for burrowing. They live just beneath the sand, either flat or at an angle. At an angle they keep the edge facing the oncoming currents, presumably to catch food. This excellent habitat has been taken up by other groups of sea urchins. The heart urchins, another order, are even more effective in burrowing.

Most living sand dollars have dark colours, like brown or purple. Their darker color helps them stay camouflaged, easily hiding in the sand or mud or on the sea floor. The tests of sand dollars do not have bristles and tube feet, and because of the sun, they usually become white.



</doc>
<doc id="225504" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225504" title="Hyperbolic trajectory">
Hyperbolic trajectory

A hyperbolic trajectory is a trajectory entered by a spacecraft when its velocity exceeds the escape velocity of a planet, satellite, or star.


</doc>
<doc id="225508" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225508" title="Template:FULLROOTPAGENAME">
Template:FULLROOTPAGENAME

Template:FULLROOTPAGENAME

</doc>
<doc id="225509" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225509" title="Template:Ns has subpages">
Template:Ns has subpages


</doc>
<doc id="225510" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225510" title="Template:ROOTPAGENAME">
Template:ROOTPAGENAME


</doc>
<doc id="225511" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225511" title="Template:UserTalkArchive/doc">
Template:UserTalkArchive/doc

This is a modified and significantly expanded version of that was designd specifically for the user name space and provides many useful features, which are not available in the original template. You can see this template in action . The companion template was derived from the template , which was derived from the template .

Here is an easy to follow step-by-step guide that explains how to install this template at your user talk archive pages and your main user talk page.


<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="225512" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225512" title="Template:Warchivenav">
Template:Warchivenav


</doc>
<doc id="225515" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225515" title="Template:Location map United Kingdom East Riding of Yorkshire">
Template:Location map United Kingdom East Riding of Yorkshire


</doc>
<doc id="225516" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225516" title="Goole (disambiguation)">
Goole (disambiguation)

Goole can be any of the following:


</doc>
<doc id="225517" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225517" title="Babcock, Wisconsin">
Babcock, Wisconsin

Babcock is an unincorporated community in Wood County of the state of Wisconsin in the United States. The ZIP code of Babcock is 54413.


</doc>
<doc id="225519" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225519" title="Template:Location map USA Wisconsin">
Template:Location map USA Wisconsin


</doc>
<doc id="225520" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225520" title="Template:Green County, Wisconsin">
Template:Green County, Wisconsin


</doc>
<doc id="225521" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225521" title="Category:Green County, Wisconsin">
Category:Green County, Wisconsin


</doc>
<doc id="225522" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225522" title="Green County, Wisconsin">
Green County, Wisconsin

Green County is a county that is found in the state of Wisconsin in the United States. 33,647 people live in Green County as of the 2000 census. The county seat of Green County is Monroe.

Green County has an area of 585 square miles, says the United States Census Bureau.


The following is a list of the cities, towns, villages, and unincorporated communities that are found in Green County:




</doc>
<doc id="225536" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225536" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Gonzalo Domínguez">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Gonzalo Domínguez


</doc>
<doc id="225544" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225544" title="Kefalonia">
Kefalonia

Kefalonia (and Kephalonia or Cephalonia) is a Greek island in Ionian Sea. It is the largest of Ionian islands and the fifth largest Greek island after Crete, Euboea, Rhodes and Chios. Its area is 781 square meter and its population is 36,404 inhabitants according to 2001 Greek census. 

Kefalnia has got the highest mountain of Ionian islands. The mountain is named Ainos and its altitude is 1628 meter. The biggest town in island is Argostoli which is the capital of the Kefallonia prefecture. The second biggest town is Lixouri which is located opposite Argostoli. Beside Kefalonia is the island Ithaca the place of birth of ancient hero Odysseus. Some archaeologists believes that the place of birth of Odysseus is Kefalonia. 

Kefallonia has many beautiful beaches and it is one of the most popular tourist destinations. The most popular beach in island is Myrtos which is located in the north-west of the island. Kefalonia has beautiful natural environment with many forests mainly on Ainos mountain. Also in Kefalonia there is a famous cave-lake which is named Melissani and is located in the east of island 


</doc>
<doc id="225554" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225554" title="Tommy Lee">
Tommy Lee

Tommy Lee (born October 3, 1962) is an American musician and drummer for the band Mötley Crüe.

He was married to Pamela Anderson.


</doc>
<doc id="225565" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225565" title="Billy Bishop">
Billy Bishop

William Avery "Billy" Bishop (8 February 1894 – 11 September 1956) was a Canadian flying ace from World War I. He won 72 fights, making him the top Canadian flying ace.


</doc>
<doc id="225568" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225568" title="2050">
2050

2050 (MML) will be a common year starting on Saturday of the Gregorian calendar.


</doc>
<doc id="225569" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225569" title="2050s">
2050s

The 2050s decade will begin on January 1, 2050 and will end on December 31, 2059. It is the sixth decade of the 21st century and the 3rd millennium.




</doc>
<doc id="225571" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225571" title="Kim Mitchell">
Kim Mitchell

Joseph Kim Mitchell (born July 10, 1952) is a Canadian guitarist. Mitchell was the singer and guitarist for the band Max Webster and now hosts a radio show.


</doc>
<doc id="225580" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225580" title="Ot en Sien">
Ot en Sien

Ot en Sien (Ot and Sien) are two little children who appear in a series of stories which were written in the Dutch language more than a hundred years ago. Ot (short for “Otto”) is a little boy and Sien (pronounced like the English word “seen”), whose name may be short for “Francine”, is the little girl who lives next door. Although they are now very old-fashioned, the books are still popular in Holland. They were written in rhyme and were illustrated with colourful pictures.

The author of the stories was called Hendricus Scheepstra. The ideas for the stories were given to him by Jan Ligthart. Cornelis Jetses made the illustrations.

The stories are set in Drenthe, which is in the north-eastern part of the Netherlands. Drenthe was a very poor part of the country, but Ot and Sien live in a nice house and are quite well-off. They are often seen playing in the garden with their toys which include a wooden horse on wheels and a doll in a dolly’s pushchair. The cat is often in the picture. They are also seen at school.

The authors wrote the stories to show a happy family life. Everyone is very friendly in the book, and strangers help them when they get lost in the street. The family have a servant who helps in the house.

The stories were widely read by children in schools in the Netherlands until after the Second World War. By then they had become very old-fashioned. The daily life of Ot and Sien seemed to belong to a time long ago in history. Hardly any Dutch children now live in a family with a servant. No Dutch child nowadays goes for a walk dressed in sailor’s costume with a father who wears a cloak and hat. The books are no longer read in schools, but they continue to be popular with Dutch people at home. In 2004, one hundred years after the first book was written, a special exhibition about Ot and Sien was held.

There is a statue to Ot and Sien in The Hague, made in 1930.

In the Dutch language there are expressions which refer to Ot and Sien.


</doc>
<doc id="225581" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225581" title="Pulaski, Wisconsin">
Pulaski, Wisconsin

Pulaski is a village in the Brown, Oconto, and Shawano counties of the state of Wisconsin in the United States. 3,060 people were living in Pulaski as of the 2000 census. The parts of Pulaski that are in the Oconto and Brown Counties are part of the Green Bay metropolitan area. Pulaski has an area of 2.5 square miles, says the United States Census Bureau.



</doc>
<doc id="225583" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225583" title="Template:Shawano County, Wisconsin">
Template:Shawano County, Wisconsin


</doc>
<doc id="225584" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225584" title="Template:Brown County, Wisconsin">
Template:Brown County, Wisconsin


</doc>
<doc id="225585" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225585" title="Norah Jones">
Norah Jones

Norah Jones is an American singer and pianist. Her first album, "Come Away With Me" was released in 2002. It was a mix of contemporary jazz, folk, and country music. The album won five Grammy Awards. She released her second album, "Feels Like Home" in 2004, which sold over a million copies in its first week of its release. Her third album, "Not Too Late" was released in 2007. In 2009, "The Fall" was released. According to Billboard, Norah Jones is the 60th-highest artist of the 2000's.




</doc>
<doc id="225587" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225587" title="Exhibition">
Exhibition

An Exhibition is an organized event in which a collection of special objects can be viewed by the public. The objects are often brought together for the period of the exhibition. The objects on show are called Exhibits.

Museums often organize special exhibitions, e.g. paintings by a famous painter. These paintings will mostly be “on loan”, i.e. specially borrowed from other museums. Exhibitions can be about anything. They may be to do with art, or they can also be science exhibitions.

Some exhibitions show things which can be bought. Firms exhibit the things they have made, hoping to encourage business. These exhibitions are called trade fairs. They are sometimes called expositions or expos. They may be open to the public, but others are just for invited business people.



</doc>
<doc id="225590" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225590" title="Come Away With Me">
Come Away With Me

Come Away With Me is the first album by American jazz singer Norah Jones. It was released on February 26, 2002 on Blue Note Records. The main genre is considered contemporary jazz. The album is actually contemporary jazz with some country, folk music, and pop. Some jazz musicians do not think that the album is actually jazz, because of the changes Norah Jones made to some of the jazz songs she covered.

"Come Away With Me" reached number 1 on the Billboard 200 chart and won eight Grammy Awards. It sold over 10 million copies in the first three years of its release. It is Norah Jones' best-selling album, and the best-selling jazz album of all time.

Grammy Awards


</doc>
<doc id="225605" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225605" title="Ruben Bierer">
Ruben Bierer

Ruben Bierer (Dr. "Rubin Bierer", often: "Reuben Bierer"; * about 1845 in Lviv; † 1931 ibid.) was a doctor in Sofia and one of the first pioneers of the Jewish nationalism and one of the first active zionists in Galicia and Bulgaria, adherent of Hovevei Zion in Galicia, Austria and Bulgaria.

In 1867 he was in Lviv a co-founder of the first Jewish-political association of Austria-Hungary, "Shomer Israel". As an opponent against Polish assimilation of the Jews he established for the 1873 elections of the Reichsrat a Jewish-ruthenian electoral alliance. In 1879 he separated from the "Shomer Israel" and went to Vienna for the purpose of medical studies where he – together with Peretz Smolenskin – found the Jewish-political association "Ahavath Zion" (for the reason of colonisation of the holy land).

In 1882 he was a cofounder of the Viennese "Kadima" Studentenverbindung. In 1883 he returned to Lviv where he founded the first Jewish-national association of the Austrian east, "Miqra Kodesh".

In 1885 he went to Serbia, in 1900 he returned to Lviv where he successless tried to reactivate the "Shomer Israel". 

Nathan Birnbaum coined the word zionism about the year 1890. But he is not the creator of this word, it was already in use, e.g. you can find in a letter of Ruben Bierer from the 9th December 1888 the expression "zionist brother's greeting". The word "zionist" is found already in the year 1877 in an in Roumanian written pamphlet (annual report of the order "Zion" in Bucharest). 


</doc>
<doc id="225607" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225607" title="Hezekiah">
Hezekiah

Hezekiah, also translated as Ḥizkiyyahu(and sometimes as Ezekias, Ḥizqiyyāhu, Khizkiyahu; or יְחִזְקִיָּ֫הוּYəḥizqiyyāhu, Y'khizkiyahu), is a king of Judah that appears in the book of Chronicles and the book of Kings. He is one of the few kings who is compared favorably with David, and is unique for his trust in the Lord: "There was no one like him among all the kings of Judah, either before him or after him. He held fast to the LORD and did not cease (stop) to follow him" (2 Kings 18:5 – 6, NIV). He was the son of Judah's King Ahaz, and is best known for turning his people away from the sins of his father Ahaz, restoring worship in the temple, and having his life made fifteen years longer (2 Kings 20). His rule is described in the Old Testament, in , , and . The Chronicles writes more about Hezekiah than any other king after Solomon and suggest that he is a "second Solomon" in his celebration of the Passover, his wealth, his honor, and his land.



</doc>
<doc id="225612" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225612" title="Tine Thing Helseth">
Tine Thing Helseth

Tine Thing Helseth (Norwegian:ˈtiːnɛ tɪŋ hɛlsɛt; born 1987 in Oslo) is a Norwegian trumpet soloist who specialises in playing classical music.

Helseth began playing trumpet when she was seven years old and stuides at the Barratt Due Institute of Music in Oslo. She has studied under both Heidi Johanessen (a member of the Norwegian National Opera Orchestra) and, since 2002, Arnulf Naur Nilsen (member of the Oslo Philharmonic).


Helseth has played concerts with such orchestras as the Wiener Symphoniker, Beethoven Academie, Capella Cracowiensis, The Norwegian Chamber Orchestra, Shanghai Symphony Orchestra, Slovenian Radio Symphony Ljubljana, Oslo Camerata, Camerata Nordica, Württemberg Philharmonic, the Trondheim Soloists, Norwegian symphony orchestras, Norwegian Army bands and other brass and wind groups.

She has appeared at many different music festivals, including the Bergen International Festival, Kissinger Summer Festival and Usedomer Music Festival.

She performed at the 2007 Nobel Peace Prize Concert and is the leader of an all-female brass group, tenThing.

Helseth has put out two CDs. Her self-titled debut album was released January 1, 2007 and contained the trumpet concertos of both Johann Nepomuk Hummel and Josef Haydn. Her second album was released November 23, 2009 and contains musical works by Gustav Holst, Georg Friedrich Händel and J.S. Bach.



</doc>
<doc id="225618" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225618" title="White-eared Hummingbird">
White-eared Hummingbird

The White-eared Hummingbird, ("Basilinna leucotis"), is a species hummingbird. It is 9-10 cm long, and weighs about 3-4 grams. Adults are colored green on their upperparts and breast. The undertail is white. The tail is darkly colored and straight. The most non-normal thing is the white eyestripe found in both males and females. It is more boldly colored in the male. The bill of the male is straight and very thin. It is red in coloration, and shows a black tip. His throat is a "metallic torquoise green." His crown and face is violet and black.



</doc>
<doc id="225622" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225622" title="Usher">
Usher

Usher Raymond IV (born October 14, 1978) known simply by his first name Usher, is an American R&B and pop singer and actor who rose to fame in the mid-late 1990s. To date, he has sold approximately 30 million albums worldwide and has won five Grammy Awards. Usher is also a part owner of the Cleveland Cavaliers NBA franchise. He also has his own record label, US Record.




</doc>
<doc id="225627" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225627" title="Korean magpie">
Korean magpie

The Korean Magpie "Pica (pica) sericea" is usually thought of as an East Asian species of magpie. It is a common symbol of Korea, and has been adopted as the "official bird" of many South Korean cities and countries.

It is similar to the European magpie, with a shorter tail and longer wings. It has black and purple colors, but very little green. The Korean magpie has the same chattering call as European magpies, though it is much softer.

Koreans believed that magpies delivered good news, and when they saw a magpie chattering, they believed that visitors were coming.The most famous painting related to a magpie is the one with striped tiger (ggach'i wha horangi minhwa): the magpie is chirping to a tiger. The magpie represented good news and the tiger symbolized good luck, since its pronunciation in Chinese sounds similar to good luck (bok). There are many folktales about magpies.

The Chinese called magpies "Birds of Joy" or "Happy Magpies". Under the Manchu dynasty it also represented rule: a few Manchu people in Northeast China even thought they were gods. In the west, though, magpies were often a symbol of .


</doc>
<doc id="225630" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225630" title="Left-handedness">
Left-handedness

Left-handedness is the preference to use the left hand more than the right hand for daily activities such as writing or using tools. Most people can use either hand for many things. However, people very often have a definite preference for using the left or right hand for things such as: using a pen, using a knife, using scissors, brushing teeth, blowing their nose, and so on. People who do not have a preference are called ambidextrous.

People do not just have preferences with things they do with their hands: they may, for example, be left-footed if they prefer to kick a ball with the left foot, or push harder with the left foot on a bicycle pedal.

Far more people are right handed than left handed. It is difficult to measure exactly how many, because each person has a different mixture of preferences, but about one person in ten or twenty is left-handed.

Because left-handed people are different from most others, being left-handed has often been thought of as bad. For many years, right-handedness was seen as "normal" and left-handedness as "not normal". In Hebrew, as well as in other ancient Semitic and Mesopotamian languages, the word "left" was a symbol of power. In many European languages, "right" means “correct” (the opposite of “wrong”). In law the word “right” means authority and justice (in a democracy everyone has certain “rights". In Russian and other Slavic languages "prav" is used in words meaning “correct” or “truth”. Someone who is skilled with their hands is called “dexterous”. But "left" often means “awkward” in many languages. In French “gauche” also means “clumsy”. In English, the word “sinister” (which comes from the Latin word for “left”, "sinistra") means “evil”. We also say that someone has “two left feet” meaning that they are clumsy with their feet (for example they may step on their partner’s toes when dancing).

Sometimes people who are left-handed are called “Southpaws”.

Things that are designed by right-handed people can cause problems for left-handed ones. These include guns, cameras, screws and in recent years the computer mouse and the iPhone. Many objects are sold in left-handed versions, which are often more expensive than the right-handed versions.

Scissors, especially, cause left-handed people some trouble. Most scissors are made for right-handed people. Because they are designed this way, if a person tries to cut something while holding the scissors in their left hand, they cannot see the edge they are cutting. The way the cutting action works is also designed for right-handers, and left-handed people tend to force the blades open instead of cutting cleanly. Even though some scissors say that they can be used by both left and right-handed people, these scissors only have their handles changed. They are still right-handed scissors and still cause the same issues.

It can be difficult for left-handed children to learn to write if the teacher does not give them special help. The reason for this is that most writing moves from left to right across the page. This means that left-handed writers may hold their hand over what has just been written.

In many countries, children are allowed to write with whichever hand is easier, although there are some countries where children may be made to write with the right hand. Many things can be difficult for left-handed writers. Chairs with writing boards may all be made for right-handed people. This makes left-handed people sit awkwardly and hold their pens in an awkward way.

Recent research has shown that it can be an advantage for animals and for humans to be left-handed. Being able to do things differently from most people can be a great help in many sports, such as tennis or fighting with swords.
In tennis, left-handed players hold the racket in their left hand. Because of this, their grip of the handle is supposedly adjusted in a slightly different style from right-handed players. Some world champion tennis players that play with their left hand include Jimmy Connors, Guillermo Vilas, John McEnroe, Martina Navratilova, Marcelo Ríos, and Rafael Nadal.


</doc>
<doc id="225631" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225631" title="Cumulus cloud">
Cumulus cloud

Cumulus clouds are white clouds that are dense and large. They are known to look like cauliflower. Mostly, you can see easily that cumulus clouds have flat bottoms but the tops are always changing shape. 

Seeing a cumulus cloud means that the air is well mixed by up and down currents. When a cumulus cloud grows into a thunderstorm, the cloud is called a cumulonimbus cloud. This is a sign that the air is rising to the stratosphere.



</doc>
<doc id="225633" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225633" title="Alyosha Karamazov">
Alyosha Karamazov

Alexei Fyodorovich Karamazov is the "hero" of Fyodor Dostoevsky's novel, "The Brothers Karamazov". He is also called Alyosha, Alyoshka, Alyoshenka, Alyoshechka, Alexeichik, Lyosha, and Lyoshenka. He is the youngest of the Karamazov brothers, being "then only twenty (his brother Ivan was twenty-three and their older brother, Dmitry, twenty-seven)". The author's and first chapters declare that he is the novel's hero.

Alyosha is physically described as:

His personality is remarkably unselfish, extremely mature in his religious faith, sensitive to other people's feelings, and loving - "he certainly loved people: throughout his life he seemed to believe in people and to trust them, and yet no one ever thought him simple-minded or naive. There was something in him (and it stayed with him all his life) that made people realize that he refused to sit in judgment on others, that he felt he had no right to, and that, whatever happened, he would never anyone." He passes on the influence of Zosima to the "younger generation" (the schoolboys) of the town. Even with all his kind goodness, he has a gentle personality that makes almost everybody love him and feel comfortable around him. Proud young Kolya Krasotkin says that the best thing about Alyosha is that he treats him like "an equal".

Anna-Theresa Tymieniecka says that Alyosha, like Prince Myshkin, the protagonist in another Dostoevsky novel, "The Idiot", are almost Jesus-like characters, who are, however, unable to stop the greatest suffering of those around them. She suggests that Alyosha is too calm, and does not do much action in the events of the novel.

Rufus W. Mathewson, however, argues that Alyosha Karamazov is a more successful positive hero than Prince Myshkin. He argues that Alyosha's most impressive success as helping Dmitri. He describes Alyosha as using forgiveness, kindness and natural justice, rather than trying to change people.

It is probable that Dostoevsky used his friend Vladimir Solovyov's character for Alyosha. Vladimir Solovyov was a Russian poet and philosopher who was very generous, even giving away his clothes to people in the street.


</doc>
<doc id="225634" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225634" title="Stratus cloud">
Stratus cloud

Stratus clouds are low altitude gray clouds that make a flat base. The name comes from the Latin word "stratus", which means to "stretch" or "extend." You can see stratus clouds as thick cloud blankets near the sea. They are sometimes called "high fogs". Light rain and drizzle often fall from stratus clouds. When rain falls from stratus clouds they are mostly called nimbostratus. 


</doc>
<doc id="225658" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225658" title="Pliosaur">
Pliosaur

The Pliosaurs were a group of large submarine plesiosaur reptiles from the Mesozoic era. They had short necks and large heads, in contrast to other plesiosaurs. Their sizes ranged from two to 15 metres, and they were predators of large fish and other reptiles. Their streamlined body shape suggests they swam and ate under water.

The first specimen was found by Mary Anning, on the 'Jurassic Coast' of Lyme Regis, England in the 1820s. Many of her finds are on display in the Natural History Museum, London.

It was suggested by D.M.S. Watson that plesiosaurs fell into two groups. The pliosaurs were large predators which ate large prey in deep water. The other plesiosaurs were long-necked with smaller heads. Their method was as surface swimmers, mostly eating with their head above water, darting down to snatch smaller fish which were feeding on plankton.



</doc>
<doc id="225659" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225659" title="Ball lightning">
Ball lightning

Ball lightning is a glowing ball of lightning that sometimes appears in a thunderstorm, but usually lasts much longer than lightning. Scientists do not understand ball lightning very well, and some even do not think ball lightning is real, because it is so strange. However, it has been widely reported in weather journals by many trustworthy people. So, it is very possible that it is real.

Those who have seen it say it's the size of a grapefruit or basketball; it has even been said to be as big as a car. The glowing ball is either red, orange, or yellow. A few people have seen it falling from clouds. Sometimes, ball lightning floats or glides just above the ground for a few seconds, or it can roll on the surface of an object. Hissing noises come from the fiery orb. Some have even thought it was a UFO. Ball lightning sometimes explodes loudly, while other times it just quietly disappears. It has been known to smash or simply go through windows, hopping and sizzling across the floor, and then disappear into things like TVs or up the chimmney. Some say that ball lightning can kill humans, while others say that its effect on humans are harmless.

Many people are said to have seen ball lightning. Ebenezer Cobham Brewer wrote about "globular lightning", saying they may fall to the ground or explode like a cannon. Laura Ingalls Wilder writes in her book about ball lightning, saying that when she was little, she saw balls of light, which her mother chased away with a broom. 

Czar Nicholas II, Russia's last emperor, said he had seen ball lightning:



</doc>
<doc id="225660" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225660" title="Sauropterygia">
Sauropterygia

The Sauropterygia was a superorder of successful aquatic reptiles that flourished during the Mesozoic era. They are united by an adaptation of their shoulder, designed to support powerful paddle strokes. Some later sauropterygians like the pliosaurs developed a similar mechanism in their pelvis.

The earliest sauropterygians appeared about 245 million years ago, at the start of the Triassic period. At first they were small, less than a metre. They were semi-aquatic lizard-like animals with long limbs (called pachypleurosaurs). They developed into a group called the nothosaurs, several meters long. The sauropterygians included another very distinctive group: the placodonts. They were bottom-feeders on shellfish, and possessed flat, crushing teeth to handle their prey.

The end-Triassic extinction event wiped them all out except for the plesiosaurs. During the earliest Jurassic these diversified quickly into the long-necked small-headed plesiosaurs proper, and short-necked large-headed pliosaurs. 





</doc>
<doc id="225670" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225670" title="Joey (marsupial)">
Joey (marsupial)

A joey is a baby kangaroo. When it is first born, it is blind and without fur. It comes out of its mother's pouch when it is fully developed, but goes back to the pouch to sleep or for safety.


</doc>
<doc id="225674" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225674" title="Ocean trench">
Ocean trench

Found at the base of some continental slopes, ocean trenches have relatively steepsides falling dramatically to the ocean floor. In geology, subduction is the theoretical process whereby one oceanic plate slides under another crustal plate. Subduction is believed to work by density. As the heavy plate descends steeply into the earth, the lighter, or less dense, the two plates rides over the edge of the heavier plate. The long, narrow belt produced by this process is called the "subduction zone." It is in these areas that oceanic trenches (linear folds) form that can be approximately 1,500 miles (2,400 km) long, several miles deep, and as much as 70 miles (112 km) wide.
Oceanographers cite at least five trenches that are over 6 miles (10 km) deep. Trenches are active with earthquakes and resulting tsunamis. Most volcanism associated with trench occurs on the continent and not on the seafloor. However, many of the ocean's volcanic islands and seamounts are found in what are called "island arcs," bending chains of islands rising from the sea floor, usually paralleling the concave edges of an oceanic trench. The western Pacific has island arcsm as do the Aleutian Islands. 

Near the island of Guam is the famous Mariana Trench located where the Pacific Plate descends under the leading edge of the Eurasian Plate. Measured at 36,201 feet - over 6.8 miles (11 km) deep, this trench is the deepest known spot in any ocean. In 1960, two brave men in the bathyscaph "Trieste" reached the Mariana Trench - a truly daring accomplishment! Other extensive trench regions around the world include the South Sandwich Trench between South America and Antarctica, the Peru-Chile Trench, and the Aleutian Trench.


</doc>
<doc id="225686" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225686" title="North Kosovo">
North Kosovo

North Kosovo is a Serbian enclave in Kosovo. It has over 80,000 residents, at least 98% of them are Christian Serbs. There are about 3,000 Albanians, and about 2000Turks, Greeks, Gorans, Romas and others.

Unlike the Strpce municipality which is autonomous, North Kosovo is directly run by the Government of Belgrade.

In North Kosovo, Serbian car plates are still used and the Serbian dinar is used as the official currency.

The enclave consists of the 3 municipalities of Zvecan, Leposavic, Zubin Potok (as well as part of Mitrovica. The enclave's area is (11% of the country's total area). Lake Gorazdevac is also in the enclave.

The United Nations does not recognize Kosovo as a country because of the 1999 United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244. Other world governing bodies do not recognise it as a country, either.


</doc>
<doc id="225711" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225711" title="Violet-fronted Brilliant">
Violet-fronted Brilliant

The Violet-fronted Brilliant ("Heliodoxa leadbeateri") is a species of hummingbird. It is found in Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and Venezuela. Its natural habitat is subtropical or tropical moist montanes. Many people consider it lovely.



</doc>
<doc id="225737" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225737" title="SS Yongala">
SS Yongala

SS Yongala was a passenger ship that sank off Cape Bowling Green on 23 March, 1911 on its way to from Melbourne, Australia to Cairns she entered into a cyclone and sank without a trace south of Townsville. All passengers onboard drowned and the shipwreck was found in 1958 off the coast of Townsville.




</doc>
<doc id="225743" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225743" title="Category:Ichthyosaurs">
Category:Ichthyosaurs


</doc>
<doc id="225767" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225767" title="Parides childrenae">
Parides childrenae

The Green-celled Cattleheart (Parides childrenae) is a species of butterfly. It belongs in the family Papilionidae. It is found in southern North America and northern South America.

The upper side of the wings is black. The male has a bright green patch on the fore wing (top wing). There is a small pale yellow spot near the tip of the fore wing. There is a red patch on the hind wing (bottom wing). The female has a small white patch on the fore wing. There are a few pale spots on the fore wing. There is a band of red spots on the hind wing. The underside of the wings is also black. The male has small pale spots near the tip of the fore wing and a few red spots on the hind wing. The female's underside is the same as the upper side.



</doc>
<doc id="225770" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225770" title="Los Angeles (disambiguation)">
Los Angeles (disambiguation)

Los Angeles is a city in California and the second-largest city in the United States. It may also mean:



</doc>
<doc id="225820" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225820" title="Oviparous">
Oviparous

Oviparous animals are animals that reproduce by laying eggs. This is how most fish, amphibians, reptiles, insects, and arachnids reproduce. All birds and monotremes also reproduce like this.

Most animals that live on land lay eggs that are protected by hard shells. They fertilize their eggs internally. Water-dwelling animals like fish and amphibians lay eggs that have not been fertilized yet. Then the males lay sperm on top of the eggs, which is called external fertilization.

No mammals except for monotremes reproduce like this. Instead, they are viviparous. Fish, amphibians and reptiles that are not oviparous are oviviparous. This means that the eggs hatch while still inside the mother's body.


</doc>
<doc id="225821" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225821" title="Aplacophora">
Aplacophora

The Aplacophora is a class of small, deep-water, exclusively benthic, shell-less marine molluscs. They are found in all oceans of the world. They are a small group of molluscs which have deviated from the normal molluscan form. There are approximately 100 known species living today. They are rather worm-like and average about an inch (2.5 cms.) in length. 

Most live in deep water, except a few more northern species. One group bury themselves into the sand and mud of the ocean bottom where they feed on annelids and other small invertebrates. The rest of the known aplacophorans parasitize hydroids and other corals.

This class used to be classified as sea cucumbers in the echinoderms. In 1987, they were officially recognized as molluscs and given their own class. The class is polyphyletic, and consists of two clades.


</doc>
<doc id="225826" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225826" title="Monoplacophora">
Monoplacophora

Monoplacophora is a class of molluscs. They have a cap-like shell and live on the bottom of the sea. 

They were discovered as a living group in 1952, one of the most remarkable modern discoveries. As they were last known from the Devonian fossil record, this makes them a Lazarus taxon. 

More than that, they are the most extreme example of the "pull of the Recent", which is a term in palaeontology. All fossil groups have a first and last appearance in the fossil record but, for living species, their last appearance is the present day. This may be very much later than their last appearance as a fossil. The discovery of the living monoplacs extended their time range by 400 million years.


</doc>
<doc id="225846" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225846" title="Zebra turkeyfish">
Zebra turkeyfish

The Zebra turkeyfish (Dendrochirus zebra) is a very poisonous fish. It lives in the Indian and Pacific seas. The fish has 13 poisonous spikes along its back, used to look after itself. The fish is slow and quiet, but can be a danger. The fish rests in dark places such as under a rock or a piece of coral. They aren't affected by each other's poison. They are single fish that are not scared of anything, as they have no predators.


</doc>
<doc id="225860" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225860" title="Aris Thessaloniki F.C.">
Aris Thessaloniki F.C.

Aris Thessaloniki F.C. is a Greek football club. Its based in Thessaloniki. Aris's colours is the yellow and black. Its emblem is the ancient god of war, Ares. This club is the fifth most successful Greek club, as it has won three championships and one Greek cup. Aris won the first Greek championship in 1928.



</doc>
<doc id="225870" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225870" title="Slender loris">
Slender loris

The slender loris is a nocturnal hunter. It moves slowly through trees and grips branches tightly with its opposable thumbs and toes. When it attacks prey it goes closer and then snatches it with both hands. 

The slender loris is about the size of a squirrel, and has small finger nails. It has two brown eyes, and has white fur on its chest. 

The slender loris usually spends its time on trees. They like to groom and wrestle with each other.

These animals eat insects, lizards, birds, but will also eat things like slugs, flowers, shoots, young leaves, and sometimes even eggs. They would also like termites and roaches for a tasty treat.

Native people thought that the slender lorises had magical powers. It is not clear how many slender lorises survive in the wild.


</doc>
<doc id="225879" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225879" title="Panionios F.C">
Panionios F.C

Panionios is a Greek football club. It is found in 1890 in Smyrni, Turkey by Greek inhabitants which lived there. During Greek-Turkish war in 1922 the Greek inhabitandts left from there and they went to Greece. So, the club came to Greece to the Athenian suburb Nea Smyrni. The colours of club is the red and the blue. Panionios has won two Greek cup. It has played in all Greek championships unless twice. 



</doc>
<doc id="225886" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225886" title="Dave Meltzer">
Dave Meltzer

Dave Meltzer (born in 1961) is a man who writes about professional wrestling for his magazine, and also on the Internet. Meltzer's website is called the "Wrestling Observer". Before Meltzer, most writers wrote that professional wrestling was real, but Meltzer writes that it is not. He has also written two books called "Tributes" and "Tributes II". Other writers for Wrestling Observer are Todd Martin and Vince Verhei.


</doc>
<doc id="225900" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225900" title="List of chess Grandmasters">
List of chess Grandmasters

This is a list of the current 2700+ rated chess Grandmasters, plus other players of the highest status.






</doc>
<doc id="225920" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225920" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Amani Placide">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Amani Placide


</doc>
<doc id="225947" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225947" title="Umkhonto we Sizwe">
Umkhonto we Sizwe

Umkhonto we Sizwe (), was a guerilla movement created in 1961 by Nelson Mandela, Walter Sisulu and other people from the African National Congress. It was created when the government started killing and hurting people that protested against the apartheid. Nelson Mandela first wanted to free South Africa without violence, but the government created laws to prevent that. Mandela then decided that if the black people did not use violence, they would never regain their rights.

Umkhonto we Sizwe stopped being active a bit before the end of the apartheid, in 1991.


</doc>
<doc id="225953" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225953" title="Heikki Kovalainen">
Heikki Kovalainen

Heikki Johannes Kovalainen (born October 19, 1981 in Suomussalmi, Finland) is a Finnish Formula One racing driver who spent the 2008 and 2009 seasons with British based team Vodafone McLaren Mercedes. In 2010, he joined the new Lotus team.

 Season in progress.

 Season in progress.


</doc>
<doc id="225955" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225955" title="Luca Badoer">
Luca Badoer

Luca Badoer (born 25 January 1971) is an Italian Formula One driver who has raced for the Scuderia Italia, Minardi, Forti Corse and most recently, Ferrari teams. In addition to his racing duties, Badoer has been active as one of the test and reserve drivers for Ferrari since 1997 and in 2009 stood in for Ferrari's regular race driver Felipe Massa at the European Grand Prix and the Belgian Grand Prix, after the Brazilian was injured during qualifying for the Hungarian Grand Prix and his original replacement, Michael Schumacher, pulled out due to injury.


</doc>
<doc id="225956" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225956" title="Nick Heidfeld">
Nick Heidfeld

Nick Lars Heidfeld (born May 10, 1977 in Mönchengladbach, West Germany) is a German racing driver In 2010 he was the test and reserve driver for the Mercedes GP Formula One team. In August, Mercedes released Heidfeld from his contract to allow him to do tyre testing. He will test the new Pirelli tyre that will be used in the season. He previously raced in Formula One from to . 

In September, Heidfeld was signed by Sauber to replace Pedro de la Rosa. Heidfeld drove for Sauber from to , and to .

In 2011, Renault selected Heidfeld to replace the injured Robert Kubica.

 Season in progress.

 Season in progress.


</doc>
<doc id="225961" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225961" title="Romain Grosjean">
Romain Grosjean

Romain Grosjean (born April 17, 1986 in Geneva, Switzerland) is a Formula One racing driver, who holds dual nationality from France and Switzerland, but competes under a French racing licence. He was the 2007 Formula Three Euroseries drivers' champion and the inaugural GP2 Asia Series champion.


</doc>
<doc id="225962" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225962" title="Jarno Trulli">
Jarno Trulli

Jarno Trulli (born July 13, 1974 in Pescara, Abruzzo) is an Italian Formula One auto racing driver. He has been a regular in Formula One since 1997, driving for Minardi, Prost, Jordan, Renault and Toyota. He won the Monaco Grand Prix for Renault, his only Grand Prix victory to date. He is known for being a qualification expert. After Toyota pulled out of the sport, following the 2009 season, he joined the new Lotus Racing team in 2010.

 Season in progress.

 Season in progress.



</doc>
<doc id="225963" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225963" title="Timo Glock">
Timo Glock

Timo Glock (born 18 March 1982) is a German motor racing driver. At the Canadian Grand Prix, Glock replaced Giorgio Pantano at Jordan. Glock joined the small group of drivers who have scored a World Championship point in their first Formula One race. As of , he driving for Virgin Racing.

 Season in progress.

 Season in progress.



</doc>
<doc id="225964" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225964" title="Kamui Kobayashi">
Kamui Kobayashi

Kamui Kobayashi (born 13 September 1986 in Amagasaki, Hyogo Japan) is a Japanese racing driver. He has competed in the GP2 Series, won the GP2 Asia Series, and drove in the FIA Formula One World Championship with the Toyota Formula One team in 2009. He is currently driving for Sauber.

 Season in progress.

 Season in progress.


</doc>
<doc id="225966" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225966" title="Mark Webber">
Mark Webber

Mark Alan Webber (born 27 August 1976 in Queanbeyan, New South Wales) is an Australian Formula One driver. At the German Grand Prix, he became the first Australian to win a race since Alan Jones in .

He currently drives for the Red Bull Racing Formula One team.

 Season in progress.

 Season in progress.


</doc>
<doc id="225987" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225987" title="Bartje">
Bartje

Bartje Bartels is the main character in a series of Dutch books written by Anne de Vries at the beginning of the 20th century. The stories are about a boy who grows up in a poor family in the countryside in Drenthe in the north-east of the Netherlands.

The author Anne de Vries is male. The name “Anne”, although usually a girl's name, can also be used as a boy’s name in Dutch, especially in the north where Frisian is spoken. It is pronounced “Oa-ne”.

Bartje (pronounce: “BAR-che”) is a boy whose father is a poor farmer. His parents expect him to become a farmer like his father, but Bartje has other ideas. Bartje starts work as an apprentice, but then his mother dies and he has to look after his younger brothers and sisters.

The most famous quotation from the Bartje books come in the story in which the family are sitting down to a meal. They are going to eat brown beans. Bartje hates brown beans and pulls his empty plate away when his mother wants to give him some. He refuses to say grace (to say a prayer to thank God for the food they are about to eat) and he says: "Ik bid nie veur bruune boon'n " (in modern Dutch: "Ik bid niet voor bruine bonen", meaning: "I don’t pray for brown beans"). His parents are shocked and he gets into big trouble.

Bartje has become a much-loved symbol for the province of Drenthe. The stories were made into a television series which was shown in 1972 and repeated in 2004. The film had Dutch subtitles because the actors were speaking in Drenthe dialect. 

There is a statue to Bartje in the town of Assen. Unfortunately it has been vandalized several times.


</doc>
<doc id="225989" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225989" title="Category:Drenthe">
Category:Drenthe


</doc>
<doc id="225998" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225998" title="Lancaster, Lancashire">
Lancaster, Lancashire

Lancaster is the county town of Lancashire, England. It is on the River Lune and has a population of 45,952. The larger City of Lancaster local government district is named after Lancaster.

Lancaster Castle is well known as the site of the Pendle witch trials in 1612. 

Lancaster is the most northerly city in Lancashire, three miles from Morecambe Bay. The city is located on the River Lune, the Lancaster Canal, and the West Coast Main Line, and is close to the M6 motorway.

Lancaster has two universities. These are Lancaster University and The University of Cumbria. 


</doc>
<doc id="226010" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226010" title="Decatur, Wisconsin">
Decatur, Wisconsin

Decatur is a town in Green County of the state of Wisconsin in the United States. 1,688 people were living in Decatur as of the 2000 census. Decatur has an area of 34.4 square miles, says the United States Census Bureau.


</doc>
<doc id="226012" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226012" title="Strepsirrhini">
Strepsirrhini

The Strepsirrhini clade is one of the two suborders of primates. One of the most distinguishing characteristic of these 114 species is their wet noses, and it is this feature for which the grouping is named. The Greek name means having a curved or bent nose (a terpsimbrotos compound of strepho "bend" and rhis "nose"). Madagascar's only primates (apart from humans) are strepsirrhines, although others can be found in southeast Asia.


</doc>
<doc id="226018" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226018" title="Category:Respiratory system">
Category:Respiratory system


</doc>
<doc id="226019" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226019" title="Haplorrhini">
Haplorrhini

The haplorrhines, the "dry-nosed" primates (the Greek name means "simple-nosed"), are members of the Haplorrhini clade: the prosimian tarsiers and all of the true simians. The simians are the catarrhines (Old World monkeys and apes, including humans) and the platyrrhines (New World monkeys).


</doc>
<doc id="226031" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226031" title="Category:Cardiovascular system">
Category:Cardiovascular system


</doc>
<doc id="226038" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226038" title="Category:Cities in Washington (U.S. state)">
Category:Cities in Washington (U.S. state)


</doc>
<doc id="226040" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226040" title="Category:Kittitas County, Washington">
Category:Kittitas County, Washington


</doc>
<doc id="226041" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226041" title="Category:Washington (U.S. state) counties">
Category:Washington (U.S. state) counties


</doc>
<doc id="226042" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226042" title="Category:Washington (U.S. state)">
Category:Washington (U.S. state)


</doc>
<doc id="226043" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226043" title="Category:Yakima County, Washington">
Category:Yakima County, Washington


</doc>
<doc id="226044" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226044" title="Category:Benton County, Washington">
Category:Benton County, Washington


</doc>
<doc id="226046" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226046" title="Category:Geography of Washington (U.S. state)">
Category:Geography of Washington (U.S. state)


</doc>
<doc id="226052" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226052" title="Category:Rivers of Washington (U.S. state)">
Category:Rivers of Washington (U.S. state)


</doc>
<doc id="226055" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226055" title="Category:Rivers of the United States by state">
Category:Rivers of the United States by state


</doc>
<doc id="226060" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226060" title="Category:Rivers of Russia">
Category:Rivers of Russia


</doc>
<doc id="226063" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226063" title="Category:Rivers of Scotland">
Category:Rivers of Scotland


</doc>
<doc id="226066" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226066" title="Category:Rivers of France">
Category:Rivers of France


</doc>
<doc id="226067" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226067" title="Category:Rivers of China">
Category:Rivers of China


</doc>
<doc id="226068" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226068" title="Category:Rivers of Pakistan">
Category:Rivers of Pakistan


</doc>
<doc id="226069" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226069" title="Category:Rivers of Thailand">
Category:Rivers of Thailand


</doc>
<doc id="226070" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226070" title="Category:Rivers of Burma">
Category:Rivers of Burma


</doc>
<doc id="226071" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226071" title="Category:Rivers of Laos">
Category:Rivers of Laos


</doc>
<doc id="226072" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226072" title="Category:Rivers of Vietnam">
Category:Rivers of Vietnam


</doc>
<doc id="226075" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226075" title="Category:Rivers of Cambodia">
Category:Rivers of Cambodia


</doc>
<doc id="226076" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226076" title="Category:Rivers of the Dominican Republic">
Category:Rivers of the Dominican Republic


</doc>
<doc id="226079" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226079" title="Category:Rivers of Iraq">
Category:Rivers of Iraq


</doc>
<doc id="226080" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226080" title="Category:Sockpuppets of Amryose16">
Category:Sockpuppets of Amryose16

Sockpuppets of 


</doc>
<doc id="226081" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226081" title="Category:Rivers of Turkey">
Category:Rivers of Turkey


</doc>
<doc id="226082" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226082" title="Category:Rivers of Syria">
Category:Rivers of Syria


</doc>
<doc id="226083" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226083" title="Category:Rivers of Israel">
Category:Rivers of Israel


</doc>
<doc id="226084" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226084" title="Category:Rivers of Jordan">
Category:Rivers of Jordan


</doc>
<doc id="226085" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226085" title="Category:Rivers of Ukraine">
Category:Rivers of Ukraine


</doc>
<doc id="226086" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226086" title="Category:Rivers of Germany">
Category:Rivers of Germany


</doc>
<doc id="226088" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226088" title="Category:Rivers of Hungary">
Category:Rivers of Hungary


</doc>
<doc id="226090" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226090" title="Category:Rivers of Romania">
Category:Rivers of Romania


</doc>
<doc id="226091" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226091" title="Tisza">
Tisza

The Tisza is one of the major rivers of Central Europe. It starts in Ukraine, with the White Tisza in the Chornohora and Black Tisza in the Gorgany range, and flows partially along the Romanian border. It then enters Hungary at Tiszabecs and passes through Hungary touching the border with Slovakia. It then into the Danube in central Vojvodina in Serbia. The Tisza drains an area of about 157,186 km².

Names for the river in the countries it flows through are:





</doc>
<doc id="226092" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226092" title="Category:Kelly Clarkson albums">
Category:Kelly Clarkson albums


</doc>
<doc id="226093" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226093" title="Category:Rivers of Slovakia">
Category:Rivers of Slovakia


</doc>
<doc id="226094" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226094" title="Category:Rivers of Serbia">
Category:Rivers of Serbia


</doc>
<doc id="226095" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226095" title="Free love">
Free love

Free love is when people are free to have sexual relations with anyone without getting married. This has been used as early as in the 19th century. It is commonly accepted that only married people can have a sexual relationship.


</doc>
<doc id="226096" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226096" title="Breakaway (Kelly Clarkson album)">
Breakaway (Kelly Clarkson album)

Breakaway is the second album by American singer Kelly Clarkson; it was released on November 30, 2004.

The album debuted at number three on the Billboard 200 for selling 250,000 copies. It has sold over 6 million copies in the United States and has been certified six times Platinum by the RIAA. "Breakaway" received two awards at the 2006 Grammy Awards including "Best Pop Vocal Album" and "Best Female Pop Vocal Performance" for the single "Since U Been Gone".


</doc>
<doc id="226097" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226097" title="Breakaway">
Breakaway

Breakaway may refer to:



</doc>
<doc id="226098" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226098" title="Category:Rivers of Poland">
Category:Rivers of Poland


</doc>
<doc id="226099" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226099" title="Category:Rivers of Japan">
Category:Rivers of Japan


</doc>
<doc id="226100" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226100" title="Category:Rivers of India">
Category:Rivers of India


</doc>
<doc id="226101" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226101" title="Category:Rivers of Bangladesh">
Category:Rivers of Bangladesh


</doc>
<doc id="226102" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226102" title="Category:Rivers of Tibet">
Category:Rivers of Tibet


</doc>
<doc id="226103" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226103" title="Category:Rivers of Assam">
Category:Rivers of Assam


</doc>
<doc id="226105" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226105" title="Category:Rivers of Senegal">
Category:Rivers of Senegal


</doc>
<doc id="226106" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226106" title="Category:Rivers of Mauritania">
Category:Rivers of Mauritania


</doc>
<doc id="226107" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226107" title="Category:Rivers of Africa">
Category:Rivers of Africa


</doc>
<doc id="226108" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226108" title="Category:Rivers by continent">
Category:Rivers by continent


</doc>
<doc id="226109" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226109" title="Category:Rivers of Europe">
Category:Rivers of Europe


</doc>
<doc id="226110" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226110" title="Category:Rivers of Asia">
Category:Rivers of Asia


</doc>
<doc id="226111" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226111" title="Category:Rivers of North America">
Category:Rivers of North America


</doc>
<doc id="226112" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226112" title="Rainbow Serpent">
Rainbow Serpent

A Rainbow Serpent is an animal in the Dreamtime which many of the indigenous people of Australia, the "Aborigines", believe created the mountains, rivers and lakes. The Rainbow Serpent stories are found all across Australia, and especially in Arnhem Land, in the north of Australia. The serpent is known by different names, such as "Almudj" and "Ngalyod", in different Aboriginal languages. The Rainbow Serpent lives in waterholes and controls the supply of water.

Aboriginal artists have painted the Rainbow Serpent on cave walls or on pieces of bark. The earliest cave paintings found are about 8,000 years old. In special ceremonies, they sometimes honour the Rainbow Serpent by painting their handprints on the magic snake. Scientists believe the Rainbow Serpent stories began at the end of the last ice age. The rising sea levels would have forced a lot of people to move inland. The Rainbow Serpent became a symbol of both creation and destruction, and of unity and peace. This makes the Rainbow Serpent a symbol of the world's oldest continuing religion.

In the Dreamtime, the Rainbow Serpent helped the world along with rain. At the beginning of time, the Rainbow Serpent awoke from its sleep and pushed through the Earth's crust. As it travelled over the empty land, it left behind deep tracks. The Rainbow Serpent called to the frogs to come out from beneath the earth. It tickled the frogs' bellies, and when they laughed, water poured out from their open mouths. The water filled the Rainbow Serpent's deep tracks, making rivers and lakes.
Slowly, grass began to grow. Then all kind of creatures in Australia - birds, lizards, snakes, kangaroos, koalas, and dingoes - woke up and took their places on the earth.


</doc>
<doc id="226113" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226113" title="List of rivers of the Americas">
List of rivers of the Americas

The following is a list of rivers of the Americas, and includes all the major rivers of the Americas:





</doc>
<doc id="226116" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226116" title="Ganges">
Ganges

The Ganges (English pronunciation: /ˈɡændʒiːz/ GAN-jeez; Sanskrit: गङ्गा Hindi: गंगा Urdu: گنگا Ganga IPA: [ˈɡəŋɡaː] ( listen); Bengali: গঙ্গা Gônga), is the second largest river on the Indian subcontinent by discharge. Ganges river is named after a Hindu goddess called Ganga. Geographists to Historians and Mythologists regard Ganges as the heart of Indian culture, tradition and living.

The government declared that the Ganges river between Allahabad and Haldia is National-Waterway No.1. The river has many industrial towns like Patliputra, Kannauj, Kara, Allahabad, Murshidabad, Baharampur and Kolkata on its banks. The Ganges Basin drains 1,000,000-square-kilometre (390,000 sq mi) and supports one of the world's highest densities of humans. The average depth of the river is 52 feet (16 m), and the maximum depth, 100 feet (30 m).

The river starts from a glacier called Gangotri Glacier, which is in the Garhwal region in Himalayas. The Ganges flows through north India, and ends at the Bay of Bengal in eastern India. Overall it flows 3,877 km making it one of the longest rivers in the world. Its watershed is 907,000 km² broad. The major rivers which flow into the Ganges are Brahmaputra River, Gomti, Kosi river, Gandak, Ghaghra river, Yamuna river and Son river.

The Ganges flows only 200 km through the Himalayas. The river touches plain land in the Rishikesh region near Haridwar in Uttarakhand. Then it passes through the the towns of Kanpur, Soron, Kannauj, Allahabad, Varanasi, Patna, Ghazipur, Bhagalpur, Mirzapur, Ballia, Buxar, Saidpur, and Chunar. At Allahabad, the river joins with Yamuna river.
At Pakur, the river divides itself into two distributaries, viz.- the Bhāgirathi-Hooghly and the main stream. Bhāgirathi-Hooghly in the later course forms the Hooghly River. The main stream Ganges enters Bangladesh.
Near the border with Bangladesh the Farakka Barrage controls the flow of the Ganges by diverting some of the water into a feeder canal which has link with the Hooghly river to keep it relatively silt-free.

There is a lot of pollution in the Ganges because everyone releases their waste into the Ganges. This causes a lot of sicknesses like cholera, hepatitis, typhoid and amoebic dysentery. The presence of coliform bacteria in the waters has increased well above normal. This is a major cause of water pollution. These diseases cause about a third of the deaths in India every year. That is why the government has started a multi-crore project called the Ganga Action Plan (GAP).

During the early Vedic Age, the Indus and the Sarasvati River were the major rivers of the Indian subcontinent, not the Ganges. But the later three Vedas seem to give much more importance to the Ganges, as shown by its numerous references.
Possibly the first European Traveler to mention the Ganges was Megasthenes (ca. 350 – 290 BCE). In Rome's Piazza Navona, "Fontana dei Quattro Fiumi" (fountain of the four rivers) was designed by Gian Lorenzo Bernini and built in 1651. Th art-work symbolizes four of the world's great rivers (the Ganges, the Nile, the Danube, and the Río de la Plata), which is to represent the four continents (Australia and Antarctica were unknown then).

Hindus regard the Ganges as not only a river but also a mother, a goddess, a tradition, a culture and much more. In Hinduism it is considered holy to take a pilgrimage to the Ganges and take a dip. This leads to more illness, adding to the death toll. Many Hindus believe that bathing in the Ganga can purify a person's soul of all past sins, some believe that it can also cure the illness. So, many Hindu families keep Ganga water in their homes as they consider it to be very pure. The holy towns like Haridwar, Allahabad, Kanpur and Varanasi attract thousands of pilgrims. Thousands of Hindu pilgrims arrive at these towns to bathe in the Ganges.
According to Hindu Puranas a king named Bhagiratha did Tapasya for many years to bring the River Ganges. Ganges was then residing in the Heavens. By the help of pure Ganga waters, Bhagirath wanted to release his ancestors of a curse. Therefore, the Ganges descended to the Earth to make the earth pious, fertile and wash out the sins of humans.

The water of the Ganges is used extensively in agriculture in the fertile Gangetic plains. Chief crops cultivated in the area include rice, sugarcane, lentils, oil seeds, potatoes, and wheat. 
Along the banks of the river, the swamps and lakes provide a good growing area for crops such as legumes, chillies, mustard, sesame, sugarcane, and jute. Fishing is also done in the Ganga waters.
Industries which require a large amount of water are set up on the banks of the river. The Ganges is popular for river rafting, which attract many adventurers in the summer months. Tourism is also a related acivity. In the modern times many resorts are made near the river.



</doc>
<doc id="226121" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226121" title="Category:Rivers of the Czech Republic">
Category:Rivers of the Czech Republic


</doc>
<doc id="226122" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226122" title="Category:Rivers of Belarus">
Category:Rivers of Belarus


</doc>
<doc id="226123" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226123" title="Category:Rivers of Brazil">
Category:Rivers of Brazil


</doc>
<doc id="226124" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226124" title="Category:Rivers of Peru">
Category:Rivers of Peru


</doc>
<doc id="226125" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226125" title="Category:Rivers of Colombia">
Category:Rivers of Colombia


</doc>
<doc id="226126" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226126" title="Category:Rivers of Ecuador">
Category:Rivers of Ecuador


</doc>
<doc id="226127" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226127" title="Category:Rivers of Venezuela">
Category:Rivers of Venezuela


</doc>
<doc id="226129" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226129" title="Category:Rivers of Uruguay">
Category:Rivers of Uruguay


</doc>
<doc id="226130" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226130" title="Category:Rivers of Argentina">
Category:Rivers of Argentina


</doc>
<doc id="226132" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226132" title="Category:Rivers of the Netherlands">
Category:Rivers of the Netherlands


</doc>
<doc id="226133" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226133" title="Category:Rivers of Egypt">
Category:Rivers of Egypt


</doc>
<doc id="226134" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226134" title="Category:Rivers of Austria">
Category:Rivers of Austria


</doc>
<doc id="226135" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226135" title="Category:Rivers of Switzerland">
Category:Rivers of Switzerland


</doc>
<doc id="226136" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226136" title="Category:Rivers of Italy">
Category:Rivers of Italy


</doc>
<doc id="226137" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226137" title="Category:Rivers of Croatia">
Category:Rivers of Croatia


</doc>
<doc id="226138" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226138" title="Category:Rivers of Bulgaria">
Category:Rivers of Bulgaria


</doc>
<doc id="226139" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226139" title="Category:Rivers of Moldova">
Category:Rivers of Moldova


</doc>
<doc id="226141" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226141" title="Category:Rivers of Canada">
Category:Rivers of Canada


</doc>
<doc id="226142" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226142" title="Category:Rivers of the United States">
Category:Rivers of the United States


</doc>
<doc id="226146" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226146" title="Category:Lists of rivers of the United States">
Category:Lists of rivers of the United States


</doc>
<doc id="226147" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226147" title="Category:Rivers of Alaska">
Category:Rivers of Alaska


</doc>
<doc id="226148" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226148" title="Category:Rivers of Alabama">
Category:Rivers of Alabama


</doc>
<doc id="226149" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226149" title="Category:Rivers of Kentucky">
Category:Rivers of Kentucky


</doc>
<doc id="226150" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226150" title="Category:Rivers of Illinois">
Category:Rivers of Illinois


</doc>
<doc id="226151" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226151" title="Category:Rivers of Indiana">
Category:Rivers of Indiana


</doc>
<doc id="226152" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226152" title="Category:Rivers of Missouri">
Category:Rivers of Missouri


</doc>
<doc id="226153" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226153" title="Category:Rivers of Montana">
Category:Rivers of Montana


</doc>
<doc id="226154" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226154" title="Category:Rivers of Wyoming">
Category:Rivers of Wyoming


</doc>
<doc id="226155" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226155" title="Category:Rivers of Oregon">
Category:Rivers of Oregon


</doc>
<doc id="226156" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226156" title="Template:RC">
Template:RC

<includeonly>
</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="226157" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226157" title="Category:Rivers of Idaho">
Category:Rivers of Idaho


</doc>
<doc id="226158" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226158" title="Category:Rivers of New Jersey">
Category:Rivers of New Jersey


</doc>
<doc id="226159" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226159" title="Category:Rivers of New York">
Category:Rivers of New York


</doc>
<doc id="226160" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226160" title="Category:Rivers of Delaware">
Category:Rivers of Delaware


</doc>
<doc id="226161" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226161" title="Category:Rivers of Pennsylvania">
Category:Rivers of Pennsylvania


</doc>
<doc id="226162" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226162" title="Category:Rivers of Ohio">
Category:Rivers of Ohio


</doc>
<doc id="226163" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226163" title="Category:Rivers of West Virginia">
Category:Rivers of West Virginia


</doc>
<doc id="226164" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226164" title="Category:Geography of West Virginia">
Category:Geography of West Virginia


</doc>
<doc id="226165" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226165" title="Category:Rivers of Washington, D.C.">
Category:Rivers of Washington, D.C.


</doc>
<doc id="226166" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226166" title="Category:Rivers of Maryland">
Category:Rivers of Maryland


</doc>
<doc id="226167" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226167" title="Category:Geography of Maryland">
Category:Geography of Maryland


</doc>
<doc id="226168" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226168" title="Category:Rivers of Virginia">
Category:Rivers of Virginia


</doc>
<doc id="226169" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226169" title="Category:Geography of Virginia">
Category:Geography of Virginia


</doc>
<doc id="226170" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226170" title="Category:Rivers of Wisconsin">
Category:Rivers of Wisconsin


</doc>
<doc id="226171" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226171" title="Category:Rivers of Minnesota">
Category:Rivers of Minnesota


</doc>
<doc id="226172" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226172" title="Category:Geography of Minnesota">
Category:Geography of Minnesota


</doc>
<doc id="226173" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226173" title="Category:Rivers of Iowa">
Category:Rivers of Iowa


</doc>
<doc id="226174" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226174" title="Category:Rivers of Arkansas">
Category:Rivers of Arkansas


</doc>
<doc id="226175" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226175" title="Category:Rivers of Colorado">
Category:Rivers of Colorado


</doc>
<doc id="226176" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226176" title="Category:Rivers of Mexico">
Category:Rivers of Mexico


</doc>
<doc id="226177" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226177" title="Category:Rivers of Arizona">
Category:Rivers of Arizona


</doc>
<doc id="226178" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226178" title="Category:Rivers of Utah">
Category:Rivers of Utah


</doc>
<doc id="226179" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226179" title="Category:Rivers of Nevada">
Category:Rivers of Nevada


</doc>
<doc id="226180" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226180" title="Category:Rivers of California">
Category:Rivers of California


</doc>
<doc id="226181" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226181" title="Category:Rivers of Oklahoma">
Category:Rivers of Oklahoma


</doc>
<doc id="226182" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226182" title="Category:Rivers of Kansas">
Category:Rivers of Kansas


</doc>
<doc id="226183" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226183" title="Category:Rivers of Nebraska">
Category:Rivers of Nebraska


</doc>
<doc id="226184" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226184" title="Category:Rivers of South Dakota">
Category:Rivers of South Dakota


</doc>
<doc id="226185" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226185" title="Category:Rivers of North Dakota">
Category:Rivers of North Dakota


</doc>
<doc id="226186" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226186" title="Category:Rivers of Louisiana">
Category:Rivers of Louisiana


</doc>
<doc id="226187" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226187" title="Category:Rivers of Mississippi">
Category:Rivers of Mississippi


</doc>
<doc id="226188" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226188" title="Category:Rivers of Tennessee">
Category:Rivers of Tennessee


</doc>
<doc id="226189" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226189" title="Category:Rivers of Hawaii">
Category:Rivers of Hawaii


</doc>
<doc id="226190" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226190" title="Category:Rivers of Florida">
Category:Rivers of Florida


</doc>
<doc id="226191" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226191" title="Category:Rivers of Vermont">
Category:Rivers of Vermont


</doc>
<doc id="226192" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226192" title="Category:Rivers of New Hampshire">
Category:Rivers of New Hampshire


</doc>
<doc id="226193" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226193" title="Category:Rivers of Connecticut">
Category:Rivers of Connecticut


</doc>
<doc id="226194" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226194" title="Category:Rivers of Massachusetts">
Category:Rivers of Massachusetts


</doc>
<doc id="226195" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226195" title="Category:Rivers of Maine">
Category:Rivers of Maine


</doc>
<doc id="226196" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226196" title="List of rivers of Connecticut">
List of rivers of Connecticut

This is the List of rivers in Connecticut (U.S. state), sorted by drainage basin.

All of Connecticut's rivers flow into Long Island Sound. From there, the waters mix into the Atlantic Ocean.



</doc>
<doc id="226202" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226202" title="Zakynthos">
Zakynthos

Zakynthos (or "Zante") is a Greek island. It is the third largest island in the Ionian Sea. It is found in the south Ionian sea, west of Peloponnese. Its area is 410 square meter and its population is 41,472 inhabitants. The most largest town of Zakynthos is Zakynthos city. Zakynthos is mostly flat island. It hasn't got high mountains. Low mountains and hills there are in the north part of island.

Zakynthos is very touristic island. The most tourists which visit the island, are came by west Europe, mainly Italy and England. The most touristic part of island is the south part. The island has got many beautiful beaches. The most famous beaches is the Nauagio (shipwreck) and the beach of Laganas. In Zakynthos lives and reproducts the Mediterranean turtle, it known as careta careta. This species is very rare and it is a threatened species.


</doc>
<doc id="226217" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226217" title="Paros">
Paros

Paros is a Greek island which belongs in Cyclades group. It is the third largest island in the Cyclades. Its area is 195 square meter and its population is 12,853. The island has got a scheme almost circular. The most largest towns in Paros is Paroikia (or Paros city) and Naoussa. 

The island is very touristic. Every summer many thousands tourists came to Paros. The most of them came from European countries. The island has got beautiful beaches and very beautiful villages. The main feature of the villages of Paros is its important architecture. The houses of the villages has got cubic scheme with intense white colour. The windows and the doors has got an intense colour, usually azure or blue.



</doc>
<doc id="226219" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226219" title="Shawnee Park">
Shawnee Park

Shawnee Park is a park in Louisville, Kentucky. It was created by Frederick Law Olmsted, who made 18 of the city's 123 public parks. Along with the rest of the city's Olmsted-designed park system, Shawnee Park was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1982.

Shawnee Park was first planned in 1890 to be one of the free flagship parks in Louisville's new park system. All three were found on the geographic edges of the city. In Shawnee's case, it was the western edge bordering the Ohio River. The land at the time was still mostly used for truck farms, but it was clear residential development was imminent even without the park. Shawnee was the slowest of the parks to create, as much of the land was already owned by investors who thought they could increase the sale price by holding out.

The city had to force owners to sell the properties to obtain the land for the park, and won the case in 1895. In 1896, the city started to create access to the park, another area in which Shawnee was behind the other two parks. River Park Drive was laid out in 1899, but the Broadway entrance remained unfinished until 1914.

The Olmsted firm advised the city not to build a golf course at Shawnee Park due to the "grave danger to visitors in the park and especially the children" but demand was such that the course was built anyway in 1927.

All three parks had the intended effect of spurring residential development near them. The interest was so great that developers found themselves promoting the parks rather than their own developments, as the highest prices would exist for the park perceived to be best. Dozens of subdivisions were built near Shawnee Park, and the neighborhood itself came to be called Shawnee.

Shawnee Park allowed access only to whites from 1924 to 1954, although park officials and police had a de facto policy of not allowing blacks access to the park for some years prior to that. The only park blacks were allowed access to was nearby Chickasaw Park, which many people entered by traveling through Shawnee.

Although now overshadowed by the Louisville Waterfront Park, Shawnee boasts an expansive Great Lawn which is very useful for formal gatherings. The Great Lawn, the principal feature of the park, is enclosed by plantings and a circular drive that is lined with trees.

Louisville's Riverwalk Trail, which passes through Shawnee Park, extends across Louisville's waterfront, which is an extensive, mostly flat pedestrian pathway. The one-way distance between the Belvedere and Shawnee Park is 6.2 miles.




</doc>
<doc id="226220" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226220" title="Iraklis Thessaloniki F.C.">
Iraklis Thessaloniki F.C.

Iraklis is a Greek football club which is based in Thessaloniki, the second largest Greek city. It is founded in 1908 and it is the most oldest club of Thessaloniki. Iraklis is the third most successful club of Thessaloniki after PAOK and Aris. It has won a Greek cup in 1976. He always plays in the highest professional football league of Greece unless one year. The name of club is the name of ancient Greek hero Hercules, which in Greek is said Iraklis. Its colour is the blue and white.



</doc>
<doc id="226221" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226221" title="Active Worlds">
Active Worlds

Active Worlds (AW) is a 3D virtual reality platform. The "Active Worlds Browser" runs on Windows. Users assign themselves a user name, log into the Active Worlds virtual world universe, and explore 3D virtual worlds and environments that other users have created. Users can chat with one another or build structures and areas from a selection of objects. AW allows users to own worlds and universes, and develop 3D content.



</doc>
<doc id="226225" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226225" title="Jim Clark">
Jim Clark

Jim (or Jimmy) Clark OBE (4 March 1936 – 7 April 1968) was a British Formula One racing driver from Scotland.

He was the dominant driver of his era, winning two World Championships, in 1963 and 1965. At the time of his death, he had won more Grand Prix races (25) and achieved more Grand Prix pole positions (33) than any other driver. He also competed in the Indianapolis 500 five times, and won it once, in 1965.

The Times recently placed Clark at the top of a list of the greatest Formula One drivers.


</doc>
<doc id="226227" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226227" title="Emerson Fittipaldi">
Emerson Fittipaldi

Emerson Fittipaldi (born December 12, 1946 in São Paulo, Brazil) is a highly successful Brazilian automobile racing driver, winning championships in both Formula One and CART, and the Indianapolis 500 twice.


</doc>
<doc id="226228" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226228" title="Niki Lauda">
Niki Lauda

Andreas Nikolaus "Niki" Lauda (born February 22, 1949 in Vienna) is an Austrian aviator, entrepreneur, former Formula One (F1) racing driver and three-time F1 World Champion. He has founded and run two airlines and was manager of the Jaguar Formula One racing team for two years.


</doc>
<doc id="226230" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226230" title="Antonio Ascari">
Antonio Ascari

Antonio Ascari (September 15, 1888 – July 26, 1925) was an Italian Grand Prix motor racing champion.


</doc>
<doc id="226231" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226231" title="Louis Chiron">
Louis Chiron

Louis Alexandre Chiron (born 3 August 1899 in Monte Carlo, Monaco – died there on 22 June 1979) was a Grand Prix driver.


</doc>
<doc id="226236" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226236" title="Ghirlandaio">
Ghirlandaio

Ghirlandaio is the surname of a family of the Renaissance Italian painters:


</doc>
<doc id="226237" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226237" title="Pietro Perugino">
Pietro Perugino

Pietro Perugino (1446–1524) was a leading Italian painter of the Umbrian school. He developed some of the qualities that found classic expression in the High Renaissance. He was born as "Pietro Vannucci" in Città della Pieve.



</doc>
<doc id="226241" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226241" title="Mike Hawthorn">
Mike Hawthorn

John Michael Hawthorn (10 April 1929 - 22 January 1959) was a racing driver, born in Mexborough, Yorkshire, England, and educated at Ardingly College, West Sussex.


</doc>
<doc id="226260" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226260" title="White-tailed Starfrontlet">
White-tailed Starfrontlet

The White-Tailed Starfrontlet ("Coeligena phalerata") is a species of hummingbird. It is found only in Colombia. Its habitat is subtropical or tropical moist montane forests.



</doc>
<doc id="226262" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226262" title="Venezuelan Sylph">
Venezuelan Sylph

The Venezuelan Sylph ("Aglaiocercus berlepschi") is a species of hummingbird. It is restricted to a small area of north-eastern Venezuela and is classed as an endangered species by BirdLife International. It is sometimes thought to be a subspecies of the Long-tailed Sylph (A. kingi).

The male is 22 centimeters in length with the elongated outer tail-feathers accounting for 14-15 centimeters. Its color is mostly green. The throat is blue and the outer tail-feathers are violet, becoming blue towards the tips. The female is 9.5-11 centimeters long. The tail is shorter than that of the male but still fairly long and slightly forked. Females have a blue crown and white throat, breast and belly.

The Long-tailed Sylph is almost the same in color but does not overlap in range. Males of the subspecies "caudatus" have a mostly blue tail and no blue throat patch, while males of the subspecies "margarethae" have green tips to the tail-feathers. Females have a rufous breast and belly.




</doc>
<doc id="226267" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226267" title="Thankful (Kelly Clarkson album)">
Thankful (Kelly Clarkson album)

Thankful is the first album by American singer Kelly Clarkson, released in the United States by RCA Records on April 15, 2003. "A Moment Like This" was the first single from the album to be released, followed by "Miss Independent", "Low", and "The Trouble with Love Is".

"Thankful" contained two cover tracks, "(You Make Me Feel Like) A Natural Woman" by Aretha Franklin and "Just Missed the Train" by Danielle Brisebois. "Thankful" has sold 2.73 million copies in the United States and was certified platinum in Canada for selling over 100,000 copies.


</doc>
<doc id="226297" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226297" title="Serdar Tasci">
Serdar Tasci

Serdar Taşçı (born 24 April 1987) is a German footballer. 

Serdar Taşçı played for SC Altbach and the Stuttgarter Kickers until he came to the youth teams of VfB Stuttgart in 1999. In 2005 he played his first matches for the second senoir team, and on 20 August 2006 he had his first Bundesliga match. He won the German Championship with Stuttgart in the 2006-07 Bundesliga season. 

As a child of a Turkish family, he had also the chance to play for the Turkish national football team, but went to the German team instead. On 20 August 2008 he played his first international match against Belgium. 

!Total||12||0



</doc>
<doc id="226300" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226300" title="Christian Träsch">
Christian Träsch

Christian Träsch (born 1 September 1987 in Ingolstadt, Bavaria) is a German footballer.

Träsch came to the youth teams of TSV 1860 Munich in 2003. He played for their second senior team in the Regionalliga in 2006 and 2007. In 2007 he came to the second team of VfB Stuttgart, and on 3 February 2008 he played his first match in Stuttgart's Bundesliga team. 

Träsch joined the German national football team for a trip to Asia in 2009 and played his first international match against the United Arab Emirates on 2 June 2009.



</doc>
<doc id="226304" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226304" title="Christian Gentner">
Christian Gentner

Christian Gentner (born 14 August 1985 in Nürtingen, Baden-Württemberg) is a German footballer.

Gentner won the German Under-19 Championship with VfB Stuttgart in 2003. For the 2004-05 season he came to Stuttgart's second senior team. On 20 February 2005 he played his first Bundesliga match for Stuttgart. In the 2006-07 Bundesliga season they won the German Championship.

In summer 2007 he came to VfL Wolfsburg where he won his second German Championship in 2009. He came back to Stuttgart after the 2009-10 season. 

In 2009 Gentner joined the Germany national football team for a trip to Asia and played his first international match against China PR national team on 29 May 2009.



</doc>
<doc id="226319" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226319" title="Category:Sockpuppets of Bigidozen">
Category:Sockpuppets of Bigidozen

This is list of suspected and confirmed sockpuppets of 


</doc>
<doc id="226329" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226329" title="Poacher">
Poacher

Poachers catch Indian tigers with steel traps. This is against the law. After trapping a tiger, they kill it and sell the body parts for money. Like the rhino, the tiger is a very endangered species. If the killing does not end, they both face extinction (all of that type of animal dies). Extinction means that someday there may be no Indian tigers or rhinos left on earth.


</doc>
<doc id="226335" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226335" title="Vector subspace">
Vector subspace

A vector subspace is a subset of a vector space that also is a vector space. This means that all the properties of the vector space are satisfied.
Let W be a non empty subset of a vector space V, then, W is a vector subspace if and only if the next 3 conditions are satisfied:
1. The element 0 is an element of W.
2. If x and y are elements of W, then x+y are also in W.
3. If c is an element of a field K and x is in W, then cx is on W.


</doc>
<doc id="226339" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226339" title="Apocalypse">
Apocalypse

An Apocalypse is when someone finds out about something that has been hidden from most people. It comes from the Greek word, "Apokálypsis", which means lifting of the veil, or finding out something secret. Often this secret is discovered in a dream or a vision.

Today the word is used to describe Armageddon or the end of the world. This might have come from the words, "apokalupsis eschaton", meaning all the secrets will be discovered "at the end of the æon, or age". In Christianity "The Apocalypse of John" is the Book of Revelation, the last book of the Bible. It describes the end of the world, and the return of Jesus Christ.


</doc>
<doc id="226341" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226341" title="Peter Gabriel">
Peter Gabriel

Peter Brian Gabriel (born 13 February 1950) is an English musician and songwriter. He became famous as the lead vocalist and flute player in the progressive rock group Genesis. After leaving Genesis, Gabriel went on to a successful solo career. More recently he has spent his time on producing and promoting world music and pioneering digital distribution methods for music. He has also been involved in various humanitarian efforts. Gabriel was awarded the Polar Music Prize in 2009.


</doc>
<doc id="226363" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226363" title="Mykonos">
Mykonos

Mykonos is a very touristic Greek island. It belongs to Cyclades, located in the north of Cyclades, near Syros and Tinos islands. The area of the island is 85 square meter and its population is 9,320 inhabitants. Most of them are occupied in the tourist industry. The island is famous mainly for its nightlife. Also, the island has got many beautiful beaches, with yellow sand. Along the beaches there are bars and cafes, so the entertainment continues during day. The island has got two main settlements. Chora, the capital of the island, is located in the west and Ano Mera, the second settlement is located in the center. 

Mykonos' houses have got the distinguished Cycladic architecture. The houses have got a cubic scheme, with wooden windows, and doors, painted usually with intense colours. The alleys are painted with lime, so they have got an bright white colour. Mykonos is very close to the islet Delos. Delos was very important in antiquity. It was the center of Delian League, the leaders of which were ancient Athenians. In Delos there was an important sanctuary for Apollon, one of twelve Greek gods. Delos today is a very important archaeological site and the visitors go there from Mykonos. Mykonos has got many old traditional windmills, which are found everywhere in the island



</doc>
<doc id="226366" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226366" title="Edward Jenner">
Edward Jenner

Edward Anthony Jenner (17 May 1749 – 26 January 1823) was an English scientist known for creating the vaccine for smallpox.


</doc>
<doc id="226369" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226369" title="Category:1823 deaths">
Category:1823 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="226371" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226371" title="Mansfield Park (novel)">
Mansfield Park (novel)

Mansfield Park is a novel written by Jane Austen. It was published in 1814, and was the third novel written by Jane Austen.

"Mansfield Park" is about a poor young girl named Fanny Price. When she was born, Fanny Price's parents did not have the money to take care of her. They sent her to Mansfield Park, the house of her aunt and uncle, Sir Thomas and Lady Bertram. At Mansfield Park, Fanny grows up with her cousins Tom, Maria, Julia and Edmund Bertram. Only Edmund is kind to her. As they grow up, Edmund's kindness to Fanny makes her fall in love with him.

However, when Fanny's uncle goes away for business, Mary Crawford and her brother Henry come to the neighborhood. Henry with the Misses Bertram, making them fall in love with him, even though Maria is already engaged to a Mr. Rushworth. Mary and Edmund fall in love with each other, much to Fanny's surprise and sadness, but Mary wants Edmund to become rich and not be a clergyman. They put on a play called "Lovers Vows" that Fanny does not think Sir Thomas would like, so she does not join in. Just as they are trying to make her act, Sir Thomas comes home.

Henry Crawford goes away, and Maria, angry and proud, quickly marries Mr. Rushworth, even though she does not love him. Henry Crawford falls really in love with Fanny, and proposes to her, but she says no. Mary Crawford is still hesitating, and Fanny goes away to visit her parents, and is unhappy to see how coarse and vulgar they are.

While she is there, she finds out in a newspaper that Maria has run away with Henry Crawford. Fanny is very shocked and unhappy. Edmund comes to take her back to Mansfield. He tells Fanny that he was shocked that Mary Crawford only thought she and Henry were silly for being found out, and that the act of adultery was not bad. He falls in love with Fanny, and they marry.



</doc>
<doc id="226382" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226382" title="Wikipedia:Requests for adminship/HENRYMCS">
Wikipedia:Requests for adminship/HENRYMCS


</doc>
<doc id="226387" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226387" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Frenzoo">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Frenzoo


</doc>
<doc id="226431" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226431" title="Aristarchus (crater)">
Aristarchus (crater)

Aristarchus is a large impact crater on the Moon's surface. It is 40 kilometers large in diameter and can be seen with the naked eye from Earth. The crater was named after the Greek astronomer Aristarchus of Samos.


</doc>
<doc id="226433" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226433" title="Template:GWAblock">
Template:GWAblock

<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="226442" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226442" title="Category:Wikipedia protected pages without expiry">
Category:Wikipedia protected pages without expiry


</doc>
<doc id="226443" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226443" title="Barossa Valley">
Barossa Valley

The Barossa Valley is in South Australia. It is found about north-east of Adelaide, the capital city of South Australia. The Barossa Valley is famous for making wine and because of this it often has many tourists. The three main towns in the region are Nuriootpa, Tanunda and Angaston.

The Barossa Valley was named in 1837 by a surveyor called Colonel William Light. It was meant to be named Barrosa, named after the town in Spain, but a mistake was made and it ended up being spelt Barossa.

The first place to be settled was Bethany in 1842 by people from both England and Germany. Most of the people to first arrive were from Germany and because of this the Barossa Valley has lots of German heritage. Soon after Bethany was established other towns were made. the next group of town to be created were: Angaston, Krondorf, Ebenezer, Penrice, Light Pass and Langmeil.

The year after the first town was made, churches stared being built. These were all Christian churches and most were Lutheran. The Christian lifestyle is still around the Barossa Valley today with lots of churches still around, although many are not Lutheran.

There are about 20 000 people who live in the Barossa Valley. Most of these people live in Tanunda, Nuriootpa, Angaston, Williamstown and Lyndoch, each having more than 1000 people. A few smaller towns such as Moculta and Springton are in the Barossa Valley too and all the town are a part of the Barossa Local Government which is more commonly called the Barossa Council.

Most people in the area still call themselves Lutherans. This has caused many towns to have two or more Lutheran churches. For example Tanunda has four, Nuriootpa has two and Angaston has two. Each town with more than 1000 people, not including Williamstown, has a Lutheran Primary School and Tanunda has a Lutheran Secondary School.

The number of people in all of the biggest towns is listed below.

The Barossa Valley is called "‘Australia's most famous wine region’" by lots of people. There are about 150 wineries in the Barossa Valley. Some of the wineries are very famous both in Australia and overseas. The famous wineries include: Wolf Blass, Penfolds, Yalumba and Peter Lehmann Wines. The two secondary schools in the area both have wineries. Nuriootpa High School owns a winery called Barossa Class Wines (more commonly know as Nurrihannam Wines) and Faith Lutheran School owns a winery called Mengler View Wines.

Every two years a festival is held in the Barossa Valley to celebrate the vintage. Vintage is the time between grapes been picked and then turned into wine. The vintage festival lasts for 9 days and on each day many events take place.

The most popular of all the events is the parade. This is where different companies and groups gather a few volunteers who parade from the main street in Nuriootpa through to the main street in Tanunda. Many groups choose to give out free gifts, such as lollies and stickers.



</doc>
<doc id="226447" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226447" title="Jeffrey Dahmer">
Jeffrey Dahmer

Jeffrey Lionel Dahmer (May 21, 1960 – November 28, 1994) was an American serial killer. He murderered young men and boys in Wisconsin and Ohio from 1978-1991. In 1992, he was convicted of 15 murders. He was beaten to death in prison by inmate Christopher Scarver. 


</doc>
<doc id="226451" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226451" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/List of chess Grandmasters">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/List of chess Grandmasters


</doc>
<doc id="226452" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226452" title="Art history">
Art history

Art history is the study of art. An art historian is a person who studies the history of art, and then writes about it or teaches about it so that other people can learn about this subject as well. 

The first person to become an art historian was Giorgio Vasari. He lived in Florence during the Renaissance, at a time when there were many famous artists alive. Vasari was an artist himself. He decided to write down all the stories that were told in Florence about the many different artists who had made the city famous. He included biographies of several other artists from Northern Italy as well. When all the information was collected and the biographies written, he published them in 1568 in a book called "Lives of the Artists". Because of this book, art students today have a lot of information about artists such as Leonardo, Michelangelo, Titian and their works. 


</doc>
<doc id="226455" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226455" title="Dugong">
Dugong

The dugong, "Dugong dugon," is a large mammal that lives its whole life in the sea. 

They are sometimes called "sea cows" as they eat large amounts of sea grass. They live in warm, shallow areas where the sea grass grows. This area includes the north coast of Australia, and in other countries in the Indian Ocean and the Pacific Ocean. 

Dugongs are more closely related to elephants than to other sea creatures. Their closest aquatic relative is the manatee, a fresh water species found in America and West Africa.

The dugong can grow to about long and weigh as much as . They only come to the surface to breathe, and unlike seals, they never come up on the land. A baby dugong is called a calf. It drinks milk from its mother until about two years old. A dugong reaches its adult size between the ages of 9 and 17 years. The dugong can live for up to 70 years of age. They are grey to brown in color. They have a tail with flukes, like a whale, and flippers. They do not have a dorsal fin like a shark. They have a wide flat nose, small eyes, and small ears.

The dugong is a migratory animal, but very slow moving. Studies by James Cook University showed that while many dugongs traveled less than , some went as far as . Scientists believe that dugongs move long distances for several reasons. They may be looking for food, as cyclones or floods can affect the seagrass. Males may be following females, or looking for their own territory. If the water gets cold, less than 17 degrees Centigrade, they will travel to warmer areas. 

Because of their size, the only other species to attack dugongs are sharks, the Saltwater Crocodile and killer whales.


</doc>
<doc id="226456" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226456" title="British Library">
British Library

The British Library (BL) is the national library of the United Kingdom. It is on the north side of Euston Road in St Pancras, London, between Euston railway station and St Pancras railway station. The Library is a public institution and is one of the world's largest research libraries. Since 2000 the Chief Executive of the British Library has been Lynne Brindley.
The British Library contains over 150 million items in every language that is known. It has around 25 million books, more than any other library except the American Library of Congress. It has manuscripts and historical items dating back as far as 300 BC. There are books, journals, newspapers, magazines, sound and music recordings, patents, databases, maps, stamps, prints, drawings and much more. 
The British Library, by the law of the United Kingdom, receives copies of every book that is published in the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland, including all foreign books that are sold in the UK. It also buys many books which are only published outside Britain and Ireland. The British Library adds about three million items to its collection every year. The British Library has about 388 miles (625 km) of shelves. 

The British Library, before it got its present name, started out as a group of collections made by several people in the 18th century and then given as part of a national library. The collectors were King George III, Sir Robert Cotton, Sir Hans Sloane, and Robert Harley. The national library was part of the British Museum and was kept at various places, with some of the most important items always being on public display in the museum. 

The British Library was created in 1973 by the "British Library Act 1972". Since 1997 the main collection has been housed in a single new building on Euston Road next to St. Pancras railway station. In the middle of the building is a four-storey glass tower containing the ‘’King's Library’’, with 65,000 printed volumes along with other pamphlets, manuscripts and maps collected by King George III between 1763 and 1820. 

Not all of the collection is kept in this new building. Part of the collection is at the Document Supply Centre in Yorkshire and all the newspapers from before 1800 are kept at the newspaper library at Colindale, north-west London.

In December 2009 a new storage building at Boston Spa was opened. It cost £26million and will house seven million items, stored in more than 140,000 bar-coded containers, which are retrieved by robots, from the 262 kilometres of temperature- and humidity-controlled storage space.



</doc>
<doc id="226475" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226475" title="Disk image">
Disk image

A disk image is a single computer file containing the complete contents of a device that contains data, such as a hard drive, tape drives, floppy disk, CD/DVD/BD/ and key drive. 

A disk image file (or simply a disk image) is an exact binary copy of an entire disk or drive. Disk image files contain ALL the data stored on the source drive including not only its files and folders but also its boot sectors, file allocation tables, volume attributes and any other system-specific data. Actually, a disk image is not a collection of files or folders but is an exact duplicate of the raw data of the original disk, sector by sector.


</doc>
<doc id="226476" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226476" title="R-Drive Image">
R-Drive Image

R-Drive Image is disk cloning computer program that can create copies of computer hard drives. This program is developed by R-Tools Technology Inc..

R-Drive Image uses its a closed file format, with the .arc extension (unrelated to the data compression format also with the .arc extension).




</doc>
<doc id="226481" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226481" title="Parnitha">
Parnitha

Parnitha is a mountain of Greece. It is located in the south of Greece, in Attica peninsula. This mountain is the highest mountain in Attica with an elevation 1,413 meters. The mountain is covered by dense vegetation. In the lower points is covered by Pine forests and in the higher points by Greek-fir forests. In the summer of 2007 a big part of forest was burnt because of a destructive wildfire. 


</doc>
<doc id="226483" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226483" title="Category:Mountains in Greece">
Category:Mountains in Greece


</doc>
<doc id="226485" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226485" title="John Dankworth">
John Dankworth

Sir John Dankworth, CBE (born Walthamstow, 20 September 1927; died London, 6 February 2010), , was an English jazz composer, saxophonist and clarinetist. He was widely thought of as Britain's most famous jazz musician. He had a very big influence in the development of jazz in Britain. He composed film music and several television theme tunes such as "The Avengers" and "Tomorrow's World". In his early career he was known as Johnny Dankworth He was the husband of jazz singer Cleo Laine. 

John Dankworth was born in Walthamstow. His father was a sales manager who worked for an electrical engineering firm. John soon found that he loved jazz. He played the clarinet in a jazz band when he was still at school.

In 1944 he went to study music at the Royal Academy of Music. He was playing the saxophone, too, but kept this a secret because jazz was not thought to be suitable for study at the RAM. 

When Dankworth did his National Service with the army, he often played in the army dance bands. He then got a job playing jazz on the Queen Mary which sailed regularly over the Atlantic Ocean to New York. In America he heard some of the greatest jazz players, especially Charlie Parker who played bebop.

Back in Britain Dankworth took many jobs to get experience playing in jazz bands. He was a member of a group called Club Eleven which played together for several years. He also formed a band called Johnny Dankworth Seven, who played bebop in the style of Miles Davis. They started to get well-known, and in 1951 were joined by a young singer called Cleo Laine.

In 1953 the band broke up and Dankworth formed his first big band. It had eight brass instruments, five saxophones, a rhythm section and vocalists. The group was redesigned in 1956 when he put in a group of soloists instead of the saxophones. They often played on the radio and brought in guest artists who were not necessarily jazz musicians, e.g. the clarinettist Jack Brymer and the violinist Kenneth Essex as well as the music comedian and cartoonist Gerard Hoffnung.

In 1960 he gave up playing in the band to spend more time on composition. He wrote some very successful film music, e.g. "The Servant", "Darling", "Modesty Blaise" and "Morgan, A Suitable Case for Treatment". He wrote the television theme for "The Avengers" and "Tomorrow’s World", as well as lots of music for television adverts. He composed a musical version of "Lysistrata" together with Benny Green for the Bath Festival.

In 1958 he married Cleo Laine. He wrote many songs for her and played the beautiful accompaniments, often on the clarinet.

In 1969 they built a concert hall called "The Stables" in their garden in Wavendon in Milton Keynes. It became an important centre for concerts, educational programmes and cultural events.

John and Cleo have two children: Alec who is a double bass player and Jacqui who is a singer. John formed a band which included Alec playing the double bass.

John Dankworth set up scholarships for young musicians and often worked with young people. He encouraged educational work at "The Stables". He continued to work hard until shortly before his death

John Dankworth died on 6 February 2010. His death was announced a few hours later by Cleo Laine who spoke to the audience at the end of a concert in "The Stables". She had told the performers before the concert began. She wanted the concert to be a celebration of his life. Alec and Jacqui were both performing in the show.

John Dankworth was made a CBE in 1974 and was given a knighthood in 2006.

•The Daily Telegraph, 8 February 2010 p.31: Sir John Dankworth – Obituary


</doc>
<doc id="226486" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226486" title="Category:Jazz composers">
Category:Jazz composers


</doc>
<doc id="226495" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226495" title="Child abandonment">
Child abandonment

Child abandonment is when a parent leaves their child. The child becomes an orphan and lives in an orphanage. They are raised there until they reach 18. This practice is allowed under the safe haven laws in the United States. 


</doc>
<doc id="226500" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226500" title="Helix">
Helix

A helix is a mathematical three-dimensional curve. It has a constant angle to a fixed line, which is called its axis. Helixes are often seen in nature and the sciences. 


</doc>
<doc id="226521" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226521" title="The Cartoon Cartoon Show">
The Cartoon Cartoon Show

The Cartoon Cartoon Show is the programming block that airs 15 Cartoon Cartoons on Cartoon Network. The block began airing in 2005 and has appeared on weekends at 8AM and 12PM ever since. The block also appears on weekdays at 2PM.


</doc>
<doc id="226543" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226543" title="Parazoa">
Parazoa

The Parazoa are an ancestral subkingdom of animals, literally translated as "beside the animals". Parazoans differ from their choanoflagellate ancestors in that they are macroscopic and have differentiated cells, but unlike "true animals" (Eumetazoa), they do not have tissues. The only surviving parazoans are the sponges, which belong to the phylum Porifera. Some include Placozoa, a phylum that consists of only one species, "Trichoplax adhaerens", in the division, but they are also sometimes placed in the subkingdom Agnotozoa.


</doc>
<doc id="226544" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226544" title="Theory of Everything">
Theory of Everything

The theory of everything is for now unknown and is one of numerous theories unknown today. The basic concept of the theory of everything is that one theory could explain every aspect of physics. The four basic forces of nature are gravity, the strong force, the weak force, and the electromagnetic force. The theory of general relativity explains gravity, and quantum mechanics explains the other three forces. Right now, no one theory that everyone accepts can explain all four forces. String theory is a theory that could become the "theory of everything".


</doc>
<doc id="226545" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226545" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Theory of Everything">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Theory of Everything


</doc>
<doc id="226555" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226555" title="Dichotomous key">
Dichotomous key

The dichotomous key is a key used to identify all the various and different animals in the animal kingdom. It is a branching key in which there are two or more choices in each branch. The last choice in the key will identify what the scientist is trying to determine. A dichotomous key can be used to identify animals. Dichotomous keys work best when they are divided into groups and then further divided into smaller groups. Some dichotomous keys are used to identify plants or animals by asking "yes" or "no" questions. They also rely on looking for clear differences. Questions are numbered and answered in order.


</doc>
<doc id="226562" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226562" title="Kiss (principle)">
Kiss (principle)

The Kiss principle is "keep it short and simple!" It is an acronym, with the letters KISS making the beginnings of the important words. It was first used by Kelly Johnson, lead engineer at the Lockheed Skunk Works (makers of the Lockheed U-2 and SR-71 Blackbird spy planes, among many others). Nowadays, it is often used to mean "Keep it simple, Stupid!"


</doc>
<doc id="226596" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226596" title="Linguistic reduction">
Linguistic reduction

Linguistic reductions in English are lost sounds in words. This happens in spoken English. For instance, "going to" changes to "gonna". 
The most widely known reductions are contractions. Most contractions are reductions of 'not'. For instance, "cannot" becomes "can't". Many contractions are reductions between a subject and a verb. For instance, "He is..." becomes "He's..."

Some reductions are well known to language learners; for instance the reduction of a verb and "to". Examples are "going to" becoming "gonna" and "want to" becoming "wanna". 

There are several basic categories of reductions:

Ellision is one or more sounds left out of a word. One example is "and". It frequently changes to "an" or sometimes even "n". Another example is the 'ba' sound in 'probably'. This leads to the pronunciation, 'probly'.

Word stress is a weaker stress on a word. The other words around it are stressed more by comparison. The weakly stressed word may be blended, linked or even deleted. 

Function words are words that signify grammatical relations. They are different from content words. Content words tend to carry more information. They are often stressed. Function words are often unstressed. They may be reduced, blended, linked or deleted.

These reductions are part of natural English. They cannot be considered slang, or improper. 


</doc>
<doc id="226603" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226603" title="Tokyo Metro">
Tokyo Metro

Tokyo Metro (東京メトロ,とうきょうめとろ) is one of two rapid transit systems making up the Tokyo subway system, the other being Toei. 


</doc>
<doc id="226608" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226608" title="Glomma">
Glomma

Glomma is the longest river in Norway. It is long and runs from Aursund to Fredrikstad.


</doc>
<doc id="226634" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226634" title="Random sampling">
Random sampling

Random sampling is a way of sampling data. In a random sample every element in the population has an equal chance of being selected. For instance, to do an election poll, calling people randomly out of the phone book would be better than asking people only at a labor union meeting or at a small business convention. A page of the phone book is a more random sample of voters than a union meeting, so the result is more likely to tell who will really be elected. But neither sample is really random because for one thing, some people do not have phones.


</doc>
<doc id="226637" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226637" title="Template:Infobox Christian denomination">
Template:Infobox Christian denomination


</doc>
<doc id="226638" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226638" title="Template:Infobox Christian denomination/doc">
Template:Infobox Christian denomination/doc

<includeonly></includeonly>
To use this template, simply copy and paste the following text into the article and fill in any of the parameters. Only "name" is required.
An explanation of what each parameter is. For more information, ask on the .

<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="226662" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226662" title="Urban contemporary">
Urban contemporary

Urban contemporary or urban music is a kind of music played on the radio. It comes from cities. The first person to use this word was the now dead New York DJ Frankie Crocker in the mid 1970s. Urban contemporary radio stations play only hip hop/rap, contemporary R&B, more urban-styled pop, and on occasion, Caribbean music such as reggae and reggaeton. Urban contemporary came from R&B and Soul. Almost all Urban contemporary type radio stations are found in cities that have lots of African-American people. Some cities that have Urban contemporary stations are; Los Angeles, California, New York City, Atlanta, Georgia, Chicago, Fayetteville, North Carolina, Charlotte, and Norfolk, Virginia, etc.

The words "urban contemporary" make people think of African American music, like R&B. For Latino people, the music is more like music from Latin neighborhoods, such as Reggaeton, Hip hop from South America, or bachata. 

These stations try to sell their music to African-Americans between the ages of 18 and 34. Their playlists are mainly singles by popular hip hop and R&B artists. Sometimes, an urban contemporary station will play classic soul music songs from the '70s and early '80s to make old people happy.

Some radio stations in cities, like KJLH, KMEL, KDAY, and WVEE, will play gospel and Christian R&B/hip-hop music on Sundays.


</doc>
<doc id="226691" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226691" title="Cleo Laine">
Cleo Laine

Dame Cleo Laine, Lady Dankworth, DBE (born 28 October 1927) is a jazz singer and an actress. She is famous for her scat singing and for being able to sing very high and very low notes.

She is the only female performer to have received Grammy nominations in the jazz, popular and classical music categories. Laine is the widow of jazz composer Sir John Dankworth.


</doc>
<doc id="226693" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226693" title="State Senator">
State Senator

A state senator is a member of a state's Senate, the upper house in the bicameral legislature of 49 U.S. states, or a legislator in Nebraska's one house State Legislature.

There are usually fewer state senators than there are members in a state's lower house. In the past, this meant that senators represented different regions within a state, not according to the population of the region. This was a way of balancing the power of the lower house, where the numbers for each state were related to the state's population. In 1963, the Supreme Court of the United States ruled that state legislatures must give seats in both houses depending on the population of the state.


</doc>
<doc id="226695" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226695" title="Bicameral">
Bicameral

A Bicameral system of government is one where there are two legislative or parliamentary chambers.

It comes from the Latin "bi" (meaning two) and "camera" (meaning chamber).

For legislation to be passed, bicameral legislatures normally need a majority of its members to vote for the legislation.



</doc>
<doc id="226696" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226696" title="Unicameral">
Unicameral

A Unicameral system of government is one where there is only one legislative or parliamentary chambers.

It comes from the Latin "uni" (meaning one) and "camera" (meaning chamber).

In the United States, only the state of Nebraska uses a unicameral system. All the other states use a bicameral system instead. 


</doc>
<doc id="226697" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226697" title="Nebraska Legislature">
Nebraska Legislature

The Nebraska Legislature is the highest legislative body of the State of Nebraska. It meets at the Nebraska State Capitol in the City of Lincoln in Lancaster County.

Nebraska's Legislature is unusual because it is unicameral. It is also the smallest state legislature in the United States of America, as it only has 49 members.


</doc>
<doc id="226698" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226698" title="Upper house">
Upper house

An upper house is one of two chambers of a bicameral legislature. The other chamber is called the lower house.



</doc>
<doc id="226699" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226699" title="Lower house">
Lower house

A lower house is one of two chambers of a bicameral legislature. The other chamber is called the upper house.

Although it is called the "lower" house, in many legislatures in the world it actually has more power than the "upper" house.



</doc>
<doc id="226703" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226703" title="William-Adolphe Bouguereau">
William-Adolphe Bouguereau

William-Adolphe Bouguereau was a French painter born November 30, 1825. Bouguereau was a traditionalist and his style did not change much throughout his painting career. He was a popular artist in his day. Rich customers liked his photo-realistic style. He liked to paint classical scenes and scenes from ancient mythology. 

As a boy Bouguereau was born into a family of wine and olive oil sellers. His parents wanted him to join the family business when he became an adult. His uncle, however, arranged for him to get a proper education at school. Bouguereau showed great talent for art. One of his father’s customers talked him into sending William to a famous art college. There he won first place for one of his paintings. To earn extra money he designed labels for fruit jellies and jams.

Bouguereau liked to paint pictures of women. He was known for being able to make his subject look prettier than she really was. 
In 1856, he married Marie-Nelly Monchablon and had five children. In the late 1850s he made a profitable friendship with a successful art dealer. This art dealer made William famous even in other countries. William was able to buy a big house and studio with his growing fortune.
He was a hard working painter. He would make a thorough study and sketch of what he planned to paint. The great way he painted skin, hands and feet was well known. He eventually became a teacher at a French art college. 
Near the end of his life he described his love of his art: “Each day I go to my studio full of joy; in the evening when obliged to stop because of darkness I can scarcely wait for the next morning to come…if I cannot give myself to my dear painting I am miserable”. He painted eight hundred and twenty-six paintings.

Bouguereau died at the age of 79 on August 19, 1905 from heart disease.


</doc>
<doc id="226721" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226721" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Speechless (Lady Gaga song)">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Speechless (Lady Gaga song)


</doc>
<doc id="226745" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226745" title="Carrot cake">
Carrot cake

Carrot cake is a sweet and moist spice cake, full of cut carrots and toasted nuts, and covered in cream cheese icing. One part of the cake is that the orange flakes of cut carrot give the cake color and texture, along with sweetness and moisture.

Carrot cake more closely is a quick bread in method of . All the wet ingredients, such as the eggs and sugar, are mixed together. Then, all the dry ingredients are mixed together, and the wet are then added to the dry. Many carrot cake recipes have ingredients, such as nuts, raisins, pineapple, or coconut.

Carrot cake may be eaten plain, but it is commonly either or covered with white icing or cream cheese icing and walnuts, often cut. Often they are decorated with frosting or marzipan made to look like carrots. They are popular in loaf, sheet cake and cupcake form, and (in the United Kingdom as well as North America) can be found pre-packaged at grocery stores, and fresh at bakeries. Some carrot cakes are even layered.




</doc>
<doc id="226785" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226785" title="Template:Bible Students">
Template:Bible Students


</doc>
<doc id="226786" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226786" title="Template:Jehovah's Witnesses">
Template:Jehovah's Witnesses


</doc>
<doc id="226788" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226788" title="Rann of Kachchh">
Rann of Kachchh

The Great Rann of Kutch also called Greater Rann of Kutch or just Rann of Kutch, is a seasonally marshy saline clay desert located in the Thar Desert biogeographic province of Sindh.


</doc>
<doc id="226789" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226789" title="Kachchh District">
Kachchh District

Kutch district (also spelled as Kutch or Kachchh) (Gujrati: કચ્છ જિલ્લો) is a formerly-independent district of Gujarat state in western Republic of India. Covering an area of 45,612 km², it is the largest district in the state of Gujarat and the second largest district of within India after Leh, in Indian-administered Kashmir.


</doc>
<doc id="226792" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226792" title="Atari 5200">
Atari 5200

The Atari 5200 SuperSystem, or simply the Atari 5200, was a video game console which came out in 1982. It was made by Atari Inc. and was supposed to replace the popular Atari 2600. Atari wanted the 5200 to compete with the Intellivision, but it competed more closely with the ColecoVision. 

The 5200 was based on Atari Inc.'s 400/800 computers. Even though the internal hardware was almost identical, the software was not. Design mistakes meant that the 5200 had problems with its use. These problems made it a poor seller.

The game's Atari 400-based design made for a design which Atari Inc. could quickly build and sell. 

While it was being designed, the Atari 5200 called the "Atari Video System X - Advanced Video Computer System." Atari protected the design with a codename, "Pam," after a female employee at Atari. A rumor said that "Pam" or "PAM" actually stood for "Personal Arcade Machine." This was because most games for the system were based on existing arcade games. Actual working "Atari Video System X" machines, whose hardware is 100% identical to the Atari 5200 do exist, but they are extremely rare. 

The first 1982 release had four controller ports, where nearly all other systems of the day had only two. The 5200 also featured a very special new controller with an analog joystick, numeric keypad, two fire buttons on both sides of the controller and game function keys for Start, Pause, and Reset. Another special thing was the first automatic TV switchbox. Older game systems which attached to a television's antenna leads required the user to slide a switch on the adapter by hand. This RF box was also where the game's power supply connected in a unique dual power/television signal setup similar to the RCA Studio II's. A single cable coming out of the 5200 plugged into the switch box and was used for both electricity and the television signal.

The 1983 version of the Atari 5200 has two controller ports instead of four. Atari changed back to the a simpler separate power supply and manual RF switch. It also had changes in the cartridge port to allow for the Atari 2600 adapter released that year. While the adapter was only made to work on the two-port version, modifications can be made to the four-port to make it compatible. In fact, towards the end of the four-port model's production run, there were a limited number of consoles produced which included these modifications. These consoles can be identified by an asterisk in their serial number.

The prototypes used to design the controller's electrical systems used a so-called "yoke and gimbal" taken from a radio control system used to fly model airplanes. This simple design gave very nice control and was highly reliable. The actual controllers sold with the game were quite different and a great disappointment to the development teams. The design of the analog joystick, which used a weak rubber boot rather than springs to center the stick, proved to be hard to use and unreliable. Another major flaw of the controllers was that the design did not provide smooth control through the travel of the stick. This made controlling games awkward. The controllers did, however, include a pause button. This was a novelty at the time, but would become standard on almost all future game systems. Replacement joysticks were also released by other manufacturers.

Atari Inc. released the Pro-Line Trak-Ball controller for the system, which was used for titles such as Centipede or Defender. A paddle controller and an updated self-centering version of the original controller were also being worked on, but never made it to market.

The controller was ranked the 10th worst video game controller by IGN editor Craig Harris.

Although the Atari 5200's insides were very much like that of the 400/800 home computers, the differences were enough so that games designed for one would not run directly on the other.

One of the most obvious differences was the 5200's lack of a keyboard. However, there were several others:

Atari Corp.'s later XE Games System revisited the idea of a console based on the 400/800 hardware. However, as this was essentially just a 65XE computer with a keyboard which could be removed, it was able to run most of the home computer titles directly.

The Atari 5200 could not run software for the still-popular Atari 2600. An adapter was later released in 1983 allowing it to play all Atari 2600 games, using the more reliable controllers from the 2600. 

Another problem was the lack of attention that Atari Inc. gave to the console; most of its attention went to the older Atari 2600. It faced an uphill battle competing with the ColecoVision's head start and a video game market which was beginning to fade.

At one point, Atari Inc. planned on developing a smaller, less expensive version of the Atari 5200 which would have gotten rid of the controller storage bin. Code-named the "Atari 5100" (a.k.a. "Atari 5200 Jr."), only a few fully-working prototype Atari 5100s were made before the project was canceled.

On May 21, 1984, during a press conference at which the Atari 7800 was introduced, company executives revealed that the 5200 had been discontinued. Total sales of the 5200 were reportedly in excess of 1 million units.

"Note: These descriptions are very technical. They are meant to be understood by people with lots of computer experience."




</doc>
<doc id="226821" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226821" title="Absinthe spoon">
Absinthe spoon

An absinthe spoon is simply a special spoon, placed over a glass of absinthe. There are holes in the spoon, over which a sugar cube is placed. Then, cold water is poured over the sugar to dilute and sweeten the absinthe.


</doc>
<doc id="226826" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226826" title="Domain name">
Domain name

A domain name is a human-readable web address (e.g. "google.com") that points to an IP address.

See main article: URL
Domain names have extensions at the end of the URL. For example ".com", ".net" and ".org" are the most commonly used domain name extensions.

There are also country-specific domain name extensions. For example, the United Kingdom has the .uk domain extension.


</doc>
<doc id="226828" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226828" title="Edinburgh International Festival">
Edinburgh International Festival

The Edinburgh International Festival is a festival of music, theatre, opera, dance, visual arts and literature that takes place every year in the city of Edinburgh, Scotland. Each year it is held for about three weeks in late August and early September. 

The festival started in 1947. Since 1999 the permanent home of the festival is at The Hub, near Edinburgh Castle. Several large theatres, concert halls and churches in Edinburgh are used for the events, e.g. Usher Hall, Festival Theatre, Edinburgh Playhouse, The Queen's Hall and The Hub. 2010 the dates of the festival will be 13 August to 15 September.

Since 2006 the director of the festival has been Jonathan Mills.



</doc>
<doc id="226833" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226833" title="Edinburgh Festival Fringe">
Edinburgh Festival Fringe

The Edinburgh Festival Fringe (The Fringe) is the world’s largest arts festival. It started in 1947. It takes place every year at the same time as the Edinburgh International Festival: late August and early September. There are hundreds of different events, ranging from concerts, theatre, opera, dance to many informal events such as street performers.

The organisers are the Festival Fringe Society: they publish a programme every year, sell tickets and give advice to performers from the Fringe office on the Royal Mile.


</doc>
<doc id="226852" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226852" title="Ante Pavelić">
Ante Pavelić

Ante Pavelić (14 July 1889 – 28 December 1959) was the founding member of the Croatian national socialist/fascist Ustaše movement and terrorist organization in the 1930s. Later, during World War II, he will be the leader ("Poglavnik" - Head) of the Independent State of Croatia, a puppet state of Nazi Germany.

Ante Pavelić was born in Bradina, a small village roughly 15 kilometres south west of Hadžići in Bosnia and Herzegovina, then Austria-Hungary, although he draws his roots from southern Lika, in the small town of Krivi Put on the central part of the Velebit plain. His parents moved to Bosnia. As an adult, Ante Pavelić decided to move to Zagreb to study the law. An extremist even in his youth, he became a member of the organization known as the "Frankovci" whose founder, Dr. Josip Frank, was the father-in-law of Slavko Kvaternik, an Austro-Hungarian army officer. In 1919 he was the interim secretary of the Pure Party of Rights. In 1921 he was arrested along with several other members of the party but was released; he defended them at the trial and lost. Kvaternik had long been a strong advocate of Croat separatism and the German ideas on a separate Croat state found in him a ready tool.

Pavelić's quarrelsome nature became more and more apparent in the years immediately after the first war when he became involved in one dispute after another with the Centralist Party and the Croat Peasant Party of Radić. He was the sole representative of his Party in the "Skupština" (Yugoslav Parliament) but rarely attended sessions and, when he did, he sulked in his seat and only occasionally indulged in a long harangue in protest against some measure which he did not approve.

In the early 1920s, Pavelić began to establish his contacts with Croat émigrées in Vienna and Budapest and later entered into close accord with the Macedonian terrorist society IMRO. In 1927 he acted as counsel for the defense of the Macedonian terrorists at the Skopje trials. 

In 1927 he was elected to the Zagreb city council. He held the position of the party secretary in the Party of Rights until 1929 and the beginning of royal government in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. Shortly after the proclamation of the establishment of the government Alexander I of Yugoslavia in January 1929, Pavelić fled abroad and was subsequently sentenced to death in absentia at Belgrade for his part in anti-Serb demonstrations organized at Sofia by Bulgarian and Macedonian terrorists. He then co-founded the Ustaše terrorist organization and went underground. 

Camps for training terrorists and saboteurs were set up in Italy and Hungary, chiefly at Brescia and Borgotaro in Italy and Janka Puszta in Hungary and an armed insurrection was attempted in 1933 when the Ustaše, armed by the Italians, attempted to invade the country by crossing the Adriatic sea in motorboats. This was unsuccessful but its lack of success probably was instrumental in the decision to assassinate King Alexander I of Yugoslavia. Two attempts were made, the last one successful and Aleksandar was slain at Marseilles 9 October 1934 along with the French Foreign Minister, Louis Barthou.

The singular lack of armed protection afforded to the Yugoslav monarch, and the general laxity of security precautions when it was well-known that one attempt had already been made on Alexander's life are grim tributes to Pavelić organizational abilities; he had apparently been able to bribe a high official in the Surete General. The Prefect of Police of Marseilles, Jouhannaud, was subsequently removed from office.

Pavelić remained in Italy until the beginning of World War II. As the leader of the Ustaše he directly ordered, organized and conducted a campaign of terror against Serbs, Jews, Gypsies, and communist Croats. The extent of this campaign reached the proportions of genocide. Pavelić's Ustaše regime was the most murderous Nazi puppet state in the whole of occupied Europe. Numerous surviving testimonies from the Nuremberg Trials and the German and the Italian war archives bear witness to bestialities perpetrated against the civilian population of the state. According to these testimonies, the German officers themselves were horrified by the scenes of atrocities committed by his Ustaše, forcing them to stop the bloodshed (Jasenovac, 1941), arrest one of the most notorious Ustaše (Fra Miroslav Filipović-Majstorović, Banja Luka, 1942) and disarm an Ustaše detachment (Eastern Bosnia, 1942). 
These atrocities were recorded in novelistic literature and poetry: Malaparte's Kaputt "Basket of oysters chapter", inspired by the widespread practices of the Ustaše gouging out the eyes of Serbs; Kovačić's "Jama (The Pit)", where Ustaše tied Serbs with barbed wire and dropped them into pits; Oljača's "Kozara"; Svetina's "Volčiči (The Wolf Puppies)". As far as the Serb population of the puppet state was concerned, the stated aim was the extermination of a third of their numbers, exile for another third, and a forced conversion to Catholicism for yet another. The Ustaše succeeded in reaching their first goal, exterminating close to one third of the Serbs and possibly more. A Gestapo report to Himmler (17 February 1942) on increased Partisan activities stated that "Increased activity of the bands is chiefly due to atrocities carried out by Ustasha units in Croatia against the Orthodox population. The Ustashas committed their deeds in a bestial manner not only against males of conscript age, but especially against helpless old people, women and children. The number of the Orthodox that the Croats have massacred and sadistically tortured to death is about three hundred thousand."

Pavelić's regime was not officially recognized by the Vatican, but at no point did the Church condemn the genocide and forced conversions to Catholicism perpetrated by the Ustaše. Soon after coming to power in April 1941 Pavelić was given a private audience in Rome by Pope Pius XII, an act for which the Pope was widely criticized. A British Foreign Office memo on the subject described Pius as "the greatest moral coward of our age" for receiving Pavelić.. A Yugoslavian court declared that Pavelić had been responsible for the deaths of 700,000 people during his reign.

In May 1945 Pavelić fled via Bleiburg to Austria, where he stayed for a few months before transferring to Rome, where he was hidden by members of the Roman Catholic Church (as is documented in de-classified US Intelligence documents).

Six months later, he fled to South America. Upon arriving in Argentina via the ratlines, he became a security advisor to Juan Perón. Perón issued 34,000 visas to Croatians: both the Nazi collaborators and the anti-communists that fled from the new communist government led by Josip Broz Tito.

On April 10, 1957, the 16th anniversary of the founding of the Independent State of Croatia, the 67 year old Pavelić was shot and seriously wounded by an unknown assailant in Buenos Aires . The operation was attributed to Tito's Yugoslav intelligence, although the anniversary also suggested an attempt at revenge by a Chetnik activist. Despite having a bullet in his spine, Pavelić elected not to be hospitalized. Two weeks later, the Argentine government agreed to the Tito government's request to extradite Pavelić, and he went into hiding. Although there were reports that he had fled to work for the Stroessner regime in Paraguay, Pavelić's whereabouts remained unknown until late 1959, where it was learned that he had been granted asylum in Spain. Pavelić died on 28 December 1959, at the German hospital in Madrid, reportedly from complications due to the bullet in his spine..





</doc>
<doc id="226867" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226867" title="Template:Yakima County, Washington">
Template:Yakima County, Washington


</doc>
<doc id="226868" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226868" title="Template:Kittitas County, Washington">
Template:Kittitas County, Washington


</doc>
<doc id="226869" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226869" title="Template:Benton County, Washington">
Template:Benton County, Washington


</doc>
<doc id="226871" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226871" title="Template:Location map USA Washington">
Template:Location map USA Washington


</doc>
<doc id="226874" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226874" title="Protea">
Protea

The Protea (giant Protea known as Protea cynaroides) is part of an ancient plant family, the Proteaceae, which had already divided into two subfamilies before the break-up of the Gondwanaland continent about 140 million years ago. Both subfamilies, the Proteoideae and the Grevilleoideae, occur mainly in the southern hemisphere. In southern Africa there are about 360 species, mainly from the subfamily Proteoideae, of which more than 330 species are confined to the Cape Foral Kingdom, between Nieuwoudtville in the northwest and Grahamstown in the east. Protea cynaroides belongs to the genus Protea, which has more than 92 species, subspecies and varieties. Other well-known genera of the Proteaceae are the Leucospermum with the brightly coloured "pincushion" flowers, Leucadendron with yellow or red-brown foliage and Serruria, of which the Serruria Florida or "Blushing Bride" with its pale pink flowers is widely used in bridal bouquets. Plants in the subfamily Grevilleoideae occur mainly in Australia. The Protea (Protea cynaroides) is the national flower of South Africa.

The variety in plant size, habit, flower size and colour of the genus Protea was the reason it was named after the Greek god Proteus, who could change his shape at will. The flower bud of Protea cynaroides looks remarkably like the globe artichoke vegetable with the Latin name of Cynara scolymus and this led the botanist Linnaeus to give it the species name cynaroides.

The protea can grow only after a fire. As a simple explanation, it is because the head of this national flower has seeds inside, which can stay tightly sealed in a hard shell for almost 20 years. The shell does not open until it becomes scorched and the fire is all over. The light, fluffy seeds are then blown to the ground by the wind, where they all begin to grow again.


</doc>
<doc id="226886" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226886" title="Air pollution">
Air pollution

Air pollution is a change in the air that can influence the health, , or activities of organisms, including humans. Many of the world's large cities today have bad air quality. Even 2,000 years ago, the Romans were complaining about the bad air in their cities (at that time, the air was thick with smoke from fires and the smell of ). Air pollution has been for a long time a danger to human health and Earth's many ecosystems.

Even "clean" air is not really clean. It has many "pollutants" (things that pollute the air) from natural sources. These pollutants include dust, sea salt, volcanic ashes and gases, smoke from forest fires, pollen, and many other materials. In fact, there are many more natural pollutants than pollutants that human make. However, humans have adapted to most of these natural pollutants.

Air pollutions are usually described as either "primary pollutants" or "secondary pollutants". Primary pollutants are pollutants that are put directly into the air by humans or natural sources. For instance, exhaust (gas) from cars, from smoke, duststorms and ash from volcanic eruptions (as seen in the picture on the left), are all examples of primary pollutants.

Secondary pollutants are pollutants that are made from chemical reactions when pollutants mix with other primary pollutants or natural substances like water vapor. Many secondary pollutants are made when a primary pollutant reacts with sunlight. Ozone and smog are secondary pollutants. Ozone is a gas that is helpful and takes in harmful rays from the sun. When it is near the ground, though, ozone is a dangerous pollutant that influences the health of all organisms.

Human-made air pollution comes from many things. Most air pollution made by humans today is because of transportation. Cars, for instance, make about 60% of the human-made air pollution in the United States. The gases inside car exhaust, like nitrogen oxide, make smog and acid rain.

Many industrial power plants burn fossil fuels to get their energy. But burning fossil fuels can make lots of oxides (chemical compounds that have oxygen and other elements inside). In fact, the burning of fossil fuels makes 96% of the sulfur oxides in the atmosphere.

Some industries also make chemicals that make poisonous fumes (smoke).

Air pollution is not only on the outside. Homes, schools, and buildings can have lots of air pollution, too. Sometimes the air inside a building is even worse than the air outside. Many things we use every day pollute the air. Compounds inside carpets, paints, building materials, and furniture also pollute the air, especially when they are new.

In buildings where the windows are tightly shut to stop air leaks and so the payment for electricity will be less, pollutants can be higher than outside.

Air pollution is a problem everywhere in the world. Local air pollution, like smog, usually influences big cities. Air pollution becomes a worldwide worry when local pollution moves away from where it came from because of wind. For example, winds carry air pollution made in the middle of the western part of the United States to Canada, like acid precipitation.

Acid precipitation is , like rain, sleet, or snow, that has acids from air pollution. When fossil fuels are burned, they let out oxides into the air. When these oxides mix with water in the atmosphere, they make acid, which fall as precipitation. Acid precipitation can kill living things, like fish and trees, by making the place where they live too acidic. Acid rain can also damage buildings made by limestone and concrete.

Other global concerns because of air pollution include the greenhouse effect and the ozone hole in the stratosphere. The ozone layer in the stratosphere is supposed to protect people from the sun's harmful ultraviolet rays. But in the 1970s, scientists found out that some chemicals let out into the atmosphere makes the ozone turn into oxygen, which makes more ultraviolet rays reach the earth. During the 1980s, scientists found that the ozone layer above the South Pole had thinned by 50 to 98 percent.

On March 17, 1992, in Mexico City, all children under the age of 14 could not go to school because of air pollution. This does not often happen, but being to air pollution every day can make people have many health problems. Children, elderly (old) people, and people with allergies especially, can have a lot of problems because of air pollution. Studies from the University of Birmingham showed that deaths because of pneumonia and air pollution from motor vehicles like cars are related.
The World Health Organization said that 2.4 million people died because of direct problems of air pollution.Some of the problems include:






</doc>
<doc id="226901" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226901" title="Louis-Antoine de Bougainville">
Louis-Antoine de Bougainville

Louis-Antoine de Bougainville was an admiral and from France. In 1766 he was sent by his government to make a trip around the world, called "circumnavigation", which took from 1766 to 1769. He rediscovered (found again) the Solomon Islands in 1768 (the largest island is named for him). He also collected plants and made a trustworthy chart of some parts of the center of the Pacific Ocean. Bougainville saw a part of the Great Barier Reef, but could not find Australia.



</doc>
<doc id="226906" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226906" title="Gerardus Mercator">
Gerardus Mercator

Gerardus Mercator, also called Gerhard Kremer, and born Gérard de Crémère (1512 &ndash 1594), was a Flemish geographer and mathematician. He explored Flanders and made globes about the earth and the sky, becoming one of the best mapmakers of the 1500s. The Mercator map projection that has his name is a flat map projection of the features of the surface of the earth that can be seen and made only mathematically. It was found to be excellent for navigating on oceans and is still used today. In 1585 he began a great atlas that was later finished by his son. His last years he used for studying theology.



</doc>
<doc id="226907" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226907" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Dave Jauss">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Dave Jauss


</doc>
<doc id="226909" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226909" title="Almond cake">
Almond cake

The Almond cake is a cake, made of butter, sugar, almond essence, eggs, ground almonds, and flour, with whole almonds for decoration.

Here are some examples of almond cake:


</doc>
<doc id="226910" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226910" title="Category:Cakes">
Category:Cakes


</doc>
<doc id="226911" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226911" title="Template:Moveto">
Template:Moveto

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="226914" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226914" title="Wikipedia:Editor review/I-on">
Wikipedia:Editor review/I-on

 I want to make sure I'm pleasing everybody with my edits. I would love to become an admin, so I would like to see how I'm doing at getting to that goal. ♠♣♦♥ 14:17, 10 February 2010 (UTC)


</doc>
<doc id="226935" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226935" title="Countries of the United Kingdom">
Countries of the United Kingdom

The United Kingdom is made up of 4 countries of which England is the largest:


</doc>
<doc id="226966" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226966" title="Ante Starčević">
Ante Starčević

Ante Starčević (23 May, 1823 - 28 February, 1896) was a Croatian politician and publisher. 

Starčević was born in Žitnik near Gospić, a small town of the Military Frontiers, in what was then part of Austria-Hungary. He was the son of a Serb Orthodox mother and Catholic father. In 1845, he graduated from the comprehensive secondary school in Zagreb. He started his studies at the seminary in Senj, but moved to Pest in the year of 1845 in order to attend a Roman Catholic theological seminary - which he finished in 1848. After passing a number of philosophy and free sciences classes, he earned a honoris causa degree in the year of 1846. Starčević immediately returned to Croatia and continued studying theology in Senj. Rather than becoming a priest, he decided to engage in secular pursuits and started working in the law firm of Ladislav Šram in Zagreb. 

He then tried to get an academic post with the University of Zagreb. As he was unsuccessful, he remained in Šram's office until 1861 although he was banned from practicing law in 1857. He was also a member of the committee of Matica ilirska, a Croatian cultural society, in the Historical Society and in the editorial board of "Neven", a literary magazine. 

In 1861, he was appointed the chief notary of the Fiume county. That same year, he was elected to the Croatian Parliament as the representative of Fiume and founded the Croatian Party of Rights with Eugen Kvaternik. Starčević would be reelected to the parliament in 1865, 1871, and from 1878 to his death. 

In 1862, when Fiume was the scene of protests against Austrian Empire, he was suspended and sentenced to one month in prison as an enemy of the regime. When he was released, Starčević returned to Šram's office, where he remained until 11 October 1871, when he was arrested again, this time on the occasion of the Rakovica Revolt. The revolt was launched by Kvaternik, who was not a Serb hater as his political comrade Starčević. Kvaternik had become convinced that a political solution, as Starčević called for, was not possible. While the revolt drew several hundred men, both Croats and Serbs, it was soon crushed by Imperial Austrian troops. The Croatian Party of Rights was abolished. Starčević was released after two months in prison. 

In his old age, he moved to Starčević House ("Starčevićev dom"), built for him by the Party of Rights in 1895. He died in his house a year later, when he was 73. According to his wish, he was buried in the Church of St Mirko in the Zagreb suburb of Šestine. His bust was made by Ivan Rendić. At his deathbed, he requested that no monuments be raised to his honor, but his statue was put up in front of Starčević House in 1998.

After being banned from practicing law in 1857, Starčević travelled to Russia where he hoped he would gather support from the empire's eastern rival. When this failed, he travelled to France, pinning his hopes on French emperor Napoleon III. While in Paris, he published his work "La Croatie et la confédération italienne", considered by some to be the precursor to his Party of Rights' political program. In 1859, the Austrian Empire was defeated in the Second Italian War of Independence, during which time Starčević returned to Croatia. Austria lost control over Italy, and Austria's weakening status in the world paved the way for Starčević's career. 

As the chief notary in Fiume in 1861, Starčević wrote "the four petitions of the Rijeka county", which are considered the basis of the political program of the Croatian Party of Rights. He pointed out that Croatia needed to determine its relationships with Austria and Hungary through international agreements. He demanded the reintegration of the Croatian lands, "the large kingdom of Croatia of old" (the Middle Age's Kingdom of Croatia), the homeland of one people, "with the same blood, language, past and (God willing) future".

On that ideological basis, he founded the Croatian Party of Rights with his school friend Eugen Kvaternik in 1861. The Party of Rights was clerical, conservative, and pro-Habsburg. Its only concession to nationalism was hostility to the Serbs who, since the incorporation of the "military frontiers" into Croatia in 1868, made up a quarter of the population. Starčević was the only parliamentary representative who agreed with Kvaternik's draft constitution of 26 June 1861. He advocated the termination of the Military Frontier and persuaded parliament to pass on 5 August 1861 the decision annulling any joint business with Austria.

He advocated the resolution of Bosnian issues by reforms and cooperation between the people and the nobility. Starčević believed that Bosniaks were the "the best Croats", and claimed that "Bosnian Muslims are a part of the Croatian people and of the purest Croatian blood".

Starčević wrote literary criticism, short stories, newspaper articles, philosophical essays, plays and political satire. He was also a translator.

His travelogue "From Lika" was published in Kušlan's magazine "Slavenski Jug" on 22 October 1848. He wrote four plays in the period 1851-52, but only the "Village Prophet" has been preserved. His translation of Anacreon from Ancient Greek was published in "Danica" in 1853. His critical review (1855) of Đurđević's "Pjesni razlike" was described by the Croatian literary historian Branko Vodnik as "our first genuine literary essay about older Dubrovnik literature". His opus shows an affinity with practical philosophy, which he calls "the science of life". As Josip Horvat said: "His literary work from 1849 to the end of 1853 made Ante Starčević the most prolific and original Croatian writer along with Mirko Bogović."

In 1850, incited by Ljudevit Gaj, Starčević started working on the manuscript of "Istarski razvod", a crucial Croatian document from 1325. He transcribed the text from the Glagolitic alphabet to the Latin alphabet, analyzed it and published it in 1852. In the foreword, young Starčević elaborated his linguistic ideas, pointing out that the mixture of all three Croatian dialects (Shtokavian, Chakavian) and Kajkavian) and the Krajina dialect is called the Croatian language, which Starčević considers from the perspective of its six hundred years of history. Starčević accepted the etymological orthography and used the ekavian form for his entire life, considering it the heir of the old Kajkavian. His language is a "synthetic" form of Croatian, never used before or after him, most similar to the Ozalj idiom of Petar Zrinski, whom he probably never read. 

In that period, in the "Call for Subscriptions to the Croatian Grammar" (8 December, 1851) he stated his opposition to the Vienna Language Agreement of 1850 and the linguistic concept of Vuk Stefanović Karadžić. He continued his dispute with the followers of Karadžić in a series of articles published in 1852. His opposition to the Vuk's work he 'supported' by utter denial of the Serbs as the nation, their language, their culture and history. In his vain and racistic effors to oppose and derail Karadžić's work, he was loner and loser - mainstream of the Croatian educated men, headed by Strossmayer and Gaj, highly appreciated and supported Karadžić. It was demonstrated publicly immediately after Karadžić's death - when Croatian Parliament (Sabor) collected a considerable amount of money in order to erect a monument to honor Karadžić in Croatia and the Court chanchellor Ivan Mažuranić got the Viennese Imperial Court to financially support the Karadžić' widow.

When "Srbski dnevnik" from Novi Sad published an article saying that "Croatians write in Serbian", Starčević wrote a fierce reply: "(...) Instead of claiming that the Croats use anything else but the Croatian language, those writers who consider themselves Serbs (or whatever they like) would do well to write in the educated and pure Croatian language, like some of them are already doing, and they can call their language Coptic for all I care. (...)" He published the reply as an unsigned article in "Narodne novine", the newspaper of Ljudevit Gaj, so the Serbian side attacked Gaj, wrongly attributing the article to him. Starčević subsequently proclaimed he was the author, but Gaj, who cared to maintain good relations with Serbia, distanced himself from his friend.

For his political activity and literary work, Starčević is commonly called Father of the Nation ("Otac domovine") in Croatia. His portrait is depicted on the obverse of the Croatian 1000 Croatian kuna banknote, issued in 1993.

Starčević was a racist and an anti-Semite. His understanding of the basic human rights and the way he linked them to the civil liberties were extremely primitive and selective. For example, Starčević criticized the socialism as ""unshaped"" and he was delighted by the colonialism and claimed that ""Algeria should be densely populated by a few million of happy Frenchmen and not to allow to have one hundred fifty thousand of them against two and half million of Arabs"".

Starčević had based his ideological views on writings of those ancient Greek writers who thought that some people, by their very nature, are slaves, for they had ""just half of the human mind"" and, for that reason, they ""shall be governed by people of the human nature"". About the people and nations which he saw as cursed and lower ranked races - he spoke as of the animal breeds and uses the "breed" word to mark them.

He wrote a whole tractate about the Jews that could be summarized in a few sencences: ""Jews ... are the breed, except a few, without any morality and without any homeland, the breed of which every unit strives to its personal gain, or to its relatives' gain. To let the Jews to participate in public life is dangerous: throw a piece of mud in a glass of the clearest water - then all the water will be puddled. That way the Jews spoiled and poisoned the French people too much"".

But, for Starčević, there was a race worst than the Jews. For him, the ""Slavoserb"" notion was firstly of a political nature: the ""Slavoserbs"" are his political opponents who ""sold themselves to a foreign rule"". Then all those who favorably look on the South Slavs unity not regarding them (the South Slavs) as the Croats.

Later, and with years, Starčević more and more marked the ""Slavoserbs"" as a separate ethnic group, or - as he used to say the ""breed"", ranked, as humans, lower than the Jews: ""The Jews are less harmful than the Slavoserbs. For the Jews care for themselves and their people ... but the Slavoserbs are always for the evil: if they cannot gain a benefit, then they tend to harm the good or just affair, or to harm those who are for the affair."" - he wrote once.

Further, he claimed that the injustice was done to different ""cursed breeds"" what spoiled those breeds even more and made them ""to be vengeful against their oppressors"". As a convinced racist, he stresses that to the ""cursed breeds"", i.e. to the lower races should not be given any role in the public life.

As an aged man, he makes the Serbs identical to the ""Slavoserb breed"" and mocks them for their defeats they suffered long ago - which provoked negative reactions even in his ""Party of Rights"". On that occasion, the Party member Erazmo Barčić (1894.) described Starčević's mockery and racism as ""throwing mud at people and primitive cheeky invectives"".

However, when once facing with negative reactions to his open racism, he temporarily retreated. That was a reason that he wrote an article in Sloboda, issue of 23 March, 1883: "The main thing is this: everybody should work for the people and the homeland, and let them call themselves as they wish... We have disputes and dissensions only because they are supported and strengthened from the outside... We believe that hungry and cold Serbs and Croats feel the same... Therefore, everybody can assume the name of Hottentots, every person can choose their own name, as long as we are all free and happy!..."

The British historian A.P.J.Taylor wrote (pages 188-189):

Starčević's racism was further fully elaborated by Ivo Pilar [under pseudonym L. von Südland] The book was translated into Croatian language in the year of 1943, by Pavelić's regime, as one of the tenets of his Ustaše and his Independent State of Croatia. This racist work was reprinted in 1990. In the preface to this reprint edition, Dr. Vladimir Veselica, a Zagreb University professor, expresses his enthusiasm that the author had given "relevant answers" at the highest intellectual level. What thrilled him so was the consistently expressed racist hatred against the Serbs. It is sufficient to submit one quotation that explains the sense and content of this book, which far outdoes the current demonization of the Serbs: " it was not without reason that I tried to show how the Serbs today are dangerous for their ideas and their racial composition, how a bent for conspiracies, revolutions and coups is in their blood."




</doc>
<doc id="226989" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226989" title="Oligosaccharide">
Oligosaccharide

An Oligosaccharide is a polymer made of a few different "simple" sugars. Oligosacchardides are carbohydrates.


</doc>
<doc id="226991" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226991" title="Think tank">
Think tank

A Think tank is a special organization that helps other organizations and groups with problems that they do not know how to solve, mainly by providing scientific data or knowledge.


</doc>
<doc id="226997" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226997" title="Template:SharedIPCORP">
Template:SharedIPCORP

<includeonly>}</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="226998" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226998" title="Template:RSS-Atom feed notice">
Template:RSS-Atom feed notice


</doc>
<doc id="226999" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226999" title="Songs of Lady Gaga">
Songs of Lady Gaga


</doc>
<doc id="227001" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227001" title="Solar calendar">
Solar calendar

A solar calendar shows the earth's position compared to the sun. There are tropical solar calendars, sidereal solar calendars, non-solar calendars (like lunar - moon - calendars), and lunisolar calendars.



</doc>
<doc id="227010" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227010" title="Major League Baseball on FOX">
Major League Baseball on FOX

Major League Baseball on FOX (or MLB on FOX) is FOX Sports's broadcast of Major League Baseball. It began on June 1, 1996 and continue through at least 2013.

Major League Baseball made a deal with FOX and NBC on November 7, 1995. FOX televised regular season games (about 16 weekly telecasts normally beginning on Memorial Day weekend) on Saturday afternoons, selected Division Series games, and alternated the All-Star Game, League Championship Series and the World Series with NBC each year. To better state this, FOX aired the All-Star Game aired American League Championship Series in odd-numbered years while airing the National League Championship Series and World Series in even-numbered years.

In September 2000, Major League Baseball and FOX signed a 6-year contract to air Saturday baseball, the All-Star Game, selected Division Series games, and exclusive coverage of the League Championship Series and the World Series.

Rumors about the end of "Major League Baseball on FOX" were laid to rest on July 11, 2006 when the network announced they would still air the World Series through the 2013 season. It was announced on October 17, 2006 that FOX would retain the All-Star Game and World Series, except they would air the regular season beginning with the first Saturday of the regular season, and postseason coverage beyond the World Series was limited to one League Championship Series a year, alternating one for the other with TBS each year, airing the other LCS.


</doc>
<doc id="227014" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227014" title="National League Championship Series">
National League Championship Series

In Major League Baseball, the National League Championship Series (NLCS), played in October, is a playoff round that decides the winner of the National League pennant. The winner of the series moves on to play the winner of the American League Championship Series in baseball's championship, the World Series.


</doc>
<doc id="227024" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227024" title="2004 American League Championship Series">
2004 American League Championship Series

The 2004 American League Championship Series (ALCS) was a best-of-seven playoff series in the 2004 Major League Baseball season. It featured the New York Yankees and the Boston Red Sox. The Red Sox beat the Yankees in seven games. It was a rematch of the 2003 ALCS.

The Yankees won the first three games of the series. The Red Sox then won the next four to win the series. This was the first time a team won a best-of-seven playoff series after losing the first three games. 

The Red Sox would go on to win the World Series against the St. Louis Cardinals in four games. It was the Red Sox's first World Series title since 1918.


</doc>
<doc id="227049" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227049" title="Template:Uw-create4im">
Template:Uw-create4im

This is the only warning you will receive for your disruptive edits. <br> The next time you create an , you will be from editing Wikipedia. 

</doc>
<doc id="227050" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227050" title="Template:Documentation/core">
Template:Documentation/core

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="227051" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227051" title="Template:Twinkle standard installation">
Template:Twinkle standard installation

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="227052" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227052" title="Template:User-warning set">
Template:User-warning set


</doc>
<doc id="227061" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227061" title="Verizon">
Verizon

Verizon is a telephone, internet service provider, and television company in the United States. It is often confused with the wireless telephone company, Verizon Wireless. 


</doc>
<doc id="227083" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227083" title="Devil's food cake">
Devil's food cake

The Devil's food cake is an old fashioned chocolate cake made of chocolate or cocoa and baking powder. It is moist, soft, rich, and very good for keeping. It is a light-textured chocolate layer-type cake with a deep reddish brown color. The cake gets this bright red color from the large amount of red food dye used in the preparation. Devil's food cake is usually thought of in terms of dark chocolate, but originally it was red. Today cooks, using modern processed cocoa, sometimes add a touch of red food coloring to bring back the authentic color.

Devil's Food Cakes can be stored in the refrigerator for about 3 days.

The Devil's Food Cake may also be called a Red velvet cake.


</doc>
<doc id="227087" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227087" title="Partridge">
Partridge

The Partridge is a medium sized bird. They are known as game birds because they are hunted and eaten by humans. They are in the Pheasant family (Phasianidae).

Partridges are in the song "The Twelve Days of Christmas". The line "...and a Partridge in a pear tree" is sung.

Most partridges are brown, gray and white. They are camouflaged and difficult to see. They have short legs and short bills. Partridges are smaller than Pheasants but they are bigger than Quails.

Partridges can not fly very well and they do not migrate. This means they always stay in the same area all year round. 

Partridges live in Europe, Asia, Africa and the Middle East. They live in places such as moors, grassland and farmland. They feed mostly on seeds, and nest on the ground. This means their nests are not very safe from predators such as foxes. Partridges use their camouflage to make it difficult for predators to see them and their nests.


</doc>
<doc id="227093" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227093" title="Category:Towns in Worcestershire">
Category:Towns in Worcestershire


</doc>
<doc id="227094" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227094" title="Bromsgrove">
Bromsgrove

Bromsgrove is a town in the north of Worcestershire. The town is about north-east of Worcester and south-west of Birmingham. 29,237 people lived there there in 2001.

The layer of rock underneath Bromsgrove is mainly sandstone. The soil is very good for growing vegetables. The altitude of the town is above sea level. 

The climate in Bromsgrove is like most of the United Kingdom. It is an "oceanic climate." This means it is cool in summer and not very cold in winter. It can rain at any time of the year.

The main A38 road goes through Bromsgrove. The M5 motorway passes by the west side of the town. The M42 motorway starts at the north of the town.

Bromsgrove train station is in the south of the town. The station is at the bottom of the "Lickey Incline". The Lickey Incline is the steepest hill for trains in Britain. An extra locomotive has to help push heavy freight trains up the hill. There are many passenger trains to Birmingham, Worcester and Hereford. There is a plan to build a new, better train station in Bromsgrove. The new station will cost about £10 million to £12 million.

There is also a bus station in the town centre. Buses travel from the bus station to many places in Worcestershire and the West Midlands.


</doc>
<doc id="227099" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227099" title="Diploglossus">
Diploglossus

Diploglossus is a genus of lizards in the family Anguidae.


</doc>
<doc id="227108" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227108" title="Wikipedia:Editor review/Pmlineditor">
Wikipedia:Editor review/Pmlineditor

Okay, I'll try to keep this as short as possible. I know there isn't a significant interest in ER nowadays, however I'd like to get input from the community about what they think of me as an editor and an admin. I have about 7.8k edits here, according to X!'s tool, since registering at around May last year. In this time, I have written 3 VGAs, helped in two more, 2 GAs (again, helped in 2) and successfully nominated around 44 DYKs. I also have created 124 articles and 64 redirects. I passed an in September, and have made around 3k logged actions during that time, including over 2k deletions. My main focus here is content work and anti-vandalism, though I oft participate in discussions at and . Thank you for your reviews.   12:18, 11 February 2010 (UTC)


</doc>
<doc id="227118" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227118" title="Graham's number">
Graham's number

Graham's number is a very, very big number that was discovered by a man called Ronald Graham. It is the largest possible answer to a problem in an area of mathematics called Ramsey theory, and is one of the biggest number ever used in a mathematics study. The last ten numbers in Graham's number are 2464195387. Even if every number in Graham's number was written in the tiniest writing possible, it would still be too big to fit in the universe. 

The size of graham's number is amazing:

3x3x3 is 3^3 is 27.

3^^3 is 7625597484987
you can think of this as 3 mutiplied by its self 3^3 times
so 3x3x3x3x3...27 times.

3^^^3 is so huge, its digits would fill up the universe and beyond.
it has 3638334640025 decimal digits
and this is only the start.

3^^^3 can also be represented as g1.

g2 is equal to 3^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^...3
the number of arrows in this number is g1
this means there are 3^^^3, arrows, or levels of exponents, in g2.

g3 is equal to 3^^^^^^^^^^...3
the number of arrows is the value of g2
and so on.

g64 is equal to G, graham's number.


</doc>
<doc id="227135" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227135" title="Kristin Hogan">
Kristin Hogan

Kristin Hogan (born March 24, 1989, in Lima, Peru) is an American-Peruvian singer, actress, model and socialite who is currently working on her album debut called "The Stripped Experience", because in 2007 her unreleased debut album "The Soul Of My Heart" never got a release date. Her uncle is the semi-retired professional wrestler Hulk Hogan. She released her debut single in 2007 called "Crazy Love", in seven versions, including a Spanish version.


</doc>
<doc id="227136" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227136" title="Laguna">
Laguna

Laguna City is a little city of south of the Brazil, in Santa Catarina State. This city have more than 50000 people. It was the capital of the short-lived Juliana Republic in 1839. The city is known for having dolphins

Some popular beaches of this city:


</doc>
<doc id="227162" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227162" title="Takalik Abaj">
Takalik Abaj

Tak'alik A'baj' is an ancient ruin in Guatemala; it used to be called Abaj Takalik. It is one of several Mesoamerican sites that have Olmec and Maya features. The site was inhabited the during the Preclassic and Classic periods, from the 9th century BC through to at least the 10th century AD. It was an important place for trade. It traded with Kaminaljuyu and Chocolá. It is one of the largest sites with carved monuments on the Pacific coast. Olmec-style sculptures include a possible colossal head, rock carvings and others. The site has one of the biggest collections of Olmec-style sculpture outside of the Gulf of Mexico.

Takalik Abaj shows the first signs of Maya culture that happened by about 400 BC. The site includes a Maya royal tomb and examples of Maya writing that are among the first from the Maya region. Studies continue at the site; the monumental buildings and long tradition of sculpture in a variety of styles suggest the site was important.

Finds from the site indicate contact with the distant city of Teotihuacan in the Valley of Mexico. They imply that Takalik Abaj was conquered by it or its allies. Takalik Abaj was linked to long-distance Maya trade routes that let the city take part in a trade network that included the Guatemalan highlands and the Pacific coastal plain from Mexico to El Salvador.

Takalik Abaj was a large city with the main buildings in four main groups spread across nine terraces. While some of these were natural, others were man-made, needing a lot of work and materials. The site had a clever water drainage system and many stone sculptures.




</doc>
<doc id="227175" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227175" title="Currys">
Currys

Currys is a store that sells electrical goods. They are located in most towns in the United Kingdom.


</doc>
<doc id="227177" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227177" title="Alfonso García Robles">
Alfonso García Robles

Alfonso García Robles (20 March 1911 – 2 September 1991) was a Mexican diplomat and politician. 
García Robles received the Nobel Peace Prize in 1982, together with Sweden's Alva Myrdal. García Robles was the driving force behind the Treaty of Tlatelolco. This treaty established a nuclear-free zone in Latin America and the Caribbean.


</doc>
<doc id="227184" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227184" title="Ouangolodougou, Côte d'Ivoire">
Ouangolodougou, Côte d'Ivoire

Ouangolodougou, Côte d'Ivoire is a small town in the northern part of Côte d'Ivoire, a country in western Africa. It is located in the Ferkessédougou Department. Ouangolodougou is near the border of Côte d'Ivoire and Burkina Faso.


</doc>
<doc id="227185" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227185" title="Pinto horse">
Pinto horse

A Pinto horse is a spotted horse. They are not a breed, but a coat color. In fact, any horse breed can be a Pinto as long as they have patches of white or another color. Pintos are often confused with Paints, a horse breed. They look very similar. The difference is that a Paint is a breed, and a Pinto is a coat color that can be on any breed, including Paints.

 Pintos are so old that they were found in tombs in Ancient Egypt dating back to 4 B.C. In the 16th century Cortez brought thousands to the New World. Some of them were set free, and Indians caught them. The Indians liked them for their toughness and their color. Their color blended in with the environment and made a natural camouflage. They were known to make great war horses. Their name came from the Spanish word "pintado", which means “painted”.

 Pintos have pink skin, blue eyes, and white or multicolored hooves. They can be either a white horse with colored patches, or a colored horse with white patches. It has been said that no two Pintos are exactly alike.

 Pintos have 3 different patterns:

 Pintos come in 4 different types:

 Pintos come in 4 different sizes:


</doc>
<doc id="227191" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227191" title="Darrell Waltrip">
Darrell Waltrip

Darrell Lee Waltrip (born February 5, 1947) is a retired American racecar driver. Waltrip won three Nascar Sprint cup championships and 84 races, including the 1989 Daytona 500. He is now part of the broadcast team for Fox Sports. Waltrips younger brother, Michael Waltrip owns and races for his own team in NASCAR. In June of 2011 Waltrip was given a spot in the Nascar Hall of Fame. He will be a part of the Hall of Fame class of 2012. 


</doc>
<doc id="227202" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227202" title="Wikipedia:WikiLove">
Wikipedia:WikiLove

Wikilove is a word used to refer to a spirit of understanding and kindness toward other users on wiki. Because many different kinds of people edit here in Simple English Wikipedia, it is easy to conflicts to happen often, and for a discussion to sink into incivility (rudeness), and rudeness to flamewars. So, in fighting with each other, we can forget what the real goal of Simple English Wikipedia is: to share what we know in simple English to make an encyclopedia anybody can change. a place to argue. It is a place to learn and share new things.

If we remember this love of knowledge and continue to be , we will be able to make a healthier and happier Simple English Wikipedia!




</doc>
<doc id="227203" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227203" title="Black Forest cake">
Black Forest cake

The Black Forest Cake, also called the "Schwarzwälder Kirschtorte", is an authentic German cake is made up of a chocolate layer cake with cherries in the middle and whipped cream on top. They are traditionally made with fresh Morello cherries, poached in a sugar syrup and pitted. It is a variation of the chocolate cake, and sometimes decorated with chocolate curls.


</doc>
<doc id="227204" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227204" title="Jeremy Clarkson">
Jeremy Clarkson

Jeremy Charles Robert Clarkson (born 11 April 1960) is an English television host and writer who reports on cars. He was born in Doncaster, West Riding of Yorkshire. He is best known for his hosting BBC TV show "Top Gear" along with Richard Hammond and James May. He is also known for controversial remarks.

He also writes columns for The Sunday Times and The Sun.


</doc>
<doc id="227205" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227205" title="Syd Ward">
Syd Ward

Sydney William Ward (born 5 August 1907 - died 31 December 2010) ) was an Australian born former New Zealand cricketer. Ward was a right-handed batsman who bowled right-arm medium pace. He was born in Sydney, New South Wales. He is considered the current oldest living first-class cricketer and the second oldest ever behind Jim Hutchinson, who at the time of his death was 103 years and 344 days.
He died on 31 December 2010 at 103 years old.


</doc>
<doc id="227226" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227226" title="Main Page/Sandbox">
Main Page/Sandbox


</doc>
<doc id="227228" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227228" title="Template:Did you know/Sandbox">
Template:Did you know/Sandbox

</div>

... that Gerald Ford (the 38th president of the United States of America, "pictured") is the only holder of that office not to have been elected to be either President or Vice President?
... that George Washington had ivory teeth?
... that eating a small amount of dark chocolate has been found to lower the risk of heart disease?
... that John Tyler (the tenth president of the United States of America) was the first Vice President of the United States to become a president when the ninth president (William Henry Harrison) died in 1841?
... that the Rose flower is linked to three Roman gods: Venus, Cupid and Bacchus?
... that at least three people named Saint Valentine have died on February 14th?
... that Abraham Lincoln (the 16th president of the United States of America) became president even though he received almost no votes from the Southern States?
... that Martin Van Buren (the eighth president of the United States of America) was the first president to be born as a U.S. citizen, rather than as a British citizen?
</div>
<br>


</doc>
<doc id="227234" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227234" title="Hypothermia">
Hypothermia

Hypothermia is a condition when a person is so cold that the body temperature drops below normal. Hypothermia is any body temperature lower than . He or she starts shivering and cannot stop. The person then becomes confused and acts strange. Their words don't make sense. Soon he or she becomes very tired. If someone gets hypothermia, wrap the person in blankets and take him or her to the hospital. If that's impossible, warm up the person slowly.

When hypothermia begins, a person starts shivering and can't stop. The person cannot do complicated things with his or her hands. The person might feel sick in his stomach and very tired, wanting to go to sleep, anywhere. Sometimes a person will feel suddenly warm, as if they are getting better, but this just means they are getting worse. They are also unable to touch their thumb with their little finger, because their muscles stop working. They might not be able to see things clearly.

The person begins shivering even more. Their muscles obviously do not work. They move slowly and with difficulty, growing a little confused and walking . The person becomes pale, and lips, ears, fingers, and toes might become blue. This is because the body is trying to keep the most important organs warm.

Body temperature drops even more, but the person usually stops shivering. They cannot talk clearly; they think slowly, and they cannot move their hands. Slowly, the skin that is to the cold air becomes blue and . They cannot walk, and start behaving strangely. Their pulse becomes slower, but the heart may beat faster. Finally, the person dies.



</doc>
<doc id="227237" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227237" title="Rapids">
Rapids

Rapids are found on rivers. Rapids are where the river bed is rocky, and the river runs fast over and around the rocks. Rapids are found in the mountains near the beginning or "headwaters" of a river. The word "rapids" is always plural, (like "scissors" and "trousers"). The word "rapid" means "very fast".

Because of the splash made by the water going over rocks, rapids are also called "whitewater". Some people enjoying whitewater canoing or whitewater rafting as a sport. 



</doc>
<doc id="227245" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227245" title="Waray-Waray">
Waray-Waray

Wáray-Wáray or Warai (commonly spelled as "Waray"; also "Winaray" or "Lineyte-Samarnon") is a language spoken in the provinces of Samar, Leyte, and Biliran in the Philippines.

The Waraynon group of languages consists of Waray, Waray Sorsogon and Masbate Sorsogon. All the Warayan languages belong to the Visayan language family and are related to Cebuano and more closely to Hiligaynon and Masbatenyo.

Waray-Waray is one of the ten officially recognized regional languages in the Philippines and used in the local government. It is spoken through out the islands especially in the Eastern Visayas region. But it is also spoken in some parts of Mindanao, Masbate, Sorsogon and Metro Manila where Warays went to. There is also a very small number of Filipinos abroad, especially in the United States, that speaks this language. 

The Waray language has sixteen consonants: . There are three main vowels: "a" , "i" , and "u" . Consonants and were once allophone but cannot interchange, like "palaron" (to be lucky) [from "palad", palm (because someone's luck is seen in the palm] but not "paladon" and "tagadiín" (from where) [from "diín", where] but not "tagariín".

Native numbers are used for numbers one through ten. From eleven onwards, Spanish numbers are exclusively used in Waray today, their native counterparts being almost unheard of by the majority of native speakers numbers (except for gatus for "hundred" and yukot for "thousand"). Some, specially the old ones, are spoken alongside the Spanish counterparts.

Below are examples of the Waray spoken in Metropolitan Tacloban and the nearby areas:



















</doc>
<doc id="227258" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227258" title="WordGirl">
WordGirl

WordGirl is a show on PBS Kids GO! that was first shown on September 3, 2007. WordGirl is a superhero with a big vocabulary who helps children learn more words.



</doc>
<doc id="227269" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227269" title="J.E.B. Stuart">
J.E.B. Stuart

James Ewell Brown Stuart (1833-1864) was a general in the Confederate army during the American Civil War. He was from Virginia. During the war, he was known for dangerous things he did while riding a horse. He was killed at the Battle of Yellow Tavern in 1864.


</doc>
<doc id="227270" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227270" title="Riodinidae">
Riodinidae

Riodinidae is a family of butterflies. They are commonly known as riodinids or metalmarks. Metalmarks get their name from the bright, metallic (looking like metal) markings found on the wings of most species. The family has nearly 2,000 species in it. The metalmarks are mostly found in the Neotropical region. Most metalmarks are small. Their wingspan ranges from 20mm to 65mm. Metalmarks vary greatly in wing shape, pattern, and color.

Riodinidae was formerly known as the family Nemeobiidae and as the family Erycinidae. It was also once thought to be a subfamily of Lycaenidae.




</doc>
<doc id="227271" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227271" title="Category:Riodinidae">
Category:Riodinidae


</doc>
<doc id="227296" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227296" title="Taxicab number">
Taxicab number

A taxicab number is the name given by mathematicians to a series of special numbers: 2, 1729 etc. A taxicab number is the smallest number that can be expressed as the sum of two positive cubes in "n" distinct ways. It has nothing to do with taxis, but the name comes from a well-known conversation that took place between two famous mathematicians: Godfrey Hardy and Srinivasa Ramanujan.

Godfrey Hardy was a professor of mathematics at Cambridge University. One day he went to visit a friend, the brilliant young Indian mathematician Srinivasa Ramanujan, who was ill. Because both men were mathematicians they were always thinking about numbers. 

When Ramanujan heard that Hardy had come in a taxi he asked him what the number of the taxi was. Hardy said that it was just a boring number: 1729. Ramanujan replied that 1729 was not a boring number at all: it was a very interesting one. He explained that it was the smallest number that could be expressed by the sum of two cubes in two different ways.

This story is very famous among mathematicians. 1729 is sometimes called the “Hardy-Ramanujan number”.


There are two ways to say that 1729 is the sum of two cubes.
1x1x1=1; 12x12x12=1728. So 1+1728=1729
But also: 9x9x9=729; 10x10x10=1000. So 729+1000=1729
There are other numbers that can be shown to be the sum of two cubes in more than one way, but 1729 is the smallest of them.

Ramanujan did not actually discover this fact. It was known in 1657 by a French mathematician Bernard Frénicle de Bessy.

Since the famous conversation between Hardy and Ramanujan, mathematicians have tried to find other interesting numbers that are the smallest number that can be expressed by the sum of two cubes in three/four/five etc different ways. These numbers are very, very big, and have been found by computers.

So far, the following six taxicab numbers are known :


</doc>
<doc id="227298" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227298" title="Bernard Frénicle de Bessy">
Bernard Frénicle de Bessy

Bernard Frénicle de Bessy (about 1605–1675), was a French mathematician. He was born in Paris. He wrote many papers about mathematics, number theory and combinatorics. The Frénicle standard form, a standard representation of magic squares, is named after him. He solved many problems created by Fermat. He also discovered a taxicab number and in 1693, he described all 880 essentially different normal magic squares of order 4.

Like Fermat, Frénicle was an amateur mathematician, but he wrote letters to famous people such as Descartes, Christiaan Huygens, Mersenne and also Fermat, who was his friend. He is mainly remembered for his discoveries about number theory.


</doc>
<doc id="227302" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227302" title="Płońsk">
Płońsk

Płońsk is a city in Central Poland in the Masovian Voivodeship. It has a population of 23,000 and has an area of 12 km².



</doc>
<doc id="227311" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227311" title="Frances Burney">
Frances Burney

Frances Burney (13 June 1752 – 6 January 1840) was an English novelist, diarist and playwright. She was also known as Fanny Burney. After her marriage, she was known as Madame d’Arblay. She was born in King's Lynn, England. She was born to musician Dr Charles Burney (1726 – 1814) and Mrs Esther Sleepe Burney (1725 – 62). She mostly taught herself. She began writing what she called her "scribblings" when she was ten. Her first novel, "Evelina", was published in 1778. This novel made her very famous. "Cecilia" came out in 1782. It was an even greater critical success. Her major novels, "Evelina", "Cecilia", and "Camilla" are about a young girl. The girls are clever and beautiful, but does not have a lot of experience. The girl goes out into the world and grows in character. Her books were liked by Jane Austen. In 1786, she became Second Keeper of the Robes to Queen Charlotte. She wrote many journals and letters. Her journals and letters have interested historians. In 1793, she married a French exile, General Alexandre D'Arblay. They had a son in 1794. His name was Alexander. He was their only son. While living in France from 1802 to 1812, Burney wrote "The Wanderer". It was a novel about the French Revolution. It was published in 1814. Her last published work was the "Memoirs of Doctor Burney" (1832). She died in London in 6 January 1840. She was buried in Bath near her husband and son.

On 13 June 1752, Frances Burney was born in King's Lynn. She was baptized on the 7 of July. Her older brothers and sisters were Ester (Hetty) (1749 – 1832) and James (1750 – 1821). Her younger brothers and sisters were Susanna Elizabeth (1755-1800), Charles (1757-1817) and Charlotte Ann (1761 – 1838). Susanna Elizabeth became Frances Burney's close friend. James Burney became an admiral. He sailed with Captain James Cook on his second and third trips. The younger Charles Burney was a scholar. Her younger half-sister, Sarah Burney (1772 – 1844), also became a novelist. She published five works that she wrote herself. Esther Sleepe Burney also had two boys who died at birth.

Esther Sleepe Burney was three years older than Charles Burney. She had her oldest daughter, Ester, with Charles before they married. Frances Burney kept this as a "family secret". She even said nothing about the date of her father's marriage. Also, she did not say when his children were born in the "Memoirs". Some people have thought that she hid the dates to make everyone believe she published "Evelina" when 17.

Her mother suddenly became sick. She took a trip to Bath and Bristol Hot Wells. This is where main character in "Evelina" go to try to become healthy again. However, she did not get better. The sickness was thought to be tuberculosis. It is also possible that it was cancer. In 1760, her mother, Esther Sleepe Burney, died. She was described by historians as a gentle woman of "warmth and intelligence". It is possible that Esther Burney's French birth influenced Burney's writing. One example is the conflicts between Madame Duval and Captain Mirvan in "Evelina". It may also have been one reason for her love of and marriage to Alexandre D'Arblay. Fanny was very shocked and sad when she heard that her mother was dead. Her neighbor, Mrs. Pringle, commented. She later said, "...she never saw such affliction" and that Fanny would "take no comfort--& was almost killed with ["sic"] Crying". Her father, Charles Burney, was also very unhappy. He comforted himself with writing sad poems about his wife.

Her father was respected by many people as a musician. He was also well-educated. He wished to show that a musician could be a gentleman. Frances Burney often saw many opera singers, dancers, musicians, and actors (like actors Garrick or Christopher Smart), that spoke in many kinds of languages. She mentioned him in "Evelina": "Well may Mr. Garrick be so celebrated, so universally (everywhere) admired—I had not any idea of so great a performer...every look "speaks"!...I am afraid you will think me mad (crazy), so I won't say any more; yet I really believe Mr. Garrick would make you mad too, if you could see him." She also saw more of the world than most "young ladies" could. She wrote down many rude things people said in her diaries. Traveller Richard Twiss once embarrassed the family by talking about improper things. He said that an immodest book, "The Dictionary of Love", was very good. After Twiss left, Burney wrote in her Diary, 'Even my gentle & candid (truthful) Father says that "he has quite mistaken the Thing," & that he will never see a "Table Cloth" in his House again'.

Some people have said that Burney may have been shy because of her father. People said that Mr. Burney's only fault was "" (too much serving to men). Frances never openly her father. She even carefully destroyed everything bad about him. In her "Memoirs", she wrote that her father had no faults. However, she wrote explanations and excuses for things her father thought were right.

In October 1767, her father married a rich widow. Her name was Elizabeth Allen. She already had three sons. The Burney children did not like their stepmother. Hester, Frances's older sister, married her cousin. His name was Charles Rosseau Burney. He was a musician. She married him in September 1770. She probably did this to leave her home. Because of this, Frances lost a sister who was like another mother. The Burney children did a "secret war" with Mrs. Allen. They called her "Mrs. Precious", "Madam", and "the Lady". A letter from Frances Burney to her sister Hester said, "The excuse to be "fudged" up (made up, lied) for the purpose, I leave to your own ingenuity." Although at this time Frances was 25 years old, she had to find an excuse to visit her married sister. Even their old friend, Samuel "Daddy" Crisp, joined in with mocking Mrs. Elizabeth Allen.

Her father educated her sisters Ester and Susanna much more than Frances Burney. When she was eight, she still had not learned the alphabet. She was also so shy that visitors at her father's house called her the "old lady". Some scholars think she might have had a kind of dyslexia. Her brother used to play tricks on her by pretending to teach her to read, and giving her a book upside-down. She did not find out that it was actually upside down and tried to read it. People said that "the little dunce" should be whipped. However, Esther Sleepe Burney always replied that "she had no fears about Fanny". Her sister Susanna said that Fanny has "sense, sensibility, and bashfulness (shyness)". She also added, "I am afraid...that my sister Fanny is too reserved".

In 1763 or 1764, Samuel "Daddy" Crisp became close to the Burney family. He helped Frances write by asking for many journal-letters from her about her family and her life. He influenced her writing very much.

Frances Burney d'Arblay made a new kind of English novel, recording things that happened from George III's madness to what happened after the Battle of Waterloo. She also wrote comedies that had a great influence on many writers to come. For example, Jane Austen found both the theme and the title for "Pride and Prejudice" in the last chapter of Frances Burney's novel "Cecilia". William Makepeace Thackeray, the writer of Vanity Fair, was also influenced by Burney. Her first novel, "Evelina", was a new kind of fiction in English. It was a fiction where women in society were shown in realistic, modern ways - the novel of manners. "She showed the manners and morals of polite society with a relish (liking) for the ridiculous (funny) and a respect for the conventional (traditional)".("Norton Anthology of Literature by Women", p. 242) Burney was the first woman to make the writing of novels "respectable". Her second novel, "Cecilia", published in 1782, was an even greater critical success. Her third novel, "Camilla", was very popular; the sale was "4 times that of "Evelina", & nearly double that of "Cecilia"".

Verses written with Hester Thrale
Works by Fanny Burney at Project Gutenberg


</doc>
<doc id="227315" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227315" title="Lake Placid, New York">
Lake Placid, New York

Lake Placid is a village in northern New York State. It has a population of 2,638. It was founded in the early 1880s to look for iron. Today it is a ski resort. It has hosted the Winter Olympics twice, in 1932 and 1980. 



</doc>
<doc id="227322" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227322" title="Grebe">
Grebe

A grebe is a medium sized bird. They are in the family Podicipedidae. There are 22 species of grebe.






Most grebes are a medium or large size. Some grebes, such as the Little Grebe are smaller. All Grebes have large feet with lobed toes. This means that each toe is separate on the foot (the opposite of this is webbed feet which is seen in ducks and geese). Some grebes find it difficult to walk on land because their feet are so big. They are much better at swimming and diving in water.

Grebes have narrow wings. Some grebes find it difficult to fly. There are two species of grebe that cannot fly at all. This means that if grebes are in danger, they will dive under water instead of flying away like other birds do. 

Grebes can have long or short bills. If they eat insects in the water, they will have a short bills. If they eat crustaceans (for example, crabs) they will have a long, sharp bill. 

Most grebes are brown, white and red/orange. They have many, waterproof feathers. This means they can easily float on water and dive into water without getting cold or wet. In spring and summer, grebes have orange crests on their heads. This is so they can attract a mate. Some grebes do a mating ritual. This is when they "dance" in the water.

Grebes make their nest from plants found in the water. The nests float on top of the water. Baby grebes can swim when they are born. They are usually brown and white and do not get their orange crests until they are adults.

Grebes live in freshwater (lakes or rivers). Some species of grebe will go to saltwater (sea/ocean) when they are migrating. This is when birds fly to live in a different place in summer or winter. Grebes only migrate if they live in North America, Europe or Asia. Grebes in South America, Africa and Asia do not migrate. They are found in every continent on earth.


</doc>
<doc id="227323" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227323" title="Reduction (linguistics)">
Reduction (linguistics)

Linguistic reductions in the English language are lost sounds in words. This happens in spoken English. For instance, "going to" changes to "gonna". The most widely known reductions are contractions. Most contractions are reductions of 'not'. For instance, "cannot" becomes "can't". Many contractions are reductions between a subject and a verb. For instance, "He is..." becomes "He's..."

Some reductions are well known to language learners; for instance the reduction of a verb and "to". Examples are "going to" becoming "gonna" and "want to" becoming "wanna". These reductions are part of natural English. They cannot be considered slang, or improper.

There are several basic categories of reductions:

Ellision is one or more sounds left out of a word. A common example is "and". It frequently changes to "an" or sometimes even "n". Another example is the 'ba' sound in 'probably'. This leads to the pronunciation, 'probly'.

Word stress is a weaker stress on a word. The other words around it are stressed more by comparison. The weakly stressed word may be blended, linked or even deleted.

Function words are words that signify grammatical relations. They are different from content words. Content words tend to carry more information. They are often stressed. Function words are often unstressed. They may be reduced, blended, linked or deleted.


</doc>
<doc id="227334" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227334" title="Funeral director">
Funeral director

A Funeral Director also called a mortician or undertaker is a person who has the job of organizing a funeral. This often includes embalming and burial or cremation of the dead, as well as the planning and arrangement of the actual funeral ceremony. They place the body into a coffin or casket. If people are going to come and look at the body before burial, the funeral director will have the body dressed, and made up with cosmetics to make it look better.


</doc>
<doc id="227339" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227339" title="Category:Sockpuppets of Sensepanic22">
Category:Sockpuppets of Sensepanic22

This category contains checkuser confirmed sockpuppets of Sensepanic22, also known as the "Jimmy Wales" vandal on simpleWP.


</doc>
<doc id="227340" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227340" title="Mangrove">
Mangrove

Mangroves are trees or shrubs that grow in salty water in hot places like the tropics. Mangroves make a special saltwater woodland or shrubland habitat, called a "mangrove swamp", "mangrove forest", "mangrove" or "mangal". Mangroves grow on 1/3 of tropical shores. They are also found in sub-tropical Africa, Asia, and the southwest Pacific. Their twisted, tangled roots collect dirt, which often become islands.

Mangroves live right in the water. Their seeds fall from the tree and will grow roots as soon as they touch any kind of soil (dirt). During low tide, they may fall in soil rather than water and start growing where they fell. If the water level is high, though, they can be carried far away from where they fell. Mangrove trees are often the beginning of what will one day be a small island. As dirt and other things collect in their roots, little bodies of land are formed – just the right place for other island vegetation to grow. This is an example of seed dispersal by water.

Sometimes, mangrove trees grow on a coral reef and keep them healthy. Smaller roots designed with air passages and breathing pores (holes) move oxygen from the air to parts of the plant underwater. Mangrove roots give clear water to the coral by trapping dirt and clean water by filtering land runoff and removing pollutants. The tree also protects the shoreline (and, through this, the coral reefs) from being eroded by storm waves. Mangrove thickets are a good place for many coral-reef fish, shrimp, and crabs to grow.



</doc>
<doc id="227373" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227373" title="Category:Sockpuppets of AtlanticDeep">
Category:Sockpuppets of AtlanticDeep

sockpuppets of 


</doc>
<doc id="227378" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227378" title="Great Crested Grebe">
Great Crested Grebe

The Great Crested Grebe is a water bird. It is a member of the grebe family. Its scientific name is "Podiceps cristatus".

The Great Crested Grebe is a medium sized bird. It is 46–51cm long. Its wingspan is 59–73cm long (this is the length of both wings).

It is white and brown and it has orange crest feathers on its head. It has a long, sharp pink bill. Baby Great Crested Grebes have black and white stripes on their heads. It is similar to the stripes on a zebra.

The Great Crested Grebe is found in Europe, Asia, Africa and Australia. It is the biggest grebe in Europe. It lives in freshwater lakes. It eats crustaceans (for example, crabs), insects and small frogs. It dives into the water to find food.

The Great Crested Grebe has an interesting mating ritual. This means two birds (male and female) do a "dance" in the water before they mate. Grebes dance every time the pair meets, and the dance varies according to the circumstance. Returning to the nest is different from meeting out on the water, for instance. Most dances end in a bout of head-shaking. 

The Great Crested Grebe makes a nest from plants. The nest floats on top of the water. A pair of Great Crested Grebes will usually have two eggs. When the babies are born, they cannot swim. Their parents teach them to swim and dive. Sometimes the babies will sit on their parents backs while the parents swim in the water. 

The Great Crested Grebe nearly became extinct in the United Kingdom in the 19th century. This is because people wanted to use their orange head feathers. People wanted to put the feathers on their hats and clothes. The RSPB (Royal Society for the Protection of Birds) stopped this. There are now many Great Crested Grebes in the United Kingdom.


</doc>
<doc id="227379" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227379" title="Swift (bird)">
Swift (bird)

The Swift is a bird in the family "Apodidae". It is in the order "Apodiformes" with treeswifts and hummingbirds. The swift is very good at flying. It spends all of its time in the air.

The scientific name for the swift ("apus") comes from the Ancient Greek word απους, "apous" which means "without feet". This is because swifts have very small, weak feet. Swifts use their feet to hold on to vertical places (for example, the wall of a house, or a cliff). Swifts do not want to land on the ground. If they land on ground, they cannot fly up again. Some people say if you see a swift on the ground, you should pick it up and throw it up in the air so it can fly again.

Swifts are small birds. They can fly very well and very fast. Some swifts can fly at 5 - 14m per second. If a swift needs to fly very fast, it can fly at 60m per second for a short amount of time. 

Swifts have long, curved wings. The wings are in the same of a sickle or boomerang. They have a forked tail. This means it looks like a V shape. 

Swifts can be seen all over the world. They like to live in warmer places and they migrate every year. For example, Swifts fly to Europe in the spring and summer. When it gets cold at the start of autumn, the Swifts fly to Africa where it is warmer.

Swifts make their nests in a corner between two walls. For example, near the roof of a house, or in an area between rocks in a cave. They use mud and saliva (spit) to make a cup-shaped nest. 

There are some swifts which only use saliva to make their nests. These swifts are in the genus Aerodramus. In Asia, people take the nests and use them to make bird's nest soup. This soup is very popular in China.


</doc>
<doc id="227384" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227384" title="Wangaratta, Victoria">
Wangaratta, Victoria

Wangaratta is a city of almost 17,000 people in the north east of Victoria, Australia. It is about from Melbourne along the Hume Highway. The city of Benalla is to the south west, and Albury and Wodonga to the north east. The Ovens and King Rivers which flow from the Victorian Alps meet at Wangaratta. It is in the local government area of the Rural City of Wangaratta.

Gold was found in the area during the 1850s. A Post Office opened on 1 February 1843, as Ovens, and moved to the town and was renamed Wangaratta in 1854. The Ovens office, and the Kilmore office which opened the same day, were the fifth and sixth to open in the Port Phillip District (Victoria). They were also the first two inland offices.
The small town of Glenrowan about 10 km away is known as the site of the final shootout that led to the capture of Australia's most famous bushranger, Ned Kelly.


</doc>
<doc id="227389" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227389" title="Chiltern, Victoria">
Chiltern, Victoria

Chiltern is a town in the north east of Victoria, Australia. It is between Wangaratta and Wodonga, in the Shire of Indigo. In 2006 there were 1063 people living in Chiltern. The town is close to the Chiltern-Mt Pilot National Park. Chiltern was once on the main road between Melbourne and Sydney but is now by-passed by the Hume Freeway a few kilometres to the east.

The area of Chiltern was on the Wahgunyah cattle run and was called Black Dog Creek. The township was named after the Chiltern Hills in England. It was surveyed in 1853 but not started until gold was found in 1858—59 during the great Victorian Gold Rush period. The Post Office opened on September 1, 1859 .

Many of Chiltern's old buildings are protected by the National Trust. In 1859, many shop-keepers and miners from around Beechworth and the Ovens Valley followed the gold rush and moved into Chiltern.

The Grape Vine Hotel, on the corners of Main St and Conness St, has the largest grapevine in Australia, planted in 1867. 


</doc>
<doc id="227391" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227391" title="News release">
News release

A press release, news release, media release, or press statement is a written or recorded communication for news reporters. Its purpose is to let them know about something that is news. These are mailed, faxed, or e-mailed to editors at newspapers, magazines, radio stations, television stations, and television networks. There are companies whose job is to send out this information. 

The use of a press release is common in public relations. People use this to get the media to take notice of them, or get publicity for a product, or event that they might be holding. A press release gives reporters the basic information they need to write a news story. Press releases can announce a range of news items such as: events, promotions, awards, new products and services, sales and other financial data, accomplishments, etc. 

A "press statement" is information given to reporters. This is an official statement or account of a news story that is specially written for newspapers and other news media for them to make known to the public.


</doc>
<doc id="227400" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227400" title="Alice (Avril Lavigne song)">
Alice (Avril Lavigne song)

"Alice" is an alternative rock song written and performed by Canadian singer-songwriter Avril Lavigne for the soundtrack to the 2010 film "Alice in Wonderland", entitled "Almost Alice". The song is a mid-tempo ballad sung from the perspective of the film's lead character, Alice. According to Lavigne, she wrote the song after asking Disney executives and director Tim Burton for a role on the soundtrack. The song was produced by Butch Walker and mixed by Lavigne's former husband Deryck Whibley.

While designing clothes inspired by "Alice in Wonderland" for her Abbey Dawn line, Lavigne told Disney executives she could write a song for the film's soundtrack. Director Tim Burton agreed, and Lavigne "wrote the song immediately" on her piano. Lavigne described the song as "a little darker" and confirmed the lyrics, "trippin' out, spinnin' around, I'm underground, I fell down."


</doc>
<doc id="227431" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227431" title="Flag of Utah">
Flag of Utah

The Flag of the State of Utah was adopted in 1913 and has the Seal of Utah encircled in a golden circle on a background of dark navy blue.

In 1912, the Sons and Daughters of Utah Pioneers ordered a custom made copy of the newly adopted state flag to be showed off to the battleship USS Utah, which was commissioned on August 31, 1911. When the flag came, the group found out that the coat of arms on the flag was in full color instead of white, and the manufacturer had added a gold ring around the shield. Rather than have the flag remade, the Utah legislature changed the law to match the battleship flag, and the flag was showed off to the USS Utah.

A bald eagle, the national bird of the United States represents the safety of America. The arrows in the talons of the eagle represent courage in war. The sego lily, the Utah state flower, represents peace. The state motto "industry" represents progress, hard work, and community as does the emblem of the beehive, which is also a traditional Mormon symbol. Crossed Union flags show Utah's support and commitment to the United States. The name, Utah, appears underneath the beehive. The date 1847 represents the year Brigham Young led the first Mormons into the state. The year listed below that, 1896, represents the year that Utah was admitted to the Union. The gold circle around the state seal represents eternal order. The shield underneath the bald eagle represents common defense.

The design of the seal was adopted in 1850 by the Territory of Utah and changed by the artist "Harry Edwards" when Utah became a state in 1896.

According to most , the flag of the State of Deseret was almost the same to the flag of the State of Utah, but as it was not , many other secular and religious alternatives were also used.


</doc>
<doc id="227435" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227435" title="Dawson City, Yukon">
Dawson City, Yukon

Dawson City is a place in the Yukon Territory. It used to be a city, but is not one anymore. It is the second-largest place in Yukon, after Whitehorse, and has 1,327 people. 

Dawson was at its biggest during the Klondike Gold Rush of 1898, and served as a base for mining. It was the capital of Yukon from 1898 to 1952.


</doc>
<doc id="227438" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227438" title="Seal of Utah">
Seal of Utah

The Great Seal of the State of Utah was adopted on April 3, 1896 at the first regular session of the Legislature (January, February, March, April 1896). The first seal was made by Harry Edwards and cost $65.00.



</doc>
<doc id="227439" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227439" title="Magdalena Neuner">
Magdalena Neuner

Magdalena Neuner (born 9 February 1987 in Garmisch-Partenkirchen, Bavaria) is a German biathlete.

She had her first Biathlon World Cup race in the 2005-06 season. One year later, she became one of the stars of the German biathlon team with three gold medals in the 2007 Biathlon World Championships in Antholz, Italy. In 2008, she won three other gold medals in the Biathlon World Cup in Östersund, Sweden, and reached also the first place of the Biathlon World Cup in that year.

In the 2010 Winter Olympics she was one of the gold medal favourites. The first race (on 13 February) was the 7.5 km sprint, where she reached a silver medal, beaten only by Anastasia Kuzmina from Slovakia. Three days later (on 16 February), she won the gold medal in the pursuit race. On 21 February, her second gold medal followed in the mass start.



</doc>
<doc id="227443" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227443" title="Wynton Marsalis">
Wynton Marsalis

Wynton Learson Marsalis (born October 18, 1961) is an American jazz and classical trumpeter. He has won nine Grammy Awards for his music.


</doc>
<doc id="227444" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227444" title="Americas">
Americas

The Americas is a term used to refer to the American supercontinent: the continents of North America, South America, and the isthmus of Central America. The Americas are located in the Western Hemisphere and cover 8.3% of the earth's surface. Notice because this is a plural noun, "the" needs to be used in a complete sentence.

The word American is usually used to mean a person or a thing from the United States of America. People and things from any country in any of the Americas -- North America, Central America, or South America -- are sometimes called "American".




</doc>
<doc id="227445" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227445" title="Category:African American musicians">
Category:African American musicians


</doc>
<doc id="227449" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227449" title="Ilan Ramon">
Ilan Ramon

Colonel Ilan Ramon (Hebrew: אילן רמון‎, born Ilan Wolferman; June 20, 1954 - February 1, 2003) was an Israeli pilot and the first Israeli astronaut and Israeli national hero. He was a member of STS-107 mission crew and he died during Space Shuttle Columbia disaster in 2003. His mother survived holocaust (at Auschwitz concentration camp) and his father fought for Israeli independence.



</doc>
<doc id="227454" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227454" title="Chromatography paper">
Chromatography paper

Paper Chromatography is an analytical chemistry techinique.(Analytical chemistry is the study of the separation, identification, and quantification of the chemical components of natural and artificial materials).Chromatography paper has been very useful in uses of pH paper. When dipped in an indicator [solution], it will absorb the indicator well and when dries will be ready for use as pH paper. Chromatography paper will change color when exposed in acidic and basic solutions. Chromatography paper is so popular it is sold into the market, such as Whatman's Chromatography paper.


</doc>
<doc id="227464" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227464" title="Daniel Johnston">
Daniel Johnston

Daniel Johnston, born 1961, is an American songwriter, singer, and artist who lives in Texas. Johnston has bipolar disorder , and the movie "The Devil and Daniel Johnston" is about his life and music career.

Johnston grew up in West Virginia in a Christian family. He became a Beatles fan when he was young ,then went off to college but did not finish. He moved to Texas to live with his brother, and ended up joining a circus. He left the circus after another worker beat him up for taking too long in a restroom, and found a church in Austin, Texas that helped him find somewhere to live. Johnston's religious beliefs are mentioned in many of his songs, especially on his CD "1990".

Johnston's music career started in Austin in the 1980s. He made cassette tapes of songs he performed on a chord organ and gave many of them out for free to people he met. He started playing concerts and became very popular with music fans in Texas. Johnston appeared on MTV, and became even more popular when Nirvana singer Kurt Cobain wore a T-shirt with the cover art of one of Johnston's CDs. 

Johnston released one CD on Atlantic Records, a major record label (a big company that helps make CDs and sells them around the world) called "Fun" in 1994. However, he was not able to make any more CDs with Atlantic Records because not enough people bought "Fun". However, Johnston still writes songs, and his drawings appear on the covers of his CDs. His latest CD is "Is and Always Was", which came out in 2009.

In 2010, movie director David Miller announced that he was writing the script for a new movie about Johnston that would be very different from "The Devil and Daniel Johnston".


Johnston's official website


</doc>
<doc id="227467" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227467" title="Treepie">
Treepie

The Treepies are a type of bird. They are a member of the crow family ("Corvidae"). There are four different genus of Treepie. They are "Dendrocitta", "Crypsirina", "Temnurus" and "Platysmurus". There are 11 species of Treepie.

Treepies are similar to Magpies. They have long tails. Most treepies are black, white, gray or brown. They are found in Southeast Asia. They live in tropical forests. They spend a lot of time in the tops of trees. They do not come to feed on the ground very often.


</doc>
<doc id="227468" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227468" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/2004 American League Championship Series">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/2004 American League Championship Series


</doc>
<doc id="227470" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227470" title="Velcro">
Velcro

Velcro is a brand name of fabric "hook-and-loop fasteners". It has of two layers: a "hook" side, which is a piece of fabric covered with tiny hooks, and a "loop" side, which is covered with even smaller and "hairier" loops. When the two sides are pressed together, the hooks catch in the loops and hold the pieces together. When they are separated, they make a special "ripping" sound.

The person who made Velcro was a scientist named George de Mestral. During a hunting vacation in Switzerland, de Mestral came home one evening and tried to remove the burrs stuck to his dog's fur. He was very surprised to see how hard the burrs were to remove. That night he studied the burrs under a microscope and noticed that each burr was covered with hundreds of small hooks acting like hands. De Mestral decided that this burr could be made to close fabric instead of buttons and zippers. By copying the hook pattern hat he saw on burrs, he made Velcro!

Velcro was named after the French words for velvet ("velour") and hook ("crochet"). The word "velcro" can also be used as a verb (for instance: "I "velcroed" my shoes").



</doc>
<doc id="227473" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227473" title="Ulavaipu Mahadeva Temple">
Ulavaipu Mahadeva Temple

The Ulavaipu Mahadeva Temple is a ancient temple in Ulavaipu, in Cherthala Taluk, Alappuzha District of Kerala in India. The temple is dedicated to Shiva, a god in Hinduism. The temple is on the banks of Ulavaipu Backwater Lake, which is part of Vembanadu Backwater Lake.


</doc>
<doc id="227493" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227493" title="Mamane">
Mamane

Māmane Hawaiian language A shrub of Hawai'i in the Sophora suitable for garden.
It is highly polymorphic, growing as a shrub or tree, and able to reach a height of in tree form. It is grow fast in every island of Hawaiian archipelago, so botanists describe many local forms including "S.unifoliolata"
Hawaiian honeycreeper visits mamane sucking nectar ,
If mamane were to disappear from Hawai'i it would take with it the palila bird, which is also endangered due to the lack of enough māmane trees. "Loxoides bauilleui", palila, feeds on unripe seeds of the māmane

Plant of Hawaii


</doc>
<doc id="227497" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227497" title="Mortality rate">
Mortality rate

it is when people have died in the population in a given year.


</doc>
<doc id="227500" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227500" title="Ricotta">
Ricotta

Ricotta is an Italian fresh whey cheese made from the whey of sheep's milk or cow's milk. Whey is a watery liquid that separates from curds when cheese is made. Ricotta is soft, grainy and white. It can be used in Italian desserts like cheesecake or cannoli. It contains protein and is a dairy product.


</doc>
<doc id="227504" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227504" title="Whey">
Whey

Whey is a watery liquid that comes out of milk when it has been curdled and strained. It is also called milk plasma. It is a by-product of cheese making. "Sweet whey" is made during the making of rennet types of hard cheese like Cheddar or Swiss. "Acid whey" (also known as "sour whey") is made during the making of acid types of cheese such as cottage cheese. Whey also forms as a liquid on the top of yoghurt.
Whey can be used to make whey cheeses like Ricotta. It can be added to processed foods like bread, pastry or crackers. It can also be used to feed animals.


</doc>
<doc id="227505" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227505" title="Curd">
Curd

Curds are a dairy product made by "curdling" milk with rennet or yeast so that it separates, and taking away the liquid part (called whey). Milk that has been left to go sour will also naturally separate into curds and whey. Curds are used to make cheese. Curds and whey can be eaten together as a dish.


</doc>
<doc id="227506" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227506" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Category:List of people by name">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Category:List of people by name


</doc>
<doc id="227508" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227508" title="Pokhara">
Pokhara

Pokhara is the third largest city of Nepal(Lado Kha). It is the main tourism centre of Nepal. It is 200 km away from the capital, Kathmandu.


</doc>
<doc id="227514" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227514" title="Seal of Colorado">
Seal of Colorado

The Seal of the State of Colorado is an adaptation of the "Territorial Seal" which was adopted by the "First Territorial Assembly" on November 6, 1861. The only changes made in the Territorial Seal design being the changing of the words, "State of Colorado" and the figures "1876" for the corresponding words on the territorial seal. The first "General Assembly" of the State of Colorado approved the adoption of the state seal on March 15, 1877. The "Colorado Secretary of State" alone is authorized to affix the Great Seal of Colorado to any document whatsoever.


</doc>
<doc id="227518" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227518" title="Category:Chess players">
Category:Chess players


</doc>
<doc id="227521" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227521" title="Flag of Maine">
Flag of Maine

The Flag of the State of Maine has the state coat of arms on a blue field. In the center of the shield a moose rests under a tall pine tree. A farmer and seaman represent the normal reliance on agriculture and the sea by the state. The "North Star" represents the state motto: Dirigo ("I Lead").


</doc>
<doc id="227522" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227522" title="Seal of Maine">
Seal of Maine

The Seal of the State of Maine was adopted in June 1820. There have been different kinds in the details of the seal, but the overall design and images remain true to the first. The center of the seal is a shield with a scene of a moose resting in a field bordered by water and woods, pine tree stand tall directly behind the moose. On either side of the shield, a farmer rests on his scythe, and a sailor leans on an anchor. Above the shield is the motto "Dirigo" (I lead), and a North Star. Below the shield is a banner that reads "Maine". The legislature of 1919 thought that the design of the seal should no longer vary, and the design is still used today.


</doc>
<doc id="227525" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227525" title="Doctorate">
Doctorate

A doctorate is a degree earned by passing a doctoral disseration. Usually, it refers to a Ph.D., but it can also be an Doctor of Medicine or an Juris Doctor. Colleges often give honorary doctorates to famous people who speak there.


</doc>
<doc id="227529" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227529" title="Cluster (computing)">
Cluster (computing)

In computing, a cluster is made of many individual computers that work together to solve a problem at hand. Clusters can have different forms: They can be whole computers working together, or only CPUs. These CPUs can communicate over a fast network, but they share the same hard disks, for example. Depending on the problem, solving it with a cluster of cheaper components can be less expensive that investing in better hardware that costs more.


</doc>
<doc id="227532" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227532" title="Garry Kasparov">
Garry Kasparov

Garry Kasparov (born Baku, Azerbaijan, 13 April 1963) is a Russian chess grandmaster and political activist. He was born with the name "Garry Weinstein", and was the World Chess Champion from 1985 to 2000. In 1993 he broke away from FIDE to make a rival organisation (the PCA), because he felt FIDE had failed to raise enough money for world title matches. There is controversy about that period. By any measure, he is one of the greatest chess players of all time, and the highest-rated player ever.

Kasparov became the youngest World Chess Champion in 1985 at the age of 22. He held the official FIDE world title until 1993, when a argument with FIDE led him to set up a rival company, the Professional Chess Association. He continued to hold the "Classical" World Chess Championship until his defeat by Vladimir Kramnik in 2000. Kasparov lost a match (a series of chess games) against "Deep Blue", a computer made by IBM, in 1997. Lately, retired from competition, he has been coaching Magnus Carlsen, a young player from Norway who is the current world #2.

After retiring from chess, Kasparov became involved in Russian politics. In 2005, he traveled around Russia, speaking against Vladimir Putin, who was President of Russia at that time.

The same year he created the United Civil Front, a political movement whose main goal is to dismantle Putin's regime and restore democracy in Russia.

Kasparov was also one of the founders of The Other Russia, an opposition coalition which unites many left and nationalist politicians. 

He helped organize marches of dissenters involving several thousand people rallying against Putin and governors of Moscow and Saint Petersburg.

In October 2007, Kasparov announced his intention of standing for the Russian presidency. 

In November 2007, he was detained by police at a rally in Moscow and given a jail sentence of five days. 

On 12 December 2007, Kasparov announced that he had to withdraw his presidential candidacy due to inability to rent a hall where at least 500 of his supporters could meet to endorse his candidacy, as is legally required. Kasparov's spokeswoman accused the government of using pressure to discourage anyone from renting a hall for the gathering.

In 2008 Kasparov and his United Civil Front joined the Solidarity movement.

Kasparov is among the 34 first signatories and a key organiser of the online anti-Putin campaign Putin must go started in March 2010.


</doc>
<doc id="227539" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227539" title="Category:Financial crises">
Category:Financial crises


</doc>
<doc id="227540" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227540" title="Stanley Vann">
Stanley Vann

Stanley Vann (born Leicester, 15 February 1910 - 27 March 2010) was an English composer, organist, choral conductor, and choir trainer. He contributed a great deal to music in the Anglican church tradition. He was Director of Music at Peterborough Cathedral from 1953 to 1977. On 15 February 2010 he celebrated his 100th birthday. He died the following month.

Vann was born in Leicester. He started to learn the piano when he was about six years old. At the age of 17 he learned the organ, and by the time he was 20 he had passed his ARCM, ARCO and FRCO organ diplomas.

In 1931 he became Assistant Organist at Leicester Cathedral. In 1933 he became Organist at Gainsborough Parish Church, then went to Leamington Spa as Organist of Holy Trinity church in 1939. He started a choir and an orchestra there: the Leamington Spa Bach Choir and the Warwickshire Symphony Orchestra.

Between 1942 and 1946 he had to fight in the Second World War.

In 1949 he got the jobs of Organist at Chelmsford Cathedral and Professor of Harmony and Counterpoint at Trinity College, London. In Chelmsford he started the Essex Symphony Orchestra.

He also trained the Leicester Philharmonic choir for the famous conductors Henry Wood and Malcolm Sargent. 

In 1909 Vann became Master of the Music in Peterborough Cathedral. He stayed in this job until he retired in 1977. The choir was not particularly good when he started there, but he soon made them into an excellent choir. They made many recordings. In 1971 he was given a Lambeth doctorate by the Archbishop of Canterbury for his services to music.

When he retired he first moved to Wansford in Cambridgeshire so that he was half way between his son (in Yorkshire) and his daughter (in Berkshire). He continued to work there, training the church choir, giving singing lessons, and composing. Later he moved to Yorkshire to be nearer to family. He died aged 100 after falling down and breaking his hip.

Stanley Vann composed a great deal of music, mostly for the Anglican church service. His compositions include hymn tunes, anthems, motets, chants, organ music and many other pieces. One of his largest pieces is the Billingshurst Mass, for large chorus and orchestra. It was first performed in Chichester Cathedral in 2000. 

In 2000 a concert was given in All Saints Church, Peterborough to celebrate his 90th birthday. On Sunday 14 February 2010 many cathedrals and churches in England arranged special concerts and services to celebrate his 100th birthday
. The BBC broadcast a special choral evensong on Radio 3 on Wednesday 24 February from Peterborough Cathedral (Wednesday 17 February is Ash Wednesday, so that a lot of his music would not have been suitable.).

There is a scholarship in his name for young choir trainers and directors in the Anglican tradition.


</doc>
<doc id="227542" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227542" title="Royal College of Organists">
Royal College of Organists

The Royal College of Organists or RCO, is an organisation based in the United Kingdom, but with members around the world. Its job is to support organ playing and choral music. People who learn the organ can go there to take professional organ examinations. 

There is a large library with more than 60,000 books about organ playing and organ music.

When the RCO started in 1864 by Richard Limpus it was called the "College of Organists". It was given a Royal Charter in 1893. In 1903 it was offered an extremely cheap 99-year lease on a beautiful building in Kensington, West London. The college was there until 1991 when it moved to a church in the City of London. In 2003 it moved again to Birmingham.

The RCO offers five qualifications or diplomas. 








</doc>
<doc id="227543" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227543" title="ARCO">
ARCO

ARCO (short for Atlantic Richfield Company) is an oil company. It is now part of British Petroleum.



</doc>
<doc id="227546" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227546" title="George Meade">
George Meade

George Meade was a general in the Union Army of the American Civil War. He led the Union Army of the Potomac from the Battle of Gettysburg to the end of the Civil War. He also fought in the Second Seminole War and the Mexican-American War. Meade was born in Cadiz, Spain. 


</doc>
<doc id="227548" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227548" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Template:Sports">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Template:Sports

 "has nominated this page for deletion for the reason:"


"Please discuss this deletion below, but keep in mind that and that there may be options that are not just "keep" or "delete", such as merging."




The following things already in the template would be tossed:

Feel free to bang this around. 00:55, 15 February 2010 (UTC)

This request is due to close seven days after it was filed; that is on approx. Sunday, 21 February 2010 at 11:51 pm, although it may be closed more quickly due to .<br><br>


</doc>
<doc id="227551" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227551" title="Wikipedia:Requests for checkusership/Bsadowski1 2">
Wikipedia:Requests for checkusership/Bsadowski1 2


</doc>
<doc id="227552" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227552" title="Skating">
Skating

Skating can mean:


</doc>
<doc id="227553" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227553" title="Economic bubble">
Economic bubble

An economic bubble happens when a market goes through a very fast inflation of value. This inflation is followed by a quick decrease in value, called a "crash" or a "bubble burst". Economic bubbles can be caused by many things, but many economists believe that economic bubbles are related to inflation. An economic bubble can cause an economic crisis, such as the Great Depression or the Economic crisis of 2007-2010.


</doc>
<doc id="227558" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227558" title="Population without double counting">
Population without double counting

Population sans doubles comptes is a phrase in French that means Population without double counting in English.

In France, because of the census, the INSEE has allowed people who live in one place and study in a different place to be counted twice, so as to show how the population moves. Because of this, each commune in France has many numbers of how many people live in it. For example, students may be counted where they study and where they live but do not study (they place they were born in). It is just like allowing students in the United States to vote in the town election of the place they are studying in and the town election where they were born.




</doc>
<doc id="227568" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227568" title="Wikipedia:Editor review/Buggie111">
Wikipedia:Editor review/Buggie111


</doc>
<doc id="227577" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227577" title="Glass transition temperature">
Glass transition temperature

Above a glass transition temperature ("T"), a plastic is rubbery. Below the glass transition temperature, a plastic is solid.

Thermosets, or thermo-setting plastics, burn up before they reach their glass transition temperature.


</doc>
<doc id="227588" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227588" title="Wikipedia:Editor review/Kansan">
Wikipedia:Editor review/Kansan

 I am new to Simple English Wikipedia but not to Wiki editing in the first place. I want to know how my edits are being perceived so I can know if I'm off to a good start so far. () 08:17, 15 February 2010 (UTC)


</doc>
<doc id="227612" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227612" title="Uncle Tom's Cabin">
Uncle Tom's Cabin

Uncle Tom's Cabin; or, Life Among the Lowly is an anti-slavery novel by Harriet Beecher Stowe. It greatly influenced many people's thoughts about African Americans and slavery in the United States. It also strengthened the conflict between the Northern and Southern United States. This led to the American Civil War. The book's effect was so powerful that Lincoln said when he met Stowe at the beginning of the Civil War, "So this is the little lady who made this big war."

The main character of the novel is Uncle Tom, a patient black slave. The sentimental novel showed the effects of slavery. It also said that Christian love is stronger than slavery.

"Uncle Tom's Cabin" was the most popular novel of the 19th century, and the second best-selling book of the century (the first one was the Bible). It helped abolitionism spread in the 1850s.

In these days, it has been praised as a very important help to anti-slavery. However, it has also been criticized for making stereotypes about black people.

Harriet Beecher Stowe was born in Connecticut. She was an abolitionist. Stowe wrote her novel because of the 1850 passage of the second Fugitive Slave Act. This law punished people who helped slaves run away. It also made the North stop and return the South's black runaways. Mrs. Edward Beecher wrote to Harriet ("Hattie"), "If I could use a pen as you can, I would write something that will make this whole nation feel what an accursed thing slavery is." At that time, Stowe was a wife with six children who sometimes wrote for magazines. Her son, Charles Stowe, said that his mother read this letter out loud to her children. When she finished the letter, she stood up, and with "an expression on her face that stamped itself on the mind of her child", she said, "I "will" write something...I will if I live." That is how "Uncle Tom's Cabin" began.

According to Stowe, she began thinking about "Uncle Tom's Cabin; or, Life Among the Lowly" as she was in a church in February 1851. She had a vision of a Christian black man being beaten and praying for the people who were beating him as he died. She was also partly inspired to write her novel by the autobiography of Josiah Henson. Henson was a black man who had run away and helped many black slaves. She was also helped by the book "American Slavery As It Is: Testimony of a Thousand Witnesses" by Theodore Dwight Weld and the Grimké sisters. Stowe also said that she got lots of ideas for Uncle Tom's Cabin by talking to runaway slaves when she was living in Cincinnati, Ohio.

In her book "A Key to Uncle Tom's Cabin" (1853), Stowe wrote about the stories that inspired her when she was writing "Uncle Tom's Cabin". However, later research showed that Stowe did not actually read many of the stories inside the book until after her novel was published.

"Uncle Tom's Cabin" began in a series in an anti-slavery newspaper, "The National Era". "The National Era" had also printed other works Stowe had written. Because everybody liked the story so much, John P. Jewett of Boston asked Stowe to turn the serial into a book. Stowe was not sure if people would like to read the story as a book. However, she finally agreed. John Jewett, sure that the book would be popular, asked Hammatt Billings to engrave six pictures for the book. In March 20, 1852, the finished book came out. By June it was selling ten thousand copies a week. By October American sales alone were 150 thousand copies. In the first year it was published, 300,000 copies of the book were sold, and it was translated into many important languages.

A Kentucky farmer named Arthur Shelby is afraid of losing his farm because of debts. Even though he and his wife, Emily Shelby, are kind to their slaves, he decides to sell two of them: Uncle Tom, a middle-aged man with a wife and children, and Harry, the son of his wife's maid Eliza. Emily Shelby is shocked and unhappy because she promised Eliza that she would not sell her son. George Shelby, her son, is unhappy because he admires Uncle Tom as his friend and Christian.

When Eliza hears about Mr. Shelby's plans to sell her son, she decides to run away with her only son. She writes a letter saying sorry to Mrs. Shelby and runs away that night.

Meanwhile, Uncle Tom is sold and put into a boat, which sails down the Mississippi River. There, he makes friends with a girl called Evangeline ("Eva"). When Eva falls into the water and he saves her, Eva's father, Augustine St. Clare, buys Tom. Eva and Tom become good friends because they both love Jesus very deeply.

During Eliza's escape, she meets her husband, George Harris, who had run away before her. They decide to try to run away to Canada. However, they are hunted by a slave hunter named Tom Loker. Tom Loker finally traps Eliza and her family, so that George shoots Loker. Eliza is worried that Loker might die and go to hell. Because of this, she persuades her husband to take him to a Quaker town to get better. The gentle Quakers change Tom Loker greatly.

In St. Clare's house, St. Clare argues with his sister, Miss Ophelia. She thinks that slavery is wrong, but is prejudiced against blacks. St. Clare buys Topsy, a black child, and challenges Miss Ophelia to educate her. Miss Ophelia tries, but fails.

After Tom has lived with St. Clare for about two years, Eva becomes very sick. She has a vision of heaven before she dies. Because of her death, many people change. Miss Ophelia loses her prejudice of black people, Tospy decides to become "good", and St. Clare decides to free Tom.

St. Clare, however, is hurt when he tries to stop a fight at a tavern and dies. Because of this, he cannot keep his promise to free Tom. His wife sells Tom to a plantation owner named Simon Legree. Legree takes Tom to Louisiana. There, he meets other slaves, including Emmeline (who Legree bought at the same time that he bought Tom). Legree begins to hate Tom when Tom disobeys his order to whip the other slaves. Legree beats him, and decides to destroy Tom's faith in God. However, Tom secretly continues to read the Bible and help the other slaves. At the plantation, Tom meets Cassy, another black slave. Her two children had been sold, and she had killed her third child because she was afraid that her child would be sold, too.

Loker has been changed because of the Quakers. George, Eliza, and Harry have finally reached Canada and become free. Meanwhile, Uncle Tom feels so unhappy that he almost gives up, but he has two visions of Jesus and Eva. He decides to continue to be a Christian, even if he has to die. Cassy and Emmeline, with Tom’s encouragement, run away. They cleverly use Legree’s superstitious fears to help them. When Tom does not tell Legree where they are, Legree tells his men to beat him to death. Tom forgives the two men who beat him as he dies, and they feel sorry and become Christians. George Shelby comes just as Tom is dying to free him. He is very angry and sad. However, Tom, saying smilingly, “Who,—who,—who shall separate us from the love of Christ?” dies.

Uncle Tom, the title character of the story, is a patient, noble, unselfish black slave. Stowe wanted him to be a “noble hero”: in the book, he stands up for what he believes in. Even though they do not want to, even his enemies admire him.

Recently, however, his name has also been used negatively. People often think of "Uncle Tom" as an old black man trying to make his masters happy, as people have criticized his quiet acceptance of slavery. However, others argue that this is not true. First of all, Uncle Tom is not really old - he is only eight years older than Mr. Shelby, which shows that he is probably around fifty. Also, Tom is not happy with slavery. His acceptance is not because of stupidity or because he likes slavery. It is because of his religious faith, which tells him to love everyone. Wherever Uncle Tom goes, he loves and spreads comfort and kindness. He helps slaves escape, such as Eliza, Emmeline and Cassy. He also refuses to beat other slaves. Because of this, he is beaten himself. Stowe was not trying to make Tom an example for "blacks" but for white "and" black people. She says that if white people were to be loving and unselfish like Uncle Tom, slavery would be impossible.

Eliza Harris is Mrs. Shelby's favorite maid, George Harris' wife, and Harry's mother. Eliza is a brave, intelligent, and very beautiful young slave. Eliza loves her son, Harry, very much. It is possible her love for him was even greater because she lost two of her first infant children. Her motherly love is shown when she bravely escapes with her son. Perhaps the most well-known part of "Uncle Tom's Cabin" is the part where Eliza escapes on the Ohio River with Harry.

This escape is said to have been inspired by a story heard in the Lane Theological Seminary in Cincinnati by John Rankin to Stowe's husband Calvin, a professor at the school. In Rankin's story, in February, 1838, a young slave woman had escaped across the frozen Ohio River to the town of Ripley, Ohio with her child in her arms and stayed at his house before she had gone further towards the north.

Eva "Evangeline" St. Clare is St. Clare and Marie's angelic daughter. She enters the story when Tom saves her from drowning when he was going to be sold. Eva asks her father to buy Tom. She says, "I want to make him happy". Through her, Tom becomes St. Clare's leading coachman and Eva's "especial attendant (helper)...Tom had...orders to let everything else go, and attend to Miss Eva whenever she wanted him,—orders which our readers may fancy (imagine) were far from disagreeable to him." She is very beautiful: "Her form was the perfection of childish beauty...Her face was remarkable less for its perfect beauty of features than for a singular (strange) and dreamy earnestness (seriousness) of expression...all marked her out (made her different) from the other children, and made every one turn and look after her".

To Tom, she "...seemed something almost divine; and whenever her golden head and deep blue eyes peered (looked) out upon him...he half believed that he saw one of the angels stepped out of his New Testament." He says that "She's got the Lord's mark in her forehead." Eva is an almost perfect, Christ-like child. She is very sad about slavery. She does not see the difference between blacks and whites. She talks very much about love and forgiveness. Even Topsy is touched by her love. Eva becomes one of the most important people in Tom's life.

Ophelia St. Clare is perhaps the most complicated female character in the novel. St. Clare calls her, "...desperately ... good; it tires me to death to think of it." She does not like slavery. However, she does not like to be touched or come close to any black person as a human being. When she first saw Eva "...shaking hands and kissing" with the blacks, she declared that it had "...fairly turned her stomach (made her feel sick)." She adds, "I want to be kind to everybody, and I wouldn't have anything hurt; but as to kissing...How can she?"

She has a "clear, strong, active mind", and is very practical. However, she has a warm heart, which she shows in her love for St. Clare and Eva. Ophelia hates slavery, but has a deep prejudice against blacks. St. Clare, as a challenge to her, buys Topsy. He tells her to try educating her. At first she tries to teach and help Topsy simply because of duty. However, Stowe says that duty is not enough: there must be love. Eva's death changes Ophelia. When Topsy cries, ""She" said she "loved" me...there an't (is not) "nobody" left now...!" Ophelia gently says, as "honest tears" fell down her face, "Topsy, you poor child..."I" can love you, though I am not like that dear little child. I hope I've learnt something of the love of Christ from her. I can love you...and I'll try to help you to grow up a good Christian girl." Stowe thought that there were many people like Miss Ophelia St. Clare, who did not like slavery but could not think of blacks as people. She wanted to write about such problems through Miss Ophelia.


"Uncle Tom's Cabin"'s most important theme is the evil of slavery. Every part in "Uncle Tom's Cabin" develops the characters and the story. But most importantly, it always tries to show the reader that slavery is evil, un-Christian, and should not be allowed. One way Stowe showed the evil of slavery was how it forced families from each other.

Stowe thought mothers were the "model for all of American life". She also believed that only women could save the United States from slavery. Because of this, another very important theme of "Uncle Tom's Cabin" is the moral power and sanctity of women. White women like Mrs. Bird, St. Clare’s mother, Legree’s mother, and Mrs. Shelby try to make their husbands help their slaves. Eva, who is the "ideal Christian", says that blacks and whites are the same. Black women like Eliza are brave and pious. She escapes from slavery to save her son, and by the end of the novel, has made her whole family come together again. Some critics said that Stowe's female characters are often unrealistic. However, Stowe's novel made many people remember "the importance of women's influence" and helped the women's rights movement later.

Stowe's puritanical religious beliefs are also one of the biggest themes in the novel. She explores what Christianity is like. She believed that the most important thing in Christianity was love for everyone. She also believed that Christian theology shows that slavery is wrong. This theme can be seen when Tom urges St. Clare to "look away to Jesus" after St. Clare's daughter Eva dies. After Tom dies, George Shelby says, "What a thing it is to be a Christian." Because Christian themes are so important, and because Stowe often directly spoke in the novel about religion and faith, the novel is written in the "form of a sermon."

"Uncle Tom's Cabin" is written in a sentimental and melodramatic style. This style was often used in the 19th century sentimental novel and domestic fiction (also called women's fiction). These genres were the most popular novels of Stowe's time. It usually had female characters and a style that made readers feel sympathy and emotion for them. Stowe's novel is different from other sentimental novels because she writes about a large theme like slavery. It is also different because she has a man (Uncle Tom) as the main character. However, she still tried to make her readers have strong feelings when they read "Uncle Tom's Cabin", like making them cry when Eva died. This kind of writing made readers react powerfully. For instance, Georgiana May, a friend of Stowe's, wrote a letter to the writer. In the letter, she said that "I was up (awake) last night long after one o'clock, reading and finishing "Uncle Tom's Cabin". I could not leave it any more than I could have left a dying child." Another reader said that she thought about the book all the time and even thought about changing her daughter's name to Eva. The death of Eva affected lots of people. In 1852, 300 baby girls in Boston were named Eva.

Even though many readers were very moved, literary critics did not like the style in "Uncle Tom's Cabin" and other sentimental novels. They said these books were written by women and had "women's sloppy (messy) emotions." One literary critic said that if the novel not been about slavery, "it would be just another sentimental novel". Another said the book was a "piece of hack (messy) work." In "The Literary History of the United States", George F. Whicher called "Uncle Tom's Cabin" "Sunday-school fiction". 

However, in 1985 Jane Tompkins wrote differently about "Uncle Tom's Cabin" in her book "In Sensational Designs: The Cultural Work of American Fiction." Tompkins praised "Uncle Tom's Cabin"'s style. She said that sentimental novels showed how women's emotions changed the world in a good way. She also said that the popular domestic novels written in the 19th century, like "Uncle Tom's Cabin", were intelligently written. She also said that "Uncle Tom's Cabin" shows a "critique of American society far more devastating (powerful) than any ... by better-known critics such as Hawthorne and Melville."

"Uncle Tom's Cabin" has had a very great influence. There are not many novels in history that changed society so powerfully. When it was published, "Uncle Tom's Cabin", people who defended slavery were very angry and protested against it. Some people even wrote books against it. Abolitionists praised it very much. As a best-seller, the novel greatly influenced later protest literature.

As soon as it was published, "Uncle Tom's Cabin" made people in the American South very angry. The novel was also greatly criticized by people who supported slavery.

A famous novelist from the South, William Gilmore Simms, said that the book was not true. Others called the novel criminal and said it was full of lies. A person who sold books in Mobile, Alabama had to leave town for selling the novel. Stowe received threatening letters. She even received a package with a slave's cut ear once. Many Southern writers, like Simms, soon began writing their own books about slavery.

Some critics said that Stowe had never actually went to a Southern plantation and she did not know much about Southern life. They said that because of this, she made wrong descriptions about the South. However, Stowe always said she made the characters of her book by stories she was told by slaves that ran away to Cincinnati, Ohio, where she lived. It is reported: "She observed firsthand (herself) several incidents (happenings) which ... [inspired] her to write [the] famous anti-slavery novel. Scenes she observed (saw) on the Ohio River, including seeing a husband and wife being sold apart, as well as newspaper and magazine accounts and interviews, contributed material to the ... plot."

In 1853, Stowe published "A Key to Uncle Tom's Cabin". This was to show the people who had criticized the novel's description of slavery that it was true. In the book, Stowe writes about the important characters in "Uncle Tom's Cabin" and about people in real life who were like them. Through this book, she writes a more "aggressive attack on slavery in the South than the novel itself had". Like the novel, "A Key to Uncle Tom's Cabin" was also a best-seller. However, many of the works in "A Key to Uncle Tom's Cabin" was read by Stowe after she published her novel.

Even though there were such criticisms, the novel was still very popular. Stowe's son says that when Abraham Lincoln met her in 1862 Lincoln said, "So this is the little lady who started this great war." Historians are not sure if Lincoln really said this or not. In a letter that Stowe wrote to her husband a few hours after meeting with Lincoln, she does not say anything about this sentence. After this, many writers have said that this novel helped make the North angry at slavery and at the Fugitive Slave Law. It greatly helped the abolitionist movement. Union general and politician James Baird Weaver said that the book made him help in the abolitionist movement.

"Uncle Tom's Cabin" also interested many people in England. The first London edition came out in May 1852. It sold 200,000 copies. Some of this interest was because at that time the British people did not like America. A writer said, "The evil passions which 'Uncle Tom' gratified in England were not hatred or vengeance [of slavery], but national jealousy and national vanity. We have long been smarting (hurting) under the conceit of America — we are tired of hearing her boast that she is the freest and the most enlightened country that the world has ever seen. Our clergy hate her voluntary system — our Tories hate her democrats — our Whigs hate her ... All parties hailed Mrs. Stowe as a revolter from the enemy." Charles Francis Adams, the American minister to Britain during the war, said later that, ""Uncle Tom's Cabin"; or "Life among the Lowly", published in 1852, influenced the world more quickly, powerfully, and dramatically than any other book ever printed."

The book has been translated into almost every language. For example, it was translated into Chinese. Its translator Lin Shu made this the first Chinese translation of an American novel. It was also translated into Amharic. Its 1930 translation was made to help Ethiopia end the suffering of blacks in that nation. The book was read by so many people that Sigmund Freud believed that some of his patients had been influenced by reading about the whipping of slaves in "Uncle Tom's Cabin".

"Uncle Tom's Cabin" was the first widely read political novel in the United States. It greatly influenced American literature and protest literature. Some later books that were greatly influenced by "Uncle Tom's Cabin" are "The Jungle" by Upton Sinclair and "Silent Spring" by Rachel Carson.

However, even though "Uncle Tom's Cabin" was very important, many people thought the book was a mix of "children's fable and propaganda". Many critics called the book "merely (only) a sentimental novel". George Whicher wrote in his "Literary History of the United States" that "Nothing attributable to Mrs. Stowe or her handiwork can account for the novel's enormous (great) vogue (popularity); its author's resources ... of Sunday-school fiction were not remarkable ... melodrama, humor, and pathos … compounded (made up) her book."

Other critics, though, have praised the novel. Edmund Wilson said that "To expose oneself in maturity (when one has grown up) to Uncle Tom's Cabin may … prove a startling (surprising) experience." Jane Tompkins said that the novel is one of the classics of American literature. She suggested that literary critics think badly of the book because it was simply too popular when it came out.

Through the years, people have wondered what Stowe was trying to say with the novel. Some of her themes can be seen easily, like the evil of slavery. However, some themes are harder to see. For example, Stowe was a Christian and active abolitionist, and put lots of her religious beliefs in her book. Some have said that Stowe wrote in her novel what she thought was a solution to the problem that worried many people who did not like slavery. This problem was: was doing things that were not allowed justified if they did it to fight evil? Was it right to use violence to stop the violence of slavery? Was breaking laws that helped slavery right? Which of Stowe's characters should be followed: the patient Uncle Tom or the defiant George Harris? Stowe thought that God's will would be followed if each (every) person sincerely (truly) examined his principles and acted on (followed) them.

People have also thought "Uncle Tom's Cabin" expressed the ideas of the Free Will Movement. In this idea, the character of George Harris symbolizes the free labor. The complex character of Ophelia shows the Northerners who allowed slavery, even though they did not like it. Dinah is very different from Ophelia. She acts by passion. In the book, Ophelia changes. Like Ophelia, the Republican Party (three years later) declared that the North must change itself. It said that the North must stop slavery actively.

Feminist theory can also be seen in Stowe's book. The novel can be seen as criticizing slavery's patriarchal nature. For Stowe, families were related by blood, not by family-like relations between masters and slaves. Stowe also saw the nation as a bigger "family". So, the feelings of nationality came from sharing the same race. Because of this, she supported the idea that freed slaves should live together in a colony.

The book has also been seen as trying to show that masculinity was important in stopping slavery. Abolitionists began to change the way they thought of violent men. They wanted men to help stop slavery without hurting their self-image or their position in society. Because of this, some abolitionists followed some of the principles of women's suffrage, peace, and Christianity. They praised men for helping, working together, and having mercy. Other abolitionists were more traditional: they wanted men to act more forcefully. All the men in Stowe's book show either patient men or traditional men.

Recently, some people have begun criticizing the book for what they thought were racist descriptions of the book's black characters. They criticized the way Stowe wrote about the characters' looks, speech, behavior, and the passive nature of Uncle Tom. The book's use of common stereotypes about African Americans is important because "Uncle Tom's Cabin" was the best-selling novel in the world in the 19th century. Because of this, the book (together with images in the book and related stage productions) helped make a great number of people accept such stereotypes.

Among the African-American stereotypes in "Uncle Tom's Cabin" are:


These stereotypes made many people think much more lightly of the historical importance of "Uncle Tom's Cabin" as a "vital antislavery tool." This change in the way people looked at "Uncle Tom's Cabin" began in an essay by James Baldwin. This essay was titled "Everybody’s Protest Novel." In the essay, Baldwin called "Uncle Tom’s Cabin" a "very bad novel". He said it was not well-written.

In the 1960s and '70s, the Black Power and Black Arts Movements strongly criticized the book. They said that the character of Uncle Tom was a part of "race betrayal". They said that Tom made slaves look worse than slave owners. Criticisms of the other stereotypes in the book also increased during this time.

However, people such as Henry Louis Gates Jr. have begun studying "Uncle Tom's Cabin" again. He says that the book is a "central document in American race relations and a significant (important) moral and political exploration of the character of those relations."



</doc>
<doc id="227631" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227631" title="Jamie McMurray">
Jamie McMurray

James Christopher "Jamie" McMurray (born June 3, 1976) is an American racecar driver. McMurray drives the #1 Bass Pro Shops Chevrolet Impala in the NASCAR Sprint cup series for Earnhardt Ganassi Racing. McMurray won the 2010 Daytona 500.


</doc>
<doc id="227644" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227644" title="Phil Wachsmann">
Phil Wachsmann

Phil Wachsmann (born August 5, 1944) is an African "avant-garde" jazz/jazz fusion violinist born in Kampala, Uganda, probably better known for having founded his own group Chamberpot. He has worked with many musicians in the free jazz idiom, including Tony Oxley, Fred van Hove, Barry Guy, Derek Bailey and Paul Rutherford, among many others. Wachsmann is especially known for playing within the electronica idiom.


</doc>
<doc id="227654" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227654" title="National Autonomous University of Mexico">
National Autonomous University of Mexico

The National Autonomous University of México (UNAM) a university in Mexico City. It is one of the biggest universities in Mexico and Latin America.



</doc>
<doc id="227671" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227671" title="1985 Santiago earthquake">
1985 Santiago earthquake

The 1985 Santiago earthquake was registered the Sunday March 3, 1985 at 22:47 UTC (19:47 local time). Its epicenter was on the coastline of the Valparaiso Region, Chile, near Algarrobo. It had a magnitude of 8.0 on the Richter scale.


</doc>
<doc id="227682" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227682" title="Template:The Club">
Template:The Club


</doc>
<doc id="227701" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227701" title="Jethro Tull">
Jethro Tull

Jethro Tull may refer to:



</doc>
<doc id="227702" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227702" title="Health care">
Health care

'Health care' is the preservation of mental and physical health by preventing or treating illnesses through services offered by the health profession and its staff. Health care includes all reasonable and necessary medical aid, medical examinations, medical treatments, medical diagnoses, medical evaluations and medical services.


</doc>
<doc id="227710" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227710" title="Rodrigo">
Rodrigo

Rodrigo (English: Ruderic, Roderic, Roderik, Roderich, or Roderick, ; died 711 or 712) was the Visigothic King of Hispania for a brief period between 710 and 712. He is famous in legend as "the last king of the Goths." In history he actually is an extremely obscure figure about whom little can be said with certainty but that he ruled part of Iberia with opponents ruling the rest and was defeated and killed by invading Muslims who soon conquered the entire peninsula. His widow Egilona is believed to have married Abd al-Aziz ibn Musa, who was later assassinated.


</doc>
<doc id="227719" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227719" title="Hurricane Ida (2009)">
Hurricane Ida (2009)

Hurricane Ida was the last storm in the 2009 Atlantic hurricane season. It formed in the southwestern Caribbean on November 4 after being in that area for a few days. After becoming a depression it quickly got stronger and became a tropical storm and a hurricane shortly before it struck Nicaragua. Over Central America, Hurricane Ida weakened very fast, becoming downgraded to a tropical depression before the end of the day on November 5.

By November 6, Ida went back into the Caribbean and later became a hurricane again. Its strength changed a few times before it died on November 10 off the coast of Alabama. Reports show that Hurricane Ida caused $5.6 million in damage and caused 2 deaths.

Ida was tracked back to a tropical wave that entered the western Caribbean Sea on November 1. A low soon formed near the tropical wave. This low did not move very much and it also got a lot of clouds near the middle of it. There was hardly any wind shear, which allowed for more clouds to form. 

On November 4, the tropical wave National Hurricane Center began call it Tropical Depression Eleven. The new tropical depression quickly got stronger and became Tropical Storm Ida soon after that. An Aircraft went into Ida and soon found winds at 65 miles per hour, which meant it was nearly a hurricane. 

Continuing to the northwest, Tropical Storm Ida was upgraded to Hurricane Ida when winds got to 80 miles per hour; at the time, it was put at only 75 miles per hour. Soon after this, Hurricane Ida made landfall in Nicaragua on November 5. Ida weakened quickly over land and was downgraded to a tropical storm just after landfall. Near the end of the day on November 5, Tropical Storm Ida weakened to a tropical depression. 

Tropical Depression Ida survived its passage over land and went back into the Caribbean on November 6. Over the western Caribbean, it quickly became a tropical storm again. After moving north, Tropical Storm Ida became a hurricane again. <ref name="update11/7/09"></ref> It reached its highest winds on November 8 while it crossed between Cuba and Mexico; they were measured at 105 miles per hour, making it a category 2 hurricane. Water temperatures in the Gulf of Mexico were not warm enough to keep Ida at this strength. so it quickly weakened back to a tropical storm. 

For only six hours, it became a hurricane again before it became extratropical on November 10 while it was just south of Alabama. At the time, it looked like it stayed as a tropical storm and made landfall in Alabama, this was later noted as incorrect. Its remnants formed a strong nor'easter that affected some of the states of the East Coast of the United States.

Damage in Nicaragua was near $2.1 million and there was not people killed. In El Salvador, it seemed at first that killed over 100 people, this was discovered as a mistake later on.




</doc>
<doc id="227721" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227721" title="Tambo">
Tambo

Tambo could mean:


In Australia:

In Peru:

In South Africa:

Elsewhere:




</doc>
<doc id="227730" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227730" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/List of rocks">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/List of rocks


</doc>
<doc id="227731" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227731" title="Los Navegantes">
Los Navegantes

Los Navegantes (; roughly translated as "Los Navegantes Neighborhood") is a residential neighbourhood in the south-east of Pichilemu, Chile. It is located near the Municipal Stadium and La Cruz Hill. "Los Navegantes" boasts a perimeter of approximately 1.5 km and was founded between 1996-1997 and has a court. The Pichilemu tsunami secure side, starts near the neighborhood.


</doc>
<doc id="227740" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227740" title="Tri Nations (rugby union)">
Tri Nations (rugby union)

The Tri-Nations (rugby union) is an annual rugby competition between New Zealand, Australia and South Africa. The prize for the winning team is the Tri Nations Trophy. The team that wins the tri-nations competition is usually considered to be the best rugby union team in the Southern Hemisphere for that year. 

The tri-nations contest begins in July, which is winter in the Southern Hemisphere. Each team plays the two other teams three times. Nine games are played in total. Teams are awarded competition points for a win, but can also earn 'bonus' points. At the end of the series, the team with the most competition points wins the trophy. 

New Zealand and Australia compete annually for the Bledisloe Cup. Some of the Tri-Nations games count as competition games for the Bledisloe Cup. 
South Africa and Australia compete annually for the Mandela Plate. Some of the Tri-Nations games count as competition games for the Mandela Plate.
New Zealand and South Africa compete annually for the Freedom Cup. Some of the Tri-Nations games count as competition games for the Freedom Cup.


</doc>
<doc id="227741" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227741" title="Agustín Ross Cultural Centre">
Agustín Ross Cultural Centre

Casino Agustín Ross Edwards (English: "Agustín Ross Edwards Casino"), now Agustín Ross Cultural Centre, is a historical casino building located in the Agustín Ross avenue, in front of Ross Park, in Pichilemu, Chile. The building was constructed in the late 1800s, and in 1906 the first Chilean casino was established there. It was closed in 1932 and converted into a hotel which functioned until 1980s. The building is now Pichilemu's cultural centre.

The casino is named after Agustín Ross Edwards, a Chilean writer, member of parliament, minister and politician. He was part of the powerful family Ross Edwards, which founded the newspaper "El Mercurio" years earlier. Based on his european experience, Ross bought a place named ""La Posada"" (English: "The Inn") or Petren Fund in 1885. At that time, it was just some barracks with thick walls with a ground of 300 hectares.

The old Ross Casino was constructed in the late 1800s by Ross himself. It contained the first mail and telegraph service and a big store. The building had three floors, and was raised using imported materials. In January 20, 1906, the first Chilean casino was opened in that building. The Ross Casino worked until 1932, when the permission was cancelled, allowing just the newly constructed Viña del Mar Casino to work. After the closing of the Ross Casino, the building was converted into a hotel was which functioned until the 1980s.

The old casino (1905) and its gardens (1885) are an important part of the city. It was named Historic Monument by the National Monuments Council on February 25, 1988, by the supreme decree N° 100.

Ross was also the administrator of the great Juana Ross de Edwards fortune, the Nancagua Hacienda, located near the city of same name. He designed an urban set of high environmental value and landscape, transforming ""La Posada"" to a hotel ("Great Hotel Pichilemu", later "Hotel Ross", or "Ross Hotel"). 
Ross also built several chalets, terraces, embankments, stone walls, a balcony in front of the beach and several large houses with imported building materials and furniture from France and England. Additionally, he put up a park and a forest of more than 10 hectares. Ross turned Pichilemu into a summer resort town for rich people from Santiago. He, however, could not build a dock for the city, as he had planned. 

In 1935, the Ross successors ceded to the Illustrious Municipality of Pichilemu all the Ross constructions (streets, avenues, squares, seven hectares of forests, the park in front of the hotel, the perrons and the terraces) under condition that the municipality hold them for recreation and public access.

The Cultural Centre was severely damaged after the February 2010 Chile earthquake. The library that it hosted was completely destroyed. After the 2010 Pichilemu earthquake, the Cultural Centre suffered structural damage, but Roberto Córdova, Mayor of Pichilemu, said that it was repairable.


</doc>
<doc id="227742" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227742" title="Wallabies (rugby)">
Wallabies (rugby)

The Wallabies are the national rugby union side of Australia. The first Australian teams played against the British Lions at the Sydney Cricket Ground on 24 June 1899. The Australians won the game 13-3. In 1908, the Australians went to the United Kingdom, France and North America to play. They needed a name and someone suggested the "Rabbits", but the team did not like it and chose the "Wallabies" instead. A wallaby is a small mammal from Australia, very similar to a kangaroo. Until the 1980's, only teams playing overseas were called the Wallabies; when they played in Australia they were called Internationals. Now the national team is called the Wallabies all the time.


</doc>
<doc id="227743" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227743" title="Template:Infobox building">
Template:Infobox building


</doc>
<doc id="227756" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227756" title="Template:Infobox building/doc">
Template:Infobox building/doc

<includeonly></includeonly>


Do not link to an article more than once in the infobox.

It's usually not necessary to use the codice_1 parameter.

One advantage of omitting the codice_1 parameter is that you can display a without duplicating coordinates.

Note: coordinates in decimal degrees are very sensitive to extra whitespace in the parameters:


<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="227761" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227761" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Common year starting on Tuesday">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Common year starting on Tuesday


</doc>
<doc id="227771" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227771" title="Template:Convert/check area">
Template:Convert/check area


</doc>
<doc id="227772" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227772" title="Template:Convert/check area line">
Template:Convert/check area line


</doc>
<doc id="227774" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227774" title="Template:Convert/check area section">
Template:Convert/check area section

! colspan="6" style="text-align: left;" | 

</doc>
<doc id="227775" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227775" title="Template:Convert/check top">
Template:Convert/check top


</doc>
<doc id="227777" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227777" title="Template:Rnd/c6dec1">
Template:Rnd/c6dec1

<includeonly>/10^50000</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="227779" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227779" title="Template:Convert/check length">
Template:Convert/check length


</doc>
<doc id="227780" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227780" title="Template:Convert/check length line">
Template:Convert/check length line


</doc>
<doc id="227781" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227781" title="Template:Convert/check length section">
Template:Convert/check length section

! colspan="6" style="text-align: left;" | 

</doc>
<doc id="227782" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227782" title="Template:Convert/dam">
Template:Convert/dam


</doc>
<doc id="227783" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227783" title="Template:Convert/dm">
Template:Convert/dm


</doc>
<doc id="227784" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227784" title="Template:Convert/hm">
Template:Convert/hm


</doc>
<doc id="227786" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227786" title="Template:Rnd/c2dec1">
Template:Rnd/c2dec1

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="227787" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227787" title="Template:Rnd/e-">
Template:Rnd/e-

<includeonly>×10</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="227788" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227788" title="Template:Convert/check speed line">
Template:Convert/check speed line


</doc>
<doc id="227789" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227789" title="Template:Convert/check speed">
Template:Convert/check speed


</doc>
<doc id="227790" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227790" title="Template:Convert/check speed section">
Template:Convert/check speed section

! colspan="6" style="text-align: left;" | 

</doc>
<doc id="227791" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227791" title="Template:Convert/check temperature">
Template:Convert/check temperature


</doc>
<doc id="227792" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227792" title="Wikipedia:Changing username/Archive 3">
Wikipedia:Changing username/Archive 3

Hello. I want to have my username changed from Snake311 to Slipknot1. Thanks, — ()! 01:03, 9 January 2010 (UTC)

I want to change my username to Oxygeek -- () 22:30, 12 February 2010 (UTC)

I renamed my Liverpoolfan567 account to Quantum4 and would like my alternative account to be renamed as well. Thanks. () 20:11, 5 February 2010 (UTC)


I want to change my username to GeoWiki -- () 09:10, 14 February 2010 (UTC)


Already renamed on Wikinews. -- 23:58, 7 April 2010 (UTC)

Would like to get my bot renamed according to my new username. Thanks. -- 20:53, 23 April 2010 (UTC)

Current Username is my own and I'd prefer to have more privacy.

 -- () 20:46, 28 June 2010 (UTC)

 — 17:10, 23 June 2010 (UTC)
Reason: Renaming for many reasons. — 17:11, 23 June 2010 (UTC)

I am changing my username across Wikimedia Projects for various reasons. Here is proof that I have control of the CT Cooper username. Thanks in advance. 19:55, 16 June 2010 (UTC)
 Changing handles to a new SUL account. This one is cleaner, and by doing this over all the site I use I'll be discarding a lot of old accounts I don't use anymore. Thanks! 

 Many thanks!

 I didn't really pick my own username, just created my account for me as a "surprise"...I've grown fond of it, but I think it's a little too long, and a little ironical, as I'm not really ...:P I would be very much obliged if anyone could rename me. Thank you! — 03:14, 11 June 2010 (UTC)

 My 1st bot... ( ) 22:35, 8 June 2010 (UTC)

 () 17:06, 9 July 2010 (UTC)

Part of a global renaming process for personal reasons (see , , , ) 

Target account does not exist (but it's SUL-reserved to avoid complications during the process so you'll get a confirmation message when renaming). () 17:07, 9 July 2010 (UTC)

 13:32, 22 July 2010 (UTC)

 15:20, 21 July 2010 (UTC)

 21:00, 20 July 2010 (UTC)


I am Calliopejen1 on en.wiki and I want to finally merge my accounts using SUL. A vandal impersonated me here a while ago and essentially made a few edits that are marginally constructive (but shouldn't require GFDL/CC attribution) as well as copying my userpage. Can I usurp this account? Is it best to usurp first and merge after? Or merge first and usurp after? Or can I not unify this account into mine? () 20:59, 16 July 2010 (UTC)

 () 05:10, 20 December 2010 (UTC)

 () 15:31, 8 December 2010 (UTC)

 () 12:35, 7 December 2010 (UTC)

 () 22:42, 29 November 2010 (UTC)

 () 15:40, 23 November 2010 (UTC)

 () 21:09, 20 November 2010 (UTC)

 () 20:28, 17 November 2010 (UTC)

 () 15:35, 14 November 2010 (UTC)
 () 15:35, 14 November 2010 (UTC)

 () 11:51, 14 November 2010 (UTC)

— • 10:50, 12 November 2010 (UTC)

 () 02:57, 1 November 2010 (UTC)


I wish to disappear from enwiki (making the account homeless), but I have , so I request rename so this account's password shall not be changed. Cheerfully, — 21:04, 29 September 2010 (UTC)

Hi can you please change my current Username of Pssforex to GLicht. Thanks! 

 () 02:24, 28 August 2010 (UTC)

 21:07, 29 November 2010 (UTC)

Never really liked my username. This is probably going to cause a unification nightmare, but hey, I'll request usurpation on each project as I go. ✞ 04:48, 16 April 2010 (UTC)


I was redirected here from the . I would like to unify SUL from and my account there. Thanks.

 It's me -- () 20:39, 30 July 2010 (UTC)

I am User:Dwayne on the English Wikipedia, and i'm trying to merge my accounts using SUL. () 00:04, 22 July 2010 (UTC)

 () 10:49, 20 October 2010 (UTC) --------- I am requesting this usurp for a SUL (I have already changed from Pepperpiggle to Pepper on en, commons, and fr.)

I am requesting to usurp and to merge it with my SUL account of the same name. This is my SUL, There are only 2 Contributions of Crux here, probably he should be renamed to Crux16. Here is the confirmation of my identity. Thanks in advance! -- () 20:08, 20 August 2010 (UTC)

I am requesting to usurp and to merge it with my SUL account of the same name. The account here is more than a year old and has . This edit confirms my identity.— () 17:52, 20 August 2010 (UTC)

I'd like to usurp Marcus Qwertyus it's not 6 months old yet but Marcus Qwertyus is my own account. () 21:34, 18 August 2010 (UTC)

Ok you want

Email from both accounts, or edit here with the other account to confirm you are the owner, and we will forgo the 6 month wait... to go ahead and usurp. Thanks, @:~$ 13:40, 19 August 2010 (UTC)


Changing name in order to link SUL properly, en.wiki confirmation is here: 

http://commons.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?title=Commons%3AChanging_username%2FCurrent_requests&action=historysubmit&diff=40647238&oldid=40602489 () 00:45, 20 June 2010 (UTC)

The account on simple is actually my imported contribs. diff. () 08:52, 8 June 2010 (UTC)

I am User:Krd at SUL and like to take over User:Krd on the Simple English Wikipedia. Confirmation: Thank you. -- () 13:25, 10 September 2010 (UTC)

I am requesting SUL unification. I want to use on the Simple English Wikipedia. This is an acount which is blocked indefinitely more than two years ago. Please let me take over that account. I am w:nl:Gebruiker:Itsme on the dutch Wikipedia and on 90 other Wikipedia-sites. Please see request on top of my my Dutch user page. () 22:43, 15 August 2010 (UTC)

</doc>
<doc id="227793" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227793" title="Sparrow">
Sparrow

A Sparrow is a member of the genus "Passer". They are small passerine birds which belong to the family "Passeridae". They are also known as old-world Sparrows. Sparrows often make their nests near houses or buildings. This means they are one of the easiest birds to see in the wild. 

The genus has about 30 species round the world The best known of these is the House Sparrow, "Passer domesticus". 

Some authorities place other genera in the Sparrow group: "Petronia", the Rock Rparrows; "Carpospiza", the Pale Rockfinch; and "Montifringilla", the Snow Finches.

Sparrows are small birds. They are between 11–18 centimeters long. They can weigh between 13–42 grams. They are usually brown and gray. They have short tails and small, strong beaks. Most sparrows eat seeds or small insects. Sparrows are social birds and they live in flocks (groups). 

The House Sparrow ("Passer domesticus") is a species of sparrow. It lives all over the world. It originally lived only in Europe and Asia. However, people travelled to new places and the House Sparrow went to those places too. It is now the bird with the widest distribution. This means it lives in the most places. The species has about 50 subspecies.

Sparrows can be seen on every continent on earth. A long time ago, they lived only in Europe, Asia and Africa. However, people traveled to Australia, North America and South America, and now sparrows are seen there too. The House Sparrow is seen on every continent. In Australia, there are no sparrows in Western Australia, as they have not been able to travel across the deserts that separate that state from the eastern states. The government employs people to hunt and destroy any sparrows that might arrive.

The House Sparrow was introduced deliberately to America in the late 19th century. It was imported by several people, including Eugene Schieffelin, who was a wealthy New York City admirer of Shakespeare. He wanted to introduce to America all the birds mentioned in the works of Shakespeare. Two of these species were great successes: Starlings and House Sparrows. He organized a society for the importation of foreign birds, incorporated in Albany.

Some scientists believe that the "Estrildid finches" are in the same family as sparrows. but they are now in a different family; the "Estrildidae"

There is also a group called 'American sparrows', or New World sparrows. These are also in a different family, the "Emberizidae" (Buntings).

The 'Hedge Sparrow' (also known as the Dunnock) "Prunella modularis" is also not a true sparrow. It is only called a sparrow because a long time ago, people called all small, brown birds 'sparrows'. This name is still used today because it is a tradition.

The House Sparrow is small bird. It is between 14–18 centimeters (5.5–7.1 in) long. It weighs between 24–39.5 grams (0.85–1.4 oz). Females are smaller than males.

The male and female House Sparrows are different colors. The male is brown, gray and white. It has a black throat. The female and young House Sparrows are brown and dark yellow or cream. They have streaks (stripes) on their heads and wings.

The House Sparrow lives close to humans, often near human houses in towns or cities. It also lives near farms. The House Sparrow makes a nest in a bush or small tree. It can have two or three broods per year. This means it has two or three sets of eggs and chicks each year. 

The number of House Sparrows in the United Kingdom has gone down, because their hedgerow habitat has shrunk. They are now 'endangered' in the United Kingdom. However, in other countries, the House Sparrow is still very common.


</doc>
<doc id="227811" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227811" title="Couch">
Couch

The couch, or a sofa, is a kind of furniture that is designed to seat more than one person. It usually has a place to rest your arm on each side. Couches are normally found in the livingroom or in front of the TV.

In the 17th and 18th centuries, a couch was thought as a long, upward seat for resting on. One end would slope up high enough to provide a place for the head to rest.
Some late 18th-century kinds of couches had an arm running partly down one side, and this type continued to be made in England. In Greek places, there were flowing designs with all kind of elegant colors. Many of them had scrolled ends and short legs. The couch was later taken over by the overstuffed sofa during the Victorian age.

Because the couch is usually set in front of the TV, it is the main place where people usually sit and watch it. Lazy people would eventually seem to be stuck to it all the time. This person, a person who does not do a lot of physical activity, was called a "couch potato". This was also because potatoes do not move at all, and does not do anything but just sits there. This may also be considered as slang. Couch came from the word "couche", which means, "a bed, lair," or from the word "coucher", which means "to lie down."

The most common types of couches that are easy to see in any house are the "love seats" or the "sofa". Other couches are couches such as the "divan" or the ""fainting couch"", which usually does not have a back. Couches are usually bought in a set together with cushions, which give them a bouncey and decorative comfortable touch.




</doc>
<doc id="227824" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227824" title="Jena Lee">
Jena Lee

Jena Lee (born 29 July, 1987 in Chile) is a French singer. She was adopted by a French family at the age of nine months. In 2007, Jena Lee met Sulee B Wax, who was interested in her work. At this point in time Lee wrote the song "Some Share". The song was used in an album by Sherifa Luna. Jena Lee wrote six out of the thirteen songs that are on Sherifa Luna's album. In 2008, Jena Lee won the Urban Music Nation contest by Skyrock. Her first single "J'aimerais Tellement" was released in April 2009 along with a music video. It was at the top of the French single charts for eleven weeks. It had the highest number of downloads in November 2009.


</doc>
<doc id="227825" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227825" title="Sinik">
Sinik

Thomas Gerard Idir or SINIK is a French rapper. He was born in 26 Jun 1980.
His mother , his friends and his father is Algerian. He is in the list of the best French rapper. Thomas had four years old when his parents move in "Les Ulis" , in the city of "Bergère". When he was six years old, he began to be passionate for the football and he played it ends sixteen years old.
Sinik met Diam's in 1994 and they became good friends. 

When he leaves his parents home, he became involved in crime and show his hated with the police. He mhad many problems with the justice due of traffic of drug, burglary and in armed robbery.
SINIK was imprisoned for one years in the "Prison of Fleury-Mérogis".

He created a group in his college and began "Los Monzas".Thank to the participation of "Les Amonts" in 1996 for began the group of rap: UI'Team Atom with the rapper Grödash.


</doc>
<doc id="227826" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227826" title="Wikipedia:Student tutorial/Nav bar">
Wikipedia:Student tutorial/Nav bar


</doc>
<doc id="227843" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227843" title="Porridge">
Porridge

'

"Porridge"' is a food which is made with a cereal, usually oats. The oats are boiled in water or milk, or both. It is usually served hot in a bowl or dish. Some people like to add things to their porridge such as sugar or syrup.

Porridge is a traditional food in many countries in Northern Europe. It is usually eaten for breakfast. In some countries barley or other grains may be used. Porridge can be cooked in saucepans or in a microwave. Traditionally it may be cooked in large metal kettles over hot coals.

Porridge was traditionally served as food for prisoners in prisons. This is why in English there is a slang expression "doing porridge" which means "being in prison".

Porridge is often given to people who are ill because it is nourishing and it is easy to eat.

Semolina is similar to porridge but it is usually served as a pudding (a dessert). 

Gruel is similar to porridge but is much more like a drink. It is not as nice as porridge, it is made with water. It was eaten by poor people in Victorian times. Oliver Twist, in the famous book by Charles Dickens, is given gruel to eat.



</doc>
<doc id="227857" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227857" title="Fresnel lens">
Fresnel lens

A Fresnel lens is an optical lens, which was originally developed for Lighthouses. It is named after its inventor, French physicist Augustin-Jean Fresnel. The name is pronounced /freɪˈnɛl/ (fray-NELL), the 's' is silent. Before Fresnel, Buffon and Condorcet proposed a similar design, as a way to make large burning lenses. 

The design allows the construction of lenses of large aperture and short focal length without the weight and volume of material that would be required in conventional lens design. Compared to earlier lenses, the Fresnel lens is much thinner. More light can pass through. Lighthouses that use these kind of lenses can be seen from farther away. 


</doc>
<doc id="227858" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227858" title="Giacomo Meyerbeer">
Giacomo Meyerbeer

Giacomo Meyerbeer (born near Berlin, 5 September 1791; died Paris, 2 May 1864) was a famous German-born opera composer. He was the most important composer of French Grand opera during the 1830s and 1840s. Although he was tremendously popular in his day, his music is not often played now.

Meyerbeer was born into a rich Jewish family in Tasdorf (now a part of Rüdersdorf), near Berlin. His father owned large sugar refineries in Berlin and in Italy. His mother also came from a wealthy family. Her father had been important in Germany’s struggle to be free of the French in 1812 when Napoleon was trying to conquer much of Europe. Giacomo’s mother did a lot of good work trying to help people who were wounded during the war. 

A lot of famous people came to the house where Giacomo’s family lived. Some of their friends were from the royal Prussian court, including the future King Friedrich Wilhelm IV. The naturalist and explorer Alexander von Humboldt also visited them quite often.

Meyerbeer's first piano teacher was Franz Lauska, who also taught the royal princes. He also had lessons in composition. Meyerbeer first played in public in 1801 playing Mozart's Piano Concerto in D Minor in Berlin. He wrote his first opera in 1810. In the same year he went to Darmstadt to study with the well-known music theorist Abbé Vogler. There he met the young Carl Maria von Weber who was also a pupil of Vogler. He left Vogler in 1811 and tried to get some work in Munich. In 1813 he found he had been offered a job as court composer to the Grand Duke of Hessen. Vogler had probably recommended him for the job. At this time Meyerbeer was better known as a pianist than as a composer. He travelled to London to hear J.B.Cramer. There he met other famous pianists such as Kalkbrenner and Ferdinand Ries.

In 1816 Meyerbeer went to Italy. He wanted to learn about Italian opera and collect Italian folksongs. He was going to stay three months, but he stayed nine years. He made some trips back to Germany and Austria during this time. He composed several operas which became very popular. People started to compare him with the famous Rossini. However, in Germany people were not interested in his music. He took his opera "Il crociato in Egitto" to London and then to Paris, where it was an immediate success. The opera is remembered now for being the last opera ever to have a part for a castrato singer. 

He was becoming well-known now. Spontini asked him to compose an opera for Berlin. He became friends, in Paris, with the librettist Eugène Scribe who had a lot of influence in the French theatre. 

From 1825 onwards Meyerbeer spent his life travelling about Europe. He was often in Paris and in Berlin, but did not live in either of these places. He stayed in hotels or private houses wherever he went. One reason why he travelled was because of his health. His wife also had bad health, so they often went to spa towns to try to get better. He also travelled about to watch productions of his operas, and to hear young singers.

When Carl Maria von Weber died, he left an opera, "Die drei Pintos", unfinished. It was sent to Meyerbeer in the hope that he would finish it, but he did not seem interested. In the end Gustav Mahler finished it many years later.

Meyerbeer made changes to "Il crociato in Egitto" and turned it into a grand opera for the Opéra in Paris. He changed it from an Italian to a French opera, composing extra dance music and a new overture. He was determined to be famous in Paris.

In 1826 he married his cousin. They had two children, but they both died when they were very small.

In 1828 Auber had composed a very successful opera called "La muette de Portici". It was the first French grand opera. Meyerbeer realized he could not become really popular by turning his Italian operas into French grand opera, so he took his comic opera "Robert le Diable" and changed it into a grand opera. It is probably the best opera Meyerbeer ever wrote. Within three years it had been performed in 77 theatres in 10 different countries. Many composers made their own arrangements of some of the tunes from the opera. He was given many honours: the Chevalier of the Legion d’honneur, the title of Prussian Hof Kapellmeister (Director of Music at the Royal Court), and was made a member of the Prussian Academy of Arts and a member of the French Institute. 

Meyerbeer realized that anything else he wrote would have to be really good. In 1836 he produced another opera "Les Huguenots". 

In 1842 he went to Boulogne to improve his health. There he met Richard Wagner who asked him for financial help to stage his operas "Rienzi" and "The Flying Dutchman". Meyerbeer lent him money, but stopped giving him money when he heard that Wagner was secretly criticizing him.

When Spontini died Meyerbeer was made Generalmusikdirektor in Berlin. His opera "Les Huguenots" had been forbidden in Germany, but now it was allowed to be performed. As court composer he wrote a grand opera called "Ein Feldschlag in Schlesien" ("A Battle in Silesia"), but it was too patriotic ever to become internationally famous. The main part in the opera was sung by Jenny Lind.

In 1849 he returned to Paris where he had fewer enemies than in Germany. He wrote several works together with Scribe, whom Meyerbeer described as the best librettist of comic opera. His opera "Le prophète" was a huge success and earned him a lot of money. The great contralto Pauline Viardot-Garcia sang the main part.

Scribe died in 1861. Meyerbeer worked very hard to try to finish his opera "L’africaine". Napoleon III said he wanted it to be performed by the winter of 1862-63, but he did not finish it until 1864. The work was being rehearsed for its first performance when Meyerbeer suddenly died.

Meyerbeer’s body was taken to Berlin where it was buried in the Jewish cemetery in a vault that belonged to his family.

Meyerbeer was always more popular in France than in Germany. His operas are about the society of wealthy people. The sounds he made with his orchestra are often deliberately “unbeautiful” in order to show the harshness of real life. In this he is like Beethoven in his final years, and Berlioz. He sometimes used new instruments such as the bass clarinet and the saxophone. He always thought carefully about what his singers were capable of when writing his music. He enjoyed working with different singers, among them Velluti, who was the last of the great operatic castrati. He thought carefully about how to give his singers rests during the opera so that they would still be in good voice for the climax of the story. He liked scenes with large crowds. He composed his dance music very carefully, and would often throw it away and start again if the dancers were not happy with it.

Besides his operas he also wrote orchestral pieces for special occasions. He also wrote some songs for performance in the salon.

Meyerbeer was one of the richest men in Europe. This is why some people hated him.

Meyerbeer’s operas were very popular in the middle of the 19th century, but by the end of the century they had gone out of fashion. In the 20th century his music was
banned by the Nazi’s because the composer was Jewish. Today there is some interest again, but nothing like the huge popularity he had in his lifetime.


</doc>
<doc id="227863" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227863" title="Grand opera">
Grand opera

Grand Opera is a term which is used to describe an opera with continuous music. It is a kind of opera that was popular in the 19th-century. Grand operas are usually divided into four or five acts. There have large casts (many singers taking part) and large orchestras. There is a lot of scenery. The story is dramatic. It is usually a story about a hero from history. The term "Grand Opera" has often been used to describe the Paris Opéra from the late 1820s to around 1850, and sometimes to describe the Paris Opéra itself. 

In a broader sense "Grand Opera" can be any large-scale opera from European countries. During the 1830s and 1840s Giacomo Meyerbeer was thought to be the greatest composer of Grand Opera.


</doc>
<doc id="227867" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227867" title="Affair">
Affair

An affair is an relationship especially a temporary one. 

An affair can also mean some kind of public controversy or scandal. For example, a political affair may be describing some bad activities of public officials, such as the Watergate affair, or the Dreyfus affair.




</doc>
<doc id="227873" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227873" title="Lake Lucerne">
Lake Lucerne

Lake Lucerne is a lake in central Switzerland. It is the fourth largest lake in the country. The German name is Vierwaldstättersee which means: "Lake of the Four Forested Cantons".

It is possible to travel all the way round the side of the lake by road. There are several tunnels on the way. It is very popular with tourists. There are many hotels by the lake.




</doc>
<doc id="227881" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227881" title="Die Feen">
Die Feen

Die Feen ("The Fairies") is an opera in three acts by Richard Wagner. The German libretto was written by the composer. He was adapting a story by Carlo Gozzi called "La donna serpente".

"Die Feen" was the first opera that Wagner finished. However, it was never performed during his lifetime. It has never become popular, although the overture is sometimes played. The music shows the influence of Carl Maria von Weber and other composers of the time. It also shows some musical ideas that Wagner was to develop later in his life in his famous operas. The fairy tale atmosphere in the story is also an idea that he uses in his later operas which deal with fantasy stories. The idea of being saved (redemption) is also an important idea that he used in later operas.


</doc>
<doc id="227887" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227887" title="Rienzi">
Rienzi

Rienzi is an opera by Richard Wagner. Its full title is Rienzi, der Letzte der Tribunen ("Rienzi, the Last of the Tribunes"). It is one of the earliest operas Wagner wrote. There are five acts. Wagner wrote the libretto himself, using the story from a novel by Edward Bulwer-Lytton. It was composed between 1838 and 1840. It was first performed at the Hofoper, Dresden on 20 October 1842. It was the first time Wagner had a success as an opera composer.

The story of the opera is set in Rome and is based on the life of Cola di Rienzi (1313–1354), a medieval Italian populist figure who manages to trick the nobles and their followers. He helps the people to get power. At first he is very popular, but then he has to use force against the nobles, and the Church turns against him. In the end the ordinary people burn the Capitol where Rienzi and his friends are sheltering.


</doc>
<doc id="227888" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227888" title="Chess tournament">
Chess tournament

A chess tournament is a competition between chess players. It can take one of these forms:

Since the first international chess tournament in London, 1851, chess tournaments have become a standard form of competition among regular players.

 


</doc>
<doc id="227891" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227891" title="The Flying Dutchman (opera)">
The Flying Dutchman (opera)

Der fliegende Holländer ("The Flying Dutchman") is an opera by Richard Wagner. Wagner wrote the libretto himself. The story comes from the legend of the "Flying Dutchman", which is about the captain of a ship. It is his fate that he has keep sailing the sea, without ever going on to land, until Judgment Day.
The most important idea in the story as told by Wagner is redemption through love. It was a favourite idea of Wagner, who used it a lot in his later operas.

Wagner conducted the first performance at the Semper Oper in Dresden, in 1843. It is an early opera of Wagner, but it shows his mature style. It is very different from the previous opera "Rienzi" which is still quite similar to operas that other composers were writing. In "Der fliegende Holländer" the drama is very important. Wagner uses a number of leitmotifs: musical ideas associated with particular characters and themes in the story. The leitmotifs are all introduced in the overture. We hear the famous leitmotif of the ocean and then those of the Dutchman and of Senta, the girl he falls in love with.

Wagner originally wrote "Der fliegende Holländer" to be performed without any breaks (intermission). Sometimes it is performed like that today, but Wagner also made a version with three acts.


</doc>
<doc id="227903" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227903" title="Tannhäuser (opera)">
Tannhäuser (opera)

Tannhäuser is an opera by Richard Wagner. The full title is Tannhäuser und der Sängerkrieg auf Wartburg, ("Tannhäuser and the Singers' Contest at Wartburg"). It is divided into three acts. As usual, Wagner wrote the libretto himself.

The story is about the struggle between sacred love and profane love, and redemption (salvation) through love. Most of Wagner's operas are about this.

The story is based on the historical character of Tannhäuser about whom very little is known except the myths about him. It is also about the myth of Venus, but it also deals with the medieval Minnesinger. 

Half of the opera takes place in a historical setting, and half takes place in the mythological Venusberg.

It was first performed in Dresden in 1845.


</doc>
<doc id="227909" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227909" title="New York State Route 199">
New York State Route 199

New York State Route 199 (NY 199) is a road in the Hudson Valley of New York, United States. It is long, and goes from near Kingston to Millerton. In between, NY 199 crosses over the Hudson River over a bridge and passes through the communities of Red Hook and Pine Plains. Part of the road was part of the Ulster and Delaware Turnpike. NY 199 was named in 1930.



</doc>
<doc id="227911" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227911" title="Template:Infobox road/NY/shield Parkway">
Template:Infobox road/NY/shield Parkway


</doc>
<doc id="227912" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227912" title="Template:Infobox road/NY/link Parkway">
Template:Infobox road/NY/link Parkway


</doc>
<doc id="227913" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227913" title="Template:Infobox road/NY/abbrev Parkway">
Template:Infobox road/NY/abbrev Parkway


</doc>
<doc id="227915" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227915" title="New York State Route 9G">
New York State Route 9G

New York State Route 9G (NY 9G) is a road in Dutchess County, New York, United States. It starts at US 9 in Poughkeepsie and follows the Hudson River as it goes north. It crosses Route 9 just north of Rhinebeck and ends in Hudson.



</doc>
<doc id="227918" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227918" title="Kennedy Center Honors">
Kennedy Center Honors

Every year, the Kennedy Center gives its Kennedy Center Honors to artists. These artists have contributed to American culture. Most of these artists were performers, such as actors, dancers, and musicians. Some of these artists were movie directors, play writers, and song writers. Most of the recipients have been American. The President of the United States usually attends the awards ceremony. The Honors are given in Washington, D.C. at the Kennedy Center Opera House.








</doc>
<doc id="227924" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227924" title="Wikipedia:Books/Roman Mythology">
Wikipedia:Books/Roman Mythology



</doc>
<doc id="227925" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227925" title="Wikipedia:Requests for oversightship/Fr33kman">
Wikipedia:Requests for oversightship/Fr33kman


</doc>
<doc id="227953" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227953" title="The Vicar of Wakefield">
The Vicar of Wakefield

The Vicar of Wakefield is a book that was written by Irish author Oliver Goldsmith. It is a popular book and is one of the most liked works of the 18th-century. It is about the life of the Primrose family, who are led by the kind vicar, who tells the story of a classical fairy-tale of secrets, lies, the of a beautiful heroine, and the schemes of a rich villain. Sometimes comic, sometimes , it is sometimes thought as simply a straightforward sentimental novel, and sometimes as a on the style it seems to use.

The most famous story of how Goldsmith's book was first published is written in James Boswell's "Life of Johnson" in 1791. Dr. Samuel Johnson, Goldsmith's friend, is reported to have remembered,



</doc>
<doc id="227970" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227970" title="Cypripedioideae">
Cypripedioideae

Lady's slipper orchids, lady slipper orchids or slipper orchids are the orchids in the subfamily Cypripedioidea. They are special because of the -shaped orchid pouches of the flowers. The pouch traps insects so that they must climb up past the , where they get or give pollen, fertilizing the flower.

Some people think this subfamily should be different from the Orchidacae as a family Cypripediaceae.

A lady slipper orchid has a deep pocket that is actually a bee trap. When a bee crawls down into the flower to get the nectar, the pocket on the flower closes shut. Because of this, the bee is stuck for a while, wiggling and squirming, getting pollen all over itself.
The bee finally finds a small opening near the top of the orchid, and it gets out so that it can get trapped inside another lady slipper, where it will give that pollen to the other lady slipper's stigma.

The lady's slipper is also known in the United States of America as the "moccasin flower", because it looks like a shoe or .




</doc>
<doc id="227972" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227972" title="Art Decade">
Art Decade

Art Decade is an experimental/progressive rock band from Boston, Massachusetts. Their influences such are David Bowie, Muse, The Mars Volta, and Radiohead. The instruments they play are guitar, bass, drums, and vocals; they are currently playing live shows with a full string quartet.

Ben Talmi of Art Decade formed his first band in 2003 while in 8th grade, with Ben on guitar and vocals, Channel released its first EP "Perpetual Motion" in 2003. The band's second release, ""Inch Deep Oceans"". Three songs from that album, the title song "“Inch Deep Oceans”", "“Havoc”", and "“The March”" were submitted for the 49th Grammy Awards in 2006. Channel toured Canada and the East coast to promote "“Inch Deep Oceans”" and were featured live on air and received airplay on college radio stations including Carnegie Mellon, Case-Western, Brock University, and on Yellowbeat Radio in Japan.

Channel's next release ""Androgyny Is In"" was recorded at Looking Glass Studios with producer Mario McNulty (Bowie, Morrissey, Iggy Pop.) In 2008, ""Androgyny Is In"" was again submitted for the 2008 Grammy Awards. ""Androgyny Is In"" garnered the attention of the late LeRoi Moore of the Dave Matthews Band which led to the newly named Art Decade recording ""Innocence/Experience"" at Dave Matthew's own Haunted Hollow Studio in Charlottesville, Virginia. ""Innocence/Experience"" was released in June 2008. 

In 2008, Binod Singh Jr of Toronto, ON joined Art Decade on bass and vocals, and Chad Montermini of Olympia, WA on drums and vocals. Art Decade then recorded and released their latest EP, ""Royalty"" on September 9th, 2009. Since "Royalty," Art Decade has been playing several shows in Boston and gaining fanbases heavily in New England as well as other areas of the USA. The band is currently working with a full string quartet to help improve the bands live sound.

Art Decade is currently in the studio with Producer Dan Hannon (Manchester Orchestra, Favorite Gentleman Recordings) working on their debut full length ""Western Sunrise.""

! Album Name
! Release Date



</doc>
<doc id="227982" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227982" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/List of abbreviations">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/List of abbreviations


</doc>
<doc id="227995" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227995" title="Pandita Ramabai">
Pandita Ramabai

Pandita Ramabai (23 April 1858, Karnataka- 5 April 1922) was an Indian Christian who tried to change many things in India. A poet and scholar, she was tried hard to improve (make better) the lives of women in India. She wrote many books including her popular "The High-Caste Indian Woman", which showed the troubles of child wives and women in India.

She was born at Gangamoola,Mala village, Karkala Taluk,Karnataka State and her father name is Ananta Shastri. She lost father and mother (Laxmi Bai) early and with her brother she travelled to Kalkota. There she got Pandita and Sarasvathi Award for her expertise in Sanskrit Poetry. Pandita did not quickly receive Christ. Born in the home of an important and scholar Brahmin, Pandita Ramabai had more freedom than many Indian women. Her father taught her and her mother to read Sanskrit writing. When she read the Hindu holy writings, she began to get with her religion. She then began to study Christianity in India, and later in England. She decided that it was the best religion and she should be a Christian. However, she had not yet received Jesus into her "heart". Ramabai later said,

Shortly after her "true conversion", Pandita Ramabai began a faith mission for the girls and widows of India. Like George Mueller and Hudson Taylor, whose biographies she had read, Pandita and her helpers began a school and prayed for what they needed every day. When a great famine came to India, Pandita went to and saved widows and girls from death or abuse.

Soon she had over a thousand women and girls at the mission. Helping this many people during a time of great famine was very hard, but Pandita wrote in her autobiography,

Every day Pandita Ramabai and her helpers taught the women to read and write, showed them cleanliness, and helped them prepare for a job. She also taught them about Jesus. She opened Ashrams at Poona, Mumbai.She established Christian High school at Gulbarga,(Now at Karnataka) and her daughter Manorama was the principal. Manorama studied at USA and travelled in Australia.


</doc>
<doc id="228008" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228008" title="Synthesis">
Synthesis

Synthesis means to bring ideas together, or to make something out of parts which were independent. It is the opposite of analysis.




</doc>
<doc id="228012" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228012" title="Ruy Lopez">
Ruy Lopez

The Ruy Lopez, also called the "Spanish Opening", is an ancient chess opening. These are the opening moves:


The Ruy Lopez is one of the most common and well liked openings, with many ways to play it. It has always been popular in master chess. Something to know about it is that it does not threaten the black e5 pawn:


For this reason White usually plays a longer-term strategy, starting




</doc>
<doc id="228013" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228013" title="Category:Chess openings">
Category:Chess openings


</doc>
<doc id="228021" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228021" title="Triathlon">
Triathlon

A triathlon is a sport that consists of three different events one after another without resting in between. Usually, they are swimming, cycling, and running. Triathlon has been in the Olympic Games since 2000. One of the hardest and most famous triathlons is the Ironman Triathlon, which involves swimming two miles, biking a hundred miles, and then running a marathon.


</doc>
<doc id="228043" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228043" title="Wikipedia:Requests for oversightship/The Rambling Man">
Wikipedia:Requests for oversightship/The Rambling Man


</doc>
<doc id="228051" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228051" title="Continuous function">
Continuous function

In mathematics a function is said to be continuous if a "small change" in the inputs only cause a "small change" in the output. If this is not the case, the function is said to be discontinuous. Functions defined on the real numbers, with one input and one output variable will show as an "uninterrupted line". They can be drawn "without lifting the pen". The definition given above was made by Augustin-Louis Cauchy.

Karl Weierstrass gave another definition of continuity: Suppose that there is a function "f", defined on the real numbers. At the point formula_1 the function will have the value formula_2. If the function is continuous at formula_1, then for every value of formula_4 no matter how small it is, there is a value of formula_5, so that whenever formula_6, that makes formula_7. Intuitively: Given a point close to formula_1 (called x), the "absolute value" of the difference between the two values of the function can be made arbitrarily small, if the point x is "close enough" to formula_1.

There are also special forms of continuous, such as "Lipschitz-continuous". A function is Lipschitz-continuous if there is a formula_10 with formula_11 for all x,y ∈ (a,b).


</doc>
<doc id="228060" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228060" title="List of surviving veterans of World War I">
List of surviving veterans of World War I

The Following list is the last living veterans of the First World War.
These are the veterans who served before Armistice Day and who have been fully verified as a World War I veteran, also veterans who have not been verified and veterans who are classed as World War I-era (both verified and unverified).





</doc>
<doc id="228064" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228064" title="Peter Falk">
Peter Falk

Peter Michael Falk (born September 16, 1927 - died June 23, 2011) was an American actor. His was most famous for his title role in Columbo.

Falk was born in Manhattan on September 16, 1927. He grew up in Ossining, N.Y. He earned a degree in political science from the New School for Social Research. He then earned his Master's degree in public administration at Syracuse University.

He appeared in a number of Broadway plays including: "The Prisoner of Second Avenue", "The Passion of Josef D", "Diary of a Scoundrel", and "Saint Joan". Falk won four Emmy Awards playing the police detective Columbo, and one for "The Dick Powell Theatre". He was nominated for seven other Emmy awards. Falk also received two Academy Award nominations for the films "Murder Inc." and "Pocketful of Miracles".

Falk was diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease. He died in his Beverly Hills home on June 23, 2011.


</doc>
<doc id="228065" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228065" title="Claude Choules">
Claude Choules

Claude Choules (3 March 1901 - 5 May 2011 ) was a British World War I veteran who served in the Royal Navy.

Born in Wyre Piddle, son of Harry & Madeline (née Winn), near Pershore, Worcestershire, Choules joined the Royal Navy as a young man in 1916, and served aboard the Naval Training Ship HMS Circe at Plymouth. In 1917, he joined the battleship HMS "Revenge", which was the flagship of the First Battle Squadron. While serving aboard her, Choules witnessed the surrender of the German Imperial Navy at the Firth of Forth in 1918, ten days after the Armistice, and was also to witness the scuttling of the German fleet in Scapa Flow.
During World War II, Choules was the Acting Torpedo Officer of Fremantle and also the Chief Demolition Officer on the western side of the Australian continent. He was tasked with sabotaging Fremantle harbors and related oil storage tanks in the event of a Japanese invasion.

He died 5th May 2011 at 110 years old.



</doc>
<doc id="228066" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228066" title="Florence Green">
Florence Green

Florence Green (born 19 February 1901) is the last surviving veteran of World War I. Green was born in London and moved to King's Lynn in 1920 after her marriage to Walter, a railway worker who died in 1970.

She joined up in September 1918, two months before the end of the war. She served as a waitress in the officers' mess at RAF Marham and also at Narborough airfield. She is the last living British living veteran following the death of Claude Choules.

She is West Norfolk's oldest resident, the second oldest person in Norfolk and one of the 30 oldest people in Britain.

She has a son and two daughters, as well as four grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.



</doc>
<doc id="228069" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228069" title="John Babcock">
John Babcock

John Henry Foster "Jack" Babcock (born 23 July 1900 - 18 February 2010) was the last living Canadian veteran who fought in the First World War.


</doc>
<doc id="228070" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228070" title="Frank Buckles">
Frank Buckles

Frank Buckles (1 February 1901 27th February 2011) was the last living American veteran who fought in World War I.

Buckles was born in Bethany, Missouri. He enlisted in the U.S. Army at the beginning of America's involvement in World War I in April 1917. Only 16 years old at the time, Buckles was asked by his recruiter to show a birth certificate. Later Buckles said of that event, "“I was just 16 and didn’t look a day older. I confess to you that I lied to more than one recruiter. I gave them my solemn word that I was 18, but I’d left my birth certificate back home in the family Bible. They’d take one look at me and laugh and tell me to go home before my mother noticed I was gone. Somehow I got the idea that telling an even bigger whopper was the way to go. So I told the next recruiter that I was 21 and darned if he didn’t sign me up on the spot! I enlisted in the Army on the 14th of August 1917."" Before being accepted into the United States Army, he was turned down by the Marine Corps due to his slight weight. 

In 1917, Buckles was sent to Europe on the RMS Carpathia, which had rescued RMS Titanic survivors five years earlier. During the war Buckles served in England and France, driving ambulances and motorcycles for the Army's 1st Fort Riley Casualty Detachment. After the Armistice in 1918, Buckles escorted prisoners of war back to Germany. Following his discharge in 1919, he attended the dedication of the Liberty Memorial in Kansas City, Missouri, in honor of those Americans who died in World War I. While there, he met General John "Black Jack" Pershing, commander of all U.S. forces in France during the war. 

In the 1940s Buckles worked for a shipping company in Manila, Philippines. He was captured by the Japanese in 1942 and spent the next three and a half years in the Los Baños prison camp. He became malnourished, with a weight below 100 lb, and developed beriberi, yet led his fellow inmates in calisthenics. He was rescued on February 23, 1945.

He died 27th February 2011 at 110 years old.


</doc>
<doc id="228071" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228071" title="Jozef Kowalski">
Jozef Kowalski

Jozef Kowalski (born 2 February 1900) last Polish veteran who served just after the First World War. He fought in the Polish Soviet War that was linked to the First World War and it lasted from 1919 to 1921.

List of surviving veterans of World War I


</doc>
<doc id="228073" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228073" title="Stanley Lucas">
Stanley Lucas

Stanley Lucas (15 January 1900 - 21 June 2010) was a British supercentenarian. Lucas was the oldest living man in Europe at the time of his death. He was also the third-oldest man in the world. Lucas was born at Morwenstow UK and had two brothers and two sisters. In 1908 his family moved to Marhamchurch where Lucas lived until 1948. Lucas married Ivy Nancekivell in 1926 and took over the family farm. Lucas was a breeder of Devon cattle and Devon longwool sheep and started a dairy farm in the early 1940s. In 1948 he moved to live with his family at Poughill, where he continued to live after Ivy's death in 1963. Lucas was a member of Bude Town Council from 1959–1970, as well as vice chairman. His daughter said, "He has worked hard in his working life and was a teetotaller and non-smoker and since he has been elderly has been well cared for". He died on 21 June 2010 in Bude, England at the age of 110.


</doc>
<doc id="228076" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228076" title="Michelle Keegan">
Michelle Keegan

Michelle Elizabeth Keegan (born 3 June, 1987) is a British actress who stars as Tina Mcintre in "Coronation Street".


</doc>
<doc id="228077" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228077" title="David Jason">
David Jason

Sir David John White (born 2 February 1940), known as David Jason, is a British actor best known for his role as Del Boy in sitcom "Only Fools and Horses".


</doc>
<doc id="228078" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228078" title="Karl Malden">
Karl Malden

Karl Malden (born 22 March 1912 - 1 July 2009) was an American actor who was active from 1940 to 2000.


</doc>
<doc id="228079" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228079" title="John Campbell Ross">
John Campbell Ross

ledgened
John Campbell Ross (11 March 1899 - 3 June 2009) was the last living Australian World War I veteran.

Born in Newtown, Victoria, a suburb of Geelong, Ross served as a wireless operator in the First Australian Imperial Force, enlisting in January 1918, but never left Australia or saw active service. He later went on to serve in the Second World War as a corporal with the 20th Battalion, Volunteer Defence Corps.

His wife, Irene (née Laird), had been deceased by several decades before Jack Ross's death. He is survived by a son, Robert, a daughter, Peggy Ashburn, four grandchildren- Janette, Heather, Kay, and John - and nine great-grand children.

On 11 November 1998, Jack Ross had been awarded the 80th Anniversary Armistice Medal to mark the end of World War I. Jack also had been awarded the Centenary Medal for doing his share to the Australian society in the 100 years since the federation.

The death of William Evan Allan in October 2005 left Ross as the last Australian digger from World War I. However Claude Choules, a World War I veteran who served for Britain, lives in Western Australia. Ross became Australia's oldest man at the age of 108, on 12 June 2007, upon the death of Frank Scarrabelotti. Following the death of 112 year old E. Beatrice Riley, he was verified as the oldest person in Australia.

Ross celebrated his 110th birthday with chocolates and cake and a commemorative letter from the Prime Minister of Australia Kevin Rudd.

As a civilian, Ross worked for Victorian Railways until he retired in 1964. Ross died peacefully in his sleep at approximately 4 am. at the Golden Oaks Nursing Home in Bendigo on 3 June 2009, aged 110.


</doc>
<doc id="228080" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228080" title="List of veterans of World War I who died in 2009">
List of veterans of World War I who died in 2009

These are the veterans that served during the First World War who died in 2009.

5 Verified World War I veterans

1 Unverified World War I veteran

4 World War I era veterans



</doc>
<doc id="228082" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228082" title="Netherwood Hughes">
Netherwood Hughes

Netherwood "Ned" Hughes (12 June 1900 – 4 April 2009) was a British veteran of World War I who served as a Tommy.


</doc>
<doc id="228083" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228083" title="Bill Stone">
Bill Stone

William Frederick "Bill" Stone (born 23 September 1900 - 10 January 2009) was a British veteran of World War I who served in the Royal Navy. He died on 10 January 2009.


</doc>
<doc id="228087" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228087" title="List of veterans of World War I who died in 2008">
List of veterans of World War I who died in 2008

These are the veterans that served during the First World War who died in 2008



</doc>
<doc id="228093" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228093" title="Norman Wisdom">
Norman Wisdom

Sir Norman Wisdom OBE (4 February 1915 – 4 October 2010) was a retired English comedian, singer, songwriter, actor and musician.




</doc>
<doc id="228094" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228094" title="Lazare Ponticelli">
Lazare Ponticelli

Lazare Ponticelli (born 7 December 1897 - 12 March 2008) was a French World War I veteran.

In August 1914, after the start of World War I, Ponticelli joined the 1st Régiment de Marche of the French Foreign Legion at 16 years old. He had to lie about his age as he was still to young to join the army. His older brother, Céleste Ponticelli, had also joined the regiment.Ponticelli said that France had done much for him, and being in the army was his way of showing his thanks. He fought at Soissons in Picardy, northeast France and at Douaumont, near Verdun. Ponticelli worked digging burial pits and trenches. 

Ponticelli was not a French citizen and in May 1915, when Italy entered the war, he was forced into the Italian Army by conscription. Even though he tried to stay with his French regiment, he had to become part of the 3rd Alpini Regiment. Ponticelli fought against the Austro-Hungarian Army at Mount Piccolo on the Austria–Italy border. At his new job as a machine gunner, Ponticelli was wounded by a shell during an assault on an Austrian mountain. He was sent back to his job after rest in Naples.

Once, his regiment stopped fighting the Austrians for three weeks. The armies, who mostly spoke the same language, traded loaves of bread for tobacco and took pictures of each other. His commanders found out about this, and moved the regiment to another area.


</doc>
<doc id="228097" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228097" title="Template:Infobox single">
Template:Infobox single


</doc>
<doc id="228136" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228136" title="Wikipedia:Requests for importer/Christianrocker90">
Wikipedia:Requests for importer/Christianrocker90

"End date: 05:33, 25 February 2010 (UTC)"
<br><br>I believe it would help me in my quest to create wrestling and baseball articles to have the Importer tool. I'm not much for words but I hope you'll trust me with the Importer tool.

"Candidate's acceptance:self-nom--     06:33, 18 February 2010 (UTC)"
Optional questions by: 
What does importer mean? What does it allow you to do and not do, and what dangers are there in its usage? 06:41, 18 February 2010 (UTC)
A: Import in Wikimedia's case allows a importer to import pages from another Wikimedia wiki where it is enabled. You can import pages to start a new article or you can import revisions to that wikis existing article. It can't import revisions that conflict with a revision that already exists with the same timestamp down to the second. And if I'm correct there's possible a issue of contributing revisions to the wrong editor cause one user may not be the some user on the wiki you import to.--     23:20, 18 February 2010 (UTC)

Optional questions by <br>
Would you make sure that you simplified any articles that you imported instead of just leaving them as is? () 03:34, 19 February 2010 (UTC)<br>
A: I don't mean to sound arrogant but of course I would, I would be stupid not to simplify them cause then they would be deleted.--     03:42, 19 February 2010 (UTC)




</doc>
<doc id="228139" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228139" title="Fire ant">
Fire ant

Fire ants are stinging ants. They are also called "ginger ants" and "tropical fire ants". They evolved in South America, but have become a major pest in North America. They are known for a painful sting. This sting uses a base not an acid.

In 1918, fire ants were accidentally moved into the United States of America by a ship from South America. They were moved in large amounts of dirt. The ships brought heavy things like machines from the US to South America. They brought back light things like crops. The dirt was used to make the ships weigh more. The dirt sometimes had fire ants in it.
In the United States, fire ants have no natural predators or competitors. Native animals are not adapted to these ants. Fire ants are very aggressive. Their colonies can have many queens unlike many other ant species. Because of this, fire ants have spread very fast. By 1965, fire ant came up on the south eastern coast and as far west as Texas. Today they are found in at least 10 southern states. There is a separate group of fire ants living in California.

Fire ants have done a lot of harm as they have spread across the United States. Because they are attracted to electrical currents, they chew through wires. This makes shorts in electrical . Fire ants have also disturbed the natural balance of native ecosystems. In some places, they have killed off 70% of the native ant species and 40% of other native insect species.

Each year, about 25,000 people go for medical help because of painful bites from fire ants.. Fire ants attack in groups when disturbed. People often get many bites. Fire ant bites are usually not dangerous. Some people are allergic to fire ants. They may go into shock. This is called anaphylaxis. This can kill them.

The fire ants are growing in the US 80 years after they came there. About 157 chemicals, like ammonia, gasoline, parts of manure, and insect-killing pesticides, are used against fire ants. However, none of them were very helpful. By 1995, the government had allowed only one fire-ant bait for people to use a lot.



</doc>
<doc id="228140" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228140" title="Fulgurite">
Fulgurite

Fulgurites are a rare type of natural glass made when lightning hits silica-rich minerals that are commonly in sand, soil, and some rocks. "Tubular fulgurites" are found in places with a lot of silica, like beaches or deserts. Lightning makes a tubular fulgurite when a bolt goes through the sand and melts silica into a liquid. The liquid silica cools and hardens quickly, leaving behind a thin glassy tube, usually with a rough outer surface and a smooth inner surface. Underground, a fulgurite may be shaped like the roots of a tree, branching out with many arms that trace the zigzagging path of the lightning bolt. They are quite delicate, with walls no thicker than 1-2 mm. Some of the largest fulgurites are removed from the ground in many pieces and then glued back into their original shape.


</doc>
<doc id="228157" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228157" title="Wikipedia:Requests for adminship/Gordonrox24">
Wikipedia:Requests for adminship/Gordonrox24


</doc>
<doc id="228159" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228159" title="St. Patrick's Cathedral, New York">
St. Patrick's Cathedral, New York

Saint Patrick's Cathedral is a decorated Neo-Gothic-style Catholic cathedral church in the United States. It is the seat of the archbishop of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York, and a parish church, located on the east side of Fifth Avenue between 50th and 51st Streets in midtown Manhattan, New York City, New York. It faces Rockefeller Center.


</doc>
<doc id="228173" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228173" title="Sindhi food">
Sindhi food

Sindhi food refers to the food of the Sindhi people. The daily food in most Sindhi households consists of wheat-based flat-bread (phulka) and rice accompanied by two dishes, one gravy and one dry.




There are food that are served during special occasions, such as during Diwali a Bahji with seven vegetables is made. If someone gets chicken pox and after it is gone, it is common to make an offering and make 'mitho lolo'.

Vermicelli is served on both Eids. On special religious occasions, mitho lolo, accompanied with milk is given to the poor.

This section provides the translations between Hindi, Sindhi and English (British and American) cooking terms. There occasional even in Sindhi for instance Hyderabadi Sindhi will refer to an egg as 'bedo' however Sindhis from other parts will refer to it as 'ando'.


</doc>
<doc id="228187" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228187" title="The Musical Offering">
The Musical Offering

The Musical Offering (German title Musikalisches Opfer or Das Musikalische Opfer), BWV 1079, is a collection of several pieces of music by Johann Sebastian Bach. It consists of canons, fugues, ricercars and a trio sonata. All the music is based on a tune made up by King Frederick II of Prussia (Frederick the Great). Bach dedicated the work to him.

The idea for this music started at a meeting between Bach and Frederick II on 7 May 1747. One of Bach’s sons, Carl Philipp Emanuel, was one of the king’s court musicians. The king wanted to show Johann Sebastian Bach a new instrument that had recently been invented. This was the piano. The king invited Bach to his palace at Potsdam.

During the visit the king gave Bach a theme and asked him to write a 3 part fugue based on it. Bach was good at improvisation so he made up a 3 part fugue. The king wondered whether he could make up a 6 part fugue. That would be very difficult, and people thought he was joking, but Bach said he would think about it.

Two months later, after he had gone home to Leipzig, Bach made up a six-voice fugue based on the king’s theme. He put it together with other compositions based on the theme and sent them to the king. This music became known as the “Musical Offering”. We do not know what the king thought of it.

At the top of the music Bach wrote some Latin words: "Regis Iussu Cantio Et Reliqua Canonica Arte Resoluta" (this means: “the theme given by the king, with additions, resolved in the canonic style”). The first letters of these words spell out the word "ricercar", which was a form of music well-known at the time.

"The Musical Offering" consists of a collection of ricercars, canons, fugues and a trio sonata. The trio sonata was written for flute, violin and basso continuo, but most of the other music does not show what instruments should play it. They are often played on keyboard instruments, or as chamber music by small groups of instruments. Bach did not show what order he wanted the pieces to be played in.

Bach also put riddles at the top of some of the pieces. Some of these riddles have been explained, but some have more than one solution. One of these "riddle canons", "in augmentationem" (i.e. augmentation, has notes which get longer and longer. Bach wrote: "Notulis crescentibus crescat Fortuna Regis" (“may the fortunes of the king increase like the length of the notes”). Another one is a modulating canon which ends a tone higher than it starts. Bach wrote over the music: "Ascendenteque Modulationis ascendat Gloria Regis" (“as the modulation rises, so may the King's glory”).
Several composers have made arrangements of some of the music from the “Musical Offering”. In 1935, Anton Webern arranged Bach’s six-part ricercar for orchestra. In 1980 Sofia Gubaidulina used the Royal Theme of the "Musical Offering" in her violin concerto. She turns the notes into a Russian Orthodox hymn.


</doc>
<doc id="228189" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228189" title="Dedication">
Dedication

Dedication can mean: the act of consecrating (making holy) a religious building such as a temple or church.

Dedication can also mean the writing at the beginning of a book or piece of music in which the author or composer says that it was written for a particular person. For example: a composer may write a piece of music for a particular musician and dedicate it to them. An author may dedicate a book to someone they love or respect. A book or a piece of music may be dedicated to the person who has paid them to write it. This may be a rich person such as king.



</doc>
<doc id="228194" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228194" title="Boomslang">
Boomslang

A boomslang is a small, venomous snake found in Africa. Its name means "tree snake" in Dutch and Afrikaans.

Boomslangs eat small animals like chameleons, frogs, and birds, but they also eat eggs. Boomslangs do not chew - they swallow everything whole.

The venom (poison) of boomslangs disrupts the clotting of your blood, and this can kill you. After a bite, you can sometimes feel a headache, nausea and sleepiness. If you think you may have been bitten by a boomslang, you should get an antidote. This does not happen often, as boomslangs only bite humans when they feel attacked.


</doc>
<doc id="228206" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228206" title="Fire engine">
Fire engine

A fire engine is a vehicle that is designed to help in fighting fires by taking firefighters to the scene and giving them access to the fire, water or other equipment. 

The first modern fire engine was invented in 1905 by Knox Automobile in Springfield, Massachusetts.


</doc>
<doc id="228210" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228210" title="Ice cream sandwich">
Ice cream sandwich

An ice cream sandwich is a type of frozen desert that is made by putting ice cream in between two cookies or pieces of cake (called "sandwiching"). It is often made with vanilla ice cream between two pieces of chocolate cake, but sometimes is made with other flavours instead.


</doc>
<doc id="228215" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228215" title="Mycenaean culture">
Mycenaean culture

The Mycenaean culture (~1600–1100) was an early Greek culture during the Bronze age, on the Greek mainland and on Crete. 
The name Achaean was used by Homer to describe them, and occurs in the Iliad. The term we use is derived from Mycenae, which is an important archaeological site about 90km from Athens. Other important Mycenaean sites are at Athens, Thebes, Tiryns and Pylos. The epic poems of Homer, the Iliad and the Odyssey, are Mycenaean in origin. Quite unlike the Minoans, whose society benefited from trade, the Mycenaeans advanced through conquest.

Mycenaean is the most ancient known form of the Greek language. It was spoken on the Greek mainland and on Crete in the Mycenaean period, 16th to 12th centuries BC. The language is preserved in inscriptions in Linear B, a script first known on Crete before the 14th century BC. Most instances of these inscriptions are on clay tablets found in Knossos in central Crete, and in Pylos in the southwest of the Peloponnese. Other tablets have been found at Mycenae itself, Tiryns and Thebes and at Chania in Western Crete. 
The tablets remained long undeciphered, and every conceivable language was suggested for them, until Michael Ventris deciphered the script in 1952. He presented evidence which showed the language was an early form of Greek.

The texts on the tablets are mostly lists and inventories. No prose narrative survives, much less myth or poetry. Nevertheless, they give us some idea of the people who produced them. By the late thirteenth century BC mainland Greece witnessed a wave of destruction. The Mycenaean sites declined, and the people withdrew to refuge settlements. This is the so-called Greek Dark Ages; little or no writing is found until the 8th century BC. See Ancient Greece for this and later periods.


</doc>
<doc id="228241" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228241" title="Category:Kennedy Center honorees">
Category:Kennedy Center honorees


</doc>
<doc id="228244" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228244" title="Manna">
Manna

Manna, sometimes spelled mana, is the name of a food which, according to the Bible, the Israelites ate while they were traveling 40 years in the desert after leaving Egypt, which God provided because they had nothing to eat. Every morning they would gather the white flakes that covered the ground. It is said to have a sweet taste. When they got tired of manna, God gave them quail (bird).

Manna was called the "bread of heaven" because it seemed to come from Heaven, according to the Bible. Some suggest that they were a type of locust; some say that it was the sap of a tree which is known to satisfy hunger. In the Mishna, it is said that it was made during twilight of the sixth day of Creation.


</doc>
<doc id="228264" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228264" title="Category:New York Yankees">
Category:New York Yankees


</doc>
<doc id="228269" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228269" title="Clara Barton">
Clara Barton

Clarissa Harlowe "Clara" Barton (December 25, 1821 – April 12, 1912) was an American teacher, nurse, and humanitarian. During the American Civil War, she was in charge of the agency to find missing Union soldiers. She also headed several hospitals in Virginia. She is best remembered for organizing the American Red Cross.

Clara was born on Christmas Day, 1821 in Oxford, Massachusetts. She was the fifth and last child of Sarah Stone and Stephen Barton. In her youth, Barton was timid and sensitive, which made household life difficult for Barton. 

Clara's father was an important member of the town; he served as the town's moderator, ran a decent farm, and were well-known members of the town's church. Clara shared a special bond with her father. Both of them were adventurous and patriotic. Clara's father often told her stories about war, and they pretended to fight each other in fake battles.

Clara's mother was said to be a very beautiful woman. She was married at the age of seventeen, and by the time she was twenty she had already given birth to four children. She was very practical (good with her hands) and taught Clara many chores around the house. Her mother was strict and wouldn't even let Clara have a toy doll. However, Clara's mother taught her many important things. She was a very strong and determined woman, and was full of common sense, traits that were both passed on to Clara.

Clara's four siblings were all older than she was. Her oldest sister, Dorothy, was seventeen years old when Clara was born; her oldest brother, Stephen, was fifteen; her younger brother, David, was thirteen; and her younger sister, Sally, was ten. She learned many skills from her siblings. Her sisters taught her how to read before she was even three years old. Stephen taught her mathematics, and David taught her how to ride a horse.

As a child, Clara liked to pretend she was a nurse. She took care of sick and injured animals. When she was eleven, her brother Stephen fell off the roof of a barnhouse. This incident had a large effect on Clara, who helped nurse her brother. Stephen suffered a severe injury to his head, and he was close to death for two years. For two years Clara took care of her brother, hardly leaving his bedside. She learned many medical practices, including blood-letting, giving medicine, and applying leeches. Though she didn't realize it, Clara had discovered her talent and love of nursing. After Stephen was treated, Clara felt anxious and restless. She began becoming depressed because she had nothing to do. She tried being a weaver at her brother Stephen's mill, but she quit and looked for a new job.

One day, a phrenologist visiting the Barton household told Barton's parents to teach in a school so she could overcome her extreme shyness. Barton was first terrified of this, but she soon taught a class of forty girls and boys in a local school. Barton impressed the children, who were barely younger than she was, and she felt happy at earning their respect. After her school received an award for discipline, Barton received many job offers. She asked for and received the same pay for teaching as male teachers, which was uncommon at the time. Barton taught at the school for ten years.

When she was thirty, Barton enrolled at the Clinton Liberal Institute in New York. After graduating, two schoolmates, Charles and Mary Norton, invited her to live with their family in Hightstown, New Jersey. Barton began teaching in the local school, and then began starting free public schools like the ones in Massachusetts. The school was very successful, and many new teachers were hired and a new building was built. A man was hired to run the school, and he received a salary almost twice as high as Barton's salary. Barton was angry at this treatment, and she left to find a new job in Washington D.C.

Barton spent the next five years of her life in the US capital, her first job being a clerk for the government. Department of the Interior records say that she became a clerk in 1855, which makes her the first female to work for the government. Barton was appointed a position in the US patent office. She even received the same pay as the other workers, receiving $1400 a year. The other workers were very angry about this; they "spat on the floor", "blew smoke in her face", insulted her, and made slanderous remarks about her. Many of these men lost their jobs because of this behavior.



</doc>
<doc id="228274" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228274" title="Phase change">
Phase change

A phase change is the process by which forms of matter are altered. For example, when a solid melts and becomes a liquid, it goes through a phase change. A few more examples: solid to gas = sublimation, gas to liquid = condensation, liquid to solid = solidification, gas to solid = deposition, and liquid to gas = evaporation. 
As the states of matter change from solid, to liquid, to gas, respectively, their composition alters as well. For example, in a solid, the bonds are stronger than hydrogen bonds, which allows the solid substance to have a definite volume and shape. However, when heat is added to the solid and it melts to become a liquid, the bonds are considerably weaker, and in water, are simply hydrogen bonds. A liquid has a definite volume but not a definite shape, and it thus takes the shape of the container in which it is. When "more" heat is added, the liquid substance evaporates and becomes a gas, which has no bonds at all. A gas is simply a formless collection of particles that tends to expand in all directions at the same time in order to occupy its full container. If a gas is not confined, the space between the particles will continue to increase. A gas has neither a definite volume nor a definite shape. 
In this pattern, solid to liquid to gas, heat is being added in order to provoke the phase change. In the other "direction," gas to liquid to solid, heat is being released through the phase change. 
It often helps to envision an ice cube when thinking of phase changes. An ice cube is a solid, and when heated up, it becomes liquid water. When heated up some more, it becomes water vapor, which is a gas. 


</doc>
<doc id="228275" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228275" title="Barn">
Barn

A barn is a building found on a farm. It is used for holding livestock, such as horses. It can also be used to hold grain or tools. 


</doc>
<doc id="228276" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228276" title="Psychrometer">
Psychrometer

A psychrometer is a device used to measure relative humidity of a certain area. 
A psychrometer has two bulbs: one wet and one dry. After some time, the water on the wet bulb evaporates and at that time, the temperature is measured of each bulb. The difference between the temperatures is noted and the temperature is noted and each is used on a chart to find the relative humidity of that temperature and area. A small difference between the temperature of the bulbs shows a high relative humidity, because in dry air, evaporation happens faster. The other way around: high difference = low humidity.


</doc>
<doc id="228281" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228281" title="Horace Mann">
Horace Mann

Horace Mann (1796-1859) was an educator and politician who helped set up the first public schools in the United States. He did this in the state of Massachusetts. Mann personally visited every school in the state to inspect it. He later became the first president of Antioch College in Ohio.


</doc>
<doc id="228282" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228282" title="National Association for the Advancement of Colored People">
National Association for the Advancement of Colored People

The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People or NAACP (pronounced N-double-A-C-P) is a civil rights organization in the United States.


</doc>
<doc id="228305" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228305" title="Kim Kyusik">
Kim Kyusik

Kim Kyu-sik (, 1881 - 1950) was Korean Indifendunce & 1st, 2nd Vice President of the Korean Provisional Government. he was education Minister, foreign Minister of the provisional Government of Korea. 1st, 2nd Vice President of the provisional Government of Korea. A nickname & a pen name is Usa (). graduate of American Roanoke College. He was born Pusan.



</doc>
<doc id="228323" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228323" title="Category:Ned Kelly">
Category:Ned Kelly

This category is for people, places, and events linked to the Australian bushranger, Ned Kelly.


</doc>
<doc id="228326" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228326" title="Chang Myun">
Chang Myun

Chang Myun(Korean:장면, August 28 1899 - June 4 1966) was Korean 2nd, 7rd Prime Ministers of South Korea, 4rd Vice President of South Korea. nickname was Unsuk(Korean:운석, hanja:雲石).

a special ambassador to the Vatican 1948. in 1949, United States Ambassador to South Korea, May 1950 2nd Prime Minister of South Korea. 1956 to 1960 4th Vice President of South Korea. 7rd Prime Minister in August 1960. 16 May 1961, was kicked out, By Park Chung hee's coup d'état.

Chang Myon was born in Incheon 1899. He was born Catholic family of believers. After graduation of high school, he was Studied depart in the United States. After returnin, he was Korea under Japanese ruled worked as an educator. Dongseong High School teachers, Principal. Geseong Elementary School Principal. 

August 15 1945 Independence, he was moved into politics. October 1948 was sent to UN, to represent of South Korea, after, December 1948 Special Ambassador to the Vatican, Ambassador to the American. Prime Ministers of South Korea in November 23 1950 to April 23 1952.





</doc>
<doc id="228370" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228370" title="List of veterans of World War I who died in 2010">
List of veterans of World War I who died in 2010

The following is a list of known veterans of the First World War (28 July 1914 – 11 November 1918) who died in 2010.


</doc>
<doc id="228375" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228375" title="Henry Johnson">
Henry Johnson

Henry Johnson (19 November, 1902 - 2010) was a World War I-era veteran who served for the Merchant Navy just after the war. 

Henry was born in County Durham in 1902, one of seven children, two sisters and four brothers. In 1904, the family moved to a village near Sunderland, where his father was an official at the local mine. After leaving school Henry spent time sailing the seven seas in the Merchant Navy. On his last epic voyage Henry saw the world, sailing to America, the Caribbean, through the Panama Canal and down the coast of South America to Peru, Chile and the Strait of Magallanes, across to South Africa, round the Cape of Horn, across the Indian Ocean to Java, which is now Indonesia, back across the Indian Ocean, through the Suez Canal, across the Mediterranean and back to Glasgow.

He died in 2010 at 107 or 108 years old.



</doc>
<doc id="228401" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228401" title="Template:Rivers of Victoria">
Template:Rivers of Victoria


</doc>
<doc id="228403" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228403" title="Category:Quick deletion requests">
Category:Quick deletion requests

Pages in this category have been marked for . See also: . ()


</doc>
<doc id="228409" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228409" title="Bembridge">
Bembridge

"Bembridge" is a village on the Isle of Wight. It is the village which is farthest to the east on the island. According to the 2001 census of the United Kingdom it had a population of 3,848 . The large population (for a village) means that some people have said that it has the biggest population of any village in the United Kingdom. Many of the most rich people who live on the Isle of Wight live in Bembridge.

The villages of Bembridge and Yaverland were once a separate island, off the coast of the rest of the Isle of Wight. There was a channel of water called Brading Haven, which separated the two islands. Before the time in which Queen Victoria was the queen of the United Kingdom, the village of Bembridge only had a few huts and farm houses. It was only when a church was built in 1827 that the village started to grow. 

The most old buildings in the village are found close to the church in the north of the village. In this part of the village there are a number of shops, pubs (places to buy and drink alcohol), and restaurants (places to buy food). There is also the village hall (a place for meetings, sales and events).

In the south of the village there is an area which is called 'Land End'. It is a more modern part of the village and has its own shops. In this part of the village there is a lifeboat station. There are two schools in Bembridge, one is for children of ages 4–8, and the other is for children of ages 9–13.


</doc>
<doc id="228412" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228412" title="United States Secret Service">
United States Secret Service

The United States Secret Service (which is often just called the Secret Service in the United States) is part of the United States government. Part of its job is to investigate when people make fake money. (Making fake money is called counterfeiting). However, the United States Secret Service is more well known for protecting important government leaders. Secret Service agents work as bodyguards and protect people like the President, Vice President, members of the United States Cabinet, people who are running for high office, and the family members of these people, and leaders from other countries who are visiting the United States. There are other people whom the Secret Service protects, too. A United States President would never be seen in public without Secret Service agents protecting him or her at all times.

It is often not easy to recognize Secret Service agents, because they often dress to blend in wherever they are. This means that they will often be dressed the same way as everybody else in a crowd.

The United States Secret Service was created in 1865 to stop counterfeiters. It did not start protecting the President until after President William McKinley was shot and killed in 1901. In 1902, President Theodore Roosevelt became the first President to be protected by Secret Service agents. Since then, every president has received Secret Service Protection.

The Secret Service used to be part of the Treasury Department, but is now part of the Department of Homeland Security.



</doc>
<doc id="228422" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228422" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Template:Selena">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Template:Selena


</doc>
<doc id="228425" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228425" title="Template:Infobox LCS">
Template:Infobox LCS


</doc>
<doc id="228426" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228426" title="Template:Infobox LCS/doc">
Template:Infobox LCS/doc

will show:


<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="228430" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228430" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/List of veterans of World War I who died in 2010">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/List of veterans of World War I who died in 2010


</doc>
<doc id="228452" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228452" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Stanley Lucas">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Stanley Lucas


</doc>
<doc id="228456" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228456" title="The Grand Inquisitor">
The Grand Inquisitor

"The Grand Inquisitor" is a parable told by Ivan to Alyosha in Fyodor Dostoevsky's novel "The Brothers Karamazov" (1879-1880). Ivan and Alyosha are brothers; Ivan questions the possibility of a kind, caring God. If there is a kind God, Ivan argues, why do people suffer, especially children?

"The Grand Inquisitor" is an important part of the novel and one of the most famous parts of it because of its ideas about humans and Gods, and because of its mysteriousness.

Dostoevsky's notebooks show that he had the idea of "The Grand Inquisitor" after he saw it in a play by Friedrich Schiller, "Don Carlos" (1785-1787).



</doc>
<doc id="228458" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228458" title="Matthew Shepard Act">
Matthew Shepard Act

The Matthew Shepard Act, officially called the Matthew Shepard and James Byrd, Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act, is an Act of Congress that was passed on October 22, 2009, and signed into law by President Barack Obama on October 28. The act adds crimes that are committed because of the victims gender, sexual orientation, gender identity or disability to the 1969 federal hate-crime law.

The Act is the first federal law that gives legal protection to people who are transgender.

The bill also:


</doc>
<doc id="228468" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228468" title="Pōhutukawa">
Pōhutukawa

The Pōhutukawa is a New Zealand native tree which grows mainly on the coast of the North Island. It is evergreen and has bright red flowers. These flowers appear between November and January, during the Southern hemisphere summer. Because it is red and green during Christmas, it is often called the New Zealand Christmas tree.

The Pōhutukawa is endangered, meaning that there are not many left. This is because possums eat the leaves of the trees, killing them. Project Crimson is a group trying to stop this happening.


</doc>
<doc id="228469" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228469" title="North Island">
North Island

The North Island is one of the two main islands of New Zealand, separated from the South Island by Cook Strait. The island is in area, making it the world's 14th-largest island. It has a population of 3,287,600 (June 2009) It is also called by its Māori name, "Te Ika-a-Māui".

Twelve cities are in the North Island. Two are Auckland, New Zealand's largest city, and Wellington, the capital which is at the southern end of the island. About 76% of New Zealand's population live in the North Island.


</doc>
<doc id="228470" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228470" title="South Island">
South Island

The South Island is the larger of the two major islands of New Zealand. It is separated from the North Island by Cook Strait. The South Island covers 151,215 square kilometres (58,384 sq mi) and has a temperate climate. It is also called by its Māori name, "Te Wai Pounamu".

The South Island is sometimes called the "mainland", because it is 33% bigger than the North Island. Only 24% of New Zealand's population live in the South Island.


</doc>
<doc id="228471" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228471" title="New Zealand English">
New Zealand English

New Zealand English is the English spoken in New Zealand. This is very similar to British English.


</doc>
<doc id="228472" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228472" title="Cook Strait">
Cook Strait

Cook Strait is the body of water between the North and South Islands of New Zealand. It connects the Tasman Sea on the west with the South Pacific Ocean on the east.

The strait is named after James Cook, who was the first European commander to sail through it. The strait has an average depth of 128 metres (420 feet). The weather and tide patterns are often very strange there. The most common way to get across is by ferry.


</doc>
<doc id="228473" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228473" title="Tasman Sea">
Tasman Sea

The Tasman Sea is the sea between Australia and New Zealand. It was named after Dutch explorer Abel Tasman. It is about 2000 kilometres (1250 miles) across, and 2800 km from north to south. The sea is part of the south Pacific Ocean. It is sometimes called "The Ditch" by Australians and New Zealanders.


</doc>
<doc id="228474" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228474" title="Bailiff">
Bailiff

A bailiff is a governor, a legal officer for the government. There are many different kinds of bailiffs, and they have different jobs. The word comes from the Latin word, "baiulivus".

The word was first used in England for the king's officers, such as sheriffs and mayors. It was also the title for the chief officer of a hundred. The sheriff looked after an area called his bailiwick. Bailiff is kept as a title by the chief magistrates of various towns and the keepers of royal castles, such as the High Bailiff of Westminster, and the Bailiff of Dover Castle. In a medieval manor, a bailiff was in charge of the farming.


</doc>
<doc id="228492" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228492" title="Kelly Kelly">
Kelly Kelly

Barbara Jean Blank (born January 15, 1987 in Jacksonville, Florida) is a American female professional wrestler, model and dancer currently signed to WWE wrestling on its Raw brand where she is the current WWE Divas Champion. Kelly Kelly used to have a weekly segment known as Kelly's Exposé where she would dance for the WWE Universe.



</doc>
<doc id="228493" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228493" title="Deadmau5">
Deadmau5

deadmau5 pronounced "dead mouse", (real name: Joel Zimmerman) (born January 5, 1981 in Niagara Falls, Ontario) is a Grammy-nominated and Juno winning Canadian electro and progressive house DJ. He was ranked #6 on DJ Magazine's annual Top 100 DJ Poll. He has released 8 albums and made a cameo on the TV show Gossip Girl. Furthermore he has made tracks like "Arguru" and "Not Exactly", which have been featured on many compilation CD's and on Armin van Buuren's A State Of Trance radio show. 

deadmau5 has worked together with DJs like: Kaskade, MC Flipside, Rob Swire of Pendulum, and Steve Duda under the BSOD alias. 

He was nominated for a Grammy in 2009 for his remix of the track "The Longest Road" in the category of "Best Remixed Recording, Non-Classical"

deadmau5 won a Juno Award in 2010 in the category of "Dance Recording of the Year" for the album "For Lack of a Better Name".

On July 30, 2010 deadmau5 collapsed on stage 50 minutes into his set and doctors said he was suffering from exhaustion and vomiting. because of this, deadmau5 was forced to cancel his next nine shows for recovery.

The name deadmau5 started when Zimmerman found a dead mouse in his computer, while he was replacing his video card. He talked with people in chat rooms, and people started connecting him with this story. In the end, Zimmerman called himself deadmau5, as a shorter version of "dead mouse".



</doc>
<doc id="228494" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228494" title="Leeroy Jenkins">
Leeroy Jenkins

Leeroy Jenkins is the name of someone who was in the game World of Warcraft. He made a video which was put onto Youtube which some people think is very good. He has become known around the world and even has his own Achievement on World of Warcraft for pretending to be him in the video. His name is often spelt wrong as Leroy Jenkins who is a different person.

The video which made Leeroy so famous shown him and his friends, doing a friendly activity known as a Raid in World of Warcraft, but this activity is hard to do, so the leader of the group that Leeroy is with has to explain what to do. But Leeroy isn't around for the explanation, and when he comes back, he ends up running in the area, shouting his name as he goes, which begins the activity, and ruining the plan which his friends made. This causes everyone to panic, and no-one knows what to do, and so, everyone dies. Everyone blames Leeroy for this, and says "At least I got chicken."

Leeroy has become very well known and his name is now used by people to show that they are running in but have no idea what to do. These people should be avoided, as they may cause you to die as well, as the video shows. Because of this, people now consider the video to be a Lesson.


</doc>
<doc id="228496" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228496" title="Billy Corgan">
Billy Corgan

William Patrick "Billy" Corgan, Jr. (born March 17, 1967) is the singer and guitarist play for the American band The Smashing Pumpkins. Corgan and James Iha formed the band in 1988.


</doc>
<doc id="228498" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228498" title="Dark Horse">
Dark Horse

Dark Horse is the sixth studio album by Canadian rock band Nickelback. The album was released on November 18, 2008. Seven singles came from the album, including "Gotta Be Somebody", "If Today Was Your Last Day", "I'd Come for You", "Burn It to the Ground", and "Something in Your Mouth". 



</doc>
<doc id="228502" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228502" title="Duncan Keith">
Duncan Keith

Duncan Keith (born July 16, 1983 in Winnipeg, Manitoba) is an NHL ice hockey defencemen for the Chicago Blackhawks. He was picked by the Blackhawks with the fifty-fourth overall pick in the 2002 NHL Entry Draft. He played college hockey at the Michigan State University. 

He was chosen along with Brent Seabrook and Jonathan Toews to play for Team Canada in the 2010 Winter Olympics.

He won the Stanley Cup with the Chicago Blackhawks in 2010 and was also awarded the 2010 Norris Trophy.

Duncan Keith's NHL Player Page


</doc>
<doc id="228537" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228537" title="A minor">
A minor

A minor (usually shortened to Am) is a minor scale based on A, which is made up of the pitches A, B, C, D, E, F, and G. The harmonic minor scale raises the G to G. Its key signature has no flats or sharps ("see below:" Scales and keys).

Its relative major is C major, and its parallel major is A major.

Changes needed for the melodic and harmonic versions of the scale are written in with accidentals as necessary.

Most of the time key signatures were cancelled whenever the new key signature had fewer sharps or flats than the old key signature, in modern popular music, this is only done when C major or A minor replace another key.



</doc>
<doc id="228540" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228540" title="You, Me and Dupree">
You, Me and Dupree

You, Me and Dupree is a 2006 comedy movie that is produced by Mary Parent, Scott Stuber and Owen Wilson and directed by Anthony Russo and Joe Russo. 

The plot of the movie revolves around two newlyweds Carl and Molly Peterson (played by Matt Dillon and Kate Hudson). After Carl's best man and friend Randolph Dupree (usually just called "Dupree") (Owen Wilson), loses his job and apartment, the couple allow him to move in but Dupree inevitably overstays his welcome.




</doc>
<doc id="228542" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228542" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Murder of Lindsay Hawker">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Murder of Lindsay Hawker


</doc>
<doc id="228545" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228545" title="Butters' Bottom Bitch">
Butters' Bottom Bitch

"Butters' Bottom Bitch" is the ninth episode of the thirteenth season of "South Park". It first started on the Comedy Central in the United States on October 16, 2009. 

In this episode, Butters pays $5 and gets his first kiss from Sally, a girl on the playground. Seeing this Butters opens a "kissing company" and becomes a pimp. After rumors swirl Sergeant Yates of the Park County Police goes undercover as a female prostitute named "Yolanda" and went on undercover stings. Hearing that Butters is a respectful pimp, real prostitutes begin to join Butters' company. Sergeant Yates then joins Butters' company but Yolanda's pimp, Keyshone appears outside and asks Yolanda to marry him and (s)he says yes. Butters' decides to quit his pimping because he thought it would interfere with "true love".

Episode's official page


</doc>
<doc id="228553" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228553" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Butters' Bottom Bitch">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Butters' Bottom Bitch

-- |  04:43, 21 February 2010 (UTC)

     "has nominated this page for deletion for the reason:"


"Please discuss this deletion below, but keep in mind that and that there may be options that are not just "keep" or "delete", such as merging."

WITHDRAWN--     04:42, 21 February 2010 (UTC)

This request is due to close seven days after it was filed; that is on approx. Sunday, 28 February 2010 at 3:11 am, although it may be closed more quickly due to .<br><br>


</doc>
<doc id="228559" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228559" title="Eazy-E">
Eazy-E

Eazy-E (real name: Eric Lynn Wright) (September 7, 1963 – March 26, 1995) was a American rapper and actor. He rose to fame with the Rap group N.W.A. and is one of the founders of the "Gangsta rap" subgenre. He usually rapped about guns, drugs, relations between residents and the police, and sexual activity. 

On March 26, 1995 Eazy-E died as the result of AIDS-related pneumonia.

He was buried at Rose Hills Memorial Park in Whittier, California.

During his career, Eazy-E released 2 studio albums and 3 EPs:

(*) albums or EPs were released posthumously (after death).



</doc>
<doc id="228564" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228564" title="Template:User WikiFairy">
Template:User WikiFairy


</doc>
<doc id="228565" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228565" title="Wikipedia:WikiFairy">
Wikipedia:WikiFairy

A Wiki fairy (WikiFairy), or Wiki faerie (WikiFaerie, Wikifærie), is a wiki editor who makes Wikipedia more beautiful by making the style of writing better, cleaning up messy articles, rearranging pictures, or simply adding color and beauty. Some WikiFairies make new articles or change the content of the articles they edit. Others like to make articles prettier by cleaning up confusing references, making the format better, or by making the pictures better artistically. They want harmony and beauty in articles.
WikiFairies are usually thought of as friendly creatures, like and and unlike .

If you are a WikiFairy, and you would like to add a userbox to your page showing it, you can add <nowiki></nowiki>, and a user box saying,

will come out on your page.


</doc>
<doc id="228566" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228566" title="Template:Humor">
Template:Humor


</doc>
<doc id="228576" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228576" title="Tyranni">
Tyranni

Tyranni is a suborder of passerine birds. They are also known as the suboscines. There are about 1,000 species in this suborder. Most of them live in South America.

These birds are different to the passeri (songbirds) because they have a different syrinx. This is part of the bird's voice box which makes bird song. Scientists have also done studies on DNA and fossils to show that the tyranni suborder is different to the passeri suborder.

The tyranni suborder can be split into three infraorders: Acanthisittides, Eurylaimides, and Tyrannide.

The first group, the Acanthisittidae, are also known as the New Zealand "wrens". At the moment, scientists are unsure whether they should belong to the tyranni or not. Some scientists think they are too different and they should be in their own suborder.

The Eurylaimides contains two superfamilies: the Eurylaimoidea and the Pittoidea. The Euryaimoidea contains three families. They are also known as the Old World suboscines. Most of them live in tropical places around the Indian Ocean. One species, the Broad-billed Sapayoa, lives in the Americas. The three families are:

The Tyrannides contain all sub-oscine birds from the Americas, except the Broad-billed Sapayoa:


</doc>
<doc id="228578" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228578" title="Decision theory">
Decision theory

Decision theory is a mathematical theory about how to best reach a decision. This is done using probability theory, statistics and logical reasoning. A decision can be made in different ways. Decision theory usually picks the best decision by looking at the consequences each way to decide might have. 

In most cases, decision theory is normative and prescriptive. Most of the time, it assumes the decision maker has "perfect knowledge". Decision makers know all the consequences, and case take the best pick. 

There are three branches of decision theory:
Decision theory can also be classified as follows:


</doc>
<doc id="228579" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228579" title="Wikipedia:Editor review/Classical Esther">
Wikipedia:Editor review/Classical Esther

 Hello, everyone! I am a new editor who has been on Simple Wikipedia for about two months and have done over 2,000 edits. I have come to love Simple Wikipedia and would like to know if the community has any ideas for me to be more helpful to Simple Wikipedia. Thank you! 12:07, 21 February 2010 (UTC)


</doc>
<doc id="228589" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228589" title="University of Rennes 2 - Upper Brittany">
University of Rennes 2 - Upper Brittany

The University of Rennes 2 - Upper Brittany is a national university in France. It is located in the city of Rennes. It was created in 1969.

They are 5 faculties:



</doc>
<doc id="228590" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228590" title="Category:Colleges and universities in France">
Category:Colleges and universities in France


</doc>
<doc id="228596" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228596" title="Timeline of World War II">
Timeline of World War II

This is Timeline of World War II, which shows the event linked to World War II during 1931-1945.










</doc>
<doc id="228608" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228608" title="Gypsophila paniculata">
Gypsophila paniculata

Gypsophila paniculata is a species of perennial plant, a plant that lives for more than two years. The common name, a name that is in general use, is baby's breath.

The height of the species 2 to 3 feet long and the width of the species is 2 to 3 feet long. The species blooms anytime from April to August. The color of the flowers are white. The plant needs sunlight from the full sun meaning direct sunlight. The species is a herbaceous plant, has leaves and stems that die down at the end of the growing season to the soil level and have no woody stem above the ground.

The species is native to Central Europe and Siberia.

The species is poisonous. The poisonous parts of the plant are the flowers and the rest of the plant are poisonous when they are dry. The species can cause eye irritation, sinus irritation meaning in the nasal cavity, or asthma after the plant is repeatedly handled. The plant can also cause minor, a lesser effect, skin irritation that only lasts for a few minutes.


</doc>
<doc id="228609" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228609" title="Xiongnu">
Xiongnu

Xiongnu are nomads to the north of China. The first emperor built the Great Wall of China in 214 BC to keep them out.


</doc>
<doc id="228611" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228611" title="William Olin">
William Olin

William Olin (born 28 August 1904) is an American World War I veteran.

He joined up in 1917 at the age of thirteen after lying about his age. He served in the United States Army until the end of the War.



</doc>
<doc id="228612" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228612" title="Carlo Dozzi">
Carlo Dozzi

Carlo Dozzi (25 January 1901 - 30 May 2009) was an Italian laborer. He later became the oldest man in Italy, a title that he held until he died in 2009.

Dozzi was born in Maniago, Italy, on January 25 1901. When he was 16, he began working with his father on streets along the Piave, after the Battle of Caporetto. After he completed his military service, he emigrated to Holland. In 1936, he married Victoria Antonini, who was also from Maniago. They had two children, named Matilde and Luciano. When he returned to Maniago, Dozzi worked as laborer at the Dozza Coricama until he retired.

He died on May 30 2009, aged 108, in his home at Maniago. He was the oldest man in Italy. His funeral was held in the Cathedral of San Mauro in Maniago, in June 1 2009.


</doc>
<doc id="228613" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228613" title="Wikipedia:Requests for permissions/Rollback/Archives/2010/February/Done">
Wikipedia:Requests for permissions/Rollback/Archives/2010/February/Done

 ()

</doc>
<doc id="228616" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228616" title="Category:Daytona 500 winners">
Category:Daytona 500 winners

This is a list of Daytona 500 winners.


</doc>
<doc id="228621" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228621" title="Wikipedia:Simple talk/Archive 78">
Wikipedia:Simple talk/Archive 78

If there's one problem I've been seeing lately, it's daughter articles developing furthur and earlier than mother articles; i.e. 2004 American League Championship Series vs. American League Championship Series; et cetera. 07:37, 14 February 2010 (UTC)

Is there a way to set it so that pages I start (i.e. talk pages) are not automatically added to my watchlist? () 21:55, 15 February 2010 (UTC)

Hey everyone!

I'm MJ94. I have edited Simple before, but have not been very active. This is about to change as I begin to become an active and hopefully an editor everyone will want around! I know it's an encyclopedia and all, but I just wanted to say hello and I hope to meet you all as we work, and play together! () 03:26, 19 February 2010 (UTC)

I hope I'm not bothering anybody, but I have a question. When you make headings, (eg.<nowiki>==Question==</nowiki>), is it supposed to be...

<nowiki>== Question ==</nowiki>

<nowiki>==Question==</nowiki>? 07:58, 19 February 2010 (UTC)

Just a quick heads-up that is to be demolished closed. If you like, you can the merge proposal with English Wikibooks, or you can view Wikibooks' . — 

Someone keeps changing my wikipedia page, J.David Shapiro. I do not understand why. Under "references" I have a bunch that link up to sites
showing them. I also have articles that can be sent in from magazines line The Hollywood Reporter, Variety, etc. So please advise why this keeps
happening. Thank you

Here are some of the links that show my stuff is legit. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 -() 04:43, 20 February 2010 (UTC)

I've found this place much less turbulent than en.wp. That's a good thing, of course, but it means that I'm devoid of my usual haunts (AfC, Huggling, and NPPing). Does anyone have anything (however menial) that needs to be done? I think I can simplify, but might not do a thorough or uniform job, because I'm naturally verbose... Are there some articles to import? There must be "something"... 

I'd like to propose be altered to only apply to nonsense redirects from Wikipedia to User namespaces. I say this cause there are some redirects (like those to Wikiprojects in userspace) that I think this Wikipedia could benefit from. Now what's considered nonsense, I think is up for discussion, which is what we should do if everyone agrees. Opinions?--     08:01, 22 February 2010 (UTC)

Hello community!

I, as one of the current , want to inform you that we are still active. If you find something that needs to be removed, so please talk to us on IRC (not always is someone around and available, but fairly frequently) or mail us to our . We are often around even if none of us actively edits the wiki when you need something done. Most of our oversights read their mails very often and it normally shouldn't take too long until a response is sent. Please don't have worries if you report a false positive to us. We surely don't bit you if it's nothing for oversight. It is much better to have from time to time a false positive than having things on the wiki which shouldn't be there. Please talk to us on IRC if you find something that needs to be removed or write us a mail. This would be a good step to keep the wiki clean. 16:28, 22 February 2010 (UTC)

Does anybody know why "show any page" was changed to "random article"? I think the former was simpler...? 11:29, 23 February 2010 (UTC)
Try using Ctrl+Shift+R, it works very well with both images and text cache. -- () 16:53, 25 February 2010 (UTC)

I've extended this for three days, as consensus is clearly present but we don't yet have the required 25 votes. Please participate if you get a chance. Cheers. – |  22:30, 24 February 2010 (UTC)

Hi, I tried asking a question to an admin but was reverted twice. Is there someone else I can ask?

Hi. Looking at some IP creations today and yesterday, I was wondering... why don't we protect the new page creation from IP's, like the English Wikipedia?. For sure, it will decrease the new articles number, but it makes us lose golden time adding the <nowiki></nowiki> template to the pages and warning them. It can be solved encouraging IP's to expand existent articles (not to vandalize :P). What do you think? -- () 00:33, 25 February 2010 (UTC)
Having read fr33kman's comment, I think it's not the time or situation to propose this, so please, nevermind :-) -- () 00:56, 25 February 2010 (UTC)

Some of the language used here is inappropriately simplistic. Every page that we create carries an invitation: Change this page. "Change this page" does not mean the same thing as "Edit this page" which is what we are actually encouraging people to do. "Change this page" simply invites changes. If what we want is change, then a vandalistic change is as good as any other. But that is not what we want at all. I suggest that the short, correct four-letter word "edit" be reinstated on the tab of every page. 

One of the reasons for this is that although we are writing here for those with limited English, we are not writing for the fools who enjoy vandalising pages. Although we are writing for children, we are not writing to encourage children to act in a silly way. Every field of operation, every field of discipline has its own vocabulary. When we write about the science we expect the reader to know what a "research" is. When we write about a rock band, we expect the reader to know what a "recording" is. When we write about a famous building we expect the reader to know what the term "architecture" means. The word "Edit" is basic vocabulary in the art of writing. 

To put it even more simply, if the person who wants to make a "change" (in other words, "edit") does not have the word "edit" as part of their vocabulary, then their vocabulary is insufficient to edit these pages in an accurate way. Editors who edit so that non-native speakers, children and the intellectually challenged can understand, needs a "high" level of English, not a low one. A low level of English comprehension leads to contorted expression, ungrammatical sentences, and confusion rather than clarity. (Editors with limited English but good subject knowledge can often make worthwhile contributions, but these often need to reworked by people with a higher level of English, and may be best made as suggestions on the talk pages.) 

For these reasons I want the tab "Change this page" replaced with the accurate and more meaningful "Edit this page". () 06:36, 7 February 2010 (UTC)

Personally I see no difference, because an edit can mean vandalize just as much as change can. That being said. I don't really care either way. - () 17:48, 7 February 2010 (UTC)

While I don't care about the outcome much, this should not have been implimented so fast. Such major changes should normally be left open for 7 days. This was done in far too much of a shotgun mannor. 2 days is completely unacceptable for such a major change to a major link on the interface. I would like to see which ever admin made the changes revert themselves since there was no clear consensus on this yet and was definitely not open long enough. This was just a rediculous move. - () 04:06, 9 February 2010 (UTC)
Looks like the discussion has ended. Could users please say whether they prefer "change" or "edit", based on the conversation above and their personal opinion? You are encouraged to add your reasoning. An admin will close this in a few days, based on level of feedback. 05:29, 20 February 2010 (UTC)

I have reviewed the above discussion, and straw poll. We will be altering the text from edit to change per the agreement of the majority above. p.s. The discussion has been ongoing for 7+ days and it appears it will not change drastically. () 18:37, 26 February 2010 (UTC)

NVS returned to simple, after a very valid absence. Upon request, the admin flag has been readded. 06:14, 26 February 2010 (UTC)

Excuse me for this unnecessary curiosity, but when I proposed the article about Proteas for the DYK, and when it really became one, how come nobody gave me the sweet orange DYK box? :( Isn't somebody supposed to deliver it? 07:34, 26 February 2010 (UTC)

What the heck has happened to Simple News?--     01:27, 19 February 2010 (UTC)
BG7 isn't retired Christian Rocker, he's doing something in school that takes up a lot of his time. He said he would be back in awhile. | 18:42, 19 February 2010 (UTC)

With the article Moon hoax (theory) which was titled Moon landing conspiracy theories. There were concerns that the first title was POV. I agree. However, in my attempt to find an NPOV title, I have created a new title class (theory) and this was inadvertent. I think the new title may still be POV. Help? () 22:49, 28 February 2010 (UTC)

I have proposed guidance at . Please see the associated talk page. () 01:21, 1 March 2010 (UTC)

Given that we have had quite a few requests lately for flags, and given that we have indicated in the past that it'd be good to keep things local and not have to bother the, already overworked, stewards with fairly trivial requests, I'd like to ask the community to let local beaureaucrats handle the granting and removal of the "importer" flag. It's not really a big deal, and we would still run requests at so the whole community can take part and comment. 14:59, 26 February 2010 (UTC)


Withdrawn opposition Would like to see administrators with this ability... er, administrators can import, so we ought to be able to authorize the flag as well. () 06:02, 27 February 2010 (UTC)

I've become uncomfortable with the recent slew of importer requests. As an aside, I want to explore a "You have to have a task, and the flag will be removed when your task is complete." type deal. Incidentally, I have recently made a mistake with the import tool that required a few hours and my asking another two folks for help in correcting it. This tool is not the most benign tool. () 04:54, 27 February 2010 (UTC)
"edit conflict" ::This is a slightly different but to be honest I think it can be very good to allow people (who we trust enough) to do the work themselves. It gives them some responsibility and shows our trust. Sometimes this will end up in more work as we have to fix mistakes, yes, but I think that it can be worth it in the long run. " ( )" 05:28, 27 February 2010 (UTC)

Personally, I do not see "import" as being a big deal. Most of the time, "imports" are done when there are "large" pages, which are first imported, and then simplified to suit the needs of this crowd. The problem I have with it, is that the simplification is rarely done; as such the "use" of an import tool should be fairly limited. This of course presumes that the tool works flawlessly, which it doesn't. -- () 09:40, 27 February 2010 (UTC)


needs help. Please help. Best, () 04:29, 2 March 2010 (UTC)

I added to it some; tho' I am not a very good editor yet, I hope it helps. God bless everyone, 08:18, 2 March 2010 (UTC)

I have had two articles ( and ) moved to my user space (with the WrestleMania one being deleted and restored first) because they have been by and per . I contest this, when they were imported, my first priority was to simplify them to the point where they did not meet this criteria, they do not met the QD criteria anymore, they do need more simplification, which I will get to in a bit but I have other things to worry about right now on-wiki. From what I can tell to delete these per QD A3 would be an error on the deleting admin part. I would like the community to discuss this. At the most, a polite note to simplify soon should have been left on my talk page and the article tagged with .--     05:21, 2 March 2010 (UTC)

This is the problem with importing pages. A lot of them don't get much simplification (or none at all). I think a lot of the pages that were imported (including templates, etc...) haven't been sufficiently simplified, and could in theory be deleted per QD A3. 17:32, 2 March 2010 (UTC)

After a not-so-short hiatus, I have returned at the request of my good friends on here. Some people have asked me to redesign the Main Page. An idea I have can be seen . I'd like for us to collab [respectfully] and take a vote on it shortly. If you guys would like some color, I could make that happen. By the way, what happened to my "icon" code at and ? The icons look like they've taken a 180, but I don't mind if that's what you all would rather prefer. 04:56, 1 March 2010 (UTC)

I added some color. Suggestions? 06:10, 1 March 2010 (UTC)

Okay, I made everything lighter and more of an off-white blue. I also changed the font from a serif font to the regular non-serif font. 07:43, 1 March 2010 (UTC)

I've also changed the color of the "Selected article" box to an orange-y scheme and the "Did you know" box to a greenish scheme. Suggestions? 07:59, 1 March 2010 (UTC)

I assume we are talking about if so then I object very strongly, that colouring scheme is horrendus. There is a reason the main page is fairly colour neutral. Its because colour is a very subjective thing, what one person likes another hates. I find this example very distracting and it makes the page really hard to read. - () 17:12, 1 March 2010 (UTC)

I'd like to say well done! Looks great. 22:13, 1 March 2010 (UTC)

Thanks, guys! :) 04:01, 2 March 2010 (UTC)

Sorry for being slightly away I've been busy lately. A couple things: The Icon stuff was changed to topicon in css and js by myself a while ago when I was getting the protection topicons to work because I had multiple people harassing me to get them working :) , after I did so I changed the so that they too would work (albet slightly differently). You can see my code in the monobook.css (I added stuff to monobook.js but that is just to adjust things when we have a central notice). I'm not totally sure why I decided to add it to monobook instead of just common... but I know I tested it on other skins and it worked as well ;). 

My icons are based on the Enwiki versions, If we want to change them that is fine but I would honestly appreciate if we talk about it. I worked almost 20 hours trying to get the protection topicons working and it ended up being much easier to use the topicon version then the one we used to have and it is kind of frustrating to see some of my work just rolled back without comment or from what I see discussion. I personally like the little stars we have up there now but I am obviously biased and will fold to what others want. I don't really care if we change the main page, though I agree with DJ I personally prefer more neutral colors but I am possibly just a boring guy like that with my preference for earth tones etc ;). On a slightly different note I don't totally like the bottom stripe on now but if people want it that's fine :). I wonder if the issues Twinkle was having earlier with the code you tried to put in was the new code conflicting with mine but I haven't figured out exactly where that could be yet. " ( )" 04:22, 2 March 2010 (UTC)

Hey everyone,

I noticed on the that there was consensus to stop voting on proposed GAs and VGAs. The criteria, however, still mention voting. Should this be corrected? | 17:44, 2 March 2010 (UTC)

</doc>
<doc id="228624" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228624" title="InuYasha the Movie: Affections Touching Across Time">
InuYasha the Movie: Affections Touching Across Time

InuYasha the Movie: Affections Touching Across Time is a 2001 anime film that was directed by Katsuyuki Sumizawa. The movie is a spin-off of the telvision series "InuYasha" and is the first film in a series of four. The film was adapted into a manga series.

Inu-Yasha continues searching for the shards of the Shikon Jewel, a jewel that gives power to demons, with the help of Kagome, Shippo, Sango, and Miroku. A shard of the Shikon Jewel brings to life an incarnation of a demonic enemy that was sealed by Inu-Yashas' father. The demon gains power by eating souls.



</doc>
<doc id="228625" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228625" title="Litmus test">
Litmus test

Litmus is a solution of different dyes made from lichen. This is then put onto filter paper. The paper can then be used to give a rough indication of the PH value of a solution. Blue litmus paper will turn red, when acid is present; Red litmus paper will turn blue when alkalines are present. At room temperature, this usually happens for PH values between 4.5 and 8.3. Alternatively, a solution can be prepared which works the same way, but does not need the paper.


</doc>
<doc id="228632" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228632" title="Psychopathic Records">
Psychopathic Records

Psychopathic Records is a record label based in Royal Oak, Michigan. It was founded in 1991 by Alex Abbiss and Horrorcore band Insane Clown Posse. The company is currently distributed by Fontana Distribution.

The Psychopathic Records mascot is Hatchetman.


Psychopathic Records official website


</doc>
<doc id="228634" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228634" title="Gene Snitsky">
Gene Snitsky

Eugene Alan "Gene" Snisky (born January 14, 1970 in Nesquehoning, Pennsylvania) better known by his ring name Snitsky, is a American professional wrestler best known for the four years he spent with World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). 

Snitsky was released from his WWE contract on December 11, 2008.


</doc>
<doc id="228635" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228635" title="Scottsboro Boys">
Scottsboro Boys

The Scottsboro Boys were 9 young African-American men who were accused of a rape that they did not do and who were punished for it. A jury found them guilty even though the woman who accused them of rape admitted during the trial that it did not happen. This happened in Alabama in the 1930s.


</doc>
<doc id="228636" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228636" title="Independence Hall">
Independence Hall

Independence Hall is a historic building in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. It is called Independence Hall because the Declaration of Independence was passed there. The United States Constitution was also written there. It served as the capital of the United States several times, mostly during the Revolutionary War. It was also the meeting place of the state legislature of Pennsylvania. It is a World Heritage Site. It is on the back of the $100 bill.


</doc>
<doc id="228638" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228638" title="24th century">
24th century

The 24th century in the Common Era (or Anno Domini), will span the years 2301-2400. Unlike most century years, the year 2400 is a leap year and the first century leap year since the year 2000.


</doc>
<doc id="228640" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228640" title="Cartman Gets an Anal Probe">
Cartman Gets an Anal Probe

"Cartman Gets an Anal Probe" is the first episode of the first season of "South Park". It first started on the Comedy Central in the United States on August 13, 1997. 

In this episode, Stan, Kyle along with his brother Ike, Kenny and Cartman are standing at the bus stop and Cartman begins telling them about the dream he had last night about being abducted by visitors, The other boys begin telling Cartman that he was actually abducted by alien but Cartman refuses to believe them. Chef drives up in his station wagon and asks the boys if they saw the space ship flying over South Park last night and tells stories about aliens performing anal probes. As the boys get on the bus and drive off they watch in horror as the aliens abduct Ike. The boys are in the cafeteria and after Chef sees a machine emerge from Cartman's rear-end, Chef helps the boys escape the school to save Kyle's brother Ike by pulling the fire alarm. They escape outside and Cartman still believes that being abducted by aliens was a dream until he is hit by a beam that makes him sing and dance and space ship then appears, Kyle throws a rock at the space ship and the space ship fires back and hits Kenny which propels him into the street where he is run over by a herd of cows and a police car, killing him. Stan, Kyle and Wendy meet at Stark's Pond and Wendy suggests that they use the device in Cartman's rear-end to contact the aliens, the boys tie Cartman to a tree and a 80 foot Satellite dish emerges from Cartman's rear-end. The spaceship appears and Kyle's brother Ike leaps to safety, The aliens then begin to talk to the cows seeing them as the smartest species on the planet and Cartman is abducted yet again but is returned to the bus stop the next day.



</doc>
<doc id="228646" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228646" title="Gin and Juice">
Gin and Juice

"Gin and Juice" is a song by Snoop Doggy Dogg and produced by Dr. Dre, The song pay homage to Seagrams and Tanqueray gin and features Daz Dillinger. The video for "Gin and Juice" features Snoop Dogg wearing hockey jerseys from the Pittsburgh Penguins and the defunct Springfield (MA) Indians of the American Hockey League. The music video was also fourth on MTV2 and XXL's list of the 25 Greatest West Coast Videos.


</doc>
<doc id="228650" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228650" title="Jordan Hendry">
Jordan Hendry

Jordan Hendry (born February 23, 1984 in Nokomis, Saskatchewan) is an NHL ice hockey defenceman for the Chicago Blackhawks. He also played with the AHL's Rockford IceHogs. Hendry played college ice hockey at the University of Alaska Fairbanks Nanooks.

Hendry won the Stanley Cup with the Chicago Blackhawks on June 9 2010, which he took to his hometown of Nokomis.

Jordan Hendry's Chicago Blackhawks Player Page


</doc>
<doc id="228665" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228665" title="Harriet Beecher Stowe">
Harriet Beecher Stowe

Harriet Beecher Stowe (June 14, 1811 – July 1, 1896) was an American abolitionist and writer. Stowe's novel "Uncle Tom's Cabin" (1852) showed the lives of African-Americans who were slaves. It was very popular as a novel and a play, and had a great influence in the United States and Britain, helping people who did not like slavery and making many people disagree with slavery. When he met Stowe, it is said that Abraham Lincoln remarked, "So you're the little lady who started this great war!"



</doc>
<doc id="228690" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228690" title="Template:Convert/cm in">
Template:Convert/cm in


</doc>
<doc id="228691" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228691" title="Template:Convert/cm/km">
Template:Convert/cm/km


</doc>
<doc id="228692" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228692" title="Template:Convert/cm2 sqin">
Template:Convert/cm2 sqin


</doc>
<doc id="228693" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228693" title="Template:Convert/cm3atm">
Template:Convert/cm3atm


</doc>
<doc id="228694" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228694" title="Template:Convert/concise/-0s °C">
Template:Convert/concise/-0s °C


</doc>
<doc id="228695" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228695" title="Template:Convert/concise/-0s °F">
Template:Convert/concise/-0s °F


</doc>
<doc id="228696" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228696" title="Template:Convert/concise/-10s °C">
Template:Convert/concise/-10s °C


</doc>
<doc id="228699" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228699" title="Template:Convert/concise/-20s °C">
Template:Convert/concise/-20s °C


</doc>
<doc id="228702" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228702" title="Template:Convert/cufootatm">
Template:Convert/cufootatm


</doc>
<doc id="228703" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228703" title="Template:Convert/e12cuft">
Template:Convert/e12cuft


</doc>
<doc id="228704" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228704" title="Template:Convert/fathom ft">
Template:Convert/fathom ft


</doc>
<doc id="228705" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228705" title="Template:Convert/floutmreg">
Template:Convert/floutmreg

 miles per US gallon

</doc>
<doc id="228706" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228706" title="Template:Numtext/fullhund3">
Template:Numtext/fullhund3


</doc>
<doc id="228707" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228707" title="Template:Numtext/full2">
Template:Numtext/full2

&;hundred

</doc>
<doc id="228708" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228708" title="Template:Numtext/full2and">
Template:Numtext/full2and


</doc>
<doc id="228709" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228709" title="Template:Convert/YW">
Template:Convert/YW


</doc>
<doc id="228710" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228710" title="Template:Convert/YJ">
Template:Convert/YJ


</doc>
<doc id="228711" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228711" title="Template:Convert/valout/LoffAonSoffAnd">
Template:Convert/valout/LoffAonSoffAnd

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="228712" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228712" title="Template:Convert/valout/LoffAoffSonAnd">
Template:Convert/valout/LoffAoffSonAnd

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="228714" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228714" title="Template:Convert/usoz">
Template:Convert/usoz


</doc>
<doc id="228715" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228715" title="Template:Convert/USkenning">
Template:Convert/USkenning


</doc>
<doc id="228716" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228716" title="Template:Convert/usgal">
Template:Convert/usgal


</doc>
<doc id="228717" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228717" title="Template:Convert/usgal impgal">
Template:Convert/usgal impgal


</doc>
<doc id="228718" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228718" title="Template:Convert/USgal impgal">
Template:Convert/USgal impgal


</doc>
<doc id="228719" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228719" title="Template:Convert/usgal impgal l">
Template:Convert/usgal impgal l


</doc>
<doc id="228720" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228720" title="Template:Convert/USgal impgal l">
Template:Convert/USgal impgal l


</doc>
<doc id="228721" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228721" title="Template:Convert/Ts">
Template:Convert/Ts


</doc>
<doc id="228722" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228722" title="Template:Convert/tonocomma">
Template:Convert/tonocomma


</doc>
<doc id="228723" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228723" title="Template:Convert/Toilbbl/a">
Template:Convert/Toilbbl/a


</doc>
<doc id="228724" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228724" title="Template:Convert/Toilbbl">
Template:Convert/Toilbbl


</doc>
<doc id="228725" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228725" title="Template:Convert/Torr psi">
Template:Convert/Torr psi


</doc>
<doc id="228726" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228726" title="Template:Convert/Tswitch">
Template:Convert/Tswitch


</doc>
<doc id="228727" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228727" title="Template:Convert/TJ">
Template:Convert/TJ


</doc>
<doc id="228728" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228728" title="Template:Convert/and/AoffSon">
Template:Convert/and/AoffSon

-and--

</doc>
<doc id="228729" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228729" title="Template:Convert/and/frn1">
Template:Convert/and/frn1


</doc>
<doc id="228730" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228730" title="Template:Convert/aW">
Template:Convert/aW


</doc>
<doc id="228731" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228731" title="Template:Convert/concise/-50s °C">
Template:Convert/concise/-50s °C


</doc>
<doc id="228732" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228732" title="Template:Convert/concise/-60s °C">
Template:Convert/concise/-60s °C


</doc>
<doc id="228733" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228733" title="Template:Convert/concise/-70s °C">
Template:Convert/concise/-70s °C


</doc>
<doc id="228735" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228735" title="Template:Convert/concise/-90s °F">
Template:Convert/concise/-90s °F


</doc>
<doc id="228736" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228736" title="Template:Convert/concise/-70s °F">
Template:Convert/concise/-70s °F


</doc>
<doc id="228739" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228739" title="Template:Convert/concise/10s °F">
Template:Convert/concise/10s °F


</doc>
<doc id="228745" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228745" title="Template:Convert/concise/190s °F">
Template:Convert/concise/190s °F


</doc>
<doc id="228746" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228746" title="Template:Convert/cuyd/s">
Template:Convert/cuyd/s


</doc>
<doc id="228759" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228759" title="Joe McElderry">
Joe McElderry

Joe McElderry (born 16 June 1991) is an English singer. He was born in South Shields, Tyne and Wear. In 2009, he won the sixth series of British singing competition The X Factor. He is openly gay.


</doc>
<doc id="228801" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228801" title="Absolute value">
Absolute value

In mathematics, the absolute value of a number is the number without the sign. The absolute value of "2" is "2", the absolute value of "-2" is also 2. 
For a real number formula_1:


</doc>
<doc id="228804" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228804" title="Lady Gaga">
Lady Gaga

Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta (born March 28, 1986), best known by her stage name Lady Gaga, is an American singer-songwriter and musician. She got her stage name from the song "Radio Ga Ga" by the band Queen. In 2008, she made an album called, "The Fame", and she tells us "about how everyone can feel famous." Lady Gaga has a contralto vocal range. Her other albums are The Fame Monster and Born This Way. She has won various Grammys and Brit Awards.

Lady Gaga was born Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta in New York City on March 28, 1986, the oldest child of Joseph Germanotta, internet businessman, and Cynthia. She learned to play piano at the age of four, wrote her first piano song at 13 and began performing live by age 14. At the age of 11, Gaga started going to Convent of the Sacred Heart, a private Roman Catholic school on Manhattan's Upper East Side, but has often said her family wasn't rich, saying that her parents "both came from lower-class families, so we've worked for everything – my mother worked eight to eight out of the house, in telecommunications, and so did my father." An actor in high school, Gaga played lead roles as Adelaide in "Guys and Dolls" and Philia in "A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum". Gaga said her high school life was "very dedicated, very studious, very disciplined" but also "insecure" as she told in an interview, "I didn’t fit in, and I felt like a freak."

At age 17, Gaga was admitted early into the New York University's Tisch School of the Arts and lived in a NYU dorm on 11th Street. There she studied music and helped her songwriting writing essays on art, religion, social issues and politics. Gaga felt that she was more creative than some of her classmates. "Once you learn how to think about art, you can teach yourself," she said. By the second semester of her sophomore year, she left school to focus on her musical career. Her father agreed to pay her rent for a year, if she agreed to go back to Tisch if she failed. "I left my entire family, got the cheapest apartment I could find, and ate shit until somebody would listen," she said.

Lady Gaga released a new album called "Born This Way", on May 23, 2011. At midnight on New Years 2011, she said on her Twitter and Facebook pages that a new single would come out on February 13. "Born This Way" will be Gaga's third album in three years, and her second album with all new songs. She stated, "It came so quickly. I've been working on [the album] for months, and I feel very strongly that it's finished right now. Some artists take years. I don't. I write music every day." Gaga has said the album is about "what keeps us up at night and what makes us afraid." 

Gaga also worked with Elton John to make a new duet for the soundtrack to the upcoming Disney movie "Gnomeo and Juliet". The song, called "Hello, Hello", will be released in February 2011. She released her single "Born This Way" on 11 February 2011.

The "New York Post" said her early look was like "a refugee from "Jersey Shore"" with "big black hair, heavy eye makeup and tight, revealing clothes." Gaga has naturally brown hair; she bleached her hair blonde so she wouldn't look like Amy Winehouse. She often calls her fans "little monsters". She has several tattoos; words tattooed on her left arm is "the arm that holds [her] mic[rophone]."

Gaga says much of her early success is thanks to her gay fans and is often called a "rising gay icon." Early in her career she had trouble being played on the radio, and stated, "The turning point for me was the gay community. I've got so many gay fans and they're so loyal to me and they really lifted me up. They'll always stand by me and I'll always stand by them. It's not an easy thing to create a fanbase." In the inside of her album "The Fame", she said, "I love you so much. You were the first heartbeat in this project, and your support and brilliance means the world to me. I will always fight for the gay community hand in hand with this incredible team." One of her first performances on television was in May 2008 at the NewNowNext Awards, an awards show on the LGBT television network Logo, where she sang her song "Just Dance". In June, she sang the song again at the San Francisco Pride event. After "The Fame" came out, she said the hit song "Poker Face" was about being bisexual. When she was a guest on "The Ellen DeGeneres Show" in May 2009, she complimented DeGeneres for being "an inspiration for women and for the gay community". She later said that the October 11, 2009, National Equality March rally on the national mall was "the single most important event of her career." As she left, she said "Bless God and bless the gays," similar to her 2009 MTV Video Music Awards speech a month earlier. At the rally, she sang a cover of John Lennon's "Imagine" saying "I'm not going to [play] one of my songs tonight because tonight is not about me, it's about you." She changed the lyrics of the song to talk about the death of Matthew Shepard, a college student murdered because of his homosexuality. In September 2010, she spoke at a rally in favor of removing the Don't ask, don't tell policy, which stopped LGBT people from working openly in the military of the United States. The gay magazine "The Advocate" said that she had become an important helper for gays and lesbians where President Barack Obama wasn't.



</doc>
<doc id="228805" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228805" title="Template:Chess diagram small">
Template:Chess diagram small


</doc>
<doc id="228811" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228811" title="Template:Sister">
Template:Sister


</doc>
<doc id="228812" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228812" title="Template:Side box">
Template:Side box


</doc>
<doc id="228813" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228813" title="Template:Commons category">
Template:Commons category


</doc>
<doc id="228820" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228820" title="Art Garfunkel">
Art Garfunkel

Art Garfunkel (born November 5, 1941) is an American singer. Along with Paul Simon, he was part of the duo Simon and Garfunkel, a popular group in the 1960s and early 1970s. After that, he made several solo albums. He has also acted in a few movies. 





</doc>
<doc id="228870" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228870" title="Plattsburgh, New York">
Plattsburgh, New York

Plattsburgh is a town located in New York in the U.S. It is in upstate New York, near Lake Champlain.


</doc>
<doc id="228877" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228877" title="WTC">
WTC

WTC can mean:


</doc>
<doc id="228878" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228878" title="Only Time">
Only Time

Only Time, is a song by Celtic new age singer, Enya. It is one of her most famous songs.


</doc>
<doc id="228899" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228899" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Carlo Dozzi">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Carlo Dozzi

-- |  12:26, 24 February 2010 (UTC)

 |  "has nominated this page for deletion for the reason:"


"Please discuss this deletion below, but keep in mind that and that there may be options that are not just "keep" or "delete", such as merging."

This request is due to close seven days after it was filed; that is on approx. Tuesday, 2 March 2010 at 1:58 am, although it may be closed more quickly due to .<br><br>


</doc>
<doc id="228926" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228926" title="George Rodrigue">
George Rodrigue

George Rodrigue (born March 13, 1944), is a Cajun artist who grew up in New Iberia, Louisiana. He went to an all-boys high school and then later studied at two art colleges, one in Louisiana and one in California. He later trained in New York. He began by painting outdoor scenes at family gatherings, using an oak tree as his main subject in hundreds of paintings. Later he started abstract painting of Louisiana legends and the history of its people. He is best known for his Blue Dog series of paintings. He modeled the Blue Dog after his own pet named Tiffany. She had died a couple years before the first painting was ever made. That first painting was made for the cover of a scary book. It was a little eerie, the subject being a pale scruffy dog with red eyes. Eventually they became friendlier images of the Blue Dog.


</doc>
<doc id="228929" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228929" title="JSGF">
JSGF

JSGF stands for Java Speech Grammar Format or the JSpeech Grammar Format. It is a special format used to describe a set of text that fits into a certain language.


</doc>
<doc id="228933" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228933" title="Ocean pollution">
Ocean pollution

There are a great number of sources of ocean pollution. Some of these sources are easy to find. Others are harder to find.

People dump trash in lots of places, like the ocean. In the 1980s, scientists became alarmed by the kind of trash that was washing up on beaches. Bandages, bottles of blood and needles were found. Some of the blood in the bottles even had the AIDS virus. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) began to investigate, and found that hospitals in the United States make about 3 million tons of medical waste every year. And some of this trash goes in the ocean.

Because of stricter laws, much of this medical waste is now buried in the ground. However, dumping trash in the deeper part of the ocean is still done in lots of countries.

By 1990, the United States alone had already given out 38 trillion liters of into the waters along its coasts. Raw sewage is all the liquid and solid wastes that go down toilets and drains. After collecting in sewer drains, raw sewage goes through a "treatment plant", where it is cleaned, and the solid waste is removed. Once the liquid is treated, it goes to nearby waterways. The remaining solid waste is called "sludge". This toxin and bacteria-filled sludge is often dumped into the ocean. The people who dump it in think it will sink to the ocean floor. However, this sludge does not always stay on the ocean floor. Sometimes currents stir up the sludge and move it closer to shore, polluting beaches and killing marine life. Lots of countries have now made laws so that people cannot dump sludge. However, it continues to happen in many places in the world.

Every time we wash a car or our lawns we are polluting the ocean. People often think that water pollution comes from big factories, but most of the pollution comes from everyday people doing everyday things. This kind of pollution is called "nonpoint-source pollution" because we cannot point out where it came from directly. All waste water, in time, enters a body of water (usually a stream). Every stream leads to a river, and every river leads to an ocean.

Because so many people use oil, large ships must take billions of barrels of it across the oceans. If it is not handled carefully, these trips can be very bad. In 1989, the United States experienced a large oil spill in Prince William Sound, a waterway on the Alaskan coast. The "Exxon Valdez", a very big ship, hit a reef and spilled more than 260,000 barrels of oil. The results were very bad. A great number of animals were covered in oil and began dying immediately. Animals that ate these oil-filled animals also died. Many Alaskans who lived by fishing these animals lost their businesses. Even though many animals were saved, and the Exxon Oil Company spent 2.5 billion dollars trying to clean up the oil, Alaska's wildlife still suffers.

Humans have done much to harm the ocean, but we are starting to try to help them. Countries promise each other to clean up the ocean and save the ocean's resources.

When marine pollution grew worse and worse, many countries saw that they needed to help each other. In 1989, 64 countries agreed to a so that none of them could dump mercury, cadmium compounds, some kinds of plastic, oil, and other dangerous wastes in the ocean. Many other agreements trying to lessen ocean pollution have been made, but keeping them is often very hard to do.



</doc>
<doc id="228941" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228941" title="FreeTV (TV system)">
FreeTV (TV system)

FreeTV is Television-air system in New York channel 99 on Cable. Also air, present & removed stations from FreeTV.


</doc>
<doc id="228968" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228968" title="Stewie Griffin">
Stewie Griffin

Stewie Griffin is a character in the television comedy Family Guy. He is the youngest child of Lois and Peter Griffin. He has two older siblings. They are an American family although Stewie is the only one in his family with an English accent.


</doc>
<doc id="228986" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228986" title="Tikkakoski">
Tikkakoski

Tikkakoski is a town in Jyväskylä, Finland. 5,012 people live in Tikkakoski. 2,321 of them live in Tikkakoski's downtown.


</doc>
<doc id="228991" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228991" title="MSX">
MSX

MSX was the name of a home computer in the 1980s. It was Microsoft's attempt to create a standard for hardware makers, conceived by Microsoft Japan executive Kazuhiko Nishi. Even with Microsoft's involvement, MSX machines were rare in the United States and Britain, but they were popular in other markets. Eventually 5 million MSX-based units were sold worldwide.


</doc>
<doc id="228993" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228993" title="Family Computer Disk System">
Family Computer Disk System

The Family Computer Disk System was a disc add-on for the Nintendo Entertainment System that was only released in Japan despite being announced in America. It used floppy disks which made it very easy for piracy to occur.


</doc>
<doc id="228996" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228996" title="ColecoVision">
ColecoVision

The ColecoVision was a second generation home video game console known mostly for its expansion packs including the Expansion Module #1 which gave it the largest library of games for its time by having compatibility with Atari 2600 games. The ColecoVision offered arcade-quality graphics and gaming style, and the means to expand the system's basic hardware. River West Brands currently owns the ColecoVision brand name.


</doc>
<doc id="229014" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229014" title="Fashion in the 15th century">
Fashion in the 15th century

Fashion in the 15th century, in Europe was characterized by a series of extremes and extravagances, from the voluminous gowns called houppelandes with their sweeping floor-length sleeves to the revealing doublets and hose of Renaissance Italy. Hats, hoods, and other headdresses assumed increasing importance, and were swagged, draped, jewelled, and feathered. Full-bodied houppelandes with voluminous sleeves worn with elaborate headdresses are characteristic of the earlier 15th century.

As Europe continued to grow more prosperous, the urban middle classes, skilled workers, began to wear more complex clothes that followed, at a distance, the fashions set by the elites. National variations in clothing seem on the whole to have increased over the century. 

Wool was the most popular fabric for all classes by far, followed by linen and hemp. Wool fabrics were available in a wide range of qualities, from rough undyed cloth to fine, dense broadcloth with a velvety nap; high-value broadcloth was a backbone of the English economy and was exported throughout Europe. Wool fabrics were dyed in rich colours, notably reds, greens, golds, and blues, although the actual blue colour achievable with dyeing with woad (and less frequently indigo) could not match the characteristic rich lapis lazuli pigment blues depicted in contemporary illuminated manuscripts such as the Très Riches Heures du duc de Berry.

Silk-weaving was well-established around the Mediterranean by the beginning of the century, and figured silks, often silk velvets with silver-gilt wefts, are increasingly seen in Italian dress and in the dress of the wealthy throughout Europe. Stately floral designs featuring a pomegranate or artichoke motif had reached Europe from China in the previous century and became a dominant design in the Ottoman silk-producing cities of Istanbul and Bursa, and spread to silk weavers in Florence, Genoa, Venice, Valencia and Seville in this period. 

Fur was worn, mostly as a lining layer, by those who could afford it. The grey and white squirrel furs of the Middle Ages, vair and miniver, went out of style except at court, first for men and then for women; the new fashionable furs were dark brown sable and marten. Toward the end of the century, wild animal furs such as lynx became popular. Ermine remained the prerogative and hallmark of royalty.


</doc>
<doc id="229015" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229015" title="Markov chain">
Markov chain

In mathematics, a Markov chain, named after Andrey Markov, is a discrete random process with the Markov property. A discrete random process means a system which can be in various states. The system also changes randomly in discrete steps. It can be helpful to think of the system as evolving through discrete steps in time, although strictly speaking the "step" may have nothing to do with time.

An example of a Markov chain is the dietary habits of a creature who only eats grapes, cheese or lettuce, and whose dietary habits conform to the following (artificial) rules: It eats exactly once a day. If it ate cheese yesterday, it will eat lettuce or grapes today with equal probability for each, and zero chance of eating cheese. If it ate grapes yesterday, it will eat grapes today with probability 1/10, cheese with probability 4/10 and lettuce with probability 5/10. Finally, if it ate lettuce yesterday, it won't eat it again today, but will eat grapes with probability 4/10 or cheese with probability 6/10. This creature's eating habits can be modeled with a Markov chain since its choice depends on what it ate yesterday, not additionally on what it ate 2 or 3 (or 4, etc...) days ago. One statistical property one could calculate is the expected percentage of the time the creature will eat cheese over a long period.


</doc>
<doc id="229028" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229028" title="Mary Anning">
Mary Anning

Mary Anning (21 May 1799 – 9 March 1847) was an early 19th-century British fossil collector, dealer and paleontologist. She earnt her living finding and preparing fossils, in the rich Jurassic marine strata at Lyme Regis, Dorset where she lived. She made many important finds. These included the first ichthyosaur skeleton to be correctly identified; the first two plesiosaur skeletons ever found; the first pterosaur skeleton found outside Germany; and some important fish fossils. 

Her observations played a key role in the discoveries that belemnite fossils contained fossilized ink sacs, and that coprolites, known as bezoar stones at the time, were fossilized faeces. When the geologist Henry De la Beche painted "Duria Antiquior", he based it largely on fossils Anning had found. He sold prints for her benefit. Her work played a key role in the growth of scientific biology in the early 19th century. It showed without question that previously unknown forms of life had existed in the Jurassic seas, all of which were long extinct.

Anning's sex and social class—her parents were poor religious dissenters (non-Anglican Protestants)—prevented her from fully participating in the scientific community of early 19th century England, dominated as it was by wealthy Anglican gentlemen. Some of the men she worked with and for did give her full credit for her contributions, but some did not. 

Although she became well known in geological circles in Britain, Europe, and America, and she made a great deal of money from her best finds, she struggled financially for much of her life. In 1818 Anning came to the attention of Thomas Birch, a wealthy fossil collector, when she sold him an ichthyosaur skeleton. A year later, he was disturbed by the poverty of the Anning family, which was at the point of having to sell their furniture to make ends meet. Birch arranged for the sale by auction of his own fossil collection, and the proceeds (some £400) were given to the Annings. Besides providing much needed funds, the public auction raised the profile of the Anning family in the geologic community. Later, she lost £300 (a huge sum) in 1835 on unwise investments, but was saved by a government pension of £25 per year. This was organised by another of her friends, William Buckland. Her early death was caused by breast cancer.

Tourists used to visit Lyme Regis, which had become a popular seaside resort. As their father had before them, Mary and her brother Joseph Anning set up a table of 'curiosities' near the coach stop at a local inn to sell their wares to tourists. After Joseph made an important find of an ichthyosaur skull in 1810 and Mary found the associated skeleton a year later, they became known to the geologists and amateurs interested in fossils. Their passion for fossils grew to be the main source of income for the family.

Her stock in trade were invertebrate fossils such as ammonite and belemnite shells, which were common in the area and sold for a few shillings. Vertebrate fossils were much rarer, and exceptional specimens like an almost complete ichthyosaur skeleton could sell for much more.

The source of these fossils were the coastal cliffs that surround Lyme which are part of a geological formation known as the Blue Lias. This formation consists of alternating layers of limestone and shale, laid down as sediment on a shallow seabed early in the Jurassic period (about 210-195 million years ago). The cliffs are one of the richest fossil locations in Britain.

As Mary Anning continued to make important finds her reputation grew. In 1826, at the age of 27, she managed to save enough money to buy a home with a glass store front window for her shop, called "Anning's Fossil Depot". The move was covered in the local paper, which noted that the shop currently had a fine ichthyosaur skeleton on display. Many geologists and fossil collectors from Europe and America visited Anning at Lyme to purchase specimens. These included the geologist George William Featherstonhaugh who purchased fossils for the newly opened New York Lyceum of Natural History in 1827. King Frederick Augustus II of Saxony visited her shop in 1844 and purchased an ichthyosaur skeleton for his extensive natural history collection.

Lady Harriet Silvester visited Lyme in 1824. She remarked in her diary:
... the extraordinary thing in this young woman is that she has made herself so thoroughly acquainted with the science that the moment she finds any bones she knows to what tribe they belong. She fixes the bones on a frame with cement and then makes drawings and has them engraved. . . It is certainly a wonderful instance of divine favour – that this poor, ignorant girl should be so blessed, for by reading and application she has arrived to that degree of knowledge as to be in the habit of writing and talking with professors and other clever men on the subject, and they all acknowledge that she understands more of the science than anyone else in this kingdom.
As time passed, her confidence in her knowledge increased, and in 1839 she wrote to the "Magazine of Natural History" to question their claim that a hooked tooth of the prehistoric shark "Hybodus" represented a new discovery. She had discovered years ago the existence of fossil sharks with both straight and hooked teeth. The extract from the letter that the magazine printed was the only thing that Anning ever published.


Mary Anning is the subject of the old tongue-twister, "She sells sea shells on the sea shore." It was composed in 1908, more than a half century after her death, by Terry Sullivan who was inspired by her life story. The original text was:<br>

She sells seashells on the seashore<br>
The shells she sells are seashells, I'm sure<br>
So if she sells seashells on the seashore<br>
Then I'm sure she sells seashore shells.<br>
Anning's life story was seen as inspirational by a number of writers in the 20th century. Most of this material was intended as inspirational literature for children, and tended to focus on her childhood and early career, neglecting her later accomplishments. Much of it was also romanticized and not always historically accurate. She appeared as a character in historical novels, perhaps most notably in "The French Lieutenant's Woman" (1969) by John Fowles, which was made into a feature film in 1981. Fowles observed critically that no British scientist had named a species after Anning in her lifetime. 

However, in the 1840s the Swiss-American expert on fossil fish Louis Agassiz did name two fossil fish species, "Acrodus anningiae", and "Belenostomus anningiae", after her, and another after her friend Elizabeth Philpot. Agassiz was grateful for the help the two women had given him in examining and understanding fossil fish specimens, during his 1834 visit to Lyme Regis.


</doc>
<doc id="229037" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229037" title="Cyberbullying">
Cyberbullying

Cyberbullying is the misuse of electronic information and mass media, such as e-mail, SMS, weblogs, cellphones and defamatory websites, to harass or attack a person or a group. It can cause emotional damage. Cyberbullying can include sending threats and unwanted sexual messages.

Some schools have started programs to teach students about cyberbullying and how to deal with it.

In 2006, a 13 year old girl in Missouri killed herself after receiving mean messages on MySpace from a woman pretending to be a teenage boy. The state of Missouri then made using technology like the Internet or text messages to harass someone illegal.

In New Hampshire, a law was passed in 2010 that said that schools must have rules against cyberbullying.



</doc>
<doc id="229066" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229066" title="Bach-Werke-Verzeichnis">
Bach-Werke-Verzeichnis

Bach-Werke-Verzeichnis (BWV) is a list of all the pieces of music by Johann Sebastian Bach that are known. In English it means Bach Works Catalogue.

The catalogue was made by Wolfgang Schmieder in 1950. He took all the music that is known by Johann Sebastian Bach (some of Bach's music has been lost) and gave each piece a number. Each piece of music by Bach therefore has a BWV number. For example, the "Mass in B minor" is BWV 232. Giving each piece a number helps us to know exactly which piece of music we are talking about. For example, there are several Preludes and Fugues in G major, but putting "Prelude and Fugue in G major BWV550" makes it clear which one it is.

The BWV numbers are not listed chronologically (in the order they were written). They are grouped according to what kind of music it is: all the cantatas together, all the concertos together, etc.

Some pieces of music may be written by Bach, but we are not sure. Those doubtful pieces of music are listed separately as "BWV Anhang" (BWV appendix). Some of what Schmieder wrote in 1950 has been updated because some new music by Bach has been discovered. Other pieces of music have now been proved not to be by Bach.

Bach, like many composers from long ago, did not use opus numbers, because very few of his works were published during his lifetime.

Some older books write "S" instead of "BWV" (S for Schmieder), but Schmieder did not want this. He wanted Bach's name to be used, not his own.


</doc>
<doc id="229078" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229078" title="Category:2010 in professional wrestling">
Category:2010 in professional wrestling

This category contain pro wrestling related articles that happened in 2010.


</doc>
<doc id="229085" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229085" title="Han Fei Zi">
Han Fei Zi

Han Fei Zi (281 BC – 233 BC) was an early Chinese philosopher. He is part of a group said to have created of doctrine of the "School of Law" or Legalism.


</doc>
<doc id="229086" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229086" title="Thomas Anders">
Thomas Anders

Thomas Anders (born Bernd Weidung, 1 March 1963, Koblenz, West Germany) is a German singer, composer and record producer. Anders was the lead singer of Modern Talking, a famous German pop duo, between 1984–1987 and 1998–2003.



Despite the title, this DVD misses some videos by Thomas Anders: "Heißkalter Engel", "Es geht mir gut heut' Nacht", "Can't Give You Anything (But My Love)" and "Soldier".



</doc>
<doc id="229088" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229088" title="Américo">
Américo

Domingo Jonhy Vega Urzúa (December 24, 1977, Arica, Chile), commonly known as Américo, is a Chilean singer. He became known when he started leading the band "Américo y la Nueva Alegría". He is the son of the boleros singer Melvin "Corazón" Américo, who sings duets with his wife, Marcela Toledo.





</doc>
<doc id="229090" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229090" title="Holodomor">
Holodomor

The Holodomor (which means "murder by hunger") was a man-made famine and possibly a genocide that happened in Ukraine in 1932 and in 1933. At that time, Ukraine was a part of the Soviet Union. About seven million people starved to death in the Holodomor.

Joseph Stalin was the leader of the Soviet Union, which was a communist country. He made farmers in the Soviet Union change the way they farmed, then he tried to make the farmers work harder for the government-owned farms, for less money. Many people in the Ukraine did not want to go along with this. When the Ukraine had a famine, Stalin refused to help the people in the Ukraine. Instead, the government took food away from people. It became against the law to pick up food from the ground of fields. The government also tried to stop people from moving around the country to look for food.

Scholars and politicians using the word Holodomor say the man-made aspects of the famine, was a genocide; some consider the huge loss of life comparable to the Holocaust. They argue that the Soviet policies were an attack on the rise of Ukrainian nationalism and therefore is a genocide. 


</doc>
<doc id="229099" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229099" title="Castling">
Castling

Castling is a special move in chess that uses both a rook and the king. In castling, the king is moved two squares toward the rook, and the rook moves past the king to the square right next to where the king has moved. Castling takes one move, and is the only way for a player to move two of his own pieces on the same move. Castling can be done on either side of the board.

Castling is only possible if each of the following things are true:


Good players castle in most of their games. It is normally a good idea because it often moves the king into a safer place. The middle of the board is normally not a very safe place for the king to be early in the game. It also makes it easier to get the rook into the game. 


</doc>
<doc id="229115" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229115" title="Effect of the false consensus">
Effect of the false consensus

In psychology, the effect of the false consensus is the tendency for people to assume that everyone else thinks the same way they do.

It is a cognitive bias in which many person tend to overestimate the "agreement grade" that the other people have with them. 
Most of the time, people think that their own attitudes, beliefs, predilections, values and habits are among those chosen most of the time. This belief is a bias that exaggerate the trust on individuals with their own beliefs, even if they are wrong.

Another effect which can often be seen together with false consensus is called pluralistic ignorance. In pluralistic ignorance, people support a norm, or a belief in public, even though they think this is wrong. For instance, pluralistic ignorance may lead a student to drink a lot of alcohol, because he believes that everyone else does that as well. In reality, however, everyone else also wishes they could avoid binge drinking. Everyone fears that they will be excluded from the group, so no one expresses this fear. A false consensus for the same situation would mean that a student believes that most other people enjoy excessive drinking, while most other people do not and openly express their opinion about it.




</doc>
<doc id="229120" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229120" title="Template:User Literature">
Template:User Literature


</doc>
<doc id="229122" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229122" title="Template:Welcome to Literature">
Template:Welcome to Literature


</doc>
<doc id="229138" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229138" title="Cherry cake">
Cherry cake

A cherry cake is a soft, creamy cake with firm bread and ripe cherries inside it. It is served with cherry icing, made of icing sugar, butter, and water. Sometimes pink food coloring is added to the icing, to make it look like it is made of cherries.

Cherry cakes may also be presented with sprinkled icing, and desiccated coconut.


</doc>
<doc id="229139" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229139" title="Walnut cake">
Walnut cake

Walnut cake is a cake made of walnuts. It is a lightly golden, thick, creamy cake made of coffee cream and chocolate hazelnut spread. Unfilled Walnut cakes can be preserved and for one month.

Walnut cakes may also be served with a punnet of strawberries, reserving four berries for decoration. Also, strawberry cream can be spread over the top and sides of the cake.



</doc>
<doc id="229146" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229146" title="Eudimorphodon">
Eudimorphodon

Eudimorphodon is a recently discovered pterosaur, and comes from shale laid down Upper Triassic rocks in Italy. 

A nearly complete skeleton was found in 1973, which show it to be a member of the long-tailed sub-order of pterosaurs, the Rhamphorhynchoidea. "Eudimorphodon" was small in size, with 110 teeth packed into a jaw only 6 cms long. Teeth at the front are fangs, further back the teeth are small and multipointed, many with five cusps. This is unique among pterosaurs, whose teeth are usually of a simple conical form.

Stomach contents showed it had eaten a small fish, "Parapholidophorus". The top and bottom teeth of "Eudimorphodon" came into direct contact with each other when the jaws were closed, especially at the back of the jaw. The teeth were multi-cusped, and tooth wear shows that "Eudimorphodon" was able to crush or chew its food to some degree. Wear along the sides of these teeth suggests that "Eudimorphodon" also fed on hard-shelled invertebrates.

Juvenile "Eudimorphodon" had somewhat different and fewer teeth, and may have eaten insects. 

An unsolved puzzle is the flexibility of the tail, which lacks the very long stiffening vertebral extensions other long-tailed pterosaurs have. This flexibility is a basal trait; its functional significance in this genus is unknown. However, it is known that the stiffened tail of "Rhamphorhynchus"-like pterosaurs is a device which adds stability to their flight. Without this stability, the animal would be more manoeuvrable, but their flight would need more control by the brain.


</doc>
<doc id="229147" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229147" title="Myall Creek Massacre">
Myall Creek Massacre

The Myall Creek Massacre was an incident which involved the murders of approximately 30 Wirrayaraay indigenous people by European settlers. It happened on 10 June 1838 at the Myall Creek near Bingara in northern New South Wales.


</doc>
<doc id="229173" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229173" title="Nuclear chemistry">
Nuclear chemistry

Nuclear chemistry is the part of chemistry dealing with radioactivity, nuclear processes and nuclear properties.


</doc>
<doc id="229217" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229217" title="Rise Against">
Rise Against

Rise Against is an American punk rock band from Chicago, Illinois. Rise Against formed in 1999. Their current members are Tim McIlrath (vocals, guitar), Joe Principe (bass guitar), Brandon Barnes (drums), and Zach Blair (guitar). All of the members are straight edge (except Barnes), and the band supports PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals). They are also vegans. The band is currently signed to Geffen. Geffen is a record label owned by Universal Music Group. As of 2009, Rise Against has had six studio albums, two EPs, and one DVD.

Rise Against spent its first five years signed to the record label "Fat Wreck Chords," on which it released two studio albums. The band got reviewer popularity with its first two releases on Geffen, "Siren Song of the Counter Culture" (2004) and "The Sufferer & the Witness" (2006). These two albums made many high-charting singles, like "Swing Life Away", "Prayer of the Refugee", and "The Good Left Undone". Their newest studio album, "Appeal to Reason" (2008), was released in North America on October 7. It got to number three on the U.S Billboard 200 and made the three singles, "Re-Education (Through Labor)", "Audience of One", and "Savior".

Rise Against was first made with the name "Transistor Revolt" in 1999 by former members of the bands 88 Fingers Louie and Baxter. The first group was Tim McIlrath (vocals), Joe Principe (bass and vocals), Toni Tintari (drums), and Mr. Precision (guitar and vocals). The band never performed live with this group. Instead, it released a self-made demo or EP. It was called "Transistor Revolt". They made it in the year 2000, a year before signing with Fat Wreck Chords. Tintari left shortly after making "Transistor Revolt", and was replaced by Brandon Barnes. Barnes was first from Screeching Weasel and Squirtgun's drummer. The band changed its name to Rise Against in 2001 and made its first album, "The Unraveling" (made by veteran punk maker Mass Giorgini) on Fat Wreck Chords that same year. Mr. Precision then left the band in 2001. He was replaced by Todd Mohney. Mohney joined before the band began writing their second full-length album, "Revolutions per Minute".

After touring in support of "The Unraveling", the band came back to the studio in December 2002 to work on their second full-length album. The album would be called "Revolutions per Minute" (made by Bill Stevenson and Jason Livermore at The Blasting Room). It was released in 2003. The band toured a lot in support of its first two albums. They also performed in helping roles for "Sick of It All," "NOFX," "Agnostic Front," "No Use for a Name," "AFI," and "Strung Out." Rise Against also helped out in the 2003 "Warped Tour."

Rise Against signed onto Dreamworks Records in December 2003 and made their third album, "Siren Song of the Counter Culture" in 2004. Dreamworks was soon absorbed by the Universal Music Group, and Rise Against found itself with Geffen Records instead. Shortly after the band signed with Geffen, Mohney left and was replaced by guitarist Chris Chasse. Rise Against released "Siren Song of the Counter Culture" in August 2004. The album was their first to be the band's album on a famous record label, and was their first to reach the "Billboard" 200 chart. It also was awarded gold by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). The album got mostly good reviews from reviewers. In giving the album three out of five stars, Johnny Loftus from Allmusic said that "Siren Song of the Counter Culture" sometimes ""gets carried away with its own music ."" However, he goes on to say that because of the album being the band's first famous-label release, ""maybe the fuller sound and sometimes forays into acoustic guitars and cello overdubs...are OK.""

Rise Against toured North America, Europe, Australia, and Japan in support of "Siren Song of the Counter Culture". Some of the best performances are those on the first worldwide "Taste of Chaos" tour in 2005 (with Funeral for a Friend, Story of the Year, The Used, and Killswitch Engage), a worldwide tour to the United Kingdom, Germany, Australia, and Japan, the Give It a Name tour in the United Kingdom, the Reading Festival and Leeds Festival in the United Kingdom a United States tour with Alkaline Trio, and the Warped Tour in North America.

In January 2006, after touring in support of "Siren Song of the Counter Culture", Rise Against started to work on their fourth studio album at the Blasting Room studio in Fort Collins, Colorado. With makers Bill Stevenson and Jason Livermore. "The Sufferer & the Witness" was released on July 4, 2006. The album got to number 10 on the U.S. "Billboard" 200 chart, selling 48,397 copies in its first week of release. It was then awarded gold by the RIAA in 2008. "The Age" newspaper said that with "The Sufferer & the Witness", the band ""returns to their punk roots."" Plus, the album got mostly good reviews by reviewers. Corey Apar of Allmusic, in giving the album four out of five stars, said of it, ""the band's inner grit is aptly drawn out amid all the pit-ready choruses and fist-in-the-air, stirring lyrics."" She goes on to say, ""Rise Against continue to muscularly confront political and personal grievances to the tune of swirling guitars, assertive rhythms, and Tim McIlrath's sandpapered vocals."" Then Christine Leonard of "Fast Forward Weekly" says of the band, ""Returning to their old school form with the ballistic intensity of "Bricks," they just as quickly lose focus with questionable efforts such as 'Worth Dying For' and the oh-so-weary 'Prayer of the Refugee'.""

A DVD called "Generation Lost" was released on December 5, 2006 to help the band and their new album. It is a movie of the careers of the band members, as well as live performance videos and making-of shorts. Rise Against toured in support of "The Sufferer & the Witness" through the second half of 2006 and all of 2007. The band was a big band in the 2006 Warped Tour. In late 2006, the band said that they would tour with Thursday. The bands Circa Survive and Billy Talent would also come too. In early 2007, the band had My Chemical Romance open for them on the first half of their big tour. On February 23, 2007, Rise Against said guitarist Chris Chasse, would leave. Chasse was then replaced by longtime friend Zach Blair from Only Crime. On June 15, 2007, the band started their first big tour in support of "The Sufferer & the Witness". It was a North American tour that lasted throughout the summer months. During this tour, on July 3, 2007, Rise Against recorded an EP in Canada titled "This Is Noise", which was then released in the United States on January 15, 2008.

Before the album was released, Rise Against supported it by preforming at the sixteenth yearly KROQ Weenie Roast on May 17 in Irvine, California. They also performed at the sixth yearly Download Festival on June 13 at Donington Park, England. They played at Switzerland's Greenfield Festival as well as Germany's Hurricane Festival and Southside Festival. Like many past years, the band participated in the Vans Warped Tour, although they only performed on the tour's west coast swing from August 6 to
August 17.

Rise Against's fifth studio album "Appeal to Reason" was released on October 4 in Australia. It was then released October 6 across Europe. Then October 7 in the United States. The album sold 64,700 copies in its first week. It also got to number three on the U.S. "Billboard" 200. This made it Rise Against's highest scoring album. "Appeal to Reason" also got mostly good reviews. However, reviewers did not rate it as good as "The Sufferer & the Witness". Most people thought this because Rise Against is moving toward slower music and away from faster hardcore punk. Giving the album a C+ review, Marc Weingarten of "Entertainment Weekly" says the album is filled with ""protest that lean closer to the of such bands as New Found Glory and Fall Out Boy than the of brainy Green Day"" and songs that are ""peppy but pretty empty, power-chord downers with little bark or bite"." Kyle Anderson from "Rolling Stone" says that the songs on "Appeal to Reason" ""are driven by an ever-sharpening pop "." He finishes by saying, ""Rise Against may be about leaving the underground behind, but with sharp songs like these, they're ready for the rest of the world"."

Rise Against then went on a North American tour with other bands such as Rancid, Billy Talent, Killswitch Engage, and Riverboat Gamblers in June and July 2009. They also did a short tour in the United Kingdom in November. The bands Thursday and Poison the Well helped Rise Against do that tour. The band also played at KROQ's Almost Acoustic Christmas in December 2009, playing right before AFI. The band will release a record with Face to Face, but no date has been said. After finishing a European tour from October to November 2009 and an Australian tour in January and February 2010, Rise Against will start working on a new album.

Rise Against's musical style throughout the band's history has been thought by most reviewers as hardcore punk, melodic hardcore, or punk rock. The band has cited many punk and hardcore bands as inspiration to its music. In 2004, drummer Brandon Barnes said: ""I think we have a lot of different influences from hardcore like old Cave In, to a lot of punk like Face to Face, Screeching Weasel, and Down By Law"."

In 2006, Tim McIlrath described the band's style: ""We’re Minor Threat and Black Flag. Who knows, maybe if Ian MacKaye was wearing eyeliner then I would be."" Other bands that have inspired Rise Against are Descendents, Dead Kennedys, Refused, and Bad Religion.



</doc>
<doc id="229221" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229221" title="Siren Song of the Counter Culture">
Siren Song of the Counter Culture

Siren Song of the Counter Culture is the third album by American punk rock band Rise Against, released on August 10, 2004. It is the band's first release on a major label. The album sold very well, mainly because of the success of its single, "Swing Life Away", which reached number 12 on the Billboard Modern Rock Tracks, making it the band's highest-ranking single at the time. Also faring well were the album's other three singles, "Give It All" (number 37) and "Life Less Frightening" (number 33) and "Paper Wings". Despite its big commercial success, Siren Song of the Counter Culture is not Rise Against's highest charting album on the Billboard 200, peaking at number 136; subsequent albums The Sufferer & The Witness and Appeal to Reason both charted higher, peaking at number 10 and number 3. The album was awarded Gold by the RIAA on March 10, 2009.


13. "Obstructed View" - 2:01 <br>
14. "Fix Me (Black Flag cover)" - 0:54


</doc>
<doc id="229226" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229226" title="Redbone Coonhound">
Redbone Coonhound

A Redbone Hound is a breed of dog. The breed is used for hunting bear, raccoon, and other wild game.


</doc>
<doc id="229277" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229277" title="Template:Infobox weather">
Template:Infobox weather

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="229281" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229281" title="Template:Infobox weather/line">
Template:Infobox weather/line

<includeonly>|-
!height="16" |

</doc>
<doc id="229282" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229282" title="Roger Goodell">
Roger Goodell

Roger Goodell (born February 19, 1959) is the current commissioner of the National Football League. He has held this post since August 8, 2006 when he took over duties for the retiring Paul Tagliabue.

As the commissioner, he has focused on how players behave off of the field, making more rules that can lead to players who get into trouble off of the field or with the law being fined or suspended.


</doc>
<doc id="229284" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229284" title="List of worldwide spin-off networks of Nickelodeon">
List of worldwide spin-off networks of Nickelodeon

This is a list of Nickelodeon spin-off networks in worldwide.

Launched May 1, 2002. The US version includes programming such as Nicktoons and some non-live studio audience, live-action series. Formerly called "Nicktoons Network" and "Nicktoons TV".

Similar how the UK & Australia version launched. Formerly called "Noggin". Launched September 28, 2009.

A teenage-themed network. Formerly "The N". Launched September 28, 2009.

British vision of "Nick Jr." Launched September 1999.

"Nick Jr."'s second channel in the United Kingdom. Launched on April 24, 2006.

A Dutch version of "Nicktoons".

A Dutch version of "Nick Jr.".

A France version of "Nick Jr.". Launched on January 26, 2010.



</doc>
<doc id="229285" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229285" title="Template:Infobox weather/Chart">
Template:Infobox weather/Chart

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="229286" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229286" title="Template:Infobox weather/colh">
Template:Infobox weather/colh

<includeonly>background:<nowiki>#</nowiki>FFFFFF;color:<nowiki>#</nowiki>000000;font-size:85%;text-align:center;</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="229287" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229287" title="Template:Infobox weather/cols">
Template:Infobox weather/cols

<includeonly>background:<nowiki>#</nowiki>;color:<nowiki>#</nowiki>;font-size:85%;text-align:center;</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="229288" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229288" title="Template:Infobox weather/concise F">
Template:Infobox weather/concise F

<includeonly>
</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="229289" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229289" title="Template:Infobox weather/line/onevalue">
Template:Infobox weather/line/onevalue

<includeonly>|-
!height="16" style="font-size:90%"|

</doc>
<doc id="229290" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229290" title="Template:Infobox weather/Sandbox">
Template:Infobox weather/Sandbox


</doc>
<doc id="229291" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229291" title="Template:Infobox weather/colp">
Template:Infobox weather/colp

<includeonly>background:<nowiki>#</nowiki>;color:<nowiki>#</nowiki>;font-size:85%;text-align:center;</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="229292" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229292" title="Template:Infobox weather/colt">
Template:Infobox weather/colt

<includeonly>background:<nowiki>#</nowiki>000000;color:<nowiki>#</nowiki>;font-size:85%;text-align:center;</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="229293" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229293" title="Template:Infobox weather/doc">
Template:Infobox weather/doc

For questions/examples, see the page. For shorter forms, see below: Concise forms.

You can enter data in metric units or imperial units or both. Important: remove all unused fields.

IF USING MULTIPLE TABLES: Please verify that the template does not overlay, or get overlaid by, other templates used in the article. Please test your changes with several skins and several browsers, and several browser window sizes. If necessary use to fix any overlapping problems.

There are shorter templates that invoke {{Infobox weather}} with 36 condensed parameters:


<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="229294" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229294" title="Template:Infobox weather/cold">
Template:Infobox weather/cold

<includeonly>background:<nowiki>#</nowiki>FFFFFF;color:<nowiki>#</nowiki>;font-size:85%;text-align:center;</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="229295" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229295" title="Template:Infobox weather/colpastel">
Template:Infobox weather/colpastel

<includeonly>background:<nowiki>#</nowiki>CC33EE;color:<nowiki>#</nowiki>;font-size:85%;text-align:center;</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="229296" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229296" title="Template:Infobox weather/concise C">
Template:Infobox weather/concise C

<includeonly>
</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="229297" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229297" title="Template:Infobox weather/old">
Template:Infobox weather/old

<includeonly>
</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="229301" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229301" title="Pepperjack cheese">
Pepperjack cheese

Pepper jack cheese is a type of Monterey Jack cheese that is made with spicy hot peppers for flavour. Pepperjack is a spicy, buttery cheese that is soft and has a tart flavour. 


</doc>
<doc id="229303" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229303" title="Nick Jr.">
Nick Jr.

Nick Jr. is a worldwide preschool channel. It is an abbreviation of "Nickelodeon Junior". It was launched on 1988 in the United States. 

Launched on January 4, 1988 . The US version did not had the similar graphs, promos or design as the UK, Italy or Australia except the logo. The mascots was "Moose A. Moose" and "Zee". Currently it airs some early and late Nick Jr. shows. The new logo is a lot different then the block's logo.

Launched on September 1, 1999. This is the first Nick Jr. channel in history of Nickelodeon. The mascot was "Piper".
Launched on March 2004. The Australian version includes some PBS Kids series like "WordWorld", "Sid the Science Kid", or "Martha Speaks", and original programming like "Ollie".
Similar to the US version. Launched on January 26, 2010. Name stylized as Nickelodeon Junior. The french version.


</doc>
<doc id="229315" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229315" title="Joey Tempest">
Joey Tempest

Joey Tempest is the singer and main songwriter of the Swedish rock band Europe.


</doc>
<doc id="229321" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229321" title="Commune">
Commune

A commune is a minor administrative subdivision corresponding to a urban or rural zone, or mixed. It is the equivalent of a municipality, a council, or other instances of local administration. 

Many countries have adopted the name of commune (or similar) for their minor and basic administrative unit. Some countries are Germany ("Gemeinde"), Belgium ("commune"/"gemeente"), Chile ("comuna"), Colombia ("Comuna"), Denmark (kommune), France ("commune"), Italy ("comune"), Luxembourg ("commune"), Netherlands ("gemeente"), Poland ("gmina"), Sweden ("kommun") and Switzerland ("Gemeinde"/"commune"/"comune").


</doc>
<doc id="229331" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229331" title="Computus">
Computus

The Computus is a calculation method of the Easter date. In the early 4th century there was confusion about when christian Easter or the Resurrection should be celebrated. 

At the Arles Council, in 314, was obliged to all the Christianity to celebrate Easter the same day, and that this date was going to be assigned by the Pope, that was going to send epistles to all the churches in the world with the necessary instructions. However, not all the congregations followed those precepts.
In the Nicaia Council, in 325, this subject was solved.

Was established that the Resurrection Easter had to be celebrated fulfilling some norms:

However, there still were discussions between the Roman Church and the Alexandrian Church, while the Nicaia Council said that the Alexandria Church was right, they had to calculate the date (in Alexandria), then communicate it to Rome. The Roman Church had to spread the "computus" to the rest of the Christianity.

Let's define 5 variables, "a", "b", "c", "d", and "e". In addition to two constants, "M" and "N", so the years between 1900 and 2100 take the values 24 and 5, respectively. We'll call "A" the year that we want to calculate the Easter date.

If "d" + "e" < 10, the Easter date will be in March ("d" + "e" + 22). If opposed ("d" + "e" > 9), will be in April ("d" + "e" − 9).

There are 2 exceptions: 


The values for M and N for years before 1900 or after 2100 can be obtained from the following table:



</doc>
<doc id="229334" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229334" title="Template:Dates for Easter">
Template:Dates for Easter


</doc>
<doc id="229351" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229351" title="Province of Cardenal Caro">
Province of Cardenal Caro

The Province of Cardenal Caro is a Chilean province. Is the only province in the Region of O'Higgins that has instant access to the sea. It has a population of 41,160 inhabitants. It has a surface of 3.295,07 km². Its capital is Pichilemu, main turistic place of the region during the summer months. In the past, it was part of the Province of Colchagua. The province is named after José Maria Caro, the first Chilean Catholic Cardinal.

The province has 6 communes:



</doc>
<doc id="229358" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229358" title="Category:Provinces of Chile">
Category:Provinces of Chile


</doc>
<doc id="229359" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229359" title="Punta de Lobos">
Punta de Lobos

Punta de Lobos (English: "Wolf's Point") is a Chilean beach located 6 km at the south of Pichilemu and 177 km at the southwest of Rancagua, in the Province of Cardenal Caro, Region of O'Higgins.

It has a fine and gray sand. The beach is surrounded by In addition to its fine gray sand, its principal characteristic is that its surrounded by cliffs that are 50 metres high. The famous rocks of the beach are frequently visited by sea-lions. The beach is perfect for bathing and shore fishing. It is also a good place for surfing and kiteboarding practice, especially in winter. The sea waves at the beach oscillate between the two and three height meters, and allows the surfers to select their perfect waves.


</doc>
<doc id="229363" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229363" title="Researcher">
Researcher

A researcher is a person that researches, looks for knowledge in general for any systematic investigation to establish facts. The researchers can work in institutions of academic, industrial, government, or private-kind.



</doc>
<doc id="229368" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229368" title="Wikipedia:Requests for importer/Ottava Rima">
Wikipedia:Requests for importer/Ottava Rima

<div class="boilerplate metadata" style="background-color: #edeaff; padding: 0 10px 0 10px; border: 1px solid #8779DD;">
Successful per clear consensus, my vote notwithstanding. – |  03:40, 4 March 2010 (UTC)

"End date: 02:28, 4 March 2010 (UTC)"

I am requesting importing rights because of the usefulness they will serve in my work (simplifying various pages that I have produced in the past). I have importer rights at Wikiversity and I know how to use them. By importing over various documents and pages, I will be able to preserve the histories of pages that I have "simplified" in order to help create more pages at simple.wikipedia in the field of literature. The secondary ability, to suppress redirects, is very helpful as I tend to work in user space and have to deal with change page names, or with complicated naming issues where a long series of redirects would be problematic (I clean up double-redirect problems at Wikiversity). 

Right now, I have 5 articles on my list to simplify (with the help of Juliancolton to import some histories). Having importer tool would allow me to have some independence and allow others to concentrate on their own areas more effectively. () 02:28, 25 February 2010 (UTC)

"Candidate's acceptance: self-nom ()"


First things first: It appears I was mistaken about the currently banned admin on enWiki, I mis read and interpreted some things. We do have current admins (who I support as such) who have been banned on En but not ones who currently are. Secondly, and I'm going to break my "usual composure" for this with apologizes to Classical Esther, CR90 and anyone else who doesn't like swearing, HOLY FUCK PEOPLE. I'm not going to comment here any more but the above rantage is a disgrace to this community and I'm disappointed in a few of you (yes that includes Ottava to some extent). I've already said the rest of my piece so I won't repeat it here. " ( )" 23:00, 25 February 2010 (UTC)


</doc>
<doc id="229375" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229375" title="The Author's Farce">
The Author's Farce

Henry Fielding wrote the play The Author's Farce and the Pleasures of the Town. It was first acted on 30 March 1730 in the Haymarket Theatre. The play responds to the rejection of Fielding's early plays and was his first success.

Harry Luckless is the main character of the play. He tries to write a play in the first act and completes the play in the second act. It is a puppet play called "The Pleasures of the Town". Many theatres do not accept the play but it is later shown within the third act. The play is about the puppet character Goddess Nonsense who wants a husband. The end of "The Author's Farce" combines the characters of the puppet play and the main play for humour.

Fielding became a popular writer in London after "The Author's Farce". The Haymarket Theatre let him experiment with his plays and Fielding changed the comedy genre. The puppet play within the main play made fun of other London plays. "The Author's Farce" was first a success. Then, it was ignored by critics until the 20th century. Critics focused on the play's effects on Fielding's work.

"The Author's Farce" has three acts. The play begins with Harry Luckless wanting a relationship with his landlady's daughter Harriot. Also, he is a writer and he is writing a play. The start of the play is like Fielding's other plays but the rest of the play is different. Luckless wants to be a good writer but he cannot make money. Other people want to give Luckless money but he does not want it. When Luckless's friend Witmore pays Luckless's rent, Luckless steals the money back. In the second act, Luckless asks for help to finish his puppet play "The Pleasures of the Town". However, people give him bad advice and theatres reject the play. Later, a theatre shows the play. The third act is the puppet play. The puppets are acted by real people and not puppets.

The third act is the puppet play and is a play within a play. It takes place along the River Styx and starts with the Goddess of Nonsense wanting a husband. There are many possible husbands there and they are stupid. They are Dr Orator, Sir Farcical Comic, Mrs Novel, Bookseller, Poet, Monsieur Pantomime, Don Tragedio, and Signior Opera. She selects Signior Opera after he sings for her. He is an opera signior and a castrato. Mrs Novel claims that she and Signior Opera had a child. This makes the Goddess of Nonsense angry but she forgives Signior Opera. The puppet play is stopped by the characters Constable and Murdertext. They want to arrest Luckless for hurting the Goddess of Nonsense. Mrs Novel asks for the play to be completed and they agree. However, a person from the land of Bantam stops the play and says that Luckless is the prince of Bantam. Another messenger comes and says that the King of Bantam died and Luckless is the new king. Luckless is told that his landlady is the Queen of Old Brentford and her daughter Harriot is a princess. The play ends with four poets saying how they would end the play. They are stopped by a cat that looks like a person. The cat person ends the play.

"The Author's Farce" show parts of Fielding's life and experience with the London theatre community. Some of his other plays were rejected from the Theatre Royal. "The Author's Farce" was put on at a small theatre. This allowed Fielding to experiment. He could not experiment at larger theatres. The play was the first to have things found in his later plays. However, he did not come up with them all. He got many of his ideas from the Scriblerus Club. Their members were Alexander Pope, Jonathan Swift, John Gay, and John Arbuthnot. One idea is his character Nonsense. She is similar to Pope's character Dulness in the "Dunciad". Both characters promote bad writing. Fielding gave Nonsense a sexual aspect. It is funny when she chooses as a lover a man who is sexless. Other parts of the play are similar to Gay's "Beggar's Opera".

The play is a farce. Farces use slapstick and physical humour to be funny. They also use absurd plots. A farce also makes serious situations funny. Fielding thought that theatre was becoming bad. He mocked theatre and theatre audiences in his play. His character Luckless states that for someone to become successful they must write nonsense. His only desire is to make money. Other characters feel that money is all that matters. They do not care about good writing. Even Harriot believes that a good lover is one who is rich. Fielding made the same claims about people when he attacked Samuel Richardson's novel, "Pamela".

The ending of the play merges real and fake. Fielding defends an old view of writing. He also attacks new types of writing. He uses puppets to represent various genres. He made fun of people liking Italian opera. The puppet character Signior Opera is a castrato. Castratos are men without testicles. The character Nonsense wants him as a lover. Mrs Novel says that Signior Opera had a baby with her. However, Signior Opera can't have sex or have babies. Fielding is mocking how women like Italian opera singers. Other writers mocked Italian opera singers. William Hogarth says the castratos are related to politics. Many other writers make fun of women who favour castratos.

The play uses characters and ideas from Fielding's life. The characters Marplay and Sparkish manage the theatre. They offer Luckless poor advice on how to write a play. Then also reject Luckless's play. This is what Colley Cibber and Robert Wilks did to Fielding. They rejected his play "The Temple Beau". When Wilks died Fielding changed the play. He removed Sparkish. He added a character like Theophilus Cibber, the son of Colley. The character was like Theopilus during the Actor Rebellion of 1733. 

Luckless and Mrs. Moneywood is similar to Fielding with Jan Oson. Oson was his landlord during 1729. When staying with Oson, Fielding owed a lot of money. Fielding fled to London and Oson took his property to pay for the debt. Mrs Moneywood does the same in the play. Characters in the puppet play are based on real people. Mrs Novel is Eliza Haywood. Signior Opera is Senesino. Bookweight is similar to Edmund Curll. Orator is John Henley. Monsieur Pantomime is John Rich. Don Tragedio is Lewis Theobald. Sir Farcical Comick is of Colley Cibber as an actor.

Fielding also used literary sources. His plot is like George Farquhar's "Love and a Bottle" (1698). Both talk about a writing and a landlady. They have many differences. Fielding took from the writing of the Scriblerus Club and other plays. Luckless's life is similar to characters in John Dryden's "The Rehearsal" (1672), Farquhar's "Love and a Bottle" (1698), James Ralph's "The Touch-Stone" (1728), and Richard Savage's "An Author to be Lett" (1729). The play has similar ideas to "Dunciad Variorum". He also borrowed from Gay's "Three Hours after Marriage" (1717) and "The Beggar's Opera" (1728). Fielding's play also influenced other works. They included the revised "Dunciad" and Gay's "The Rehearsal at Goatham".

The play was successful. Fielding became a popular writer. It was shown with "Tom Thumb". That helped it be liked. "The Pleasures of the Town" was the most liked part. The "Daily Post" newspaper said it was approved by all. A newspaper that didn't like Fielding also said that the play was liked. Many well-known people and royalty in Britain saw the show. John Perceval, 1st Earl of Egmont said that the play was "full of humour, with some wit." The play was rarely mentioned later in the 18th century. This was true in the 19th century. The play was printed again a few times. Leslie Stephen and Austin Dobson studied the play. They looked at what the play said about Fielding's life. 

20th-century critics agreed with Dobson. Many of the critics like Charles Woods talked about the play as part of Fielding's writing career. He also said the work was not political. Later critics agreed with Woods. Many modern critics approved of the play. They are Wilbur Cross, Frederick Homes Dudden, Ian Donaldson, Pat Rogers, Robert Hume, Martin and Ruthe Battestin, Harold Pagliaro, and Thomas Lockwood. Some critics liked the play but not all of it. They are J. Paul Hunter, Matthew Kinservik,

Henry Fielding wrote "The Author's Farce" in 1729. It was made after the Theatre Royal rejected his plays. Advertisements were put in the 18 March 1730 "Daily Post" and in the 21 March 1730 "Weekly Medley and Literary Journal". They said that actors were practicing the play. An advertisement in the 23 and 26 "Daily Post" said the play would have a puppet play. The advertisement also said prices will be high. That suggests that the play would be popular. The first show was on 30 March 1730, Easter Monday. It took place at the Little Theatre and was shown 41 times. On 6 April 1730, the play "The Cheats of Scapin" was shown with it.

Fielding changed "The Author's Farce". The new play was shown on 21 April 1730 with Fielding's play "Tom Thumb". They were shown together in May and June 32 times. They were shown again on 3 July 1730. On 1 August 1730, the last act of the play was shown for the Tottenham Court fair. An advertisement in the "Daily Post" on 17 October 1730 said the play had a new prologue. The changed play was shown on 21 October. It was changed again then it was replaced by the play "The Beggar's Wedding" by Charles Coffey. The play came back on 18 November 1730. Only the first and second act were shown between November and January. During this time, it was shown with the play "Damon and Phillida". "Damon and Phillida" was stopped and the play "The Jealous Taylor" was added on 13 January 1731. "The Author's Farce" was shown from January to March 1731. It was shown again with a new prologue on 10 May 1731. The new prologue is now gone.

"The Author's Farce" was shown with "The Tragedy of Tragedies" on 31 March 1731. They were shown 6 times. The last regular show at the Little Theatre was 18 June 1731. It was shown one time on 12 May 1732. The last show of "The Author's Farce" as a regular play was on 28 March 1748. Theophilus Cibber ran the show. The last act "Pleasures of the Town" was shown on its own. It was shown 16 times at Norwich after 1749. Also, it was shown at York in 1751 to 1752. The whole play was acted by puppets many times. Thomas Yeates had puppet shows called "Punch's Oratory, or The Pleasures of the Town" after 1734.

Fielding changed "The Author's Farce" at the end of 1733. He added a new prologue and epilogue. Fielding changed it after the Actor Rebellion of 1733. The 8 January 1734 "Daily Journal" had an advertisement. It said "The Author's Farce" would be shown at the Theatre Royal. It was shown six times. The cast was not as good as the first cast. It was shown 4 times with the play "The Intriguing Chambermade" and 2 times with the play "The Harlot's Progress". The changed "The Author's Farce" was printed with "The Intriguing Chambermade" and a letter written by an unknown author. The changed "The Author's Farce" was printed again in 1750 until 1966. Arthur Murphy printed the play in 1762 in "Works of Henry Fielding". George Saintsbury printed the play in 1893 in "Works of Henry Fielding". G. H. Maynadier printed act one and two in 1903 in "Works of Henry Fielding".

Play:

Internal puppet show:

Play:

Internal puppet show:




</doc>
<doc id="229383" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229383" title="WWE Cruiserweight Championship">
WWE Cruiserweight Championship

The World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) Cruiserweight Championship was a professional wrestling championship in World Wrestling Entertainment. It is competed for by cruiserweights at no more than a weight of 220 lbs. and was originally a World Championship Wrestling title. Durring its time in WWE, it was only competed for on the SmackDown brand.

Following the title's introduction in 1991, a tournament was held to determine the first champion. On October 27, Brian Pillman beat Richard Morton in the tournament final to win the title. However, it was vacated on September 2, 1992, due to Brad Armstrong's knee injury during his reign. Then, on March 20, 1996, Shinjiro Ohtani beat Chris Benoit in another tournament final to win the WCW Cruiserweight Championship. 

In March 2001, World Wrestling Federation Entertainment, Inc. purchased World Championship Wrestling. Following this, the "Invasion" storyline happened, in which WCW was "destroyed". During the "Invasion", only four WCW championship titles remained active, including the WCW Cruiserweight title. On July 30, the WCW Cruiserweight Championship and the WWF Light Heavyweight Championship were up for grabs in what was billed as a unification match when the WWF Light Heavyweight Champion, X-Pac, beat the WCW Cruiserweight Champion, Billy Kidman. However, the titles were still defended separately after that. After the end of the "Invasion" at Survivor Series 2001, the WCW Cruiserweight Championship remained active and was renamed the World Wrestling Federation (WWF) Cruiserweight Championship, while the Light Heavyweight Title was retired.

After six months without a champion, on March 3, 2008, WWE removed the championship from the active championship web page, where originally the title was listed as "vacant." Afterward, the title was removed from the active titles list on WWE's title histories web page to the defunct (or retired) championship list. In this way, the title was quietly retired. As a result Horwoggle is the last WWE Cruiserweight Champion.




</doc>
<doc id="229390" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229390" title="Henry Fielding">
Henry Fielding

Henry Fielding (22 April 1707 – 8 October 1754) was a writer and magistrate. He wrote many plays from 1728 until 1737. Then, he wrote many famous novels such as"Tom Jones", "Joseph Andrews", and "Amelia". He was friends with the writers Samuel Johnson and Christopher Smart and the politician William Pitt the Elder.

Fielding went to school at Eton College. In 1728, he left school to go to London and write plays. The License Act shut down the London theatre in 1737 and Fielding began to write novels. Then, he became a magistrate and created the Bow Street Runners, London's first police force. 

In 1754, he became sick and he went to Lisbon, Portugal to be treated. He died in Lisbon and was buried in the English Cemetery.


</doc>
<doc id="229396" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229396" title="Lady Susan">
Lady Susan

Lady Susan is an early epistolary novel (novel in letters) by Jane Austen. It tells the story of an widow who does not care about the feelings of other men. She wrote it when she was writing her first version of "Sense and Sensibility" (which was at that time called "Elinor and Marianne"), and which was also at first, like "Lady Susan", written in letter form. She was at this time 20 years old.

The epistolary novel had been popular in the 18th century, but it was not the best style of writing for Jane Austen's talents (which is why all her major novels were written in the third-person style). She admired Richardson very much (all of his books are written in letters, like "Pamela (novel)" and "Clarissa (novel)"), and she also admired Frances Burney's style, but none of their styles came naturally to her. She pointed out at the end of "Lady Susan": "This correspondence (letter-writing), by a meeting between some of the parties (people) and a separation between the others could not, to the great of the Post Office...be continued longer."

In those days, girls spent some time each day especially to write letters, so a story through letters is much more realistic than it would be today. People like Frances Burney wrote letters that were witty and full of information, so that her diaries and letters were later published. The letters of William Cowper, too, are famous. Jane Austen's letters, however, are private letters about family matters, such as sick babies, partners at balls, beef, and raspberry bushes.


</doc>
<doc id="229401" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229401" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Template:A favor">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Template:A favor


</doc>
<doc id="229405" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229405" title="A Girl Like Me: The Gwen Araujo Story">
A Girl Like Me: The Gwen Araujo Story

A Girl Like Me: The Gwen Araujo Story is a 2006 LGBT biography television film that was directed by Agnieszka Holland and was shown on the Lifetime Television network. The story is about the real life murder of Gwen Araujo, who was born as Edward Araujo, Jr., a transgender teenager who was murdered after some people that she knew found out that she had male sex organs. Scenes showing the murder trial are shown alternating with the story of Gwen's life.

The film stars J.D. Pardo as Gwen, Mercedes Ruehl as her mother, and Avan Jogia as her brother, Danny. It first aired on the Lifetime Television network on June 19, 2006.



</doc>
<doc id="229407" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229407" title="Template:Cite podcast">
Template:Cite podcast

<includeonly>Error on call to : Parameters url and title must be specified</includeonly> "

</doc>
<doc id="229408" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229408" title="Template:Cite podcast/doc">
Template:Cite podcast/doc

<includeonly></includeonly>

This template is an alternative to oriented towards podcasting. It provides lower case parameters only.

codice_1


<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="229409" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229409" title="Category:2011 in professional wrestling">
Category:2011 in professional wrestling

This category contains items about pro wrestling happenings in 2011.


</doc>
<doc id="229417" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229417" title="Crime and Punishment">
Crime and Punishment

Crime and Punishment ( "Prestuplenie i nakazanie") is a novel by Russian author Fyodor Dostoevsky. It was first published in the literary journal "The Russian Messenger" in 12 monthly series in 1866. It was later published in a single volume. It is the second of Dostoevsky's completed novels after he returned from his exile in Siberia, and the first great novel of his mature period.

"Crime and Punishment" is about the troubles of Rodion Romanovich Raskolnikov. Raskolnikov is a young man living in St. Petersburg. He used to be a student, but he became so poor he had to stop studying. He plans to kill a selfish old pawnbroker for her money, and he acts on his plan. Raskolnikov argues that with her money he can do good things, and that he was simply killing a person who was not worth anything. He also murdered her to test his idea that some people are naturally better than others and have the right to murder. Several times in the novel, Raskolnikov justifies himself by comparing himself to Napoleon, saying that murder is allowed for a higher purpose.

However, after he kills the pawnbroker, questions which he cannot answer and feelings he had not expected terrify him. He feels separated from mankind, nature, and truth. Because of this, he decides at last to confess to the police and accept suffering.

Dostoevsky began the idea of "Crime and Punishment" in the summer of 1865. This was after he had gambled away much of his money. Because of this, he could not pay his bills or eat properly. He owed large sums of money to creditors, and was also trying to help the family of his brother Mikhail. Mikhail had died in early 1864. He began writing it under the title "The Drunkards". He wanted to write about "the current problem of drunkenness". However, when Dostoevsky began writing about Raskolnikov's crime, the theme of crime and punishment became his main subject instead.

Dostoevsky offered his story (at the time, he did not think of "Crime and Punishment" as a novel) to the publisher Mikhail Katkov. Famous writers such as Ivan Turgenev and Leo Tolstoy often used Katkov's monthly journal, "The Russian Messenger", to print their writings. Dostoevsky, though, had argued with Katkov in the early 1860s, and had never printed anything in the journal. Finally, Dostoevsky asked Katkov for help when others would not print his book. In September 1865, Dostoevsky wrote a letter to Katkov. In the letter, he explained to him that "Crime and Punishment" was going to be about a young man who believes in "certain strange, 'unfinished' ideas, yes floating in the air". He also said that he wanted to study the moral and psychological dangers of "radical" ideas. In letters written in November 1865 an important change had happened: the "story" has become a "novel", From then on, Dostoevsky always spoke of "Crime and Punishment" as a novel.

Dostoevsky had to write very quickly to finish both "The Gambler" and "Crime and Punishment". Anna Snitkina, a stenographer whom he later married, helped him very much. The first part of "Crime and Punishment" appeared in January 1866 in "The Russian Messenger". The last part was published in December 1866.
When Dostoevsky's complete writings were published in the Soviet Union, the editors put together the notebooks that Dostoevsky kept while he was working on "Crime and Punishment" and printed it. They printed the notebooks in the same order as the book was written. Through their efforts, there is now a small part of how Dostoevsky first imagined "Crime and Punishment" to be written. There are also two other versions of the story. They are called the Wiesbaden edition, the Petersburg edition, and the final (last) plan. A part of a change in the story was that instead of the story being told by a character inside it, it was written as if many uninvolved people were writing it (this was a a form of writing that Dostoevsky made up). The Wiesbaden edition is mostly about the reaction of the writer to his murder. It is quite similar to the story that Dostoevsky described in his letter to Katkov, and was written like a diary or journal. It had the same story as what later became part II.

Raskolnikov is a mentally insecure student who has stopped going to university. He lives in a very small, rented room in Saint Petersburg. He does not let anyone help him, not even his friend Razumihin. He plans to kill and steal money from an old pawnbroker and moneylender, Alyona Ivanovna, but it is not clear why he wants to kill her yet. While he is thinking about this plan, Raskolnikov meets Semyon Zakharovich Marmeladov, a sad drunkard who recently spent all of his poor family's money on drinking. He also gets a letter from his mother. His mother says that she will soon visit St. Petersburg. She writes about his sister's sudden engagement, saying that they will talk about it when they arrive.

After thinking, Raskolnikov goes to Alyona Ivanovna's apartment. There, he murders her with an axe. Her quiet half-sister, Lizaveta, comes inside. Surprised, Raskolnikov quickly kills her, too. Frightened by what he has done, he leaves most of Alyona Ivanovna's wealth behind, only stealing a few things and a small purse. He then runs away without being seen by anybody.

After his murder, Raskolnikov is filled with worry. He hides the things he stole under a rock and tries to clean away the blood from his clothes. After a short visit to his friend Razumihin, he becomes sick with a fever and seems to wish to betray himself. Whenever anyone speaks of the murder of the pawnbroker, he acts strangely.


Criticism

Online text


</doc>
<doc id="229418" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229418" title="Online Computer Library Center">
Online Computer Library Center

OCLC Online Computer Library Center, Inc. is library service and research organization that is made to help people find more information and lessen library costs. It was incorporated on July 6, 1967 as the non-for-profit Ohio College Library Center. 72,000 libraries in 86 countries use OCLC services to find and save library materials. The organization was begun by Fred Kilgour, and its head office is in Dublin, Ohio, U.S.


</doc>
<doc id="229419" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229419" title="Template:Infobox cooperative">
Template:Infobox cooperative


</doc>
<doc id="229422" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229422" title="Template:CivilityAward">
Template:CivilityAward


</doc>
<doc id="229423" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229423" title="David Copperfield (novel)">
David Copperfield (novel)

David Copperfield is the title of a famous novel by Charles Dickens. It first came out as a series in a magazine, like his other novels. 

When first published in the magazine it had the title of "The Personal History, Adventures, Experience and Observation of David Copperfield the Younger of Blunderstone Rookery (which he never meant to publish on any account)". 

The story is told in the first person, as if David were writing it. Some of the greatest Dickens characters appear in the novel, such as "Mr. Micawber", sympathetic but always in money trouble, and his evil clerk "Uriah Heep". Other villains in David's life are his brutal stepfather, "Edward Murdstone", and "Mr. Creakle", the headmaster of the boarding school that Murdstone sends him to.

The evil characters are balanced by others, such as "Peggotty" – the faithful servant of the Copperfield family and a lifelong companion to David. "Agnes Wickfield" is a close friend of David since childhood, and later becomes David's second wife and mother of their children. "Micawber" is a gentle and friendly man who goes to debtors' prison, but in the end makes a success as a sheep farmer in Australia. He is based on Dicken's own father.


</doc>
<doc id="229424" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229424" title="The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe">
The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe

The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe is a book written by C. S. Lewis. It is set in an imaginary place called Narnia, where the main characters who are brothers and sisters are led into by the back of a wardrobe (closet). It is the second book by order in the Narnia series after "The Magician's Nephew", but is the first book published in the series.

Peter, Susan, Edmund and Lucy Pevensie leave London during World War II to live in the country. While playing in the house, Lucy hides in a wardrobe. She finds that it leads to a different land. There, she meets a faun (half-goat, half-man) named Mr. Tumnus. While having tea, he tells her that the land is called Narnia. It is ruled by the White Witch, who makes it always winter, but never Christmas. When Lucy returns to the wardrobe after many hours, she finds that only a few seconds have passed in England. Her brothers and sister do not believe her and the wardrobe has closed so they cannot go into Narnia. 

Many weeks later, Lucy comes back to the wardrobe during a game of hide-and-seek. Edmund follows her into Narnia, but cannot find her. Instead, he meets a lady. She says she is the Queen of Narnia and gives him Turkish Delight. She promises to make him prince if he will bring the other children to her castle. After she leaves, Edmund finds Lucy. When she talks about the White Witch, he thinks that it is the lady he met. When they get back to England, Edmund lies to Peter and Susan and says they did not go to Narnia. This makes Lucy upset. 

Later, they are all hiding from the housekeeper and go into the wardrobe. This time they all go into Narnia. When Lucy leads them to Tumnus's cave, they find that he is arrested and his cave destroyed. Two talking beavers shelter the children. They also tell them about a prophecy that the witch will fail when two Sons of Adam (human males) and two Daughters of Eve (human females) sit on the thrones at Cair Paravel, Narnia's ruling castle. The beavers also tell them about Aslan, the true king of Narnia. He is a great lion and has been gone for many years, but has come back. 

Edmund sneaks away to go to the witch. When they find out, the children and beavers go to find Aslan. The witch is mean to Edmund because he did not bring his siblings and leaves to chase them. The winter is starting to warm into spring and she is stopped by the thaw. The children find Aslan and rescue Edmund just before the witch kills him. He is very sorry for following her. The witch says that Edmund must be given back to her because of an old law. The law says that all traitors (people who break trust) belong to her. Aslan gives himself in place. He is killed, but comes back to life through an even older law. This one says that if someone who has not committed the crime willingly takes the punishment, he will come back to life. 

In a big fight, the witch is killed by Aslan. The children are kings and queens in Narnia for 15 years, growing into adults. Then they return to England through the wardrobe and are kids again. Little time has passed.

Peter Pevensie is the oldest Pevensie. He does not believe about Narnia until he sees it. He kills a wolf, Maugrim, the head of the witch's police. He is call "Sir Peter, Wolf's-Bane" because of this. In the end, he is High King of Narnia. He is called King Peter the Magnificent (grand).
Susan Pevensie is second oldest. Like Peter, she does not believe in Narnia until they go there. She receives a gift from Father Christmas, a magical horn. At the end of the book, she is called Queen Susan the Gentle. 
Edmund Pevensie is the third child. He likes the White Witch because she gives him sweets and promises to make him prince. He is sorry for that. When he is King, he is known as King Edmund the Just. 
Lucy Pevensie is the youngest Pevensie child. She is the first to find Narnia. She is very good friends with Mr.Tumnus. At the end of the book she is known of Queen Lucy the Valiant (brave). 
The White Witch is the false queen of Narnia. She makes it always winter, but never Christmas. She can turn things to stone. She is afraid of the children and Aslan, because they should be the rulers. 
Aslan is the true king of Narnia and a lion. He gives himself to save Edmund, but comes back to life through an old law called the "Deeper Magic". In the battle, he kills the witch. He leaves after the children are crowned.



</doc>
<doc id="229432" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229432" title="Belinda">
Belinda

Belinda can mean:


People:


</doc>
<doc id="229439" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229439" title="Life Less Frightening">
Life Less Frightening

"Life Less Frightening" was the third single from the Chicago punk rock band Rise Against, from their 2004 album, Siren Song of the Counter Culture. It is the third track on the album and runs about 3 minutes and 44 seconds.

The lyrics of the song tell of the horrors of the world and a longing for a "life less frightening" ("...I'm soaking with the sins of knowing what's gone wrong...") and tells that lack of action will only cause the problems to worsen ("Time again I have found myself stuttering/Foundations pulled out from under me.").


</doc>
<doc id="229441" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229441" title="Category:Rise Against">
Category:Rise Against


</doc>
<doc id="229451" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229451" title="The Sufferer &amp; The Witness">
The Sufferer &amp; The Witness

The Sufferer & the Witness is the fourth album by American punk rock band Rise Against. The album was released on July 4, 2006. It was their second release on popular label, Geffen Records. The album follows 2004's "Siren Song of the Counter Culture". It sold 48,000 copies in its first week, debuting at number 10 on the Billboard 200. It has been awarded Gold by the RIAA.

The song "Drones" was used for WWE's 2007 Royal Rumble's theme song.

After the good reviews of their big label debut, "Siren Song of the Counter Culture", and its single, "Swing Life Away", Rise Against came back to the studio in January 2006 to start their fourth studio album. The band had been writing songs and ideas during the "Siren Song of the Counter Culture" tour and had finished five songs by early December 2005. Also in December, it was said that Bill Stevenson would make the album at the Blasting Room studio in Fort Collins, Colorado. The band began in January 2006 in Chicago. It was made with Bill Stevenson and Jason Livermore for 12 weeks between January and April 2006. The band talked about the sound and release date of the album in April, saying, ""We're pretty excited and can't wait for you to hear it. You won't find any acoustic guitar on this one, but perhaps a few other surprises and curveballs await your curious ears...look for an early summer release."" The album's name was told in the same news release. It would be called "The Sufferer & the Witness". The album was mixed by Chris Lord-Alge in Los Angeles. It was finished in April 2006.


</doc>
<doc id="229454" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229454" title="Template:TOTW">
Template:TOTW


</doc>
<doc id="229458" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229458" title="Alameda County">
Alameda County

Alameda County is a county in the San Francisco Bay Area in state of California, USA. According to the 2000 population census, 1,443,741 people live in Alameda County. It is seventh biggest county in the state of California by population. Its county seat and largest city is Oakland.



</doc>
<doc id="229473" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229473" title="Pepsi Twist">
Pepsi Twist

Pepsi Max Twist is a type of Pepsi Max made since 2001. It is lemon flavored. In the United Kingdom, Pepsi Twist is no longer sold. A "lemon and lime" kind also was made, under the Pepsi Max brand.


</doc>
<doc id="229479" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229479" title="Wikipedia:Editor review/MisterWiki">
Wikipedia:Editor review/MisterWiki


</doc>
<doc id="229501" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229501" title="Wikipedia:Requests for importer/Slipknot1">
Wikipedia:Requests for importer/Slipknot1

"End date: 18:54, 4 March 2010"

I would like to be granted the import tool so that I can import necessary pages from the English Wikipedia for article work. I have been editing here for a long time and have considerable knowledge of the tool. Regards, — ()! 18:54, 25 February 2010 (UTC)

"Candidate's acceptance: self-nom — ()! 18:54, 25 February 2010 (UTC)"

Q: What are your current plans for the use of this tool? () 17:56, 26 February 2010 (UTC)

A: I have worked in creating and expanding weather-related articles in addition to briefly working on this article. With the tool, I might continue working on weather-related articles and anything else that may come up on my todo. — ()! 18:39, 26 February 2010 (UTC)




</doc>
<doc id="229508" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229508" title="Epicureanism">
Epicureanism

Epicureanism is a philosophy based on the teachings of Epicurus. Epicureanism was started around 307 BC. Epicurus was a materialist who believed there were atoms. The teaching about atoms was first started by Democritus. Epicurus was a materialist, he fiercely attacked superstition. According to Epicurus, the gods are passive: They do not intervene in the world. According to Aristippus, Epicurus believed that the greatest good was to have certain pleasures, and to reach a state of mind where there is no fear and no pain. Epicureanism is a form of hedonism, because it declares that pleasure is the only good there really is. Epicureanism says that theabsence of pain is the greatest pleasure; it also advocates a simple life. These ideas make it sufficiently different from "hedonism" as it is usually defined.

In the Epicurean view, the highest pleasure (tranquility and freedom from fear) was obtained by knowledge, friendship and living a virtuous and temperate life. Epicurus spoke favorably about the enjoyment of simple pleasures; He also meant abstaining from bodily desires, such as sex and appetites, almost like asceticism. He argued that when eating, one should not eat too richly, for it could lead to dissatisfaction later, such as the grim realization that one could not afford such delicacies in the future. Likewise, sex could lead to increased lust and dissatisfaction with the sexual partner. Epicurus did not articulate a broad system of social morality that has survived.

Epicureanism was originally a challenge to Platonism, though later it became the main opponent of Stoicism. Epicurus and his followers shunned politics. After the death of Epicurus, his school was headed by Hermarchus; later many Epicurean societies flourished in the Late Hellenistic era and during the Roman era (such as those in Antiochia, Alexandria, Rhodes and Ercolano). The poet Lucretius is its most known Roman proponent. By the end of the Roman Empire, having undergone Christian attack and repression, Epicureanism had all but died out, and would be resurrected in the 17th century by the atomist Pierre Gassendi, who adapted it to the Christian doctrine.

Some writings by Epicurus have survived. Some scholars consider the epic poem On the Nature of Things by Lucretius to present in one unified work the core arguments and theories of Epicureanism. Many of the papyrus scrolls unearthed at the Villa of the Papyri at Herculaneum are Epicurean texts. At least some are thought to have belonged to the Epicurean Philodemus. 


</doc>
<doc id="229528" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229528" title="Tilopa">
Tilopa

Tilopa (Prakrit; Sanskrit: Talika or "Tilopada",988–1069) was a tantric practitioner and mahasiddha. He was born in either Chativavo (Chittagong), Bengal or Jagora, Bengal into the brahmin (priestly) caste. He had several teachers and meditated a lot under their guidance: Saryapa, Lawapa, Indrabhuti, Matanga, Nagarjuna . Finaly he reached Mahamudra or state of complete enlightement. Tilopa is regarded as founder of Kagyu lineage of Vajrayana Buddhism. His main student is Naropa.


</doc>
<doc id="229535" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229535" title="Christmas Day (song)">
Christmas Day (song)

"Christmas Day" is a song by the British musician Dido.



</doc>
<doc id="229545" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229545" title="This Is the New Shit">
This Is the New Shit

"This Is the New Shit" is a 2003 industrial metal song by singer Marilyn Manson off his fifth album "The Golden Age of Grotesque". The bassist, Tim Sköld added some industrial beats to the song when he joined the band in 2002.

Many movies, TV shows and video games have used the song including:



</doc>
<doc id="229546" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229546" title="Ground Combat Vehicle">
Ground Combat Vehicle

The Ground Combat Vehicle (GCV) is the U.S. Army's replacement program for heavy tracked and wheeled armored fighting vehicles. The GCV is part of the "Follow On Incremental Capabilities Package" of the BCT Modernization program. The vehicle of the vehicle family is to be built by 2015 and given out by 2017. It replaced the canceled Future Combat Systems, manned ground vehicles program.

The GCV family will be built around one or more common vehicle bodies.

The GCV would have a very advanced communications system.

The vehicle will be heavy and large but it must be moved by aircraft, rail and ship. The GCV will have good off-road mobility while remaining fuel efficient.

The type and caliber of the weapons are still secret. The Army has only said that there will be lethal and non-lethal means to help with missions in both civilian and non-civilian places.

The Army would like the GCV to have good bomb protection and would like it to be able to destroy enemy missiles.

The U.S. Army wants a troop carrier and a "secondary vehicle". The Army will ask for more variants later.

The IFV will replace the M113 APC by 2018, the M2 Bradley and the Stryker ICV later. The IFV will hold a crew of three and a squad of nine people.

The "secondary vehicle" is listed on the "Work Breakdown Structure" document. So far, no details have been released about the use of this vehicle.



</doc>
<doc id="229551" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229551" title="Hayley Wickenheiser">
Hayley Wickenheiser

Hayley Wickenheiser (born August 12, 1978 in Shaunavon, Saskatchewan) is an women's Olympic ice hockey forward that plays for Team Canada. She is the first woman to play full time pro hockey in a position other than goaltender.

Hayley Wickenheiser's official website


</doc>
<doc id="229555" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229555" title="Novaya Zemlya">
Novaya Zemlya

Novaya Zemlya () is an archipelago in the Arctic Ocean in the north of Russia and the extreme northeast of Europe. The archipelago is made of a north island and a south island; it separates the Barents sea from the Kara sea. There is a narrow channel, called Matochkin Strait that separates the two islands. Both islands together are about 900 km long; they are between 470 and 1150 km north of the arctic circle. Today, 2716 people live on the islands. 2622 of them live in the capital "Belushya Guba" (on the south island)

The Russians knew of Novaya Zemlya from the 11th century, when hunters from Novgorod visited the area.

Novaya Zemlya is the northern part of the Ural Mountains and the interior is mountainous throughout. The northern island contains many glaciers, while the southern one has a tundra landscape.

In July 1954, Novaya Zemlya was designated the Novaya Zemlya Test Site. It was used as a test site throughout the cold war. In 1961 Tsar Bomba was dropped on the archipelago. Tsar Bomba was the largest nuclear bomb ever made at 50 Mt. By contrast, the largest weapon ever produced by the United States, the now-decommissioned B41, had a predicted maximum yield of 25 Mt.



</doc>
<doc id="229556" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229556" title="Trailer Park Boys">
Trailer Park Boys

The Trailer Park Boys was a Canadian mockumentary created by Mike Clattenburg. It is produced by Mike Clattenburg, Barrie Dunn and Michael Volpe. In Canada it is shown on the Showcase. The series had seven seasons and ran from April 22, 2001 to December 7, 2008.

The TV series spawned two movies: "Trailer Park Boys: The Movie" in 2006 and "Trailer Park Boys: Countdown to Liquor Day" in 2009.

TV.com rated the series a 8.8.


</doc>
<doc id="229557" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229557" title="Chocolate chip cookie">
Chocolate chip cookie

A chocolate chip cookie is a cookie from the United States. They have chocolate chips inside them, which are the most important ingredient. The original recipe has a dough made of butter and both brown and white sugar. Other kinds have additional ingredients, such as nuts and oatmeal. They can also have different types of chocolate in them.

Chocolate chip cookies can be bought premade. Several brands sell them. They are one of the more common types of cookies.

The chocolate chip cookie was accidentally made by Ruth Graves Wakefield in 1933. She owned the Toll House Inn, in Whitman, Massachusetts. The Toll House Inn was a very famous restaurant that made and served food in a home cooking style. The restaurant was popular in the 1930s not just because of its style, but also because Ruth gave diners extra food and some homemade cookies to take home with them. Her cookbook, "Toll House Tried and True Recipes", was published in 1936 by M. Barrows & Company, New York. It included the recipe "Toll House Chocolate Crunch Cookie", which rapidly became a favorite to be baked in American homes. Toll House still sells chocolate chips for the cookies today.

Chocolate chip cookies may have started when Wakefield made a mistake. According to one story, Wakefield was making chocolate cookies and because there was no more regular chocolate, she used broken pieces of semi-sweet chocolate instead, thinking it would melt and mix into the batter. Instead, it did not, and that was how chocolate chip cookies were made.


</doc>
<doc id="229561" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229561" title="Theo Waigel">
Theo Waigel

Theo Waigel is (* 22 April 1939 in Oberrohr, Bavaria) a German Politician (CSU). He was the Finance Minister between 1988 and 1999 and the Chairman of the CSU, respectively.

Theo Wagigel completed obtained his High School Degree at the Simpert-Kraemer-High School, in Swabian Krumbach Waigel immatriculated at the Facultys of Law and political Science in Munich, later in Wurzburg. He successfully earned his Bachelor of Law in 1963, in 1967 he obtained the Master of Law and finished with a PhD with his essay about the Constitutional system of the German especially the Bavarian Agriculture. The first job of Mr. Waigel was an Assessor for the Attorney General at the Regional Court in Munich I, in 1969 he took over a new assignment as a Personal Secretary for the State Secretary in The Finance Ministry, Bavaria. 
In 1970 he took over the same job in the Ministry of Transport.

After his political career, the Corporate World was his new workplace, he worked for the German Investment Counselling Inc. as well as the Electrical Company ENBW as a Member of the Board of Directors.

Theodor Waigel, married again after he got divorced, Irene Epple the 2nd wife, gave birth to three children.

In a short TV-serial, "The Affair Semmeling" from Dieter Wedel, he had a small guest role in his previous position as a Finance Minister.


</doc>
<doc id="229573" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229573" title="Rei Ayanami">
Rei Ayanami

Rei Ayanami - The central character from the anime Neon Genesis Evangelion. She is a very popular character. In 1996 and 1997 Rei Ayanami was a best female character in anime under the version journal Animage.

Rei - the pilot of first Evangelion "Unit-00" and First Child. She was born in the underground laboratory Nerv, but all information of her childhood was removed. It is known that she has many "spare bodies", which are used for the replacement Rei, if she dies. 


</doc>
<doc id="229581" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229581" title="Congo Rainforest">
Congo Rainforest

The Congo Rainforest in Central Africa is a rainforest containing one of the longest rivers in the world. The tropical rainforest covers most of the northern part of the Congo. This forest and its river were the subject of a famous book called "The Heart of Darkness" by Joseph Conrad. Hunting has endangered many of the animals there, but the jungle itself is not being destroyed as it is in Brazil.

Like all rainforests, the Congo Basin is home to many unusual animals and plants. The pygmy chimpanzee, for example, lives only in the Congo rainforests. Also, the hippopotamus is another animal that can be found in the Congo rainforest, usually in the river. The people of Congo love to eat hippopotamus meat. Many of the hippos are killed for the food, even though it is illegal (not allowed by law). African elephants also live in the rainforest. They have long teeth called tusks that stick out from their sides of their mouths, made of ivory. Also, gorillas live in the rainforest of central Africa. The gorillas of the Congo rain forest are called "lowland gorillas".

There were several important kingdoms in the Congo region before the Europeans came there. The Kongo Empire was one of these. The Kongo was a group of small states near the mouth of the Congo river ruled by a king. That nation gave the river its name.

The Portuguese came to the Kongo for the first time in the 1480s. Portugal was sailing farther and farther along the coast of Africa to reach India and China on the other side. At first they made friends with the Kongo nation. They sent missionaries and ambassadors. Unfortunately, the friendship did not last. The Portuguese were more interested in making money than making friends. It is especially sad that the Portuguese were more interested in making money than making friends. It is especially sad that the Portuguese treated the people of the Kongo so badly. The king of Kongo became a Christian and took the name Afonso. He wanted to learn from the Europeans and teach his people, but the Portuguese only wanted to use their friendship with Afonso to gain slaves to sell. Many people were sold as slaves, and within 100 years the kingdom of Kongo was destroyed.

The Portuguese could not sail up the river because of the waterfalls near the mouth. Also, the , tropical region was uncomfortable for Europeans. So, the Congo area was not explored or claimed again by any European country for many years.

In the 1870s a reporter named Henry Stanley went to find one of the most famous missionary/explorers in history, Dr. David Livingstone, thinking he was dead. Stanley became the first man known to have followed the Congo river across Africa to its mouth. He proved that there were many miles of navigable river above the waterfalls. His discoveries interested King Leopold of Belgium. The king hired him to build a road around the waterfalls and trading posts aloing the river itself. In this way, the king gained control of the river basin. In 1885, Leopold used his control of the river to claim all of the Congo as his own private land.

The region was named the Congo Free State, but it was not free. King Leopold only cared about making money from the land. The people were treated cruelly. They were forced into slavery to build roads and gather rubber latex. When they did not do what their Belgian masters wanted, they were often killed. Missionaries in the Congo began to write letters and articles about the things that were happening.

Eventually the anger over what was happening forced the government of Belgium to take the land away from the king. It was renamed the Belgian Congo, but Belgium did not do very much to help the people. Catholic missionaries did set up schools, with the help from the government. But Europeans ran all the schools, businesses, army, large farms, and government.

Before World War II (1939-1945), almost all the countries of Africa were European colonies. After the war, these nations began to demand and receive their independence. Belgium did not want to give the Congo its independence, but after a fight in 1958, they made an agreement. The Congo became a free nation in June 1960.


</doc>
<doc id="229594" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229594" title="Powerbomb">
Powerbomb

This page explains different types of powerbombs in professional wrestling.

This maneuver has a wrestler tuck an opponent's head in-between their legs, hook their arms lift them up, turning them in mid-air, and slam them down to the mat (ring).


</doc>
<doc id="229595" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229595" title="Facebuster">
Facebuster

This page explains different types of facebusters in professional wrestling.

This maneuver has a wrestler hook both their opponent's arms standing up stomach to back, lift them in the air, and then push them forwards so to make them move towards the ring face down with force.

This maneuver involves one opponent forcefully pushing the other until they are facing away from them. They then constrict the opponent's torso with their arms and kick the back of their knees, causing them to falter and fall forward, face first - with the opponent on top of them.


</doc>
<doc id="229596" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229596" title="Superkick">
Superkick

A superkick is a maneuver where a wrestler lifts his leg high to kick an opponent in the face.


</doc>
<doc id="229597" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229597" title="Wikipedia:Proposed good articles/Archive 9">
Wikipedia:Proposed good articles/Archive 9

I've been working really hard on expanding the article and I believe it has great length, has few red links, and as a player of the game myself, I feel it explains how to play very well. | 22:55, 20 February 2010 (UTC)

A way to go for GA in my opinion. Some quick bullets:
I withdraw. There is no way I can fix these problems in time. But please keep the comments and suggestions coming, but post them on the talk page instead. I will get to work right away and hopefully re-propose it soon. Thanks all for the suggestions. | 16:47, 22 February 2010 (UTC)

It is thoroughly detailed, very long, has many references, good pictures, and seems quite simple and easy to read, considering that it is a scientific subject. 06:05, 24 January 2010 (UTC)
Mostly good , but "While in Mexico, the Monarchs hold on to everything they can find". "Hold on to" is not a good description. Do you mean "cling to", "perch on", "hang from" or what? () 05:02, 8 February 2010 (UTC)
Is it possible that this nomination could be extended for maybe another week? Pmlineditor is going to review the article further and has not yet put any comments on the talk page. Thanks. | 21:42, 14 February 2010 (UTC)
As far as I'm concerned this article now meets the criteria for a good article. Good work everyone, both reviewers and Megan & Esther alike. () 00:43, 6 March 2010 (UTC)


I created this a couple nights ago based on the enwiki version written largely by myself as well. I think it's very easy-to-read, concise yet detailed, and comprehensive. Barras left a helpful review on the talk page which I've largely resolved, so any additional comments are welcome. Cheers. – |  02:53, 13 March 2010 (UTC)
I read through the article, and found it very simple. The readable scores are probably high because of some of the words used (like "Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale", "high pressure", etc). However, I think the intro needs references. | 01:30, 14 March 2010 (UTC)
Quick check, but this looks good. Nothing strikingly awful hits me in the face so I'd be happy for this to represent the Wiki as one of our . Nice work. () 21:06, 22 March 2010 (UTC)
Looks like a good article to me as well. () 23:25, 26 March 2010 (UTC)
Closed as promoted: Not much point drawing this discussion out for another week when it's in great shape and clearly has a consensus behind it. Great work, Julian! 16:50, 27 March 2010 (UTC) 

Good and interesting reading about one oour closests planets. () 22:41, 18 March 2010 (UTC)

No way. It's all the wrong way round. The lead should be a summary of the article. Per Either way, right now we have a four-para lead and a one-para main article. Completely wrong. J2000 is redlinked but has no relationship with reality at all. What does it mean? I couldn't even guess. Avoid overlinking (e.g. Earth, Moon, Solar System), don't link dates, what's a "crater"? You link K in the lead but not C or F. "only a little bit less" while this is SEWP, that is really poor language. Miles off a GA I'm afraid. Take a look at Jupiter to see what it takes to get a notable article. () 20:57, 22 March 2010 (UTC)

Interesting reading, simple english, comprehensive on subject. () 22:35, 18 March 2010 (UTC)
RE Either Way: fixed a small portion of the speech section. Looks a bit better. The rest of the article looks quite good. | 02:06, 19 March 2010 (UTC)
Comments on talk page. | 12:01, 21 March 2010 (UTC)
 as not promoted: Prolonging this is pointless; it's not going to pass. The nominator hasn't looked at it since nomination and it still needs lots of work. Meet the concerns met, then come back.  

I've worked a lot on this article (here and in en.wiki). With the help of Gordonrox and some others, this article seems much simplified. Today I've expanded some more the article, and I can't see why it should not become a good article. I think is very easy to read. Comments are welcome. :-) () 20:15, 18 March 2010 (UTC)
Yes, I'll work with that. -- () 22:28, 18 March 2010 (UTC)
Well, I don't think it is "too" complex, but after I can make all the red links blue, I'll simplify some more :-) -- () 02:37, 19 March 2010 (UTC)

No. I'm quite shocked. Surely it's wrong to propose an article in such a condition. Top candidate for fast rejection. () 08:16, 1 April 2010 (UTC)

It has been two weeks since the nomination and I see little change to the article. My first concerns of a short lead, complex language, and lots of redlinks still stand it appears. I highly doubt this can be improved upon in a week's time. () 10:50, 1 April 2010 (UTC)

I'm trying again to get Chess to GA. With the changes that have been made, I believe its finally ready. | 19:14, 4 March 2010 (UTC)
It seems overall well written to me. Good work on the references! This is a complicated subject, so it won't be easy, but a little more simplification would, I think, be great. 03:21, 11 March 2010 (UTC)

Extend for one week: There's currently no consensus to promote or not promote, however the work and effort has been put in so it would be unfair to just straight 'no' it. So let's extend if for a week and see if we can find ourselves a consensus :) 13:43, 25 March 2010 (UTC) 

More changes have been made. I must say, the "huge" number of changes since this RFA was proposed shows quite clearly that the article was initially nowhere near the required standard, as I indicated early on. A great deal of effort has made the article fairly good, but I am now too close to it to have a vote. The article now needs a period of stability, and I suggest contributors use the talk page if they see any more problems. I can virtually guarantee the accuracy of the moves and rules now, and I think the references are adequate. () 07:02, 1 April 2010 (UTC)

Close as not promoted: Still criteria that need to be met, in particular number 5. I suggest getting further comments from those who have commented here, making the needed changes and then come back once it has been left a while with no major changes.  

I transwikied Bobby Dodd from (where it is a good article) a few weeks ago and have done my best at simplifying it and getting it to Simple Wikipedia standards. I do not claim that it is perfect, but I would appreciate input on how to get it to Good Article status if it is not already there. I think it is comprehensive and meets our criteria. () 13:39, 20 March 2010 (UTC)
Closed as promoted: It's run it's time, it's in good shape, and there's been a couple of votes in support. Extending it would be silly... 23:33, 10 April 2010 (UTC) 

Hello, everyone! I've expanded this article from a bio-stub with information from the English Wikipedia (where it is an FA), section by section. I've created most of the red links (at first there were about ten) and simplified it thoroughly to the best of my ability. I believe it is good enough for GA. A review would be great. Thank you. Heaven's blessings, 12:53, 6 April 2010 (UTC)


Closed as not promoted: Tough call to make, would ordinarily have been an extend but it's already had the extension time so, in my opinion and in the sense of fairness etc, it's a no promote. Taking a look through the hist and what not too, it wasn't in a promote shape when it was due to close. Please take a look at any outstanding issues, let the diffs settle down a bit (Minor changes) then re-nominate. :) 22:55, 6 May 2010 (UTC) 

Copied from en and simplified. Several different editors have put some work into it and it's changed significantly since it's come over. The reading levels are reasonable, but maybe a little higher than ideal, possibly because of some of the sources used. () 01:56, 4 April 2010 (UTC)
My own comments added. () 19:24, 1 May 2010 (UTC)
Closed as not promoted: Still outstanding work and not in GA shape, nor has it got any consensus to promote. Please work on the article and come back at a later date :) 22:53, 6 May 2010 (UTC) 

Copied over from en. Its simplified to the 8-9 grade. It looks well formatted and has a good number of refs, and has very few red links. I well continue to create the red links as well. | 13:27, 29 March 2010 (UTC)
Extended by One Week: Seems issues are fixed, so extended by one week to allow a consensus to form. 15:56, 19 April 2010 (UTC) 
Anything else, anybody? /// 14:13, 1 May 2010 (UTC)
Closed as not promoted: Outstanding work, was a close call when it got the extension and there's still changes to be made, suggesting that it didn't meet one of the criterion (I can't remember the exact one, and am too tired/lazy to look!). Please work on the comments made and then come back another time :) 22:52, 6 May 2010 (UTC) 

One of the better nation articles in Simple Wikipedia. Its in simple english but still comprehensive on the subject. () 15:42, 30 April 2010 (UTC)

Has becomed a good article after improvements by me and some other users,comprehensive about the subject. I believe that this one could be GA ready. () 15:39, 30 April 2010 (UTC)

I took some parts from en, simplified, and expanded it from a stub to 17.8KB. 16:23, 1 May 2010 (UTC)

Simplified from the enwiki article (going to attribute it in a bit) which is a GA. I know that there are multiple red links, but those will be attended to. Note that the plot section is unreferenced, and I can't do much to help it, unless you want me to cite IMDB. I should note that it is the general convention in enwp not to cite plot summaries. Comments are welcome.   09:44, 2 May 2010 (UTC)
Well done, Pmlineditor. It seems fit now. :) 09:48, 21 May 2010 (UTC)

I've simplified it from enwiki, and fixed as much red links as possible. I hope it's okay to become a GA? Comments and criticism please. 07:28, 1 May 2010 (UTC)
I've left comments on the first half, on the article's talk page. () 13:11, 7 May 2010 (UTC)

Although it is over-written and needs a bit of simplification, I believe that that's all it really needs, and that it should be promoted to good article status once the uncanny resemblance to the English Wikipedia article is no longer. Most red-links fixed, material is sourced verifiably, and categories and templates are appropriately placed. () 05:15, 4 June 2010 (UTC)

This seems to be a fairly well-written article, and I have tried to fix most of the redlinks so that they point in the proper direction. Even though it still needs improvement for it to be a "really really very good article", I think that it would still qualify as a good article, considering how many people worked on this project. () 03:05, 4 June 2010 (UTC)
SNOW Closed as not promoted: Articles should be "nearly good" when they are promoted, and have already gone through a number of revisions towards GA status. I do not believe that this article has, so it's a "Not promoted" SNOW for now. Please make some more work on this article, then feel free to re-nominate. 14:53, 22 June 2010 (UTC) 

I know we are far from the Spanish-language article, but i think the article is a good start to be made a good article (note it is not complete, and still has many things to complete). What would you think about making it a good article? -- () 19:57, 1 June 2010 (UTC)
Closed as not promoted: Lack of input and the concerns (references) don't appear to have been met. Please review the criteria before nominating further articles. 13:40, 22 June 2010 (UTC) 

Second time around for this one. I-on and myself are main contributors; many others have chipped in. Readability v.g. for a technical article. Details of explanations are now more accurate and consistent; computers & chess section expanded since previous. Reading list tailored to target audience. We take the target to be young learners, plus any teachers or parents helping them (most people who learn chess do so under the age of 10). Refs sound. Content stable; recent edits mostly tweaks. () 06:29, 24 May 2010 (UTC)
Closed as promoted: Great work! There's not as many "Supports" as there have been for other promotions, but I don't see that to be a reason not to promote, nor any reason not to promote. Congratulations! 13:42, 22 June 2010 (UTC) 

I've been simplifying this from enwiki, and I think it's ready to become a GA now. However, I would be glad to fix a few more comments anybody puts up, so please feel free to criticize. 02:28, 7 May 2010 (UTC)
I left a fairly long review on the talk page. I will review more once these are fixed. Cheers, (/) 14:03, 26 May 2010 (UTC)

Closed as not promoted: This is more a 'time out' close rather than a not promoted to be honest, but nominations that time out are usually because they weren't 'nearly ready' when they were nominated. Feel free to work on it some more and then re-nominate. 13:39, 22 June 2010 (UTC) 

I've been working on this article a bit recently, and although it's pretty short, it's loaded with refs (as I brought it over from enwiki and simplified it), and I would like to hear if it's ready. 09:02, 21 June 2010 (UTC)
I've proofread the article. Please correct me if I have made anything more complex. By the way, it seems as if in the process of simplifying the article, you are slightly altering the meaning of some statements in the article. () 22:07, 21 June 2010 (UTC)


Extended by one week: There is a lack of sufficient consensus imo to close this PGA either way at the current point in time. I'm therefore extending the discussion time by one week from the original closure date, meaning that this PGA will now close on July 19th - if there is still a sufficient lack of discussion I suggest it be closed as an unsuccessful "non-consensus", however any other user is welcome to re-extend before me. :-) 15:12, 14 July 2010 (UTC) 

A few things I noticed:

Macdonald-ross brings up a good point. There is a dark side to dog breeding. But I don't know if this is the place to raise the issue. Perhaps an article on dog breeding is needed.-- () 22:32, 14 July 2010 (UTC)

Closed as not promoted: There was lack of sufficient community consensus to promote, and some objections which were raised were not fixed by the nominator. :) I'm sorry, it was a nice article. Please work on it, and if you feel all the objections have been fixed, you can renominate. Kindly, — 02:00, 22 July 2010 (UTC)

I think that this is pretty good. 80+KB total, including over 140 refs. I'm nomming this for GA, but if you think it could be VGA with only a little more work, tell me here, there or 18:16, 28 August 2010 (UTC)

Well, good idea. The problems are: it have some red links (I think you can improve it) and in references I find that we have problem wit one (cite article, do we have the template?). If you fix the problem, it will became VGA (I think so). () 09:50, 31 August 2010 (UTC)

Well, I think that if the article became GA, we can propose it for VGA. That's my opinion. Very good job :) () 15:31, 31 August 2010 (UTC)

Nomination withdrawn to persue VGA 22:22, 31 August 2010 (UTC)

Closed as withdrawn 01:26, 1 September 2010 (UTC)

Used to be a GA but no longer met the standards of the others. Since Peer review seems pretty inactive, I thought I'd bring it here. A few red links need doing, and a few sections require refs, and slight expansion for VGA, but apart from that, doesn't look too bad to me. 21:50, 1 August 2010 (UTC)

It have many redlinks. We have to fix it. () 09:40, 20 August 2010 (UTC)

From enwiki, I have simplified and cut out some of the techy detail. I think it could earn GA here. — 00:26, 10 August 2010 (UTC)


</doc>
<doc id="229598" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229598" title="Professional wrestling attacks">
Professional wrestling attacks

This page describes the different types of attacks in professional wrestling.

This attack has a wrestler lay their opponents head on a folding chair, they take another chair and hit their opponents head sandwiching the head in-between the two chairs.


</doc>
<doc id="229600" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229600" title="Powerslam">
Powerslam

This page describes the different types of powerslams in professional wrestling.

This maneuver has a wrestler lift their opponent on their back in a fireman's carry position. Grab their opponent's leg lift that side up and over turning to face their opponent in the process and then slam them to the mat.


</doc>
<doc id="229603" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229603" title="Rana Mohammad Hanif Khan">
Rana Mohammad Hanif Khan

Rana Mohammad Hanif Khan simply known as Rana Hanif was the Finance Minister of Pakistan from 1973 to 1977. 


</doc>
<doc id="229606" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229606" title="Category:Pakistani Muslims">
Category:Pakistani Muslims


</doc>
<doc id="229609" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229609" title="Alexandrine Tinné">
Alexandrine Tinné

Alexandrine Petronella Francina Tinne (October 17, 1835 – August 1, 1869), also spelled "Pieternella", "Françoise", and "Tinné" was a Dutch explorer in Africa and the first European woman to try to cross the Sahara Desert. She was born in the Netherlands.

She used her money to satisfy her curiosity about the "dark continent". Her father had died early when she was just ten, and this made her one of the richest people in the Netherlands. Miss Tinne is said to be beautiful, and she was very clever. She knew several languages and was good at riding horses. She was also brave and firm.

With her mother and several scientists, Miss Tinne first travelled down the Nile in 1863. Because of the trip, she earned lots of scientific information, but Miss Tinne's mother and two of the scientists died. Later, she prepared another trip across the Sahara. She took two big iron tanks of water. The Muslim people, thinking that the tanks had gold inside, attacked Miss Tinne. They cut her with their swords, cutting off her hand so she could not use her gun. The attackers then ran away, leaving her to bleed to death. She died alone in the desert.

The church built in her memory in her hometown, The Hague, was destroyed by bombs in World War I.



</doc>
<doc id="229629" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229629" title="Super Mario Galaxy 2">
Super Mario Galaxy 2

Super Mario Galaxy 2 is a video game for the Wii. It is the sequel to Super Mario Galaxy. It was first announced at E3 2009, and was released in the second quarter of 2010 in Japan, on May 23, 2010 in North America, on June 11, 2010 in Europe, and in June-August, 2010 in Australia. Unlike its predecessor, Super Mario Galaxy 2 allows the player to ride on Yoshi. Super Mario Galaxy 2 introduces two new power-ups: the Cloud Flower and the Rock Mushroom.


</doc>
<doc id="229632" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229632" title="Credit default swap">
Credit default swap

A credit default swap (or CDS for short) is a kind of investment where you pay someone so they will pay you if a certain company gives up on paying its bonds, or defaults. A credit default swap is like insurance on bonds, but different from insurance in important ways:
Because nobody makes sure you have the bonds you get credit default swaps for, people can speculate on them by buying credit default swaps on companies they think will get in trouble.

When Lehman Brothers went bankrupt on September 15, 2008, it defaulted on its bonds. The insurance company AIG had sold lots of credit default swaps for Lehman, but they didn't have enough money to pay all the people they had sold them to. 

This is because the way lots of companies speculated by hedging on credit default swaps. They bought credit default swaps for a company, and then sold credit default swaps for the same company when the CDSes got more expensive. For example, if you bought a some Lehman Brothers CDSes from AIG where you had to pay $500,000, and you sold the same number of CDSes on Lehman a year later for $600,000, you made $100,000. If Lehman defaulted, you're supposed to pay the people you sold the CDSes to, but that should be OK because now AIG is supposed to pay you for the CDSes you bought.

The problem was that so many companies did that that when Lehman collapsed, nobody had enough money for the people they sold CDSes to. They tried getting it from the companies they'd bought CDSes from, but they didn't have enough money either. Those companies tried collecting from the companies that owed them money, but they didn't have enough either, and so on. Since AIG had sold so many of these, people were afraid that AIG would just give up on trying to pay them all. If they had done that, there would be a domino effect where everybody would go out of business. Because so many companies would've gone out of business, the government decided to help AIG pay so the economy wouldn't collapse.

When people found out that the Greek government owed more money than everybody thought it did, people who didn't own any Greek government bonds started buying credit default swaps on Greek bonds. They did that because they thought Greece would give up on trying to pay, so the bonds would become worthless and the people who sold the credit default swaps would pay them. Unfortunately, this makes people who have Greek bonds nervous, so they want to sell them and not buy any more. That makes it hard for Greece to borrow money to fix its money problems.


</doc>
<doc id="229635" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229635" title="List of Internet Relay Chat commands">
List of Internet Relay Chat commands

This is a list of all Internet Relay Chat commands from IETF RFCs 1459 and 2812. Most IRC clients need commands to have a slash ("/") before the command. Angle brackets ("<" and ">") mean what's placed in the secondary field, not a literal part of the command. Settings encapsulated in square brackets ("[" and "]") are optional and override the command's defaults.

Syntax:

Instructs the server to return information about the administrator of the server specified by <target>, or the current server if target is omitted.

Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>

Syntax:

Provides the server with a message to automatically send in reply to a PRIVMSG directed at the user, but not to a channel they are on.
If <message> is omitted, the away status is removed.

Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>

Syntax:

Instructs the server <remote server> (or the current server, if <remote server> is omitted) to connect to <target server> on port <port>.
This command should only be available to IRC Operators.

Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>; the <port> parameter became mandatory in <nowiki>RFC 2812</nowiki>

Syntax:

Instructs the server to shut down.

Defined in <nowiki>RFC 2812</nowiki>

Syntax:

This command is for use by servers to report errors to other servers. It is also used before terminating client connections.

Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>

Syntax:

Returns information about the <target> server, or the current server if <target> is omitted. Information returned includes the server's version, when it was compiled, the patch level, when it was started, and any other information which may be considered to be relevant.

Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>

Syntax:

Invites <nickname> to the channel <channel>. <channel> does not have to exist, but if it does, only members of the channel are allowed to invite other clients. If the channel mode i is set, only channel operators may invite other clients.

Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>

Syntax:

Queries the server to see if the clients in the space-separated list <nicknames> are currently on the network. The server returns only the nicknames that are on the network in a space-separated list. If none of the clients are on the network the server returns an empty list.

Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>

Syntax:

Makes the client join the channels in the comma-separated list <channels>, specifying the passwords, if needed, in the comma-separated list <keys>. If the channel(s) do not exist then they will be created.

Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>

Syntax:

Forcibly removes <client> from <channel>. This command may only be issued by channel operators.

Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>

Syntax:

Forcibly removes <client> from the network. This command may only be issued by IRC operators.

Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>

Syntax:

Lists all server links matching <server mask>, if given, on <remote server>, or the current server if omitted.

Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>

Syntax:

Lists all channels on the server. If the comma-separated list <channels> is given, it will return the channel topics. If <server> is given, the command will be forwarded to <server> for evaluation.

Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>

Syntax:

Returns statistics about the size of the network. If called with no arguments, the statistics will reflect the entire network. If <mask> is given, it will return only statistics reflecting the masked subset of the network. If <target> is given, the command will be forwarded to <server> for evaluation.

Defined in <nowiki>RFC 2812</nowiki>

Syntax:

The MODE command is dual-purpose. It can be used to set both user and channel modes.

Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>

Syntax:

Returns the message of the day on <server> or the current server if it is omitted.

Defined in <nowiki>RFC 2812</nowiki>

Syntax:

Returns a list of who is on the comma-separated list of <channels>, by channel name. If <channels> is omitted, all users are shown, grouped by channel name with all users who are not on a channel being shown as part of channel "*". If <server> is specified, the command is sent to <server> for evaluation.

Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>; the optional <server> parameter was added in <nowiki>RFC 2812</nowiki>

Syntax:

Allows a client to change their IRC nickname. Hopcount is for use between servers to specify how far away a nickname is from its home server.

Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>; the optional <hopcount> parameter was removed in <nowiki>RFC 2812</nowiki>

Syntax:

This command works similarly to PRIVMSG, except automatic replies must never be sent in reply to NOTICE messages.

Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>

Syntax:

Authenticates a user as an IRC operator on that server/network.

Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>

Syntax:

Causes a user to leave the channels in the comma-separated list <channels>.

Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>

Syntax:

Sets a connection password. This command must be sent before the NICK/USER registration combination.

Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>

Syntax:

Tests the presence of a connection. A PING message results in a PONG reply. If <server2> is specified, the message gets passed on to it.

Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>

Syntax:

This command is a reply to the PING command and works in much the same way.

Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>

Syntax:

Sends <message> to <msgtarget>, which is usually a user or channel.

Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>

Syntax:

Disconnects the user from the server.

Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>

Syntax:

Causes the server to re-read and re-process its configuration file(s). This command can only be sent by IRC Operators.

Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>

Syntax:

Restarts a server. It may only be sent by IRC Operators.

Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>

Syntax:

Registers a new service on the network.

Defined in <nowiki>RFC 2812</nowiki>

Syntax:

Lists the services currently on the network.

Defined in <nowiki>RFC 2812</nowiki>

Syntax:

The server message is used to tell a server that the other end of a new connection is a server. This message is also used to pass server data over whole net.
<hopcount> details how many hops (server connections) away <servername> is.
<info> contains addition human-readable information about the server.

Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>

Syntax:

Identical to PRIVMSG except the recipient must be a service.

Defined in <nowiki>RFC 2812</nowiki>

Syntax:

Causes <server> to quit the network.

Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>

Syntax:

Returns statistics about the current server, or <server> if it's specified.

Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>

Syntax:

Gives users who are on the same host as <server> a message asking them to join IRC.

Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>; the optional <channel> parameter was added in <nowiki>RFC 2812</nowiki>

Syntax:

Returns the local time on the current server, or <server> if specified.

Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>

Syntax:

Allows the client to query or set the channel topic on <channel>. If <topic> is given, it sets the channel topic to <topic>. If channel mode +t is set, only a channel operator may set the topic.

Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>

Syntax:

Trace a path across the IRC network to a specific server or client, in a similar method to traceroute.

Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>

Syntax:

This command is used at the beginning of a connection to specify the username, hostname, real name and initial user modes of the connecting client. <realname> may contain spaces, and thus must be prefixed with a colon.

Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>, modified in <nowiki>RFC 2812</nowiki>

Syntax:

Returns a list of information about the nicknames specified.

Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>

Syntax:

Returns a list of users and information about those users in a format similar to the UNIX commands who, rusers and finger.

Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>

Syntax:

Returns the version of <server>, or the current server if omitted.

Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>

Syntax:

Sends <message> to all operators connected to the server (<nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>), or all users with user mode 'w' set (<nowiki>RFC 2812</nowiki>).

Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>

Syntax:

Returns a list of users who match <name>. If the flag "o" is given, the server will only return information about IRC Operators.

Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>

Syntax:

Returns information about the comma-separated list of nicknames masks <nicknames>. If <server> is given, the command is forwarded to it for processing.

Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>

Syntax:

Used to return information about a nickname that is no longer in use (due to client disconnection, or nickname changes). If given, the server will return information from the last <count> times the nickname has been used. If <server> is given, the command is forwarded to it for processing. In <nowiki>RFC 2812</nowiki>, <nickname> can be a comma-separated list of nicknames.

Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>





</doc>
<doc id="229637" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229637" title="Template:IRC topics">
Template:IRC topics


</doc>
<doc id="229638" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229638" title="Template:Cite IETF/doctypes">
Template:Cite IETF/doctypes


</doc>
<doc id="229639" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229639" title="Template:Cite IETF/makelink">
Template:Cite IETF/makelink


</doc>
<doc id="229640" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229640" title="Template:Cite IETF">
Template:Cite IETF


</doc>
<doc id="229641" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229641" title="Template:AuthorMask doc">
Template:AuthorMask doc

authormask – This parameter is primarily intended for use in bibliographies where multiple works by a single author are listed. It replaces the name of the first author (which must still be provided to garner metadata) with a strike-thru dash (—) "authormask" em in length. So if then the dash will be one em in length, if it will be two em long and so on. Set "authormask" to a text value to display a word instead – for example, 'with'. "You must still include and " for metadata purposes.

</doc>
<doc id="229643" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229643" title="Template:Cite IETF/doc">
Template:Cite IETF/doc

<includeonly></includeonly>
Note: this template is currently for testing purposes only.

This is a template to cite IETF documents including:

Note: All parameter names must be in lowercase.

Copy a blank version to use. Remember to use the "|" (pipe) character between each parameter. Please delete any unused parameters to avoid clutter in the edit window.

Except where specifically prohibited in the parameter descriptions below, most parameters can be wikilinked (e.g. ), but should generally only be linked to an existing Wikipedia article. Any wikilinked parameter must not contain any brackets apart from normal round brackets codice_1 — don't use codice_2.

Nested parameters rely on their parent parameters:





Note the extra full-stop when the last author ends with an initial, and there is no date:
We don't know of a practical solution to this — unless there is a way to test the characters of a field?

Established citation styles for coauthors:



Regression tests are available here:

 uses the following subtemplates:

HTML versions of the IETF documents are created with with the Rfcmarkup tool from Henrik Levkowetz.

Request for Comments (RFC), Best Current Practice (BCP), and Internet Draft (I-D) documents which have been processed by the Rfcmarkup tool are cached by codice_4 and are linked via:

Internet Standard (STD) and For Your Information (FYI) documents are linked via the Rfcmarkup tool using the codice_8 parameter:

Internet Experiment Note (IEN) and RARE Technical Reports (RTR) documents are linked via the Rfcmarkup tool using the codice_11 parameter and a path to the document:

Anchors are generated for the URL using four parameters:
The template will give priority to the first of the parameters: , , , or in this order and create an anchor using the first matching parameter.


<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="229644" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229644" title="Template:Cite IETF/refanchor">
Template:Cite IETF/refanchor


</doc>
<doc id="229645" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229645" title="Template:Documentation/core2">
Template:Documentation/core2


</doc>
<doc id="229646" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229646" title="Template:Lth">
Template:Lth

 ()

</doc>
<doc id="229647" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229647" title="Template:UF-COinS">
Template:UF-COinS

"This template produces COinS metadata; see for background information."<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="229648" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229648" title="Template:Yesno">
Template:Yesno


</doc>
<doc id="229653" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229653" title="Comparison of Internet Relay Chat clients">
Comparison of Internet Relay Chat clients

The following tables compare general and technical information between a number of IRC client programs. Please see the individual products pages for more information. This page is does not include everything and may not be current.

Basic general information about the clients: creator/company, license/price etc. Clients listed on a light purple background are no longer in active development.

A brief overview of the release history.

The operating systems on which the clients can run natively (without emulation).


Unix and Unix-like operating systems:


mIRC will run on *NIX systems under WINE - Confirmed

What IRC related protocols and standards are supported by each client.



Information on what features each of the clients support.



</doc>
<doc id="229654" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229654" title="Template:Dropped">
Template:Dropped


</doc>
<doc id="229655" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229655" title="Template:Free">
Template:Free


</doc>
<doc id="229656" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229656" title="Template:LSR">
Template:LSR


</doc>
<doc id="229657" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229657" title="Template:Latest stable software release/0irc">
Template:Latest stable software release/0irc


</doc>
<doc id="229658" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229658" title="Template:Latest stable software release/Aki">
Template:Latest stable software release/Aki


</doc>
<doc id="229659" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229659" title="Template:Latest stable software release/AmIRC">
Template:Latest stable software release/AmIRC


</doc>
<doc id="229660" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229660" title="Template:Latest stable software release/Bersirc">
Template:Latest stable software release/Bersirc


</doc>
<doc id="229661" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229661" title="Template:Latest stable software release/BitchX">
Template:Latest stable software release/BitchX


</doc>
<doc id="229662" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229662" title="Template:Latest stable software release/ChatZilla">
Template:Latest stable software release/ChatZilla


</doc>
<doc id="229663" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229663" title="Template:Latest stable software release/ClicksAndWhistles">
Template:Latest stable software release/ClicksAndWhistles


</doc>
<doc id="229664" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229664" title="Template:Latest stable software release/Colloquy">
Template:Latest stable software release/Colloquy


</doc>
<doc id="229665" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229665" title="Template:Latest stable software release/Conspire">
Template:Latest stable software release/Conspire


</doc>
<doc id="229666" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229666" title="Template:Latest stable software release/Coolsmile">
Template:Latest stable software release/Coolsmile


</doc>
<doc id="229667" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229667" title="Template:Latest stable software release/DMDirc">
Template:Latest stable software release/DMDirc


</doc>
<doc id="229668" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229668" title="Template:Latest stable software release/EPIC">
Template:Latest stable software release/EPIC


</doc>
<doc id="229669" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229669" title="Template:Latest stable software release/HydraIRC">
Template:Latest stable software release/HydraIRC


</doc>
<doc id="229670" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229670" title="Template:Latest stable software release/IRCjr">
Template:Latest stable software release/IRCjr


</doc>
<doc id="229671" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229671" title="Template:Latest stable software release/IceChat">
Template:Latest stable software release/IceChat


</doc>
<doc id="229672" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229672" title="Template:Latest stable software release/Ircle">
Template:Latest stable software release/Ircle


</doc>
<doc id="229673" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229673" title="Template:Latest stable software release/Irssi">
Template:Latest stable software release/Irssi


</doc>
<doc id="229674" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229674" title="Template:Latest stable software release/KSirc">
Template:Latest stable software release/KSirc


</doc>
<doc id="229675" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229675" title="Template:Latest stable software release/KVIrc">
Template:Latest stable software release/KVIrc


</doc>
<doc id="229676" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229676" title="Template:Latest stable software release/Klient">
Template:Latest stable software release/Klient


</doc>
<doc id="229677" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229677" title="Template:Latest stable software release/Konversation">
Template:Latest stable software release/Konversation


</doc>
<doc id="229678" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229678" title="Template:Latest stable software release/KoolChat">
Template:Latest stable software release/KoolChat


</doc>
<doc id="229679" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229679" title="Template:Latest stable software release/KoroIRC">
Template:Latest stable software release/KoroIRC


</doc>
<doc id="229680" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229680" title="Template:Latest stable software release/LeetIRC">
Template:Latest stable software release/LeetIRC


</doc>
<doc id="229681" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229681" title="Template:Latest stable software release/LimeChat">
Template:Latest stable software release/LimeChat


</doc>
<doc id="229682" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229682" title="Template:Latest stable software release/Linkinus">
Template:Latest stable software release/Linkinus


</doc>
<doc id="229683" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229683" title="Template:Latest stable software release/Neebly">
Template:Latest stable software release/Neebly


</doc>
<doc id="229684" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229684" title="Template:Latest stable software release/Nettalk">
Template:Latest stable software release/Nettalk


</doc>
<doc id="229685" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229685" title="Template:Latest stable software release/Opera">
Template:Latest stable software release/Opera


</doc>
<doc id="229686" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229686" title="Template:Latest stable software release/Orion (IRC client)">
Template:Latest stable software release/Orion (IRC client)


</doc>
<doc id="229687" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229687" title="Template:Latest stable software release/OrnateIRC">
Template:Latest stable software release/OrnateIRC


</doc>
<doc id="229688" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229688" title="Template:Latest stable software release/PIRCH">
Template:Latest stable software release/PIRCH


</doc>
<doc id="229689" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229689" title="Template:Latest stable software release/PJIRC">
Template:Latest stable software release/PJIRC


</doc>
<doc id="229690" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229690" title="Template:Latest stable software release/PhibianIRC">
Template:Latest stable software release/PhibianIRC


</doc>
<doc id="229691" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229691" title="Template:Latest stable software release/Quassel IRC">
Template:Latest stable software release/Quassel IRC


</doc>
<doc id="229692" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229692" title="Template:Latest stable software release/ScrollZ">
Template:Latest stable software release/ScrollZ


</doc>
<doc id="229693" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229693" title="Template:Latest stable software release/ShadowIRC">
Template:Latest stable software release/ShadowIRC


</doc>
<doc id="229694" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229694" title="Template:Latest stable software release/Smuxi">
Template:Latest stable software release/Smuxi


</doc>
<doc id="229695" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229695" title="Template:Latest stable software release/Snak">
Template:Latest stable software release/Snak


</doc>
<doc id="229696" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229696" title="Template:Latest stable software release/ThrashIRC">
Template:Latest stable software release/ThrashIRC


</doc>
<doc id="229697" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229697" title="Template:Latest stable software release/TurboIRC">
Template:Latest stable software release/TurboIRC


</doc>
<doc id="229698" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229698" title="Template:Latest stable software release/Visual IRC">
Template:Latest stable software release/Visual IRC


</doc>
<doc id="229699" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229699" title="Template:Latest stable software release/Vortec IRC">
Template:Latest stable software release/Vortec IRC


</doc>
<doc id="229700" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229700" title="Template:Latest stable software release/WeeChat">
Template:Latest stable software release/WeeChat


</doc>
<doc id="229701" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229701" title="Template:Latest stable software release/WookieChat">
Template:Latest stable software release/WookieChat


</doc>
<doc id="229702" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229702" title="Template:Latest stable software release/XChat">
Template:Latest stable software release/XChat


</doc>
<doc id="229703" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229703" title="Template:Latest stable software release/XiRCON">
Template:Latest stable software release/XiRCON


</doc>
<doc id="229704" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229704" title="Template:Latest stable software release/bnIRC">
Template:Latest stable software release/bnIRC


</doc>
<doc id="229705" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229705" title="Template:Latest stable software release/ccorp-irc">
Template:Latest stable software release/ccorp-irc


</doc>
<doc id="229706" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229706" title="Template:Latest stable software release/dxirc">
Template:Latest stable software release/dxirc


</doc>
<doc id="229707" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229707" title="Template:Latest stable software release/ii">
Template:Latest stable software release/ii


</doc>
<doc id="229708" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229708" title="Template:Latest stable software release/ircII">
Template:Latest stable software release/ircII


</doc>
<doc id="229709" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229709" title="Template:Latest stable software release/jini">
Template:Latest stable software release/jini


</doc>
<doc id="229710" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229710" title="Template:Latest stable software release/lightIRC">
Template:Latest stable software release/lightIRC


</doc>
<doc id="229711" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229711" title="Template:Latest stable software release/mIRC">
Template:Latest stable software release/mIRC


</doc>
<doc id="229712" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229712" title="Template:Latest stable software release/mzirc">
Template:Latest stable software release/mzirc


</doc>
<doc id="229713" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229713" title="Template:Latest stable software release/nexIRC">
Template:Latest stable software release/nexIRC


</doc>
<doc id="229714" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229714" title="Template:Latest stable software release/rxIRC">
Template:Latest stable software release/rxIRC


</doc>
