<doc id="101382" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101382" title="History of Asia">
History of Asia

The history of Asia can be seen as the history of several distinct regions, East Asia, South Asia, and the Middle East that have more or less context depending of the situation in the central Eurasian steppe.

The coastal periphery was the home to some of the world's earliest known civilizations, with each of the three regions developing early civilizations around fertile river valleys. The civilizations in Mesopotamia, the Indus Valley, and China had much in common. Therefore it is likely that they exchanged technologies and ideas such as mathematics and the wheel. Other aspects such as that of writing developed individually in each area. Cities, states and then empires developed in these lowlands.

The steppe region had long been inhabited by nomads, and from the central steppes they could reach all areas of the Asian continent. The earliest known expansion out of the steppe is that of the Indo-Europeans which spread their languages into the Middle East, India, and in the Tocharians to the borders of China. The northern part of the continent was not accessible to the steppe nomads due to the dense forests and the tundra. These areas were very populated.

The centre and periphery were kept separate by mountains and deserts. The Caucasus, Himalaya, Karakum Desert, and Gobi Desert formed barriers that the steppe horsemen could only cross with difficulty. The city dwellers were more advanced in civilisation but they could do little militarily to defend against the mounted hordes of the steppe. Because the lowlands did not have enough open grasslands to support a large horsebound force the nomads who conquered states in China, India, and the Middle East were soon forced to adapt to the local societies. 

Alexander the Great conquered an area from Turkey to India in the 4th century BC. The Roman Empire would later control parts of western Asia. The Achaemenid, Seleucid, Parthian and Sassanian empires were based in Ancient Persia. Many ancient civilizations were influenced by the Silk Road, which connected China, India, the Middle East and Europe. The religions of Hinduism and Buddhism, which began in India, were an important influence on South and East Asia. 

The Islamic caliphate and other Islamic states took over the Middle East starting in the 7th century, and later expanded into India and Indonesia. The Crusades would be fought from the 12th century, in Christian Europe's attempt to retake the Holy Land from the Muslims. The Mongol Empire conquered a large part of Asia in the 13th century, an area extending from China to Europe. 

The Russian Empire began to expand into Asia from the 17th century, eventually taking control of all of Siberia and most of Central Asia by the end of the 19th century. The Ottoman Empire controlled Turkey and the Middle East from the 16th century onwards. In the 17th century, the Manchu conquered China and established the Qing Dynasty, although this was in decline by the nineteenth century and had been overthrown in 1912. 

Several European powers had control of other parts of Asia by the 1900s, such as British India, French Indochina and Portuguese Macau and Goa. Russia and Britain struggled for power in the Central Asian region in the nineteenth century. The Trans-Siberian Railway that crossed Asia by train was complete by 1916. Parts of Asia remained free from European control, although not influence, such as Persia, Thailand and most of China. In the twentieth century, Imperial Japan expanded into China, Korea and Southeast Asia during the Second World War. After the war, many Asian countries became independent from European powers. During the Cold War, the northern parts of Asia were communist controlled with the Soviet Union and People's Republic of China, while western allies formed pacts such as CENTO and SEATO. Conflicts such as the Korean War, Vietnam War and Soviet invasion of Afghanistan were fought between communists and anti-communists. In the decades after the Second World War, a massive restructuring plan drove Japan to become the world's second-largest economy, a phenomenon known as the Japanese post-war economic miracle. The Arab-Israeli conflict has dominated much of the recent history of the Middle East. After the Soviet Union's collapse in 1991, there were many new independent nations in Central Asia.



listed by area in alphabetical order




</doc>
<doc id="101385" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101385" title="Periphery">
Periphery

Generally, a periphery is a boundary or outer part of any space or body. It is derived from the Greek word περιφέρεια, meaning a circumference or outer surface.









</doc>
<doc id="101397" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101397" title="International Mathematical Olympiad">
International Mathematical Olympiad

The International Mathematical Olympiad (IMO) is a six-question two-day math competition for students that have not yet went to college and are under 20 years old. Any country may take part in it by sending a team of six students to compete.

The IMO has been held every year since 1959. It takes place in a different country (which is called the "host country") from year to year.


</doc>
<doc id="101398" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101398" title="Edmund Phelps">
Edmund Phelps

Edmund Strother "Ned" Phelps, Jr. is an American economist. He was born on July 26, 1933 in Evanston, Illinois. He was given the 2006 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences. He is best known for his work on economic growth at Yale University's Cowles Foundation in the 1960s. This includes the idea of the Golden Rule savings rate, which is about how much money should be spent and how much should be saved for the future. Some of his best work is on microeconomics of full employment and how prices affect wages. Part of this work is about the natural rate of unemployment.

Phelps has been the McVickar Professor of Political Economy at Columbia University since 1982. He is also the director of Columbia's Center on Capitalism and Society.

His Nobel Prize award was announced on 9 October 2006. He received the award on his own, breaking the recent pattern of awarding the prize to two or more winners at the same time.

Edmund Phelps was born in 1933 near Chicago, but he grew up and went to school in Hastings-on-Hudson, New York, where his family had moved when he was six years old. In 1951, he went to Amherst College as an undergraduate student. At his fathers advice, Phelps took his first economics course in his second year at Amherst. His economics teacher was James Nelson and his studies were based on a famous textbook by Paul Samuelson. Phelps was very interested in studying business. He knew of important unsolved problems and had new ideas, such as the gap between microeconomics and macroeconomics.

After receiving his B.A. at Amherst in 1955, Phelps went to Yale University for graduate studies. There, his professors were some of the greatest economists, such as Nobel prize winners James Tobin and Thomas Schelling, and he studied with Arthur Okun. William Fellner and Henry Wallich were very important in his study courses. Phelps received his Ph.D. from Yale in 1959. The work for his Ph.D. was based on an idea by Tobin, that peoples need in an emergency has more effect than sudden price changes.

After receiving his Ph.D., Phelps went to work as an economist for the RAND Corporation. His main interest was macroeconomics, but RAND focused on defense work so Phelps decided to return to the his studies the next year, 1960. He took a research job at the Cowles Foundation, and a teaching job at Yale. At the Cowles Foundation, his research was mainly on future prices and wages, following the work of Robert Solow. As part of this research, Phelps published in 1961 a famous paper on the golden rule savings rate, one of his most important works for economic science. He also wrote papers about other economic theories, such as monetary economics (Ricardian equivalence) and its importance when producing the best economic growth.

Work at the Cowles Foundation gave Phelps the chance to meet with other important economists who were working on growth theory, such as David Cass and Nobel Prize winner Tjalling Koopmans. Also, during the academic year of 1962-63 Phelps visited MIT, where he met with Nobel prize winners Paul Samuelson, Robert Solow and Franco Modigliani.

In 1966, Phelps left Yale and moved to University of Pennsylvania, where he was offered a permanent job as professor of economics. While at Pennsylvania, most of Phelps' research was on the links between employment, wages and inflation. He wrote about this in 1968: "Money-Wage Dynamics and Labor Market Equilibrium". This research had important new ideas about the Phillips curve. It was the first idea of the natural rate of unemployment and said that inflation rates did not affect labour market. In January 1969, Phelps held a meeting at Pennsylvania University to support the research on inflation and employment. The story of the meeting was published the next year in a book which was very important and is known as the "Phelps volume". During this time Phelps worked with other economists on research of economic growth, the effects of monetary and policy and best population growth.

In the year 1969-1970 Professor Phelps worked for the Center for Advanced Study in Behavioral Science at Stanford University. Meeting with Nobel prize winners Amartya Sen and Kenneth Arrow, and reading the work of John Rawls, whom he met during that year, gave Professor Phelps an interest to research outside of macroeconomics. In 1972 he published research he named "statistical discrimination". He also published research on economic justice, using ideas from Rawls book "A Theory of Justice".

In 1971, Phelps moved to the Economics Department at Columbia University, where Nobel prize winners William Vickrey and James J. Heckman were studying. Nobel Prize winner Robert Mundell joined three years later, as well as Phoebus Dhrymes, Guillermo Calvo and John B. Taylor. Professor Phelps published research on the inflation tax and the effects of fiscal policy on inflation. In 1972, Phelps published a book about his new theory. The book had many ideas about the effects of being unemployed for a long time and made him more popular.

In the next years, Keynesian economics were thought of as less important after the publication of John Muth's work called rational expectations. Phelps, with Calvo and John Taylor, started a programme to rebuild Keynesian economics with new ideas about prices and wages being kept the same for certain time. Professor Phelps and John Taylor published research in 1977, about how to calculate wages ("Staggered Wages). During the '70s, Phelps and Calvo worked on research for making contracts using asymmetric information.

In the late '70s, Professor Phelps researched with Roman Frydman, who was taught by Phelps. They worked on rational expectations and showed problems in it. A book was published in 1983 about what people said at a big meeting they had to talk about rational expectations in 1981. This book was not thought of as very important.

In 1982 Phelps was made the McVickar Professor of Political Economy at Columbia. During the early '80s he wrote a textbook about economics knowledge. The book, "Political Economy", was published in 1985, but was not used in a lot of schools.

In the 1980s Professor Phelps worked with European universities and institutions, such as Banca d'Italia (most of his 1985-86 holidays were spent in Italy) and Observatoire Français des Conjonctures Économiques (OFCE). He became interested in the continuing high unemployment in Europe and published some work about it with Jean-Paul Fitoussi (the director of OFCE). During the next years, Professor Phelps worked to calculate the natural rate of unemployment. He published some of his research in a 1994 book. Phelps also worked with Luigi Paganetto at the University of Rome Tor Vergata and, between 1988-98, they held the Villa Mondragone International Seminar.

In 1990 Phelps took part in a mission from the EBRD to Moscow, where he and Kenneth Arrow worked on the reform of the USSR. He became a member of the EBRDs Economic Advisory Board, and stayed there until 1993. Professor Phelps became interested in the Eastern European transition economies while there.

In its announcement, the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences said Phelps' work had "deepened our understanding of the relation between short-run and long-run effects of economic policy."

George Mason University Professor Tyler Cowen wrote in the Marginal Revolution blog that "his main contribution is a better understanding of the Phillips curve and the dynamics of short-run unemployment and the concept of the natural rate of unemployment." Cowen also wrote that "his 1960s macro work was true, important, and extremely influential. The capital theory work endures and provides a foundation for subsequent theory. The overall scope is impressive, and Phelps's concerns never strayed far from the real world." Cowen by writing that the award to Phelps meant: "The big questions still matter. Unemployment, economic growth, labor markets, capital accumulation, fairness, discrimination, and justice across the generations are indeed worthy of economic attention."

Professor Cowen and Berkeley's Professor Brad DeLong both said the choice of Phelps was a good noe, and Harvard Professor Gregory Mankiw said it was "a wonderful choice".





</doc>
<doc id="101408" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101408" title="Nanotechnology">
Nanotechnology

Nanotechnology is a part of science and technology about the control of matter on the atomic and molecular scale - this means things that are about 100 nanometers or smaller.* Nanotechnology includes making products that use parts this small, such as electronic devices, catalysts, and sensors etc. Nanotechnology is defined as the study of structures between 1 nanometer and 100 nanometers in size. To give you an idea of how small that is, there are as many nanometers in an inch as there are inches in 400 miles.

Nanotechnology brings together scientists and engineers from many different subjects, such as applied physics, materials science, interface and colloid science, device physics, chemistry, supramolecular chemistry (which refers to the area of chemistry that focuses on the noncovalent bonding interactions of molecules), self-replicating machines and robotics, chemical engineering, mechanical engineering, biology, biological engineering, and electrical engineering.

Generally, when people talk about nanotechnology, they mean structures of the size 100 nanometers or smaller. There are one million nanometers in a millimeter. Nanotechnology tries to make materials or machines of that size.

People are doing many different types of work in the field of nanotechnology. Most current work looks at making nanoparticles (particles with nanometer size) that have special properties, such as the way they scatter light, absorb X-rays, transport electrical currents or heat, etc. etc. At the more "science fiction" end of the field are attempts to make small copies of bigger machines or really new ideas for structures that make themselves. New materials are possible with nano size structures. It is even possible to work with single atoms.

There has been a lot of discussion about the future of nanotechnology and its dangers. Nanotechnology may be able to invent new materials and instruments which would be very useful, such as in medicine, computers, and making clean electricity (nanotechnology is helping design the next generation of solar panels, and efficient low-energy lighting). On the other hand, nanotechnology is new and there could be unknown problems. For example if the materials are bad for people's health or for nature. They may have a bad effect on the economy or even big natural systems like the Earth itself. Some groups argue that there should be rules about the use of nanotechnology.

The first use of the ideas in 'nano-technology' (but before the name was invented) was in "There's Plenty of Room at the Bottom", a talk given by the scientist Richard Feynman at an American Physical Society meeting at Caltech on December 29, 1959. Feynman described a way to move individual atoms and molecules using very small apparatus to build and operate even smaller instruments and so on down to the needed scale. In the course of this, he noted, sometimes problems will appear because of the changes in scale. The weight of things under study would become less important, but for example, surface tension and Van der Waals force would become more important.

Feynman's simple idea seemed possible. The word "nanotechnology" was explained by Tokyo Science University Professor Norio Taniguchi in a 1974 paper. He said that nanotechnology was the work of changing materials by one atom or by one molecule. In the 1980s this idea was studied by Dr. K. Eric Drexler, who spoke and wrote about how important nano-scale events and things are. "Engines of Creation: The Coming Era of Nanotechnology" (1986) is thought to be the first book on nanotechnology. Nanotechnology and nanoscience got started in the early 1980s with two key developments: the start of cluster science and the invention of the scanning tunneling microscope (STM). Soon afterwards, new molecules made of carbon were discovered - first fullerenes in 1986, and carbon nanotubes a few years later. In another development, people studied how to make semiconductor nanocrystals. Many metal oxide nanoparticles are now used as quantum dots (nanoparticles where the behaviour of single electrons becomes important). In 2000, the United States National Nanotechnology Initiative was begun to help develop the science in America.

One nanometer (nm) is one billionth, or 10, of a meter. When two carbon atoms join together to make a molecule the distance between them is in the range of 0.12-0.15 nm, and a DNA double-helix is about 2 nm from one side to the other. On the other hand, the smallest living thing with a cell is a bacterium about 200 mm long at the other hand 

To understand the scale better, think about the difference between a nanometer and a meter. It is the same size difference as a golf ball and the Earth. Or another way of putting it: a nanometer is the amount that a hair on a man's face grows in the time it takes him to lift his hand to shave. Nails also grow one nanometer per second.

There are two common approaches in the field of nanotechnology. In the "bottom-up" idea, materials and instruments are built from molecules which join together because of their chemistry. In the "top - down" idea, nano-objects are made out of bigger things without trying to move parts of them at the level of atoms.

Some of the laws of physics become more obvious as the system gets smaller. For example the effects of very small movements, as well as quantum mechanical effects, like the “quantum size effect” where electrons in solids move differently for very small sizes of particle. This effect does not come into play by going from macro to micro sizes. However, it becomes the most important thing when working in the nanometer size range. A number of physical (mechanical, electrical, optical, etc.) properties also change when a macroscopic system becomes a microscopic one. One example is the increase in amount of surface area for the volume inside it. This changes how heat and chemicals interact with the material. The new types of interaction in nanosystems are of interest in nanomechanics research. Nanomaterials can be catalysts, i.e. they help chemical reactions happen more easily. This can be very useful for the chemical industry to reduce energy use and production of expensive or toxic by-products, but care has to be taken to avoid catalyzing unwanted reactions, such as in their interaction with biomaterials.

Materials made very small can show different properties which we do not see on a macroscale, this makes some completely new inventions possible. For example, substances which usually stop light become transparent (copper); it becomes possible to burn some materials (aluminum); solids turn into liquids at room temperature (gold); insulators become conductors (silicon). A material such as gold, which does not react with other chemicals at normal scales, can be a powerful chemical catalyst at nanoscales. These special properties which we can only see at the nano scale are one of the most interesting things about nanotechnology.

Modern scientists can now make small molecules with almost any structure. These techniques are used today to make a wide variety of useful chemicals such as medicines or polymers. This ability lets us ask questions about using this kind of method at a larger level: to try to put these single molecules together into structures containing many molecules organized into a system.

This idea uses molecules that move themselves or organize themselves into some useful structure like building blocks. Here it is very important for molecules to find exactly the other molecules that they should connect with. Molecules can be designed so that a certain structure is more likely to appear, because of the forces between the molecules. The Watson-Crick basepairing rules are a way of doing this, so is the way a lot of enzymes work, or the structures that proteins make. In this way, two or more parts of a structure can be designed to find each other and work together to make a bigger and more useful system. 

Such techniques should be able to make a lot of small structures at the same time and much cheaper than top-down methods, but it may be difficult for them to design bigger and more complicated structures. Most useful structures need a lot of atoms, organized into a structure that has a small probability of making itself. But there are many examples of these structures in biology, especially Watson-Crick basepairing and enzyme interactions. The interesting job for nanotechnologists is to use the same techniques to make new systems which do not happen in nature.



</doc>
<doc id="101412" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101412" title="Hattem">
Hattem

Hattem received city rights in 1299, one year before Amsterdam.


</doc>
<doc id="101413" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101413" title="Alex McLeish">
Alex McLeish

Alex McLeish is a Scottish association football manager. He was born in 1959 and is currently manager of Aston Villa F.C. after his reign in Birmingham City F.C.. He also managed Rangers F.C. and the Scotland national football team.


</doc>
<doc id="101415" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101415" title="Óscar Arias">
Óscar Arias

Oscar Arias, born on 13 September 1940 in the city of Heredia, is a former President of Costa Rica. He was also president from 1986-1990. He received the Nobel Peace Prize in 1987 for his efforts to end civil wars which were happening in several Central American countries.

Arias started on his political career in the 1970s.

In January of 2005 Arias was selected as the candidate for the National Liberation party, and he was reelected for president of Costa Rica from 2006-2010. There was a lot of polemic and criticism for his support towards the TLC process in Costa Rica, but because of his political background and determination, most Costa Ricans still trust and respect Arias and his decisions for the well-being of the country.

He is also a recipient of the Albert Schweitzer Prize for Humanitarianism and a trustee of the Economists for Peace and Security.


</doc>
<doc id="101425" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101425" title="Category:Barnstars">
Category:Barnstars


</doc>
<doc id="101427" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101427" title="Universal History">
Universal History

Universal History, World History or Global History examines history from a global perspective. 

It looks for common patterns that one can find across all cultures. Universal historians use a thematic approach. That means they look at history from two viewpoints: On the one hand they look at processes of world history that have drawn people of the world together, on the other hand they want to find out how patterns of world history reveal the diversity of the human experience).

The study of universal or global history is in some ways a product of the current period of accelerated globalization. This period has two tendencies: it integrates various cultures and it shows their differences when people of different cultures and civilizations have to live with each other. 

To discuss "the history of the world" in a unified framework is not that new. For example, it was a genre popular in the 19th century, and with Christian historians going back to at least the 4th century. 




</doc>
<doc id="101429" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101429" title="Brewery">
Brewery

A brewery is a building, where beer is made or a business (brewing company) whose trade is the production and sale of beer. 

Breweries can take up several city blocks, or be a collection of equipment in a homebrewer's kitchen. The diversity of size in breweries is matched by the diversity of processes, degrees of automation, and kinds of beer produced in breweries. Typically a brewery is divided into distinct sections, with each section reserved for one part of the brewing process. 

The oldest brewery in the world still in operation is believed to be the Bavarian State-owned brewery Weihenstephan, found in the German city of Freising, which can trace its history back to 1040. Although the Zatec brewery in the Czech Republic claims it can prove paying beer tax in 1004. 



</doc>
<doc id="101430" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101430" title="Butane">
Butane

Butane is an alkane. Alkanes are saturated hydrocarbons. Usually, Butane is a flammable gas, it burns very well. 

Butane is sold in canisters, for cooking and camping. It is also used as fuel in cigarette lighters, and as propellant in aerosol sprays or deodorants. Some kinds of Butane are used in refrigerators. 

Mixtures with Propane are known as LPG.

Butane is dangerous. Inhalation can lead to death by asphyxiation. Contact with the skin can lead to frostbite. If the liquid comes in contact with the air, it will explode. 



</doc>
<doc id="101431" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101431" title="Liquefied petroleum gas">
Liquefied petroleum gas

Liquefied petroleum gas (also known as LPG, LP Gas or autogas) is a mixture of hydrocarbon gases. It is commonly used in the household, for example for cooking, or as fuel for heating. LPG is replacing Chlorofluorocarbons more and more, also because it is less harmful to the ozone layer.

Very often, mixes of propane and butane are sold.



</doc>
<doc id="101433" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101433" title="Aerosol spray">
Aerosol spray

Aerosol spray is system used in certain containers, like spray cans. The contents of the can, like color or deodorant are pressurized. The can has a valve. When this valve is opened, the liquid is forced out. It will emerge as an aerosol or mist. Apart from the liquid, there is another substance in the container, usually called propellant. When the valve is opened, some propellant will be forced inside the container. That way the pressure in the container is kept constant.



</doc>
<doc id="101434" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101434" title="Max Born">
Max Born

Max Born (December 11, 1882 – January 5, 1970) was a German physicist and mathematician who was important for the development of quantum mechanics. He also made contributions to solid-state physics and optics and supervised the work of a number of important physicists in the 1920s and 30s. Born won the 1954 Nobel Prize in Physics.



</doc>
<doc id="101444" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101444" title="United Nations Office for Outer Space Affairs">
United Nations Office for Outer Space Affairs

The United Nations Office for Outer Space Affairs (UNOOSA) is a branch of the United Nations General Assembly. UNOOSA creates, maintains and carries out the General Assembly's rules about space.

The building for UNOOSA is located in the United Nations Office in Vienna in Austria.

UNOOSA operates the Programme on Space Applications and maintains a list of objects sent into space - the Register of Objects Launched into Outer Space. UNOOSA also helps developing nations develop space technology to help their economies.



</doc>
<doc id="101450" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101450" title="Craig Mello">
Craig Mello

Professor Craig Cameron Mello (born October 18, 1960) is an American biologist and Professor of Molecular Medicine at the University of Massachusetts Medical School.

He was awarded the 2006 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, with Andrew Fire, for the discovery of RNA interference. Mello has been a Howard Hughes Medical Institute investigator since 2000.

Mello was born in New Haven, Connecticut on October 18 1960. He was the third child of James and Sally Mello. His father, James Mello, was a paleontologist and his mother, Sally Mello, was an artist. His fathers parents moved to the US from the Portuguese islands of Azores. His parents met while at the Brown University and were the first children in their families to go to college. His grandparents on both sides finished school as teenagers to work for their families. James Mello was awarded his Ph.D. in paleontology from Yale University in 1962. The Mello family moved to Falls Church in northern Virginia so that James could take a job with the United States Geological Survey (USGS) in Washington, DC. 

After a short time in Falls Church, the family moved to Fairfax, Virginia, when James Mello began work as Assistant Director at the Smithsonian Museum of Natural History. Some of his happiest early memories were holidays with his whole family in Colorado, Wyoming and more often to the Blue Ridge Mountains in Virginia. 

The Mello family enjoyed long talks at the dinner table and this was very important to young Craig Mello. He learned to argue, to listen, and to accept if he was wrong about something. At a time when young Mello was not doing well in school, his family helped him build his confidence and . Mellos first few years of grade school were difficult. He was five years old when he started first grade in a local private school. He was too young to enter first grade in the public system. He does not know if he was a slow learner, or just not interested, but he did not do well in school until the seventh grade. In second grade, Mello only pretended that he could read and he was embarrassed of being talked to by the teacher. He enjoyed playing outdoors, in the woods and creeks, more than time spent in the classroom. At this time, his older siblings were great students, so his teacher's wanted him to do well. During these early years, Mello had no doubt that he would be a scientist when he grew up.

Mello went to Fairfax High School (Fairfax, Virginia). He took all of the science courses except advanced physics. Mellos favorite teachers were of earth science, chemistry and biology.

After he was awarded his high school diploma, Mello went to Brown University. Mello studied biochemistry and molecular biology for his first years at Brown University. Some of his teachers at Brown University were Frank Rothman, Ken Miller, Susan Gerbi and Nelson Fausto. He was awarded his B.S. from Brown University in 1982. 

After finishing his studies at Brown, Mello went to Boulder, Colorado for more studies. He took courses in molecular, cellular and developmental biology (how plants and animals grow). Some of his teachers were called David Hirsh, Dick McIntosh, Mike Yarus, Larry Gold, and Bill Wood. Mello joined David Hirshs lab in 1982. Davids lab was filled with people, such as Dan Stinchcomb, who taught Professor Mello about molecular biology. These people were important to train Professor Mello for the future. 

During Professor Mellos first year in Boulder, David Hirsh decided to take a position in industry. Because of this, Mello moved to Harvard University where he could research with Dan Stinchcomb, who was starting an :wikt:independent lab.

Mello enjoyed his time at Harvard. He worked on his project and worked long hours in the lab. He was able to visit lectures about many subjects. He was awarded his Ph.D. from Harvard in 1990. He was a fellow at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in the laboratory of Dr. James Priess.

In 2006, Professor Mello and Andrew Z. Fire were awarded the Nobel Prize for work that began in 1998, when Mello and Fire along with their colleagues (SiQun Xu, Mary Montgomery, Stephen Kostas, and Sam Driver) published research work in the journal "Nature". The research was about tiny pieces of RNA causing the cell into destroy the genes Messenger RNA (mRNA) before it can produce a protein - stopping certain genes from working. 

In the yearly Howard Hughes Medical Institute Scientific Meeting held on November 13, 2006 in Ashburn, Virginia, Professor Mello talked about the phone call that he received telling him he had won the Nobel Prize. He said it was after 4:30 am and he had just checked his daughter was sleeping. He returned to his bedroom and he got a phone call that his wife told him not to answer, as it was a . His wife told him the phone had rung while he was out of the room and someone was making a bad joke on them by saying that he had won the Nobel prize. When he told her that this was the day that Nobel prize winners were contacted, he said "her jaw dropped." He answered the phone, and the voice on the other end told him to get dressed, and that in half an hour his life was about to change.

Sweden's Karolinska Institute chooses the Nobel Prize winners for Physiology and Medicine. They said: "This year's Nobel Laureates have discovered a fundamental mechanism for controlling the flow of genetic information."

Mello and Fires research, at the Carnegie Institution for Science (Fire) and the University of Massachusetts Medical School (Mello), had shown that RNA is very important in gene control. Professor Nick Hastie, director of the Medical Research Council's Human Genetics Unit, said: "It is very unusual for a piece of work to completely revolutionize the whole way we think about biological processes and regulation, but this has opened up a whole new field in biology."




</doc>
<doc id="101454" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101454" title="Vicar of Bray">
Vicar of Bray

Vicar of Bray
Type:
Wooden Barque(Conflicting info shows the Vicar Of Bray to be either a Brig or a Barque)
GRTonne 282, 
Length 29.6 m (97.0 ft), 
Beam 7.4 m (24.2 ft), 
Launched 
Date 22nd April 1841 
Built in Whitehaven, by Robert Hardy. 

Decommissioned / Wrecked 
Date circa 1880 
(An entry in the Lloyds' of London Register of Ships in 1880, "hulked in Stanley", refers to her salvage in that town where she is to this day used as support for pier at Goose Green, Falkland Is.) 
By 1849, at the time of the California Gold Rush, she was part of a vast fleet of ships, perhaps numbering in the thousands, that sailed to San Francisco. Today there is a group in San Francisco (Bring the Vicar Home Committee) proposing her return and at least partial restoration. 

Information (including a current photos) found at:
http://www.mightyseas.co.uk/marhist/whitehaven/vicarofbray.htm
and
http://www.mywhitehaven.net/index.php?view=article&catid=45%3Ahistory-articles&id=70%3Avicar-of-bray&tmpl=component&print=1&page=&option=com_content&Itemid=73

more info at

http://sailing-ships.oktett.net/register-chronologic.html

and

http://www.falklands.gov.fk/pb/fi/gold-rush.htm


</doc>
<doc id="101455" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101455" title="Maharishi Mahesh Yogi">
Maharishi Mahesh Yogi

Maharishi Mahesh Yogi (January 12, 1918 - February 5, 2008) was an Indian guru (a teacher of spirituality). He was most famous for his development of Transcendental Meditation. He also was known for his association with the rock bands, The Beatles and The Beach Boys.
His birth name was either Mahesh Verma Shrivastava or Mahesh Prasad Varma. His parents were Hindus from the Kshatriya (warrior) caste.
He was born in Raipur, India. He graduated from Allahabad University in Uttar Pradesh, and began his career as a physicist. His physics work made him interested in the sound vibrations made by spoken syllables, and how those vibrations could change a person's body or consciousness. In time, he became a disciple of Swami Brahmananda Saraswati, who was called "Guru Dev". He later became the swami's secretary. He could not become the swami's , because of India's caste system, but he could become a guru on his own. Guru Dev gave him the name "Bal Brahmachari Mahesh". Later he adopted the name Maharishi ("great teacher"), while "yogi" was a name given to teachers of yoga.

Transcendental Meditation (sometimes shortened to "TM") grew out of Guru Dev's teachings, and the Maharishi's own physics studies. A person practices Transcendental Meditation by sitting quietly, and mentally repeating a "", of syllables or names considered or holy in Hinduism. In Transcendental Meditation, the sounds are used purely as sounds independent of any associated meanings in any language.Meditating helps a person to relax, and to concentrate on important things. During this meditation a person transcends conscious thought to a quieter state of mind, and this gives the technique its name.

The Maharishi began what he called the "Spiritual Movement" in 1958. He traveled around the world, teaching Transcendental Meditation to ordinary people. Unlike many gurus, he did not require followers to give up their everyday lives, or move to an to live and study. He believed that helping people to relieve stress and learn how to focus would improve their lives, and in time make a better world. He taught for nearly ten years, with little public notice. He also published a book, "The Science of Being and the Art of Living", and recorded a spoken-word album, that explained his beliefs.

During 1967, during the last months of his ten-year "world tour", he visited England, and people there began to join his Spiritual Regeneration Movement. One person who joined was Pattie Boyd, the wife of George Harrison, who was a member of The Beatles. Harrison had learned to play the sitar, an Indian musical instrument, and was interested in Hinduism. He had not found a guru whose teachings interested him. When Pattie told him about the Maharishi, he became interested, and all four Beatles went to a lecture given by the Maharishi. They sent a message to him, asking to meet in person. All of the Beatles were interested in TM, because it was simple and they could continue on as musicians, instead of having to change their lifestyle. They each joined the movement, and began to promote the Maharishi and his teachings. They even announced that they gave up the use of drugs, which had earlier caused for the band, because of what they learned.

Brian Epstein, manager of the Beatles, was also interested in TM, but had many problems in his personal life. He decided not to join the Beatles when they traveled to Wales to attend a weekend class given by the Maharishi, and stayed home. Later that weekend, Epstein overdosed on sleeping pills, and died in his sleep. The Beatles were very hurt by the news, and worried about what would happen to their careers. Maharishi tried to comfort them, telling them to think happy thoughts about Epstein, and let his spirit find peace.

The Beatles wanted to study with the Maharishi in India. They had just started their own company, Apple Corps, and with Epstein gone they had to work out many details for themselves. They could have found another manager, but decided they did not want one, and looked after Apple personally, until their helpers could take over running the company. Finally in early 1968, they made the trip to India.

The Beatles enjoyed the atmosphere in India, and the free time they had between classes, and began to write songs for a new album, which was later called the "White Album". One by one the Beatles lost interest. Ringo Starr, who had a sensitive stomach, became sick from the spicy food served at the ashram, and headed home after just a few days. Paul McCartney in time became bored, and also headed home. George Harrison and John Lennon stayed longer, but were upset when "Magic Alex", a friend who came to India with them, began to tell them stories about the Maharishi trying to have sexual intercourse with some of the women who came to the ashram. This Harrison and Lennon, and they went home the next day.

The Beatles were earlier interested in making a movie about the Maharishi and his work. When they began to talk with him about it, he surprised them by knowing more about business matters than they ever expected, and by asking questions about his share of the movie's profits. They did not think a "holy man" would be interested in such things. Between this and Magic Alex's stories, the band decided the Maharishi was a . They publicly him, telling the media they thought he was something other than what he proved to be. Lennon wrote a song about him, whose words went "Maharishi, what have you done? You made a fool of everyone." He later changed the name "Maharishi" to "Sexy Sadie", to keep the Maharishi from seeking revenge of some kind, or a lawsuit, against him.

Years later, the Beatles realized Magic Alex's were false. McCartney and Harrison began again to say good things about the Maharishi, and to promote his work. Starr called him "one of the I met in my life." Lennon never forgave Maharishi for letting him down personally, but still used TM from time to time. Lennon realized that he had been looking for a , and that any father figure he found was going to let him down in the end, so he was better off to work out his own problems.

The Beatles were not the only celebrities to get involved with the Maharishi and his work. Actress Mia Farrow, folk-rocker Donovan and Mike Love of the Beach Boys also studied with the Maharishi in India, and the Beach Boys later promoted TM, much more than the Beatles ever had. They toured together with the Maharishi, and Mike Love insisted people who worked for them meditate daily. The association did not work well for the Beach Boys, and an album they recorded at a school started by the Maharishi sold poorly. In time most of the Beach Boys lost interest, but Love continued to promote the Maharishi and his works.

Magician Doug Henning also became a follower of Transcendental Meditation. He campaigned to open a theme park called "Vedaland", based on Hinduism and the Maharishi's teachings. after his death, Doug Henning's widow continued the campaign.

Scientists studied people who meditated, and learned that TM really did help them to relax, and to think more clearly. A few Christian ministers and writers denounced TM, calling it "a into Eastern religions", and said that mantras were really a way of invoking the Devil or demons. Other Christians saw no harm in it, or encouraged people who wanted to meditate to instead chant the name of Jesus Christ, or a name for God, or a line from a psalm or Christian prayer. In any case, TM went on to help many people around the world, and it is still taught as a form of meditation.

The Maharishi continued his teachings and work, later promoting the "Maharishi Technology of the " and other ideas. In time, he gave up his ashram in India, moving to The Netherlands in Europe. He announced his retirement in January 2008, only weeks before he died.



</doc>
<doc id="101459" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101459" title="Brighton and Hove Albion F.C.">
Brighton and Hove Albion F.C.

Brighton and Hove Albion F.C. is an English association football club. It is based in Brighton in the county of East Sussex. It started in 1901 and has the nickname "The Seagulls".


</doc>
<doc id="101461" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101461" title="Bristol City F.C.">
Bristol City F.C.

Bristol City F.C. are an English football club. They are based in the city of Bristol and play at a stadium called Ashton Gate. They were formed in 1897.


</doc>
<doc id="101462" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101462" title="Chesterfield F.C.">
Chesterfield F.C.

Chesterfield F.C. are an English football club. They started in 1867 and are based in Chesterfield in the county of Derbyshire. They play at a stadium called the Recreation Ground.


</doc>
<doc id="101463" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101463" title="Doncaster Rovers F.C.">
Doncaster Rovers F.C.

Doncaster Rovers F.C. are an English football club. They started in 1879 and play their home games at a stadium called Keepmoat Stadium.


</doc>
<doc id="101464" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101464" title="Huddersfield Town F.C.">
Huddersfield Town F.C.

Huddersfield Town F.C. are an English football club. They started in 1908 and are based in Huddersfield, West Yorkshire. The club plays their home games at a stadium called the Galpharm Stadium.


</doc>
<doc id="101465" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101465" title="Category:Football managers">
Category:Football managers

This is a category of association football managers.


</doc>
<doc id="101470" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101470" title="Sanskara">
Sanskara

In Hinduism and Buddhism Sanskaras are the faint memories left on your mind by experiences you had in your present life or in past lives. Sanskaras change how you look at things in the future and how you act.


</doc>
<doc id="101471" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101471" title="Supernanny">
Supernanny

Supernanny is a television program about a nanny, or baby sitter, named Jo Frost who helps parents in taking care of their children.


</doc>
<doc id="101477" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101477" title="Keyboard (computer)">
Keyboard (computer)

"For other types of keyboards, please see Keyboard (disambiguation)."

There are different types of keyboards. The most popular type is the QWERTY design, which is based on typewriter keyboards. The QWERTY design was made so the most frequently used letters would not jam a mechanical typerwriter or typesetting machine. Now there are no more typewriters but the design stayed because people were used to it. QWERTY is the first 6 letters on the upper row of letters on the keyboard. An ergonomic keyboard is made to be easier for people to use, without hurting their hands or arms. The keyboard can type letters, numbers and punctuation, and also lets you control the computer, using special keys like the START button, and the arrow keys. A Dvorak keyboard is an alternative layout.

Keystroke logging is capturing a record of each key that is pressed. Keystroke logging can be used to measure employee activity. Hackers can also use keystroke logging. Scientists discovered that most keyboards give off electromagnetic radiation that can be used to tell which keys have been pressed. Spies could determine what has been typed by remotely sensing such signals.

Researchers are studying if keyboards can spread diseases. Some keyboards were found to contain five times more germs than a toilet seat.


</doc>
<doc id="101480" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101480" title="Rhythm guitar">
Rhythm guitar

The term rhythm guitar refers to the style of playing a guitar by chords, and sometimes playing repeated , instead of using the guitar to play melody lines or solos (this kind of playing is called lead guitar). Rhythm guitarists add to the sound of a band, whether they play rock and roll, or other kinds of music.

John Lennon of The Beatles usually played rhythm guitar for the band, with George Harrison playing lead guitar. However, Lennon sometimes played keyboards, and once in a while took the lead guitar role, as he did in the songs "You Can't Do That" and "Get Back".

Sheet music for rhythm guitar is usually written above the classical notes. It is written in Guitar chord format.


</doc>
<doc id="101481" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101481" title="Book of Revelation">
Book of Revelation

The Book of Revelation, which is sometimes called Revelation to John, Apocalypse of John , or Revelation of Jesus Christ is the last book of the New Testament in the Bible.

The last book of the New Testament is usually called the "Book of Revelation" or simply "Revelation". Some of the earliest manuscripts have the title of "The Revelation of John"(). Later manuscripts usually have the title of "The Revelation of the Theologian" (). This is why the Authorized King James Version calls Revelation the "Revelation of Saint John the Divine" ("divine" was a seventeenth century word for "theologian".

The book is usually called "Revelation". The title found on some of the earliest manuscripts is "The Apocalypse of John" (in Greek Αποκάλυψις Ιωάννου), and the most common title found on later manuscripts is "The Apocalypse of the theologian" (in Greek ΑΠΟΚΑΛΥΨΙΣ ΤΟΥ ΘΕΟΛΟΓΟΥ). In Greek, the word "apocalypse" means "revealing" or "unveiling".

Some people consider Revelation to be the most difficult book in the Bible. Over the course of the book the author has two visions. There are many different ways to interpret these visions, and there have been many arguments over which way is right.

There is some disagreement over whether the John who wrote the letters of John, the John who wrote The Gospel of John, and the John who wrote the Book of Revelation are the same person. The person writing Revelation called himself "John". He also wrote that he was on Patmos when he saw his first vision.


</doc>
<doc id="101492" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101492" title="Keyboard (disambiguation)">
Keyboard (disambiguation)

The term keyboard could mean:



</doc>
<doc id="101494" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101494" title="Theodor Fontane">
Theodor Fontane

Theodor Fontane (; December 30, 1819 – September 20, 1898) was a German novelist and poet, regarded by many to be the most important 19th-century German-language realist writer. 

Fontane was born in Neuruppin into a Huguenot family. At the age of sixteen he became apprentice in a phamacy and then a pharmacist himself (like his father).In 1839, at the age of 20, wrote his first work ("Heinrichs IV. erste Liebe", now lost). His first published work, the novella "Geschwisterliebe" (or "Sibling Love"), appeared in the "Berlin Figaro" in December 1839. 

His first job as apothecary was in Dresden after which he returned to his father's shop, now in the provincial town of Letschin in the Oderbruch region. In this time Fontane published articles in the Leipzig newspaper "Die Eisenbahn" (railway) and translated Shakespeare. In 1843, he joined a literary club called Tunnel über der Spree (i.e. Tunnel over the river Spree) in Berlin where he came into contact with many of the most important German writers such as Theodor Storm, Joseph von Eichendorff and Gottfried Keller.

In 1844 Fontane enrolled in the Prussian army and set out on the first of many journeys to England. There he learned about old English ballads. Soon afterwards he wrote ballads himself. At that time he became engaged to his future wife, Emilie Rouanet-Kummer, whom he had first met when still at school. 

He was - very short - enganged in the revolutionary events of the revolution of 1848. In 1849 he quit his job as an apothecary and became a full-time journalist and writer. In order to support his family he took a job as a writer for the Prussian intelligence agency "Centralstelle für Preßangelegenheiten" which was meant to influence the press towards a German national cause. Again he specialised in British affairs, and the agency sent him as correspondent to London for a couple of years. His wife and two sons followed him there. While still in London he quit his government job and, on his return to Berlin, became editor of the conservative "Kreuzzeitung" (newspaper).

His books about Britain include "Ein Sommer in London" (1854); "Aus England, Studien und Briefe" (1860) and "Jenseits des Tweed, Bilder und Briefe aus Schottland" (1860). At the period, and following the fashion of Walter Scott, traditional British stories were still "en vogue" on the continent. His "Gedichte" (1851) and ballads "Männer und Helden" (1860) tell of Britain's glories in days gone by. 

Back in Germany, Fontane became particularly interested in the Mark Brandenburg region. He was especially proud of its past achievements and delighted in the growth of its capital city, Berlin. His fascination with the countryside surrounding Berlin may be seen in his delightfully picturesque "Wanderungen durch die Mark Brandenburg" (1862-1882, 5 vols.).

In 1870, he quit his job at the "Kreuzzeitung" and became theater critic for the liberal "Vossische Zeitung" (newspaper). This job he kept until retirement. He had already written about Prussia's war against Denmark and the Austro-Prussian War. Then he went to write about the Franco-Prussian War in 1870 and was taken prisoner. He remained in French captivity for three months. His experiences there are set down in "Kriegsgefangen Erlebtes 1870 (1871)"; subsequently he published his observations on the campaign in "Der Krieg gegen Frankreich 1870-71" (1874-1876).

At the ripe age of 57 Fontane finally took to what he would be remembered for, the novel. His fine historical novel "Vor dem Sturm" (1878) was followed by a series of novels of modern life, notably "L'Adultera" (1882), a book about adultery which was considered so risqué that it took Fontane two years to find a publisher. In his novels "Frau Jenny Treibel", "Irrungen, Wirrungen", and "Effi Briest" (1894), he found his very own tone, he wrote about insights into the lives of the nobility as well as the "common man"; his achievement there was later described as poetic realism. In "Der Stechlin" (1899), his last finished novel, Fontane adapted the realistic methods and social criticism of contemporary French fiction to the conditions of Prussian life.



See Thomas Mann's 1910 essay, "The Old Fontane," in "Essays of Three Decades" (Knopf, 1947). Very fine.



</doc>
<doc id="101496" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101496" title="Argument of perihelion">
Argument of perihelion

In astronomy, the argument of perihelion is a way of talking about the orbit of a planet, asteroid or comet. It is also known as the argument of periapsis or the argument of perifocus. To save time, the argument of perihelion is referred to as "ω". It is defined as the angle between the "periapsis", and the "ascending node". Periapsis is the point when the orbiting object comes the closest to the thing it is orbitting around. For example, the moon is at periapsis when it is closest to the Earth. Sometimes, words like "perihelion", "perigee" or "periastron" might be used instead of "periapsis", but the meaning is the same. The ascending node is one of two places where an orbitting object passes through the reference plane, an imaginary flat surface which runs through the object being orbitted around. The size of the angle depends on which way the object is orbiting.


</doc>
<doc id="101498" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101498" title="Pachelbel's Canon">
Pachelbel's Canon

Pachelbel's Canon (also known as Canon in D major or just Canon in D) is the most famous piece of music by Johann Pachelbel. It was written in or around 1680, as a piece of chamber music for three violins and basso continuo, but it has been arranged for many other instruments since then. It is well known for its chord progression.

Pachelbel's Canon is often played at weddings.

This is Pachelbel's Canon played on a piano:


</doc>
<doc id="101502" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101502" title="Damme">
Damme

Damme is a municipality located in the Belgian province of West Flanders, six kilometres northeast of Brugge (Bruges). It is made up of the city of Damme proper and the towns of Hoeke, Lapscheure, Moerkerke, Oostkerke, Sijsele, Vivenkapelle, and Sint-Rita.

In 2007 its population was 10853.

It is located at 51° 15 North, 03° 17 East.


</doc>
<doc id="101503" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101503" title="Hit record">
Hit record

A hit record is a recording (either a single or an album) that becomes very popular, through large sales of copies, repeated , or presence in the media. One aspect usually promotes one or more of the others.

The Beatles, Elvis Presley, The Eagles and Michael Jackson all had many hit records. They are among the biggest-selling musical acts of all time. Not every recording artist has a hit record. Many artists and groups lose their recording contracts, if their records do not become hits.

Not all hit records feature music. Some records also become hits, including comedy recordings. Bill Cosby, George Carlin, and Cheech & Chong are comedians who have all had hit records. A recording of speeches by the late American President John F. Kennedy became one of the biggest-selling albums of the 1960s.


</doc>
<doc id="101506" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101506" title="Pauline epistles">
Pauline epistles

The Pauline epistles are the fourteen New Testament books which most Christians think were written by the Apostle Paul. Some of them are the earliest Christian documents. They show many of the beliefs and controversies of Christianity. Many Christians think these letters are very important for theology and ethics.

The First Timothy, Second Timothy, and Titus are sometimes known as the pastoral epistles.
In the order they appear in the New Testament, the Pauline epistles are:


</doc>
<doc id="101508" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101508" title="Viljandi">
Viljandi

Viljandi (, ) is a town and municipality in southern Estonia. As of 2007, its population is 19,870. It is the capital of Viljandi County. The town was first mentioned in 1283, after being given its town charter by Villekinus de Endorpe.


</doc>
<doc id="101509" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101509" title="Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God">
Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God

Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God is famous sermon that was preached by Jonathan Edwards in 1741. He was an important Calvinist Congregational minister. The sermon is often used in American high schools and college English classes as an example of the Puritan writings.

Edwards taught the sermon many times. The first time was in Northampton, Massachusetts, but it did not get much attention. But on the second time in Enfield, Connecticut, it made many people weep, swoon, cry out, and have convulsions.

Deuteronomy 32:35 says, "Their foot shall slide in due time." That verse was the main focus of the beginning of the sermon. As was normal in 18th century New England, the sermon was printed and many copies were made. It has proven to be the main reason of his theology and preaching that was taught by many people in the first Great Awakening.



</doc>
<doc id="101510" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101510" title="Physical constant">
Physical constant

A physical constant is a size, something that has been measured, which has a special meaning for physics. For example, 
Physical constants are different from mathematical constants because they are not just numbers but are numbers and a unit of measurement together, and because people find them not by calculating but by measuring.

Here are some important physical constants.


</doc>
<doc id="101512" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101512" title="Category:Pauline epistles">
Category:Pauline epistles


</doc>
<doc id="101513" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101513" title="Cookstown">
Cookstown

Cookstown is a small town in Northern Ireland which is in the United Kingdom. 10646 people live in the town. The main street in Cookstown is the longest and widest in Ireland.
On 29 April 2001 the United Kingdom government had a census and found out that there were 10,646 people living in Cookstown. They also found that:


</doc>
<doc id="101515" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101515" title="Dungannon">
Dungannon

Dungannon is a town in County Tyrone,Northern Ireland, in the United Kingdom.
On 29 April 2001 the United Kingdom government had a census and found that were 11,139 people living in Dungannon. Of these:


</doc>
<doc id="101517" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101517" title="Coagh">
Coagh

Coagh is a village in Northern Ireland, in the United Kingdom.
On 29 April 2001 the United Kingdom government had a census and found that there were 545 people living in Coagh. They also found that:


</doc>
<doc id="101518" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101518" title="Stewartstown">
Stewartstown

Stewartstown is a village in Northern Ireland, in the United Kingdom. It is 5 miles from Cookstown and 7 miles from Dungannon.
On 29 April 2001 the United Kingdom government had a census and found that there were 608 people living in Stewartstown. They also found that:


</doc>
<doc id="101519" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101519" title="Ballymena">
Ballymena

Ballymena is a town in Northern Ireland, in the United Kingdom. The actor Liam Neeson used to live in the town.
On 29 April 2001 the United Kingdom government had a census and found that there were 28,717 people living in Ballymena. They also found that:


</doc>
<doc id="101520" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101520" title="Society of St.John the Evangelist">
Society of St.John the Evangelist

The Society of St.John the Evangelist is an Anglican order. The monks makea vow: They say they want to live in poverty and that they will not marry anyone. The order was founded by Father Richard Meux Benson, an Anglican priest in 1866. Because they were founded in Cowley, near Oxford in England they are also known as the Cowley fathers. 

Today, there are monasteries in Scotland, India, South Africa, Japan, and Canada.

The fellowship of the Society of St.John the Evangelist is a group of people who want to live there lives in close a relation with the monks at the society. They give money to the society and pray for the monks there. They make a rule of life that is similar to The Rule of the Society of St.John the Evangelist. There are about 1,000 men and woman who are apart of the fellowship. One of the most famous members is Frank Griswold.


</doc>
<doc id="101526" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101526" title="Magherafelt">
Magherafelt

Magherafelt is a small town in Northern Ireland, in the United Kingdom.
On 29 April 2001 the United Kingdom government had a census and found that there were 8,372 people living in Magherafelt. They also found that:


</doc>
<doc id="101527" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101527" title="Constituent country">
Constituent country

A constituent country is a country which makes up a part of a larger country, or federation.
The United Kingdom is made of 4 constituent countries. They are England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
The Kingdom of the Netherlands is also made of 4 constituent countries. They are the Netherlands, Aruba, Curaçao and Sint Maarten.


</doc>
<doc id="101528" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101528" title="Leyton Orient F.C.">
Leyton Orient F.C.

Leyton Orient F.C. are an English football club. They started in 1881 and are based in Leyton, London. Their nickname is "The O's" and they play their home games at a stadium called Brisbane Road.



</doc>
<doc id="101529" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101529" title="Northampton Town F.C.">
Northampton Town F.C.

Northampton Town F.C. is an English football club. They started in 1897 and are based in Northampton in the county of Northamptonshire. They play their home games at a stadium called Sixfields Stadium and are nicknamed "The Cobblers".


</doc>
<doc id="101530" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101530" title="Counties of Northern Ireland">
Counties of Northern Ireland

There are six counties which make up Northern Ireland. They are County Antrim, County Armagh, County Down, County Fermanagh, County Londonderry and County Tyrone. The six counties in Northern Ireland and the 26 counties in the Republic of Ireland make up the 32 counties of the island of Ireland.


</doc>
<doc id="101531" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101531" title="Nottingham Forest F.C.">
Nottingham Forest F.C.

Nottingham Forest F.C. is an English football club. They are based in Nottingham in the county of Nottinghamshire and started in 1865. They play their home matches at a stadium called City Ground. Brian Clough was one of their managers and when he was in charge, Nottingham Forest won two European Cups and four League Cups. Since then they have dropped down to the 3rd division and back up to the second, they have had managers like Gary Megson, Joe Kinnear, David Platt and Frank Clark. They have no manager now. Their last one was Colin Calderwood.


</doc>
<doc id="101532" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101532" title="Brian Clough">
Brian Clough

Brian Clough was an English association football manager. During his career he was in charge of Nottingham Forest F.C. and Derby County F.C. He won a lot of trophies, including the European Cup twice in 1979 and 1980. He died of stomach cancer. 

!Total||2||0


</doc>
<doc id="101533" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101533" title="Irish national grid reference system">
Irish national grid reference system

The Irish national grid reference system is the system of grid references used in Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland. It overlaps the British national grid reference system. In the grid references, Ireland is divided into 20 squares, of 100 kilometres length and 100 kilometres width. Each grid square is given a letter as its name.


</doc>
<doc id="101534" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101534" title="Districts of Northern Ireland">
Districts of Northern Ireland

Since 1 October 1973, Northern Ireland is made of 26 districts. Each district has a council which looks after local services. The 26 districts are made of 582 wards. Each ward elects 1 councillor. There 582 councillors in Northern Ireland and there is an election every 4 years. The voting system used to elect each councillor is Single Transferable Vote. Some of the councils are known as "Borough" or "City" councils. Every year, each council elects a chairman. In "Borough" and "City" councils, the chairman is called the Mayor. In Belfast City Council, the chairman is called the Lord Mayor. In "Borough" and "City" councils, up to 25% of councillors are given the title Alderman.


</doc>
<doc id="101535" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101535" title="Post town">
Post town

In the United Kingdom, a post town is the town that you must write on a letter if you want it to go to that area. There are around 1500 post towns in the United Kingdom.


</doc>
<doc id="101536" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101536" title="Hudson Motor Car Company">
Hudson Motor Car Company

The Hudson Motor Car Company was an American automobile , founded in Detroit, Michigan in 1909. They were well-known for producing low-priced cars of good quality. They also features in their cars, like warning lights for pressure and generator power. Hudson's production peak was in 1929, with 300,000 cars built in their factories in America, Belgium and England.

In 1954, Hudson merged with the Nash-Kelvinator Company, to form American Motors Corporation. American Motors (also known as AMC) became famous for their line of Jeep vehicles (a civilian version of military Jeeps), and later Ramblers, Gremlins, and Pacer cars. AMC was finally bought out by the Chrysler Corporation, which still makes Jeep brand vehicles.

Jack Kerouac's novel "On the Road" describes made by Kerouac and his friend Neal Cassady, driving a 1949 Hudson automobile. (Cassady ruined his car, driving at speeds over 100 miles per hour, without giving the car the maintenance it needed.)


</doc>
<doc id="101537" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101537" title="BT postcode area">
BT postcode area

The BT postcode area (also called the Belfast postcode area) is how each area in Northern Ireland has postcodes. Northern Ireland was the last part of the United Kingdom to get post codes. The BT postcode area was made between 1970 and 1974. 

The Belfast post town districts are BT1 to BT17, BT58 and part of BT29. "BT" is short way of saying "Belfast". The postcode for Belfast city centre starts "BT1". The Royal Mail office in Belfast has a postcode of BT1 1AA. 

The rest of Northern Ireland has 43 other post towns. The post town districts for the 43 post towns are BT18 to BT57, BT60 to BT82, BT92 to BT94 and part of BT29.


</doc>
<doc id="101538" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101538" title="Northern Ireland Fire and Rescue Service">
Northern Ireland Fire and Rescue Service

The Northern Ireland Fire and Rescue Service (NIFRS) is the fire service for Northern Ireland, United Kingdom. 2000 people work for the NIFRS. There are 67 fire stations in Northern Ireland. Sometimes bad people throw stones at the firemen. Some firemen were killed in the Troubles.


</doc>
<doc id="101539" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101539" title="BT">
BT

BT is an abbreviation and can stand for:


</doc>
<doc id="101540" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101540" title="Northern Ireland Ambulance Service">
Northern Ireland Ambulance Service

The Northern Ireland Ambulance Service (NIAS) is the ambulance service for Northern Ireland, United Kingdom. It was created on 1 April 1995. Around 1000 people work for the NIAS.


</doc>
<doc id="101541" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101541" title="Września">
Września

Września is a small town in Wielkopolska province in Poland. 30,000 people live in Września and the mayor is Tomasz Kałużny.


</doc>
<doc id="101542" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101542" title="Police Service of Northern Ireland">
Police Service of Northern Ireland

The Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI) () is the police service that covers Northern Ireland. It was started on 4 November 2001. The old police service for Northern Ireland was the Royal Ulster Constabulary. The service is based in Cherryvalley, east Belfast. The current Chief Constable is Sir Hugh Orde OBE. The old Chief Constables were Sir Ronnie Flanagan OBE and Colin Cramphorn.
All the big political parties in Northern Ireland support the PSNI. Earlier, the political party Sinn Féin, who have many supporters, did not support the police. But after the St Andrews Agreement they decided to support them after a special Ard Fheis about the police on 28 January 2007.
In September 2005 the PSNI started the Historical Enquiries Team to help solve 3,269 murders that happened during the Troubles. The Northern Ireland Policing Board make sure that the PSNI are fair and do a good job. The Police Ombudsman for Northern Ireland investigates complaints about the police. The current Police Ombudsman is Al Hutchinson. The last Ombudsman was Nuala O'Loan. She was the Ombudsman until November 2007.
The PSNI gives 50% of its jobs to Roman Catholics and 50% of its jobs to people who are not Roman Catholic. This is because many people think there are not enough Roman Catholics in the PSNI. By 2006, 20% of PSNI policemen were Roman Catholic. Only 8.3% of policemen in the old Royal Ulster Constabulary were Roman Catholic. About 30% of the force will be Roman Catholics by 2011. 
The colour of the PSNI uniform is green. The PSNI badge has Saint Patrick's saltire on it and six other symbols. They are the scales of justice, the harp, the torch, the olive branch, the shamrock and a crown.
The flag of the PSNI is the badge in the centre of a dark green field.




</doc>
<doc id="101544" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101544" title="Grameen Bank">
Grameen Bank

The Grameen Bank is a community development bank started in Bangladesh. They give small loans (known as microcredit or "grameencredit" ) to poor people without asking for money before the loan is given. The word "Grameen", is made of the word "gram" or "village", and means "of the village". The system of this bank is based on the idea that the poor have skills but have no chance to use their skills without some money. The bank also controls some businesses, such as fabric, telephone and energy companies. Most of the banks loans go to women.

The Grameen Bank was started 1976 when Professor Muhammad Yunus, a Fulbright scholar and Professor at University of Chittagong, researched how to provide banking for the rural poor. In October 1983, the Grameen Bank Project was made into an independent bank by the government. The group and its first member, Muhammad Yunus, were awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 2006.

Some people have said the banks prices are too expensive and put people in a debt-trap. Some have also said that the bank would not work if people did not give donations. At the same time, it is often seen as a success story in microfinance and as the guide for other groups around the world.

Muhammad Yunus, the banks first member, earned a Ph.D. in economics from Vanderbilt University in the United States. During the Bangladesh famine of 1974 he gave a small loan of USD 27 to a group of 42 families so that they could make small items and sell them without owing too much money. Yunus believed that a lot less people would be poor around Bangladesh if they could find small loans.

The Grameen Bank ("Bank of the Villages", in the Bengali language) is the product of Yunus' ideas. The bank began as a research project by Yunus and the Rural Economics Project at Bangladesh's University of Chittagong. They gave out some small loans and waited to know what would happen. In 1976, the village of Jobra and other villages surrounding the University of Chittagong became the first places where Grameen Bank loaned money to people. The Bank was very successful and with support from the main Bangladesh Bank, gave loans for the Tangail District (to the north of the capital, Dhaka). The bank's success continued and it soon gave loans in many areas of Bangladesh. On 2 October 1983, the project was made into an independent bank, by the Bangladeshi government. Bankers from ShoreBank, a community development bank in Chicago, helped Yunus by making Grameen Bank a part of Shorebank with money from the Ford Foundation. After the 1998 flood of Bangladesh, many people could not pay their debts to Grameen for a few years. By the beginning of 2005, the bank had loaned over USD 4.7 billion to poor people. 

Grameen Bank now loans money to poor people all over India. By 2006, India had over 2,100 Grameen Bank branches. Its success has inspired similar projects in more than 40 countries around the world and has made World Bank to take an initiative to finance Grameen-type schemes.

The bank gets help with money. In the mid-1990s, the bank started getting most of its funding from the central bank of Bangladesh. More recently, Grameen has been borrowing money. The Government of Bangladesh guarantees that money borrowed by the Grameen Bank will be repaid.

Grameen Bank is best known for solidarity lending. The Bank also incorporates a set of values embodied in Bangladesh by the "Sixteen Decisions". At every branch of Grameen Bank the borrowers recite these Decisions and vow to follow them.

There is solidarity lending in over 43 countries. Each borrower must belong to a five-member group, the group does not need to give a guarantee for a loan. The loan is made to only one person but the whole group is to make sure that the money is repaid. Each member has to pay for their own loan but if they have problems the group may help them pay because the group would not get any more loans from Grameen if all the groups loans were not paid.

Grameen Bank does not take people to court if they cannot pay, the system works on trust only. Solidarity groups agree with Grameen to save enough for extra payments in case they cannot pay every time.

Not many women in India can have loans from big banks so 97% of Grameens loans go to women. Women get treated very badly in some countries and groups, such as the World Bank are researching to know if small loans are helping women around the world. 
Over 98 percent of Grameens loans have been paid back but the Wall Street Journal says that 20% of the loans took more than a year longer than the time agreed to pay the loan back. Grameen says that more than half of its borrowers in Bangladesh (close to 50 million) now: have all children of school age in school, all household members eating three meals a day, a clean toilet, a rainproof house, clean drinking water and can pay 300 taka-a-week (around 4 USD) towards their loans.

One of the things Grameen Bank does for poor people is the Village Phone program. Women entrepreneurs can start a business providing a payphone service in rural areas of Bangladesh. The Village Phone Program was awarded the 2004 Petersburg Prize of EUR 100,000 for Technology to Development. The Development Gateway Foundation said:

...Grameen has created a new class of women entrepreneurs who have raised themselves from poverty. Moreover, it has improved the livelihoods of farmers and others who are provided access to critical market information and lifeline communications previously unattainable in some 28,000 villages of Bangladesh. More than 55,000 phones are currently in operation, with more than 80 million people benefiting from access to market information, news from relatives, and more.
In 2003, Grameen Bank started a new loan program, different from the Solidarity Group, to help the beggars in Bangladesh. This program is made to give small loans to beggars. The loans cost only the amount of the loan and the repayment take a long time, for example, a beggar taking a small loan of around 100 taka (about US $1.50) can pay only 2.00 taka (about 3.4 US cents) per week and only repays 100 taka. 

The bank does not force the beggars to give up begging but tries to get them selling low-priced items. The Global Microcredit Summit in 2006 by one of the banks managers says that by May 2006, around 73,000 beggars have taken loans of about 58.32 million taka (approx. USD 833,150) and repaid 34.78 million taka (about USD 496,900).

Grameen Bank is owned by the people who borrow the money, mostly women. The borrowers own 94% of the bank, and the other 6% is owned by the Government of Bangladesh. 

In October 2007, the bank had 7.34 million borrowers, and 97% of those are women. 
The number of borrowers has more than doubled since 2003, when the bank had only 3.12 million members. In October 2007, the Bank had a staff of over 24,703 employees and 2,468 branches covering 80,257 villages. There were 43,681 villages covered in the year 2003.
Since its start, the bank has loaned 347.75 billion taka (USD 6.55 billion). 313.11 billion taka (USD 5.87 billion) has been repaid. The bank says 98.35% of loans are repaid. In 1998 95% of loans were repaid. However, many critics doubt this recovery rate and the definition that Grameen uses to come up with this rate.

Grameen Bank received awards such as, the Bangladesh Independence Day Award, in 1994. The bank got its best known award on 13 October 2006, when the Nobel Committee awarded Grameen Bank and its first member, Muhammad Yunus, the 2006 Nobel Peace Prize "for their efforts to create economic and social development from below." The Nobel Foundation says: 
From modest beginnings three decades ago, Yunus has, first and foremost through Grameen Bank, developed micro-credit into an ever more important instrument in the struggle against poverty. Grameen Bank has been a source of ideas and models for the many institutions in the field of micro-credit that have sprung up around the world.
Mosammat Taslima Begum, used her first loan of 16-euro (20-dollar) from the bank in 1992 to buy a goat and subsequently became a successful entrepreneur and one of the elected board members of the bank. She collected the Nobel Prize for Grameen Bank on 10 December 2006, at the prize awarding ceremony in Oslo City Hall.

Grameen Bank is the only business to have won a Nobel Prize. In a speech given at the presentation ceremony, Professor Ole Danbolt Mjøs, Chairman of the Norwegian Nobel Committee, said that, by giving the prize to Grameen Bank and Muhammad Yunus, the Norwegian Nobel Committee wanted to make more contact with the Muslim world, to help women, and on to fight against poverty.

The people in Bangladesh were very happy with the Nobel Prize. Some critics asserted that the award affirms neoliberalism.

The Grameen Bank has grown into over two dozen groups called the Grameen Family of Enterprises. These groups include Grameen Trust, Grameen Fund, Grameen Communications, Grameen Shakti (Grameen Energy), Grameen Telecom, Grameen Shikkha (Grameen Education), Grameen Motsho (Grameen Fisheries), Grameen Baybosa Bikash (Grameen Business Development), Grameen Phone, Grameen Software Limited, Grameen CyberNet Limited, Grameen Knitwear Limited, and Grameen Uddog (owner of the brand Grameen Check).

On 11 July 2005 the Grameen Mutual Fund One (GMFO), was listed as an Initial Public Offering. One of the first mutual funds of its kind, GMFO will allow the over four million Grameen bank members, as well as non-members, to buy into Bangladesh's capital markets. The Grameen group is worth over USD 7.4 billion. 

The Grameen Foundation was based on the work of Grameen Bank in Bangladesh and they want to share the Grameen ideas and hurry microfinance to the worlds poorest people. Grameen Foundation USA, which has an A- rating from Charity Watch, supports microfinance institutions worldwide with loan guarantees, training, and technology transfer. As of 2006, Grameen Foundation supports microfinance institutions in the following regions:

Sudhirendar Sharma, a development analyst, says that the Grameen Bank has "landed poor communities in a perpetual debt-trap", and that its ultimate benefit goes to the corporations that sell capital goods and infrastructure to the borrowers. Prime Minister of Bangladesh, Sheikh Hasina, who said, "There is no difference between usurers [Yunus] and corrupt people." Hasina also says the bank wants too much in return for the loans. Loans from Grameen Bank cost more than bigger banks, around 20% interest. The Mises Institute's Jeffrey Tucker says that Grameen Bank is not good enough for Indias economy and is a way of giving money to people who are not working.


<div class="references-small">


</doc>
<doc id="101545" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101545" title="United Kingdom Census 2001">
United Kingdom Census 2001

On Sunday 29 April 2001 the United Kingdom Government held a census. This was the 19th UK Census. United Kingdom Census 2001 was started by the Office for National Statistics in England and Wales, the General Register Office for Scotland and the Northern Ireland Statistics and Research Agency. It was the first census to ask people in England, Scotland and Wales about their religion.



</doc>
<doc id="101546" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101546" title="Hug">
Hug

A hug is an between two or more people. It is usually a sign of affection or love.

In several cases observed by psychologists around the globe, hugs are often used to solidify relationships in both sexual and platonic cases and often lead to further physical encounters.



</doc>
<doc id="101547" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101547" title="WWE Intercontinental Championship">
WWE Intercontinental Championship

The World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) Intercontinental Championship is a professional wrestling championship in World Wrestling Entertainment. It is the first secondary title of WWE. Currently, it is the secondary championship on the SmackDown brand.

The WWE Intercontinental Championship was first known as the World Wrestling Federation (WWF) Intercontinental Championship, until the WWE/WWF 2002 Lawsuit. Following the title's introduction in 1979, Pat Patterson became the inaugural champion on September 15. The title's creation came as a result of Patterson defeating Ted DiBiase to win the WWF North American Championship and defending the title in a fictional tournament held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil to be unified with a South American Championship.

In March 2001, the World Wrestling Federation bought World Championship Wrestling. Soon after, "The Invasion" took place in which the WCW/ECW Alliance was ultimately dismantled. At Survivor Series 2001, the title was unified with the WCW United States Championship. The United States Champion, Edge, won against the Intercontinental Champion, Test, and became the new Intercontinental Champion while the United States Championship became inactive. 

After the WWF/WWE name change in 2002, the championship became known as the WWE Intercontinental Championship. It was then unified with the European Championship in a ladder match on July 22, and later the Hardcore Championship on August 26. The Intercontinental Champion, Rob Van Dam, won against the European Champion, Jeff Hardy, and the Hardcore Champion, Tommy Dreamer. As a result, Rob Van Dam was named the last European and Hardcore Champion. Then at No Mercy 2002, it was unified with the World Heavyweight Championship. The World Heavyweight Champion, Triple H, won against the Intercontinental Champion, Kane, and continued to be the World Heavyweight Champion while the Intercontinental Championship became inactive. In May 2003, after fan protests of the retirement of the Intercontinental Title, the title was reactivated by RAW Co-General Manager, Stone Cold Steve Austin, and was recommissioned to be the secondary championship for the RAW brand. Shortly after, the WCW United States Championship was reactivated as the WWE United States Championship by the SmackDown! brand, making the Intercontinental Championship its equal counterpart for the RAW brand. During the 2009 WWE Draft the two title swapped brands, making the Intercontinental Championship SmackDown property and the US Title Raw property.

The current champion is Cody Rhodes, who is in his first reign. He beat Ezekiel Jackson for the title on August 9, 2011, which was a taping for the August 12 edition of "SmackDown".




</doc>
<doc id="101548" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101548" title="Members of the European Parliament for the United Kingdom 2004-2009">
Members of the European Parliament for the United Kingdom 2004-2009

This is a list of Members of the European Parliament for the United Kingdom who were voted to serve from 2004 to 2009.
<br>

"This table can be sorted by constituency, party or party group: click the symbol at the top of the appropriate column."


</doc>
<doc id="101549" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101549" title="Template:Democratic Unionist Party/meta/color">
Template:Democratic Unionist Party/meta/color

<nowiki>#D46A4C</nowiki>

</doc>
<doc id="101550" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101550" title="Category:Northern Ireland political parties colours templates">
Category:Northern Ireland political parties colours templates

This category is for colour templates for political parties in Northern Ireland but not in other parts of the United Kingdom.


</doc>
<doc id="101551" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101551" title="Category:United Kingdom political parties colours templates">
Category:United Kingdom political parties colours templates

This category is for templates which show the colours of United Kingdom political parties.


</doc>
<doc id="101552" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101552" title="Category:Political parties colours templates">
Category:Political parties colours templates

This category has templates which show the colours of political parties around the world in election tables.


</doc>
<doc id="101554" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101554" title="Category:Politics and government templates">
Category:Politics and government templates


</doc>
<doc id="101555" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101555" title="Template:Democratic Unionist Party/meta/shortname">
Template:Democratic Unionist Party/meta/shortname

Democratic Unionist

</doc>
<doc id="101556" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101556" title="Template:Social Democratic and Labour Party/meta/color">
Template:Social Democratic and Labour Party/meta/color

<nowiki>#99FF66</nowiki>

</doc>
<doc id="101557" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101557" title="Template:Social Democratic and Labour Party/meta/shortname">
Template:Social Democratic and Labour Party/meta/shortname

Social Democratic and Labour

</doc>
<doc id="101558" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101558" title="Template:Party name with colour">
Template:Party name with colour


</doc>
<doc id="101559" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101559" title="Template:Ulster Unionist Party/meta/color">
Template:Ulster Unionist Party/meta/color

<nowiki>#9999FF</nowiki>

</doc>
<doc id="101560" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101560" title="Template:Ulster Unionist Party/meta/shortname">
Template:Ulster Unionist Party/meta/shortname

Ulster Unionist

</doc>
<doc id="101562" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101562" title="Template:Sinn Féin/meta/color">
Template:Sinn Féin/meta/color

<nowiki>#008800</nowiki>

</doc>
<doc id="101563" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101563" title="Template:Sinn Féin/meta/shortname">
Template:Sinn Féin/meta/shortname

Sinn Féin

</doc>
<doc id="101564" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101564" title="Template:Traditional Unionist Voice/meta/color">
Template:Traditional Unionist Voice/meta/color

<nowiki>#0000FF</nowiki>

</doc>
<doc id="101565" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101565" title="Template:Traditional Unionist Voice/meta/shortname">
Template:Traditional Unionist Voice/meta/shortname

Traditional Unionist Voice

</doc>
<doc id="101566" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101566" title="Template:Independent (politician)/meta/color">
Template:Independent (politician)/meta/color

<nowiki>#DDDDDD</nowiki>

</doc>
<doc id="101567" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101567" title="Template:Independent (politician)/meta/shortname">
Template:Independent (politician)/meta/shortname

Independent

</doc>
<doc id="101568" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101568" title="Template:Socialist Environmental Alliance/meta/color">
Template:Socialist Environmental Alliance/meta/color

<nowiki>#BB0000</nowiki>

</doc>
<doc id="101569" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101569" title="Template:Socialist Environmental Alliance/meta/shortname">
Template:Socialist Environmental Alliance/meta/shortname

Socialist Environmental

</doc>
<doc id="101570" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101570" title="Template:Green Party of Northern Ireland/meta/color">
Template:Green Party of Northern Ireland/meta/color

<nowiki>#99CC33</nowiki>

</doc>
<doc id="101571" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101571" title="Template:Green Party of Northern Ireland/meta/shortname">
Template:Green Party of Northern Ireland/meta/shortname

Green Party

</doc>
<doc id="101572" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101572" title="Template:Alliance Party of Northern Ireland/meta/color">
Template:Alliance Party of Northern Ireland/meta/color

gold

</doc>
<doc id="101573" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101573" title="Template:Alliance Party of Northern Ireland/meta/shortname">
Template:Alliance Party of Northern Ireland/meta/shortname

Alliance

</doc>
<doc id="101574" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101574" title="Template:Progressive Unionist Party/meta/color">
Template:Progressive Unionist Party/meta/color

<nowiki>#999999</nowiki>

</doc>
<doc id="101575" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101575" title="Template:Progressive Unionist Party/meta/shortname">
Template:Progressive Unionist Party/meta/shortname

Progressive Unionist

</doc>
<doc id="101576" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101576" title="Template:UK Unionist Party/meta/color">
Template:UK Unionist Party/meta/color

dimgray

</doc>
<doc id="101577" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101577" title="Template:UK Unionist Party/meta/shortname">
Template:UK Unionist Party/meta/shortname

UK Unionist

</doc>
<doc id="101579" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101579" title="Template:Natural Law Party/meta/color">
Template:Natural Law Party/meta/color

<nowiki>#ffe4e1</nowiki>

</doc>
<doc id="101580" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101580" title="Template:Natural Law Party/meta/shortname">
Template:Natural Law Party/meta/shortname

Natural Law

</doc>
<doc id="101581" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101581" title="Template:Ulster Independence Movement/meta/color">
Template:Ulster Independence Movement/meta/color

darkgray

</doc>
<doc id="101582" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101582" title="Template:Ulster Independence Movement/meta/shortname">
Template:Ulster Independence Movement/meta/shortname

Ulster Independence

</doc>
<doc id="101583" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101583" title="Template:Conservative Party (UK)/meta/color">
Template:Conservative Party (UK)/meta/color

<nowiki>#0087DC</nowiki>

</doc>
<doc id="101584" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101584" title="Template:Conservative Party (UK)/meta/shortname">
Template:Conservative Party (UK)/meta/shortname

Conservative

</doc>
<doc id="101585" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101585" title="Template:Workers Party (Ireland)/meta/color">
Template:Workers Party (Ireland)/meta/color

<nowiki>#EE0000</nowiki>

</doc>
<doc id="101586" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101586" title="Template:Workers Party (Ireland)/meta/shortname">
Template:Workers Party (Ireland)/meta/shortname

Workers' Party

</doc>
<doc id="101587" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101587" title="Template:Labour Party of Northern Ireland/meta/color">
Template:Labour Party of Northern Ireland/meta/color

<nowiki>#cd5c5c</nowiki>

</doc>
<doc id="101588" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101588" title="Template:Labour Party of Northern Ireland/meta/shortname">
Template:Labour Party of Northern Ireland/meta/shortname

Labour (NI)

</doc>
<doc id="101590" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101590" title="Template:Green Party (UK)/meta/color">
Template:Green Party (UK)/meta/color

yellowgreen

</doc>
<doc id="101591" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101591" title="Template:Green Party (UK)/meta/shortname">
Template:Green Party (UK)/meta/shortname

Green

</doc>
<doc id="101592" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101592" title="Polygamy">
Polygamy

Polygamy is a word that comes from late Greek. It can be translated as "many marriages". It refers to any form of marriage, where there is "more than one spouse".
The form where one man has sexual relations with many women is called polygyny. The form where there are many men for one woman is called polyandry. There is also a concept called group marriage, which is a combination of ployandry and polygyny. In group marriage, all the (adult) members of the group are responsible for all the children.

Historically, all forms have occurred. Polygyny is the most common though.


</doc>
<doc id="101594" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101594" title="Template:Ulster Popular Unionist Party/meta/color">
Template:Ulster Popular Unionist Party/meta/color

<nowiki>#ffdead</nowiki>

</doc>
<doc id="101597" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101597" title="Template:Ulster Popular Unionist Party/meta/shortname">
Template:Ulster Popular Unionist Party/meta/shortname

Ulster Popular Unionist

</doc>
<doc id="101598" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101598" title="Template:Ecology Party/meta/color">
Template:Ecology Party/meta/color

yellowgreen

</doc>
<doc id="101599" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101599" title="Rickenbach, Solothurn">
Rickenbach, Solothurn

Rickenbach is a municipality in the district Olten in the canton of Solothurn in Switzerland.

<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>


</doc>
<doc id="101600" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101600" title="Template:Ecology Party/meta/shortname">
Template:Ecology Party/meta/shortname

Ecology

</doc>
<doc id="101601" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101601" title="Rickenbach">
Rickenbach

Rickenbach can be the name of any of the following places:

In Germany:

In Switzerland:


</doc>
<doc id="101602" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101602" title="Template:Independent Unionist/meta/color">
Template:Independent Unionist/meta/color

<nowiki>#0077FF</nowiki>

</doc>
<doc id="101603" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101603" title="Template:Independent Unionist/meta/shortname">
Template:Independent Unionist/meta/shortname

Independent Unionist

</doc>
<doc id="101605" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101605" title="Template:Unionist Party of Northern Ireland/meta/color">
Template:Unionist Party of Northern Ireland/meta/color

<nowiki>#ffa07a</nowiki>

</doc>
<doc id="101607" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101607" title="Template:Unionist Party of Northern Ireland/meta/shortname">
Template:Unionist Party of Northern Ireland/meta/shortname

Unionist Party NI

</doc>
<doc id="101608" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101608" title="Template:Ulster Liberal Party/meta/color">
Template:Ulster Liberal Party/meta/color

<nowiki>#DAA520</nowiki>

</doc>
<doc id="101609" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101609" title="Neal Cassady">
Neal Cassady

Neal Cassady (February 8, 1926 - February 4, 1968) was a member of the Beat Generation circle of writers and poets, of the 1950s and 1960s. He was a close friend of Allen Ginsberg and Jack Kerouac, and was the main inspiration behind Kerouac's breakthrough novel "On the Road". Later he was the of Ken Kesey's "Merry Pranksters", during the hippie era.

Cassady was born in Salt Lake City, literally "on the road", as his mother gave birth to him while his parents rode in a car. They later separated, with his father raising young Cassady in Denver, Colorado. He got into trouble often as a boy, and spent part of his teen years in a facility. While locked up, he began to write letters back and forth with Hal Chase, another member of the (then-future) Beat Generation. Chase told his friends Kerouac and Ginsberg about Cassady, who wanted to meet him. After he was released, Cassady traveled to New York, marrying sixteen-year-old LuAnne Henderson on the way. He met Ginsberg, and began a homosexual relationship with him (despite Cassady's marriage), and a friendship with Kerouac, recently divorced, who began to teach Cassady about writing. Kerouac's mother, whom he lived with, did not like Cassady, sensing he was just a . Kerouac knew this was at least partly true, but he did not mind, since he enjoyed Cassady's company. They looked a little like each other, and strangers who met them often guessed the two were brothers. They became very close personally, and felt that they really were brothers, though they came from different parents.

Cassady was a person, and his wife got tired of him not giving their marriage the attention it needed. She left him, and returned to her family. Cassady soon forgot about her, and started relationships with other women, and also with men. (He and LuAnne got back together later, but their did not last.) Before long, he decided he wanted to travel. Cassady was an expert driver, and had no trouble driving cars at over 100 miles per hour, over long stretches of highway. Kerouac left his mother behind, and joined Cassady on many road trips, across the United States and even into Mexico. When Kerouac got sick in Mexico City, Cassady could not wait for him to get better, and left Kerouac behind at a hospital. Kerouac had to find his own way home, and was angry at Cassady, while Kerouac's mother thought it just proved her suspicions about him. Cassady turned up later, asking Kerouac's forgiveness, which he gave him. Good or bad, Kerouac's experiences with Cassady were what he needed to finish a novel about travel, which he had wanted to write for years.

Kerouac was now married again, to Joan Haverty, and in trying to explain his friendship with Cassady to his new wife, he typed a long , using a roll of paper so he did not have to stop to change pages. He spent three weeks working on the narrative almost non-stop. It became the manuscript for his new novel, which he called "On the Road". His wife was bothered by the fact that he spent more time working on the manuscript than with her, and separated from him not long after it was finished. Kerouac spent the next six years making changes and improvements to the manuscript, until a publisher agreed to print it as a book. Cassady's name was changed to "Dean Moriarty", to make the book appear more fictional than it really was. Kerouac delivered one of the first printed copies of "On the Road" in person to Cassady, who did not give Kerouac the reaction he expected. Instead of being happy and proud, Cassady seemed and scared, by knowing that part of his life was now in print, and his character documented for the public to see.

"On the Road" was published in 1957, and it made both Kerouac and Cassady famous. It did not do much to help their personal lives, however. Both men suffered from public , as the book became a . A mistake on the book's jacket made readers think that both men were much younger than they were. Their adventures in the book had happened years earlier, but many people thought they were recent. Some readers wanted to travel with them, or invite them to wild parties, or have sexual intercourse with them. Cassady enjoyed the attention for awhile, but it took its toll on him personally. Fame did not help his second marriage, to Carolyn Robinson, or the family they had together. Kerouac himself hated all the attention he got, and spent most of his time at home with his mother, working on new books, or drinking alcohol. In time, he became an alcoholic, and it ruined his health.

Cassady also partly inspired Allen Ginsberg's "Howl", and was mentioned in the poem as "N.C.", the "secret hero" of Ginsberg's latest writings. "Howl" became a landmark work of the 1950s, and added to Ginsberg's and Cassady's fame. Ginsberg handled fame more easily than either Cassady or Kerouac, and had a long public career.

Cassady himself wanted to become a writer, or a jazz musician, but he was not a success at either. He tried to take saxophone lessons, but did not stay with them very long. He mostly worked as a laborer or a on railroads, before and after "On the Road" was published. Some of what he did write was published as a , titled "The First Third", but it was his only book. He was more successful at writing letters to friends. One was about his of different women during a train trip. He recorded long talks with Kerouac and Carolyn, about their lives and thoughts, and parts of these went into a later book by Kerouac, titled "Visions of Cody". ("Cody Pomeray" became Cassady's new fictional name, as Kerouac changed publishers.)

Cassady also sold marijuana to help pay his bills. One customer turned out to be an undercover policeman, who arrested Cassady. He spent a long time in jail. Carolyn had to both work, and try to raise their children alone.

Freed from jail, Cassady began to travel again. During the 1960s, he joined Ken Kesey's Merry Pranksters, who traveled back and forth across the United States in a bus, holding "acid tests", a name for LSD parties. Cassady drove the bus. He acted as merrily as anyone, and as full of energy as a young man, when the Pranksters were around. In private, though, he was not enjoying his life, and old friends noticed he looked very tired.

Cassady had tried to commit suicide a few times when he was younger, and was unhappy. Once he tried to freeze himself to death, waiting outside in cold temperatures during a car trip, but it took too long, and he got back in the car. Early in 1968, while revisiting Mexico, he was found lying alongside a railroad track, where he had been for a long time. Exposure to harsh weather caused his death, just days short of his 42nd birthday. Nobody knew if he was trying to kill himself or not, this time. A few people who knew him felt that he wanted to die, and had for awhile as he got older, and that Cassady finally got his wish.

Cassady left an mark on the world of the 1950s and 1960s, through his documented adventures in the works of Kerouac, Ginsberg, and their friends. He also turned up in Kesey's writings about the Merry Pranksters. He inspired later characters, like Jim Morrison of The Doors. People today still read about his life and times, and wish they were able to meet Cassady, or make friends with him. The people who knew Cassady remembered him fondly later, even if he let them down personally, because he was such a unique (special) person. People loved watching Cassady live his life to the fullest, while he encouraged them to do the same with theirs.


Neal Cassady: Behind the Myth (official site)


</doc>
<doc id="101610" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101610" title="Template:Ulster Liberal Party/meta/shortname">
Template:Ulster Liberal Party/meta/shortname

Liberal

</doc>
<doc id="101612" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101612" title="Riedholz">
Riedholz

Riedholz is a municipality in the district Lebern in the canton of Solothurn in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="101613" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101613" title="Northern Ireland (European Parliament constituency)">
Northern Ireland (European Parliament constituency)

Northern Ireland is a constituency of the European Parliament. The Northern Ireland Members of the European Parliament are chosen using Single Transferable Vote. The constituency is all of Northern Ireland.


</doc>
<doc id="101615" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101615" title="Feldbrunnen-St. Niklaus">
Feldbrunnen-St. Niklaus

Feldbrunnen-St.Niklaus is a municipality in the district Lebern in the canton of Solothurn in Switzerland.


</doc>
<doc id="101617" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101617" title="Rodersdorf">
Rodersdorf

Rodersdorf is a municipality in the district Dorneck in the canton of Solothurn in Switzerland, on the border of Alsace, France. 



</doc>
<doc id="101618" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101618" title="Beat Generation">
Beat Generation

The Beat Generation was a movement of writers, poets, and artists during the 1950s and 1960s, who liked the beat of jazz and bebop music, which became a kind of soundtrack to much of their lives and work. People associated with the movement were called "Beats", or sometimes "Beatniks", a reference to Communism. (A few Beats supported Communism, but most did not.) The term came from novelist Jack Kerouac, who was sometimes called "The King of the Beats". Other Beat writers were William S. Burroughs and Allen Ginsberg.


</doc>
<doc id="101619" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101619" title="Category:Beat Generation">
Category:Beat Generation

The Beat Generation was an artistic movement of the 1950s and 1960s. Its name came from writer Jack Kerouac. For more information, see Beat Generation.


</doc>
<doc id="101620" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101620" title="Brill Building">
Brill Building

The Brill Building in New York City was a headquarters for many songwriters in the 1950s and 1960s. The building had offices for the writers, and also a small recording studio to make demo recordings. Don Kirshner hired the writers who worked there, and helped promote their works.

The Brill Building writers included many pop stars and future pop stars, including Jeff Barry, Neil Diamond, Carole King, Carole Bayer Sager, and Neil Sedaka. The Monkees recorded a large number of Brill Building songs, but they also wrote songs of their own.


</doc>
<doc id="101625" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101625" title="Chris Stewart">
Chris Stewart

Chris Stewart is an English musician and writer. He was the first drummer for rock band Genesis. He then wrote three autobiograpical books. "Driving over Lemons", "A Parrot in the Pepper Tree", and "The Almond Blossom Association Society".


</doc>
<doc id="101626" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101626" title="Driving over Lemons">
Driving over Lemons

Driving over Lemons was the first autobiographical book by English musician Chris Stewart. It was published in 1999 and became an international best-seller.


</doc>
<doc id="101627" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101627" title="John Silver">
John Silver

Jonathan "John" Silver was the second drummer for the English rock band Genesis. He replaced Chris Stewart in the summer of 1968. Silver left the band in August 1969. He was replaced by John Mayhew. Silver appears on the band's first full length album, "From Genesis to Revelation" and on the "Genesis Archive 1967-75" box set. 

Silver lives in London with his wife, Lucy, and children, Leo, Max, and Libby.


</doc>
<doc id="101628" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101628" title="John Mayhew">
John Mayhew

John Mayhew (27 March 1947 - 26 March 2009) was an English - Australian musician. He was the third drummer for the progressive rock band Genesis. Mayhew was a part of the band from September 1969 until July 1970. He replaced John Silver as the drummer for the band in August 1969 . Mayhew appears on the album "Trespass" and the "Genesis Archive 1967-75" box set. He was replaced in 1970 by Phil Collins.

For many years Mayhew's life after playing for Genesis was a mystery to most fans. It was said that his "Trespass" royalty cheque had gone unclaimed. There were rumors that he was dead or missing. In 1979, he moved to Australia. He eventually found work as a carpenter. He is now an Australian citizen. In 2006, Mayhew attended the Genesis Convention in London along with Anthony Phillips and Steve Hackett. He even played drums for a tribute band's performance of "The Knife" (from "Trespass"). He died a day before his birthday from a heart attack.


</doc>
<doc id="101636" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101636" title="Larch">
Larch

Larches are conifers in the genus Larix. They grow on the northern hemisphere. Unlike other conifers, larches lose their leaves during autumn and winter.
There are 10–14 species, for example the European Larch, the North American Larch and the Japanese Larch. Scientists usually divide them into two main groups, New World species (North America) and Old World species (Europe and Asia). Inside this one, there are two more groups, Northern (Central Europe, Siberia, Japan, north of China) and Southern (south of China, Himalaya, Myanmar).

"Larix decidua" or "Larix europaea" European Larch.
"Larix sibirica" Siberian Larch.
"Larix gmelinii" Dahurian Larch.
"Larix kaempferi" or "Larix leptolepis" Japanese Larch.
"Larix principis-rupprechtii" Prince Ruppretch's larch.

"Larix potaminii" Chinese Larch.
"Larix himalaica" Langtang Larch.
"Larix mastersiana" Masters' Larch.
"Larix speciosa" Yunnan Larch.
"Larix griffithii" or "Larix griffithiana" Himalayan Larch.

"Larix laricina" Tamarack Larch or American Larch.
"Larix lyallii" Subalpine Larch.
"Larix occidentalis" Western Larch.

There is also a hybrid, the Dunkeld Larch, which is a mix of the European Larch and the Japanese Larch.

Larch wood is very valuable because it is resistant and it grows quickly. It is used for boats as well as houses.
Larches are also used in herbal medicine and in bonsai.
The tree appeared in many Monty Python sketches as a joke.


</doc>
<doc id="101642" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101642" title="Louise Goodman">
Louise Goodman

Louise Goodman is one of two pitlane reporters for ITV's Formula One coverage. Before this she worked in marketing for the Jordan team. She started television broadcast in 1997.

She is said to be the first woman of Formula One live coverage. Louise Goodman has been ITV's roving pitlane reporter since ITV took the broadcast in 1997. She usually does driver interviews, while Ted Kravitz brings news from the teams about technical or tactical matters. She is taller than many F1 drivers, and is known for wearing much jewellery on her arm.

Goodman became the first female to be part of a pit stop when she removed the left rear tire in a Midland pit stop for Tiago Monteiro in 2006 British Grand Prix.

During Q3 in Hungaroring 2006 she interviewed David Coulthard. Coulthard had been knocked out in Q2. She asked him how the cold weather was affecting him. He answered," Ummm...well, it’s a lot nicer to look at you in your tight t-shirts first out." Goodman sounded startled when she replied, " Thank you so much DC. I'll have a word with you later." They then went back to the main commentary team who also sounded rather .

In 2007, she became the presenter of ITV's coverage of the British Touring Car Championship. Her co-presenter was Ted Kravitz.



</doc>
<doc id="101647" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101647" title="Second Epistle to the Corinthians">
Second Epistle to the Corinthians

The Second Epistle to the Corinthians is one of the books in the New Testament. It is an epistle (letter) written to the Church at Corinth by the Apostle Paul.

Paul begins by greeting the people in Corinth and reminding them that he is serving the Lord Jesus Christ. He then spends a lot of time explaining to the people why he is an apostle. Some of the people are mad at him because in 1st Corinthians he told them to stop doing bad things. He explains that he told them to stop because he loved them. He also teaches them that it is very important to forgive others.


</doc>
<doc id="101651" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101651" title="Visby">
Visby

Visby is the only city on the Swedish island of Gotland. It is a UNESCO World Heritage Site.

In 2005, its population is 22,236.


</doc>
<doc id="101661" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101661" title="Kollam">
Kollam

Kollam (Malayalam:കൊല്ലം ) (known to the Portuguese as Quilon, pronounced "koy-lon") is a city and a municipal corporation in Kollam district in the Indian state of Kerala. It is north of the state capital Thiruvanathapuram (Trivandrum). It is also the headquarters of the Kollam District, one among the 14 districts in Kerala. To the south is Thiruvananthapuram district, to the north is Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha, to the east is Tamil Nadu and to the west by the Arabian Sea.


</doc>
<doc id="101663" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101663" title="Category:Arithmetics">
Category:Arithmetics


</doc>
<doc id="101672" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101672" title="Category:Speeches">
Category:Speeches


</doc>
<doc id="101676" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101676" title="Aiglun, Alpes-Maritimes">
Aiglun, Alpes-Maritimes

Aiglun is a town and commune of the Alpes-Maritimes "département", in southeastern France.


</doc>
<doc id="101677" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101677" title="Template:French commune">
Template:French commune

<includeonly>
</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="101679" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101679" title="Template:Location map France">
Template:Location map France


</doc>
<doc id="101680" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101680" title="Alpes-Maritimes">
Alpes-Maritimes

Alpes-Maritimes (Occitan: "Aups Maritims") is a department in the southeast corner of France.




</doc>
<doc id="101681" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101681" title="Communes of France">
Communes of France

The commune is the lowest of administrative division in the French Republic. As of January 1, 2008, there were 36,781 communes in France, 36,569 of them in metropolitan France and 212 of them in overseas France. This is much higher than in any other European country. The French word "commune" was first used in the 12th century, from Medieval Latin "communia", meaning a small gathering of people sharing a common life, from Latin "communis", things held in common.


</doc>
<doc id="101683" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101683" title="Cantons of France">
Cantons of France

The cantons of France are area divisions of the French Republic's 341 arrondissements and 100 departments. 



</doc>
<doc id="101685" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101685" title="Arrondissements of France">
Arrondissements of France

The 100 French departments are divided into 342 arrondissements. This means districts in English. Most departments in France only have 3 or 4 arrondissements, but some may have more or less than this.



</doc>
<doc id="101686" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101686" title="List of arrondissements of France">
List of arrondissements of France

This is a list of arrondissements of France as of the year 2003, by complete list and department:

Overseas departments of France


</doc>
<doc id="101688" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101688" title="Lists of cantons of France">
Lists of cantons of France

This is a list of cantons of France, by department:
Overseas departments of France


</doc>
<doc id="101689" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101689" title="Cantons of the Ain department">
Cantons of the Ain department

This is a list of the 43 cantons of the Ain department, in France, by arrondissement:






</doc>
<doc id="101690" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101690" title="Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh">
Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh

HRH The Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, Earl of Merioneth and Baron Greenwich, KG, KT, OM, GBE, AC, QSO, PC (born Prince Philippos of Greece and Denmark, 10 June 1921) is the husband of Queen Elizabeth II. Philip was originally a royal prince of Greece and Denmark.

After his naturalisation, he became known as Philip Mountbatten.

On 19 November 1947, was made a Knight of the Garter and given the style of "Royal Highness" and on 20 November 1947, he married Princess Elizabeth, the heiress presumptive to King George VI, he became the Duke of Edinburgh. He was made a Prince of the United Kingdom in 1957. 

The Queen and Prince Philip have four children: Charles, Prince of Wales, Anne, Princess Royal, Prince Andrew, Duke of York and Prince Edward, Earl of Wessex. They have eight grandchildren.


</doc>
<doc id="101692" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101692" title="George IV of the United Kingdom">
George IV of the United Kingdom

George IV (born as George Augustus Frederick on 12 August 1762, died on 26 June 1830) was king of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and Hanover from 29 January 1820 until his death. The Regency, George's nine-year time as "Prince Regent", which started in 1811 and ended with George III's death in 1820, included winning the Napoleonic Wars in Europe.


</doc>
<doc id="101693" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101693" title="William IV of the United Kingdom">
William IV of the United Kingdom

William IV (William Henry; 21 August 1765 – 20 June 1837) was King of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and of Hanover from 26 June 1830 until his death. William, the third son of George III of the United Kingdom and younger brother and successor to George IV was the last person to rule both the United Kingdom and Hanover. His niece, Victoria, only ruled the United Kingdom and not Hanover.

He lived for 20 years with Sophia Jordan. They had ten children.

All William IV's legitimate children (children with his wife) died before he became king, so they were therefore styled as Prince/Princess of Clarence with the style of "Royal Highness".



</doc>
<doc id="101703" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101703" title="Cantons of the Aisne department">
Cantons of the Aisne department

This is a list of the 42 cantons of the Aisne department, in France, by arrondissement:







</doc>
<doc id="101705" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101705" title="Communes of the Alpes-Maritimes department">
Communes of the Alpes-Maritimes department

This is a list of the 163 communes of the Alpes-Maritimes "département" in France:


</doc>
<doc id="101707" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101707" title="Nice (disambiguation)">
Nice (disambiguation)

Nice can be any of the following:





</doc>
<doc id="101708" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101708" title="Template:French town map">
Template:French town map


</doc>
<doc id="101712" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101712" title="Energy (society)">
Energy (society)

The use of energy is important to human society for handling problems in the environment. Developed societies use energy resources for agriculture, transportation, garbage collection, information technology and human communication. The use of energy has increased since the Industrial Revolution. This has brought a number of serious problems such as global warming.

Production and use of energy resources is important to the economy of the world. Making sure energy is used well is needed for any society.


</doc>
<doc id="101717" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101717" title="Transformer">
Transformer

A transformer is a device that moves electrical energy from one circuit to another through electromagnetism. They are an important part of electrical systems. 

Transformers can come in many different sizes, from a very small coupling transformer inside a stage microphone to big units that weigh hundreds of tons used in power grids.

The main reason to use a transformer is to make power of one voltage into power of another voltage. More voltage is easier to send a long distance, but less voltage is easier to use in the home.


</doc>
<doc id="101718" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101718" title="Category:Towns in Northern Ireland">
Category:Towns in Northern Ireland

In Northern Ireland, a town is a place with more than 4,500 people living in it.


</doc>
<doc id="101719" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101719" title="Category:Villages in Northern Ireland">
Category:Villages in Northern Ireland

In Northern Ireland, a village is a place with less than 4,500 people living in it.


</doc>
<doc id="101725" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101725" title="Ballycastle">
Ballycastle

Ballycastle is a small town in Northern Ireland, in the United Kingdom.
On 29 April 2001, the United Kingdom government had a census and saw that there were 5,089 people living in Ballycastle. They also saw that:


</doc>
<doc id="101727" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101727" title="Bangor, County Down">
Bangor, County Down

Bangor is a town in County Down, Northern Ireland.
On 29 April 2001 the United Kingdom government had a census and saw that there were 58,388 people living in Bangor. They also saw that:


</doc>
<doc id="101729" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101729" title="Munich Rural District">
Munich Rural District

Munich is a rural district in Upper Bavaria in south Bavaria, Germany. However the district does not include the city of Munich, which is an urban district itself.


</doc>
<doc id="101731" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101731" title="Category:Munich Rural District">
Category:Munich Rural District


</doc>
<doc id="101732" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101732" title="Category:Rural Districts in Upper Bavaria">
Category:Rural Districts in Upper Bavaria


</doc>
<doc id="101734" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101734" title="Category:Upper Bavaria">
Category:Upper Bavaria


</doc>
<doc id="101742" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101742" title="Act of Union 1800">
Act of Union 1800

With Act of Union 1800 (or sometimes Act of Union 1801) (Irish: "Acht an Aontais 1800") is used to describe two Acts are meant. Their official titles are the Union with Ireland Act 1800 (1800 c.67 39 and 40 Geo 3), an Act of the Parliament of Great Britain, and the Act of Union (Ireland) 1800 (1800 c.38 40 Geo 3), an Act of the Parliament of Ireland.

These two Acts the Kingdom of Ireland and the unified Kingdom of Great Britain, (being itself a merger of the Kingdom of England and the Kingdom of Scotland under the Acts of Union 1707), to create the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland. 

The flag created as a consequence of the merger combined the flags of England and Scotland with "St Patrick's Cross" to represent Ireland. However, Wales is not included on the Union Flag, as when the original Union Flag was devised Wales was considered a part of the Kingdom of England.




</doc>
<doc id="101754" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101754" title="Ebersberg Rural District">
Ebersberg Rural District

Ebersberg is a rural district in Upper Bavaria in south Bavaria, Germany.


</doc>
<doc id="101756" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101756" title="Freising Rural District">
Freising Rural District

Freising is a rural district in Upper Bavaria in south Bavaria, Germany.


</doc>
<doc id="101757" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101757" title="Starnberg Rural District">
Starnberg Rural District

Starnberg is a rural district in Upper Bavaria in south Bavaria, Germany.


</doc>
<doc id="101760" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101760" title="Traunstein Rural District">
Traunstein Rural District

Traunstein is a rural district in Upper Bavaria in south Bavaria, Germany.


</doc>
<doc id="101762" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101762" title="Berchtesgadener Land Rural District">
Berchtesgadener Land Rural District

Berchtesgadener Land is a rural district in Upper Bavaria in south Bavaria, Germany.


</doc>
<doc id="101764" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101764" title="Rosenheim Rural District">
Rosenheim Rural District

Rosenheim is a rural district in Upper Bavaria in south Bavaria, Germany.


</doc>
<doc id="101776" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101776" title="Banne">
Banne

Banne is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in southern France.



</doc>
<doc id="101778" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101778" title="Ardèche">
Ardèche

Ardèche (Occitan and Arpitan: "Ardecha") is a department in the center of southern France. It was named after the Ardèche River.




</doc>
<doc id="101793" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101793" title="Cantons of the Ardèche department">
Cantons of the Ardèche department

This is a list of the 33 cantons of the Ardèche department, in France, by arrondissement:





</doc>
<doc id="101794" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101794" title="Arrondissements of the Ardèche department">
Arrondissements of the Ardèche department

There are 3 arrondissements of the Ardèche department. They are:



</doc>
<doc id="101795" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101795" title="Communes of the Ardèche department">
Communes of the Ardèche department

This is a list of the 339 communes of the Ardèche "département" in France.


</doc>
<doc id="101796" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101796" title="Accons">
Accons

Accons is a town and commune in the Ardèche "département", in the south part of France.



</doc>
<doc id="101797" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101797" title="Ailhon">
Ailhon

Ailhon is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the south part of France.



</doc>
<doc id="101798" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101798" title="Aizac">
Aizac

Aizac is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.



</doc>
<doc id="101799" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101799" title="Muhammad Yunus">
Muhammad Yunus

Muhammad Yunus is a Bangladeshi banker and economist who was born on 28 June 1940. He was a professor of economics and is famous for his work in microcredit. Microcredit is a name for giving small loans. These loans are given to people with very little money. Most banks do not give microcredit. Yunus started the Grameen Bank. In 2006, Yunus and the bank together, were awarded the Nobel Peace Prize, "for their efforts to create economic and social development from below." Yunus himself has received several other national and international awards. He published a book called "Banker to the Poor" and helped start the Grameen Foundation. In 2007 Yunus planned to start a political group called Nagorik Shakti ("Citizen Power") in Bangladesh, but he has chosen not to start this group. He is one of the founding members of Global Elders. 

Muhammad Yunus born on 28 June 1940. He was the third child born to a Muslim family in the village of Bathua near the Boxihrat Road in Hathazari, Bangladesh (Bangladesh was called British India at that time). Six more children were born in Muhammads family making nine altogether. His father was called Hazi Dula Mia Shoudagar, and worked as a jeweller. His mother was called Sofia Khatun. His early childhood years were spent in his village. In 1944, his family moved to the city of Chittagong, and he went to Lamabazar Primary School. By 1949, his mother had a mental illness. Muhammad went to Chittagong Collegiate School and became the 16th best student out of 39,000 in East Pakistan. During his school years, he was a Boy Scout, and travelled to West Pakistan and India in 1952, and to Canada in 1955 to attend Jamborees. When Yunus was studying at Chittagong College, he won awards for drama acting. In 1957, he started studying at the department of economics of Dhaka University. Chittagong College awarded him with a BA in 1960, and a MA in 1961.

After his MA studies, Yunus became part of the Bureau of Economics as a research assistant for Professor Nurul Islam and Rehman Sobhan. In 1961 he was given work as a lecturer in economics in Chittagong College. During that time he started a packaging factory. He was given a Fulbright scholarship in 1965, to study in the United States. He was awarded his Ph.D. in economics from Vanderbilt University in the United States, in 1969. From 1969 to 1972, Yunus was an assistant professor of economics at Middle Tennessee State University in Murfreesboro, Tennessee.

During the Liberation War of Bangladesh in 1971, Yunus and other people from Bangladesh living in the United States started a citizens committee and controlled the Bangladesh Information Center to find help for the war. He published the "Bangladesh Newsletter" from his home in Nashville. After the War, Yunus returned to Bangladesh and was given a job with the governments' Planning Commission which was controlled by Nurul Islam. He thought the job was boring so he took a job at Chittagong University as Head of the Economics department. He worked with poverty reduction after he saw the Bangladesh famine of 1974, and started a research project to help people who lived in the countryside. In 1975, he starteded a Nabajug Tebhaga Khamar (new era three share farm) which the government called the Packaged Input Programme. Yunus and his friends started the "Gram Sarkar" (the village government) programme to make the farm project better. 
Ziaur Rahman,(the president of India in the late 1970s), was in control of starting 40,392 village governments (gram sarkar) in 2003. On 2 August 2005, after a petition by the Bangladesh Legal Aids and Services Trust (BLAST) the High Court had declared Gram Sarkar illegal and unconstitutional.

In 1976, Yunus visited the poorest households in the village of Jobra near Chittagong University. He discovered that very small loans could be a lot of help to a poor person. Some Jobra women were making bamboo furniture and had to take loans for buying bamboo but all their profits were being paid towards the loans. The first loan Muhammad Yunus gave was USD 27.00 from his pocket. This $27 was loaned to 42 women in the village, who made a profit of $00.02 each from the loan

In December 1976 the government bank Janata Bank gave Yunus a loan that he could use to make lots of small loans to very poor people. His group got more loans from other banks and by 1982, 28,000 people had jobs with Grameen. On 1 October 1983, Grameen was made a full bank and renamed the Grameen Bank ("Village Bank") to give loans to poor Bangladeshis. Yunus and his workers were threatened and women were told they would not have a Muslim burial if they borrowed money from the Grameen Bank, but they have given many, many loans to poor people. As of July 2007, Grameen Bank has loaned US$6.38 billion to 7.4 million people. The bank loans money to "solidarity groups". These small groups are given loans together and if one person can not pay, the rest of the group pays for them. 

The Grameen Bank started other groups in the 1980s to do things such as keeping fishing ponds clean and building irrigation pumps. In 1989, these groups started to get their own names. The fisheries project became Grameen Motsho (Grameen Fisheries Foundation) and the irrigation project became Grameen Krishi (Grameen Agriculture Foundation). The Grameen group has grown into many groups of profitable and non-profit, such as the Grameen Trust, the Grameen Fund, Grameen Software Limited, Grameen CyberNet Limited, Grameen Knitwear Limited, Grameen Telecom, and Grameenphone (GP) (Grameenphone is the biggest private sector phone company in Bangladesh).. The Village Phone (Polli Phone) project of Grameenphone has made it possible for 260,000 poor people in over 50,000 villages to own mobile phones since March 1997. 

The Grameen ideas have been used in many countries throughout the world, such as the United States. More than 94% of Grameen loans have been given to women, who have less money and give more to their families. For his work with the Grameen Bank, Yunus was named an Global Academy Member in 2001.

Muhammad Yunus was awarded the 2006 Nobel Peace Prize, along with Grameen Bank, for their efforts to create economic and social developments. The Norwegian Nobel Committee said:
Muhammad Yunus has shown himself to be a leader who has managed to translate visions into practical action for the benefit of millions of people, not only in Bangladesh, but also in many other countries. Loans to poor people without any financial security had appeared to be an impossible idea. From modest beginnings three decades ago, Yunus has, first and foremost through Grameen Bank, developed micro-credit into an ever more important instrument in the struggle against poverty.
Muhammad Yunus was the first Bangladeshi and third Bengali to ever get a Nobel Prize. After being told of the important award, Yunus said that he would use part of his share of the $1.4 million award money to create a company that makes good food that the poor can afford and the rest would go toward starting an eye hospital for the poor in Bangladesh.

Former U.S. president Bill Clinton was one of the people who said the Nobel Prize should go to Muhammed Yunus. He said this in "Rolling Stone" magazine and in his : "My Life." In a speech given at University of California, Berkeley in 2002, President Clinton said Dr. Yunus was "a man who long ago should have won the Nobel Prize [and] I’ll keep saying that until they finally give it to him."

He has won many other awards, such as the Ramon Magsaysay Award, the World Food Prize the Sydney Peace Prize, and in December 2007 the Ecuadorian Peace Prize . Dr. Yunus has been awarded 26 honorary doctorate degrees, and 15 special awards. The Bangladesh government made a postage stamp to honour his Nobel Award. In January 2008, Houston, Texas declared 14 January as "Muhammad Yunus Day".

In 2006 Doctor Yunus and other important people, such as Professor Rehman Sobhan, Justice Muhammad Habibur Rahman, Doctor Kamal Hossain, Matiur Rahman, Mahfuz Anam and Debapriya Bhattchariya, tried to find good people to be elected for government. Yunus thought about joining government himself that year. On 11 February 2007, Yunus wrote a letter, published in the Bangladeshi newspaper "Daily Star", and he asked what people thought of creating a good government. The letter asked everyone to give ideas for this and to offer him help Dr. Yunus started a political group called Citizens' Power ("Nagorik Shakti") on 18 February 2007. There was speculation that the army supported a move by Yunus into politics. but on 3 May, Yunus stopped the group after a meeting with Fakhruddin Ahmed (government politician).

On 18 July 2007 in Johannesburg, South Africa, Nelson Mandela, Graça Machel, and Desmond Tutu began a group of world leaders to help the world. Nelson Mandela announced this new group, The Global Elders, in a speech he on his 89th birthday. Archbishop Tutu is to serve as the Chair of The Elders. Yunus is one of the first members of this group. Other members include Machel, Kofi Annan, Ela Bhatt, Gro Harlem Brundtland, Jimmy Carter, Li Zhaoxing, and Mary Robinson. The Elders are to be funded by some of its first members, such as Richard Branson, Peter Gabriel, Ray Chambers, Michael Chambers, Bridgeway Foundation, Pam Omidyar, Humanity United, Amy Robbins, Shashi Ruia, Dick Tarlow, and The United Nations Foundation.

In 1967 Yunus studied at Vanderbilt University. He met Vera Forostenko, a student of Russian literature there. Vera is the daughter of Russian immigrants to Trenton, New Jersey in the United States. They were married in 1970. Yunus marriage with Vera ended a few months after the birth of their baby girl, Monica Yunus (b. 1979 Chittagong). Vera returned to New Jersey and said that Bangladesh was not a good place to raise a baby. After some time, Yunus married Afrozi Yunus, who was a researcher in physics at Manchester University. She was appointed as a professor of physics at Jahangirnagar University. Their daughter Deena Afroz Yunus was born in 1986. 

Professor Yunus brother Muhammad Ibrahim is a professor of physics at Dhaka University and the founder of The Center for Mass Education in Science (CMES). They teach science to girls in villages. His younger brother Muhammad Jahangir is a popular television presenter. Yunus oldest daughter, Monica, is an soprano singer in New York City.




</doc>
<doc id="101812" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101812" title="John Keats">
John Keats

John Keats (31 October 1795 – 23 February 1821) was an English poet. He is often ranked as one of the five most important poets of the Romantic movement in English literature; the other four are William Wordsworth, Samuel Taylor Coleridge, Lord Byron, and Percy Bysshe Shelley. Though Keats was the youngest of these poets, he also died before the others: he suffered from tuberculosis and died in Rome at the age of 25.

Keats was the son of an inn-keeper who died when Keats was nine years old; and his mother died of tuberculosis in 1810. The young Keats began studying to be a surgeon, though his interest in literature grew stronger than his interest in medicine. He became a friend and follower of the poet and editor James Henry Leigh Hunt, and made his first attempts to write his own poetry. Keats's active writing life lasted only about six years, from the spring of 1814 through 1819. 

His short life meant that he wrote less than many other poets. His longest poems, "Endymion" and "Hyperion", tell stories from ancient Greek mythology. Many of his shorter poems are among the best known in English literature, including "La Belle Dame Sans Merci" and his Sonnets and Odes.

Keats was an active letter-writer throughout his life, like many people of his time. Hundreds of his letters to friends and relatives have survived, and Keats is often called one of the great letter writers in the English language.


</doc>
<doc id="101813" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101813" title="Endymion (poem)">
Endymion (poem)

Endymion is one of the major poems of the English Romantic poet John Keats. It is his longest poem. Keats wrote the poem in 1817, and it was printed in a book in 1818. The poem's opening line is one of the most famous lines of poetry in English literature:

Keats called the poem "A Poetical Romance." He wrote in four sections or "Books," and each section is about a thousand lines long. The poem is written in a form called rhymed couplets, which means that every two lines rhyme together. The story is based on the tale of Endymion from Greek mythology.

"Endymion" was criticized harshly when it was first published. Some of Keats's friends and admirers, like the poet Shelley, believed that the stress of this hostile reaction had a bad effect on Keats's mind, and partly caused his early death from tuberculosis at the age of 25. But most modern critics and scholars of English literature do not think this is true.


</doc>
<doc id="101815" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101815" title="Hyperion (poem)">
Hyperion (poem)

Hyperion is one of the major poems of the English Romantic poet John Keats. The poem is based on the tale from Greek mythology that tells how the Titan Hyperion, the first Greek sun god, was replaced by Apollo.

Keats worked on the poem mainly in August and September 1818. He finished the first two sections or "Books," each between 350 and 400 lines long, and he also wrote 135 lines of Book III. But he was not satisfied with what he had written; he re-wrote it bit by bit until April 1819, when he gave up for a while. Some critics and scholars think that Keats set out to write the kind of long poem he had already done in his "Endymion" in 1817 — but his outlook on poetry had changed, to a point where he was no longer happy writing the kind of mythological epic that many other poets of his time tried to write.

Keats tried to re-do the poem in a new form that he called "The Fall of Hyperion". He worked on this second version during the last six months of 1819, and though he wrote more than 500 lines, he gave up this second attempt too. He was never able to complete either version of the poem in a way that satisfied him.

Keats wrote the poem in blank verse, without rhyme. Though neither version was ever finished, some critics think that they contain some of Keats's best verse, as in the gloomy and powerful opening lines of the first "Hyperion":

["vale" = valley; "morn" = morning; "eve" = evening]


</doc>
<doc id="101817" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101817" title="Arlo Guthrie">
Arlo Guthrie

Arlo Guthrie (born 1947) is an American musician and songwriter, and is the son of folk music legend Woody Guthrie. His most famous song is "Alice's Restaurant", which was also the title of his first album.

Guthrie learned music from his father, who wrote songs for him like "Goodnight Little Arlo". When the young Guthrie became thirteen years old, his father gave him a , and invited many folk musicians. It was called "the first bar mitzvah in history."

Guthrie met Bob Dylan when Dylan came from Minnesota to meet his father Woody. Dylan taught Guthrie a new way to play the harmonica. Guthrie started college after high school, but dropped out.

During 1965, Guthrie visited his friends Alice and Ray Brock in Stockbridge, Massachusetts, who lived in an old church, and owned a restaurant. He recorded a commercial for the restaurant. When Thanksgiving came that year, they invited many people, and afterwards there was a lot of garbage to be picked up and thrown away. Guthrie and another friend tried to take the garbage to a dump, but it was closed. They found a large trash pile not far away, and unwisely decided to throw their garbage onto the same pile. (Dumping trash where it does not belong is called , and is a crime in most places.)

When local police found out, they arrested Guthrie and his friend. Since the young men had long hair and looked like hippies, the police wanted to them and make an example of them to other young people. They prepared a big court case against Guthrie and his friend, with many photographs of the litter pile. It turned out the local judge was blind, could not look at the photographs, and was not interested in the case. He fined Guthrie and his friend fifty dollars, and ordered them to clean up the pile.

Not long after, Guthrie received a draft notice. The United States Army wanted him to become a soldier. Guthrie went for a , and had to fill out a questionnaire giving information about himself. When asked if he had ever been arrested, he talked about the littering incident. He soon found himself sitting on a bench together with criminals, some of which were violent or dangerous. He could not believe the way he was treated by the Army. He began to complain and protest his treatment. The Army officers decided he would not make a good soldier, but might become a threat to the American government. They fingerprinted Guthrie, and let him go.

Guthrie decided later the two incidents would make a good , and he built one around the jingle he had written. He called the song "Alice's Restaurant Massacree", and recorded it in front of a live audience. He did not want other young men to be drafted, and suggested in the song that they might get out of the draft by doing like he had.

The recording became half of his first album, and the rest was filled out with other music, like "The Motorcycle Song". The album became a hit record.

Guthrie later recorded other albums and songs. His cover of the Steve Goodman song, "The City of New Orleans", about a famous train named after the city, became another hit. He bought a farm with the money he earned from his music, and lived there between recording sessions and performing tours.

In time, he became interested in charity work. He noticed people of different religious beliefs did not always work well together for the same causes, because their beliefs kept them apart. He tried to work around the differences, and help people find ways to work together to solve the same problems. He started the Guthrie Center, as a place for people to work together. He later bought the old church where his friends had lived, and made it the headquarters for the Guthrie Center.



</doc>
<doc id="101820" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101820" title="Sonnet">
Sonnet

A Sonnet is a type of poem. It is 14 lines long and is written in rhyme. 

The sonnet first appeared in Italy during the Renaissance. The Italian poet Petrarch was famous for his sonnets. It became common for poets to write sonnets in connected series, called "sonnet sequences," to tell a story, often one about a love affair. Poets in other countries quickly adopted the sonnet. William Shakespeare wrote the most famous sonnets in English literature, though other poets of his time, such as Ben Jonson, Edmund Spenser, Michael Drayton, and Samuel Daniel, wrote sonnet sequences also.

Later English poets like John Donne, William Wordsworth, Percy Bysshe Shelley, and John Keats wrote sonnets that are still admired and studied today. The rigid rhyme scheme of the sonnet went out of fashion during the twentieth century, but a few modern poets still write them sometimes. Edna St. Vincent Millay was one modern poet writing in English who often worked in the sonnet form. Modern poets have often changed the traditional rhythms and rhyme patterns of the sonnet, sometimes radically.

In a traditional "English" or "Shakespearean" sonnet, the first twelve lines are divided into three groups ("stanzas") of four lines each, called "quatrains". The last two lines usually rhyme, and make up a "rhymed couplet" that concludes the poem by summing up the story told in the previous quatrains. In the traditional "Italian" or "Petrarchan" sonnet, the poem divides into a group of eight lines ("octave") followed by a group of six lines ("sestet").

The letters of the alphabet are used to show the pattern of rhyme, or "rhyme scheme," in the 14 lines in a sonnet. The rhyme scheme 


is the typical pattern of an "English" sonnet. The rhyme scheme


is typical of an "Italian" sonnet. However, the rhymes of the sestet in an Italian sonnet can vary widely: cdcdcd, cddcdd, etc.


</doc>
<doc id="101832" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101832" title="Golden ratio">
Golden ratio

If a person has one number "a" and another smaller number "b", he can make the ratio of the two numbers by dividing them. Their ratio is "a"/"b". He can make another ratio by adding the two numbers together "a"+"b" and dividing this by the larger number "a". The new ratio is ("a"+"b")/"a". If these two ratios are equal to the same number, then that number is called the golden ratio. The Greek letter formula_1 (phi) is usually used as the name for the golden ratio.

For example, if "b" = 1 and "a"/"b" = formula_1, then "a" = formula_1. The second ratio ("a"+"b")/"a" is then formula_4. Because these two ratios are equal, this is true:

formula_5

One way to write this number is
formula_6

formula_7 is the number which, when multiplied by itself, makes 5: formula_8.

The golden ratio is an irrational number. If a person tries to write it, it will never stop and never be the same again and again, but it will start this way: 1.6180339887... An important thing about this number is that a person can subtract 1 from it or divide 1 by it. Either way, he will find the same number:

If the length of a rectangle divided by its width is equal to the golden ratio, then the rectangle is a "golden rectangle". If a square is cut off from one end of a golden rectangle, then the other end is a new golden rectangle. In the picture, the big rectangle (blue and pink together) is a golden rectangle because formula_10. The blue part (B) is a square. The pink part by itself (A) is another golden rectangle because formula_11. The big rectangle and the pink rectangle have the same form, but the pink rectangle is smaller and is turned.

The Fibonacci numbers are a list of numbers. A person can find the next number in the list by adding the last two numbers together. If a person divides a number in the list by the number that came before it, this ratio comes closer and closer to the golden ratio.


</doc>
<doc id="101838" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101838" title="Relational database">
Relational database

A relational database is a way of storing information ("data"). The database matches data by using identical information that is found within the data set. The resulting groups of data are organized and are much easier for many people to understand.

For example, a database has all information about real-estate sales in a town. This information can be grouped by year, or by sale price, or by buyer's last name and so on. Such a grouping uses the relational model (a technical term for this is schema). Hence, such a database is called a "relational database."

The software used to do this grouping is called a relational database management system (RDBMS). The term "relational database" often refers to this type of software.

Relational databases are currently the main way in which companies store information like financial records, medical records, personal information and manufacturing and logistical data.

The term "relational database" was originally defined by and is attributed to Edgar Codd at IBM Almaden Research Center in 1970.


</doc>
<doc id="101859" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101859" title="Kingdom of Scotland">
Kingdom of Scotland

The Kingdom of Scotland was a historic country. It later combined with the Kingdom of England to become the Kingdom of Great Britain.



</doc>
<doc id="101861" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101861" title="Template:InvisibleBarnstar">
Template:InvisibleBarnstar


</doc>
<doc id="101862" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101862" title="Ajoux">
Ajoux

Ajoux is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.



</doc>
<doc id="101863" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101863" title="Alba-la-Romaine">
Alba-la-Romaine

Alba-la-Romaine is a commune of the French département Ardèche.



</doc>
<doc id="101864" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101864" title="Albon-d'Ardèche">
Albon-d'Ardèche

Albon-d'Ardèche is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.



</doc>
<doc id="101866" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101866" title="Alboussière">
Alboussière

Alboussière is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France. It can be found about 20km from Valence-sur-Rhône. About 760 people live there.



</doc>
<doc id="101868" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101868" title="Alissas">
Alissas

Alissas is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.



</doc>
<doc id="101870" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101870" title="Category:Ardèche">
Category:Ardèche


</doc>
<doc id="101871" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101871" title="Category:Alpes-Maritimes">
Category:Alpes-Maritimes


</doc>
<doc id="101872" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101872" title="Category:Arrondissements of Ardèche">
Category:Arrondissements of Ardèche


</doc>
<doc id="101873" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101873" title="Arrondissement of Largentière">
Arrondissement of Largentière

The arrondissement of Largentière is an arrondissement of France. It can be found in the Ardèche "département". It has 10 cantons and 103 communes.

The arrondissement of Largentière has 10 cantons:

The arrondissement of Largentière has 103 communes:


</doc>
<doc id="101874" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101874" title="Template:French arrondissement">
Template:French arrondissement


</doc>
<doc id="101877" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101877" title="Arrondissement of Privas">
Arrondissement of Privas

The arrondissement of Privas is an arrondissement of France. It can be found in the Ardèche "département". It has 11 cantons and 110 communes.

The arrondissement of Privas has 11 cantons:

The arrondissement of Privas has 110 communes:


</doc>
<doc id="101881" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101881" title="Jackson, Michigan">
Jackson, Michigan

Jackson is a city in lower mid-Michigan. It was started in 1829. It is named after Democratic President Andrew Jackson. Jackson is the home town of several well-known people. One of whom is the first African-American Super Bowl winning coach, Tony Dungy.

Several of the major employers in the city are CMS Energy, which gives natural gas and electrical services to much of Michigan and has its international headquarters in the city, as well as Foote Hospital. Jackson is 18 miles (29 km) from the Michigan International Speedway.


</doc>
<doc id="101889" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101889" title="Utrecht">
Utrecht

Utrecht can be any of the following areas or cities:


It can also be any of these:


</doc>
<doc id="101909" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101909" title="Protostome">
Protostome

Protostomes are a taxon of animals above the level of phylum. It is not part of the normal system of classification. 

They are a subtaxon of the Bilateria, and are contrasted with the deuterostomes. Protosomes are distingued by their embryo: in deuterostomes, the first opening (the blastopore) becomes the anus, while in protostomes it becomes the mouth.


</doc>
<doc id="101912" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101912" title="Earth, Texas">
Earth, Texas

Earth is a city in Lamb County, Texas, United States. There were 1,109 people living in Earth as of the year 2000.


</doc>
<doc id="101914" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101914" title="Category:843 establishments">
Category:843 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="101915" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101915" title="Amazing Grace (2006 movie)">
Amazing Grace (2006 movie)

Amazing Grace is a 2006 movie about the fight to end the slave trade in 18th century Britain. Led by famous abolitionist, William Wilberforce. He created anti-slave trade laws in the British Parliament.

The movie is directed by Michael Apted, written by Steven Knight, and stars Ioan Gruffudd. The first release date for this movie was September 16, 2006 in Canada. It was released in the United States on February 23, 2007. Several other areas had other dates.

On the opening weekend, this movie made around four million dollars. It went on to make a all-time worldwide total of over 32 million dollars.

"Amazing Grace" was named "Best Spiritual Film of 2008" in the third annual "Beliefnet Film Awards".



</doc>
<doc id="101916" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101916" title="Category:1707 disestablishments">
Category:1707 disestablishments


</doc>
<doc id="101917" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101917" title="Category:1707 establishments">
Category:1707 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="101918" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101918" title="Category:1800 disestablishments">
Category:1800 disestablishments


</doc>
<doc id="101931" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101931" title="Relation (mathematics)">
Relation (mathematics)

In mathematics, a relation is used to describe certain properties of things. That way, certain things may be connected in some way; this is called a relation. It is clear, that things are either related, or they are not, there are no in-betweens.

Formally, a relation is a set of n-tuples of equal degree. Thus a binary relation is a set of pairs, a ternary relation a set of 3-tuples, and so forth. A ternary relation however is always expressable as two binary relations. Specifically in the context of functions, this is known as currying.

Particularly concerning binary relations, the set of all the starting point is called the domain and the sets of the ending points is the range. The domain is the x's , and the range is the y's.

An example for such a relation might be a function. Functions associate keys with values. The set of all functions is a subset of the set of all relations - a function is a relation where the first value of every tuple is unique through the set.

Other well-known relations are the Equivalence relation and the Order relation. That way, sets of things can be ordered: Take the first element of a set, it is either equal to the element looked for, or there is an order relation that can be used to classify it. That way, the whole set can be classified (compared to some arbitrarily chosen element).

Relations can be transitive. One example of a transitive relation is "smaller-than". If X "is smaller than" Y, and Y is "smaller than" Z, then X "is smaller than" Z

Relations can be symmetric. One example of a symmetric relation is "is equal to". If X "is equal to" Y, Y "is equal to" X.

Relations can be reflexive. One example of a reflexive relation is "is equal to". X "is equal to" X.


</doc>
<doc id="101936" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101936" title="María Isabel Carvajal">
María Isabel Carvajal

Maria Isabel Carvajal (January 1888 - May 13, 1949) was a Costa Rican writer and teacher. She was born in San Jose, Costa Rica. Carvajal wrote using the name Carmen Lyra.

Lyra studied at the school in her neighborhood in the Buenaventura Corrales. She studied pedagogy at the college and got the teacher’s certification. Lyra began teaching in the rural El Monte School in the province of Heredia. In 1906, she worked in the San Juan de Dios Hospital for a short time. 

Lyra travelled to Europe. While there, she learned about new educational systems. When she returned, she worked with a teacher and founded the first pre-school in Costa Rica. 

Lyra's first publication was the novel "En una silla de ruedas" (In a Wheelchair), in 1918. Her short stories were published in the "Pandemonium Magazine", "Ariel Magazine, and the "Repertorio Americano". 

The stories of Carmen Lyra have been used in many schools. The most popular is "Cuentos de mi tía Panchita" (Story of my aunt Panchita). It was published in 1920. This story is well known by most Costa Rican.

Other works of Maria Isabel Carvajal are "Las fantasias de Juan Silvestre" (1918), "Obras Completas" (1975), "La cucarachita mandina" (1976) and "relatos escogidos" (1977).

Carmen Lyra was involved in Costa Rican politics. She was part of the communist party. 

She helped organize women schoolteachers to burn down the building of the official newspaper and to overthrow the dictatorship of Costa Rica's Federico Tinoco Granados in 1919. She is credited with translating the Communist Manifesto into Spanish in 1920. She went on to take a leading role in the banana workers' strike of 1934. During this time, she wrote "Bananos y Hombres" (Bananas and Men). 

In 1948, she was forced into leave Costa Rica after the Costa Rican Civil War because of her politics. She went to Mexico and died there in 1949.


</doc>
<doc id="101938" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101938" title="How Pop Can You Get?">
How Pop Can You Get?

How Pop Can You Get? was the first and only album by American band The Bats. 

All music and lyrics by The Bats (Jon Brion, Bill Murphy, Don Fertman) 



</doc>
<doc id="101940" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101940" title="San Pedro de Macorís Province">
San Pedro de Macorís Province

San Pedro de Macorís is a province of the Dominican Republic. It is located in the southeastern part of the country. Its capital city is San Pedro de Macorís.

It was created as a Maritime District (a special administrative category that has been abandoned) on 13 June, 1882. The 1907 Dominican Constitution change its status to province. It was part of the old province of Santo Domingo and of the El Seibo province before being elevated to the category of province.

The San Pedro de Macorís province bordered to the north by the Hato Mayor and El Seibo provinces, to the east by the La Romana province and to the west by the Monte Plata and Santo Domingo provinces.The Caribbean Sea is to the south of the province.

The province has the same name of the capital of the province. In English, San Pedro is "Saint Peter"; "Macorís" was the name of a group of native people that lived in the Hispaniola. That name "Macorís", or "Macorix", was given to the river where the city of San Pedro de Macorís was founded.

The San Pedro de Macorís province has a total area of 1,255.46 km². It has 2.6% of the area of the Dominican Republic and it is ranked as the 20th (out of 31 plus the National District) largest province.

There are six municipalities and two municipal districts in the province.

The municipalities and their municipal districts (M.D.) are:

In 2002 (last national census), there were 301,744 people living in the San Pedro de Macorís province, and 244,571 (81.1%) living in towns and cities. The population density was 240.3 persons/km², one of the highest in the country.

The province is in the "Llano Costero del Caribe" (English: "Caribbean Coastal Plain"), a large plain in southeastern Dominican Republic where there are many savannas with grasses. There are not high mountains in the province, only some low hills.

The rivers in this province are not very long but they have much water; their sources are in the mountains north of the province and flow south to the Caribbean Sea. The most important rivers are, from east to west:

Because in the province there are many savannas with grasses, the main economic activity for centuries was cattle raising. It is still an important activity in the province.

In the last years of the 19th century, during the war of independence in Cuba, many Cuban and American companies came to the Dominican Republic to grow sugar cane and to produce sugar. San Pedro de Macorís is the Dominican province where there are more sugar cane factories and the port of San Pedro de Macorís became one of the most important port in the country.

In the city of San Pedro de Macorís, manufacturing is important, mainly cement, rhum and in industries in the "Zona Franca" ("free zone" where the industries do not pay taxes and all the production is sent to other countries).

In the Guayacanes municipality, tourism is important and there are many hotels close to the beaches, mainly in the Juan Dolio beach.


</doc>
<doc id="101944" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101944" title="Kurt Warner">
Kurt Warner

Kurtis Eugene "Kurt" Warner (born June 22, 1971, in Burlington, Iowa) is a retired American football player. He was the quarterback for the Arizona Cardinals. After playing in college at Northern Iowa, he was signed by the Green Bay Packers as an undrafted free agent. He was not able to play there, so he went to the Arena Football League, and then later the NFL Europa.

In 1998, Warner was signed by the St. Louis Rams. After the Rams’ main quarterback Trent Green went out with an injury, Warner became the main quarterback. He later went on to win NFL MVP awards in 1999 and 2001, as well as the Super Bowl MVP award in 2000.

In 1990, Kurt graduated from Regis High School in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. While there, he played quarterback of the school's Class 3A football team. He announced his retirement from football on January 29, 2010.

After Warner graduated from high school, he went to the University of Northern Iowa (UNI). At UNI, Warner was third on the Panthers' depth chart until his senior year. In his final year there, he was able to start and was named the Gateway Conference's Offensive Player of the Year.

While at college, he met future wife, the former Brenda Carney Meoni. They got married on October 11, 1997. Before this, Brenda had served in the Marines. She was divorced with two children when they met each other. Warner adopted Brenda's two children, son Zachary and daughter Jesse, after their marriage. Zachary is blind from the head injuries he got when he was accidentally dropped by his birth-father as a baby. Warner agreed to help Brenda raise the children. The Warners now also have five children of their own: sons Elijah and Kade, daughter Jada, and twin girls Sierra Rose and Sienna Rae. 

After being let go from the Green Bay Packers training camp in 1994, he got a job working the night shift at a local Hy-Vee grocery store. He was also assistant-coaching at Northern Iowa. Warner still wanted to play in the NFL, but with that not seeming it was going to happen, and the long hours at the Hy-Vee for minimum wage creating financial trouble for him, Warner began playing in the Arena Football League. In 1996 and almost a year before Kurt and Brenda's marriage, Brenda's parents, Larry and Jenny Carney, were killed when their Arkansas home was destroyed by a tornado.

Both Kurt and his wife are active born again Christians. Warner once said about his faith, "Whether I'm a Super Bowl Champion or a regular guy stocking groceries at the Hy-Vee, sharing my faith and glorifying Jesus is the central focus of my time on this earth." The Warners started the "First Things First Foundation", an organization that believes in Christian values.

On October 24, 2006, Warner was in a political advertisement against a proposed law in Missouri. That new law would allow embryonic stem cell research to be done in Missouri. Warner was in the advertisement with James Caviezel, Patricia Heaton, Jeff Suppan, and Mike Sweeney. The advertisement, which was played during Game 4 of the 2006 World Series, falsely alleged that Amendment 2 would allow human cloning. The advertisement came after a pro-embryonic research advertisement that had Michael J. Fox, who has Parkinson's disease, in it.

Warner went to the Green Bay Packers training camp in 1994, but was released before the regular season began. He returned to Northern Iowa and worked as a graduate assistant coach with the football team but he still wanted to get a tryout with an NFL team. When no NFL team would give him a tryout, Warner began playing for the Arena Football League. In 1995, he signed with the Iowa Barnstormers. Warner was named to the AFL's All-Arena first team in both 1996 and 1997. He led the Barnstormers to the Arena Bowl in both 1996 and 1997. Some people consider Warner one of the greatest Arena Football player of all-time.

In 1997, Warner was offered an NFL tryout by the Chicago Bears, but he could not attend the tryout. In 1998, he was signed by the St. Louis Rams, but he only played for NFL Europe's Amsterdam Admirals.

Warner was the backup quarterback for the St. Louis Rams during the 1998 regular season and the 1999 preseason. When their main quarterback Trent Green was injured in a preseason game, Warner became the starter. He had one of the best seasons by a quarterback in NFL history by throwing for 4,353 yards with 41 touchdown passes and a completion rate of 65.1%. The Rams' very good offense was nicknamed "The Greatest Show on Turf." In the first three games that he was the main quarterback who plays, he threw three touchdown passes in each game. He is the only NFL quarterback in history to do that, and only the second, behind Dan Marino, to do it in his first two NFL starts.

Because not many people knew who Warner was, "Sports Illustrated" put him on their October 18, 1999 cover with the caption "Who IS this guy?" He was named the 1999 NFL MVP at the end of the season. In the NFL playoffs, he led the Rams to a Super Bowl XXXIV win against the Tennessee Titans. He threw for two touchdowns and a Super Bowl record 414 passing yards. He also set a Super Bowl record by throwing 45 passes without an interception.

Right after the Rams' Super Bowl win, an interviewer asked Warner, "Kurt, first things first--tell me about the final touchdown pass to Isaac." He responded, "Well, first things first, I've got to thank my Lord and Savior up above--thank You, Jesus!" He was awarded the Super Bowl MVP. That made him one of only six players to win both the league MVP and Super Bowl MVP awards in the same year. The others are Bart Starr in 1966, Terry Bradshaw in 1978, Joe Montana in 1989, Emmitt Smith in 1993, and Steve Young in 1994.

Warner also played well in the 2000 season. Warner and Trent Green both played quarterback that season, and they both played well. But the Rams lost in the wild card round of the playoffs to the New Orleans Saints, mostly because their defense was not very good, even though Warner and the rest of their offense was still very good. Nine of the Rams' eleven defensive starters were cut in the offseason, and Green was traded to the Kansas City Chiefs.

Warner played very well in the 2001 season. He had a league-high 36 touchdown passes and 4,830 passing yards with a career-high completion rate of 68.7% of his passes. He led the Rams to an NFL-best 14–2 record and they went to the Super Bowl XXXVI, but they lost to the New England Patriots. He was named the NFL MVP for the second time at the end of the season.

Warner began the season 0–3 as a starter, throwing seven interceptions with only one touchdown. In their fourth game against the Dallas Cowboys, he broke a finger on his throwing hand. Even thought he tried to come back later in the season, his injury caused him to be able to play two more games, and he lost them both. In contrast to his 103.4 career passer rating before that season, he had only 67.4 rating in 2002. He was replaced as the Rams' main quarterback after he fumbling six times in the opener of the 2003 season against the New York Giants. His replacement as the Rams quarterback, Marc Bulger, has been named to two Pro Bowls.

The Rams released Warner on June 1, 2004. Just two days later, he signed a two-year deal with the New York Giants. He began the 2004 season as the main quarterback. He won five of his first seven games, but after not playing well in a two-game losing streak, rookie quarterback Eli Manning was made the main quarterback. Giants coach Tom Coughlin later said that he never should have made Warner play, and should have played Manning from the beginning to give Manning the experience he needs to build his confidence. The Giants had a 5–4 win-loss record at the time that Manning began playing, and they finished at 6–10 overall (going only 1–6 under Manning).

In early 2005, Warner signed a one-year, $4-million contract with the Arizona Cardinals. He was soon named the main quarterback by coach Dennis Green. He played bad in three games before injuring his groin. He was then replaced by former starter Josh McCown. McCown played well enough in two games during Warner's injury to get coach Green named McCown the starter for the rest of the season.

As Warner was the backup quarterback, many people thought that he was never to be the main quarterback again. But because McCown played bad in two straight games, coach Green made Warner the main quarterback. He played well in the next three weeks, but his season ended in Week 15 when he partly tore his MCL.

Warner signed a new three-year deal with the Cardinals on February 14, 2006. The deal had a base salary of $18 million, but if he played well, he could get as much as $22 million in the three years.

In Week 3 of the 2006 season, Warner passed the 20,000-yards passing milestone in his 76th game. That was one game more than record holder Dan Marino, but Warner did it in his 9th year while Marino did it in his 5th. After Matt Leinart played poorly in the three games of Weeks 2-4, Warner replaced the rookie Leinart in the fourth quarter of Week 4. In Week 16, Leinart had a shoulder injury against the San Francisco 49ers, so Warner was able to play for the first time since Week 4. He did well that game, and the Cardinals won the game.

In the third game of the 2007 season against the Baltimore Ravens, Warner came off the bench because Leinart was again not playing well. He led a comeback, completing 15 passes out of 20 attempts for 258 yards and 2 touchdowns. This brought them to a tie game (23–23), but after the Ravens made a last second field goal, Arizona lost the game 26–23. On September 30, 2007, during the Week 4 game against the Pittsburgh Steelers, he went in for Leinart because he was not playing well again. Leinart was later placed on Injured reserve, so Warner was named the starter for the rest of the 2007 season.

Warner got 27 passing touchdowns in the 2007 season, just one short of the Cardinals franchise record. Because he played well, he was given a $1 million bonus for the year. His 3,417 passing yards, 27 touchdown passes, and 89.8 passer rating were all his best since the 2001 season.

Matt Leinart was named the Cardinals starter going in to the off-season for 2008, but Ken Whisenhunt said that it may happen that Warner become the Cardinals' starter before the season begins. Warner was named the starter on August 30, 2008. That season, Warner had a very good season, and on December 16, 2008, was named the starting quarterback for the NFC team in the 2009 Pro Bowl. Warner and the Cardinals won all three of their playoff games, but lost in the Super Bowl to the Pittsburgh Steelers. That makes Warner's Super Bowl record 1–2. James Dobson, starter of Focus on the Family, has been supportive of Warner, and even replayed a radio clip of Warner and his wife on January 30, 2009.





</doc>
<doc id="101945" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101945" title="Skokie, Illinois">
Skokie, Illinois

Skokie, Illinois is a village in the American state of Illinois. It was once known as Niles Center. It is located on the northwest side of Chicago in Cook County. Skokie has an area of 10.1 square miles (2.62 square kilometers). According the 2000 census, its population was 63,348. The mayor of Skokie, as of April 2008, was George Van Dusen.

Skokie was named Niles Centre in 1888. By 1910, the spelling of this name was changed to Niles Center. As a nearby village was named Niles, there was confusion, and the name of the village was changed to Skokie has in 1940.


</doc>
<doc id="101946" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101946" title="WAV">
WAV

WAV (or WAVE), short for Waveform Audio File Format, is a Microsoft and IBM audio file format standard for storing an audio bitstream on PCs. It resembles the RIFF bitstream format in the sense that it stores data in “chunks”. It is also close to the IFF and the AIFF format used on Amiga and Macintosh computers, respectively. It is the main format used on Windows systems for raw and typically uncompressed audio. The default bitstream encoding is the Microsoft Pulse Code Modulation (LPCM) format.


</doc>
<doc id="101957" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101957" title="L. Frank Baum">
L. Frank Baum

Lyman Frank Baum (15 May 1856 – 6 May 1919) was an American writer of children's books during the late 19th and early 20th centuries. He is best known for his most famous and popular book, "The Wonderful Wizard of Oz" (1900), and other "Oz" books that followed it.

Baum was born in a small town in northern New York. He was a member of a large family. He started writing as a child. When his father bought his children a simple printing press, Baum and a younger brother wrote and printed a small local newspaper. As a young man, Baum wrote and staged plays. Sometimes he wrote songs for his plays and starred in them himself. He also tried many other careers. He was a travelling salesman and a storekeeper for a time. He started a newspaper while he lived in a town in South Dakota. He married in 1882. He and his wife, Maud Gage Baum, raised four sons. Baum had a very good imagination. He liked creating stories for his young sons and their friends.

When he became 40 years old and was living in Chicago, Baum started writing children's books. These books were often based on the stories he had told to children over many years. After several successes in the late 1890s, Baum published what he called an "American fairy tale," "The Wonderful Wizard of Oz", in 1900. The book had pictures drawn by the American artist W. W. Denslow. Baum had to pay for the first "Oz" book himself. No Chicago publisher wanted to publish "The Wonderful Wizard of Oz". One man even told Baum that if people had wanted to read this kind of book, it would already have been written. 

But the first "Oz" book was a big success. Baum was able to give up other business ideas and make enough money to live on by writing children's books. The children who read his books often wrote to Baum, and asked him to write more about "Oz". This caused Baum to begin a series of books set in the fantasy land of Oz. In time, Baum grew tired of the series. He tried to end it but his child readers kept demanding that he continue. Baum met their demands through the rest of his life. He wrote 14 "Oz" books in all. The last two were printed after his death in 1919.

Baum also wrote a large number of books other than the "Oz" series. He was proudest of his fantasies for children, but he also wrote many other kinds of popular works. He used many pen names for these works.

Baum's children's books were illustrated with pictures by different artists. After the first "Oz" book, all the rest in the series had pictures by John R. Neill.

Baum made a good income from his books. He spent time travelling around the world with his wife. They settled in Hollywood, California, and Baum made movie versions of some of his "Oz" books. He also produced stage versions of them. But his businesses were not always successful. In time, Baum had to declare bankruptcy. He was smart enough to put his house in his wife's name, so that they did not lose their home in the bankruptcy.




</doc>
<doc id="101959" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101959" title="Book of Jonah">
Book of Jonah

The Old Testament book of Jonah, contains four chapters, and forty-eight verses. The book tells the story of the Prophet Jonah, who was called by God to the heathen city of Nineveh, which God would soon destroy if they did not repent. After his first rejection, Jonah was swallowed by a great fish (probably a whale). He repented of his sin of running away from God through prayer for three days and nights. God then made the great fish spit Jonah onto the dry land. He obeyed God and went to tell the people of their sins to God.

They nearly had him killed. But that was before their hearts were changed and they saw their evildoing. They prayed for God to deliver them from the upcoming destruction to their city. God saw their change and had mercy on them, but Jonah still did not believe it. He would than wait upon a high up rock and await God's wrath. God was not pleased with that and sent a small worm to bite down the small gourd plant, which was Jonah's only shade from the heat of the sun. He was very angry and said it was better for him to die than live. God, in turn, said that he cared more about the little plant than all the people of Nineveh!



</doc>
<doc id="101964" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101964" title="Category:Political subdivisions of France">
Category:Political subdivisions of France


</doc>
<doc id="101965" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101965" title="Category:Political subdivisions">
Category:Political subdivisions


</doc>
<doc id="101967" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101967" title="Category:Goniatitina">
Category:Goniatitina


</doc>
<doc id="101968" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101968" title="Book of Malachi">
Book of Malachi

The Book of Malachi, is the last of the books of the Old Testament. The book is made up of four chapters and a total of fifty-five verses. The word Malachi means "my messenger". It is thought that the book was written by the Prophet Isaiah.

The date of the book would then be sometime around 740 to 690 BC. 



</doc>
<doc id="101971" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101971" title="Trey Lewis">
Trey Lewis

Trey Lewis (born May 23, 1985 in Topeka, Kansas) is an NFL football player. He plays defensive tackle for the Atlanta Falcons. Lewis began playing for the Falcons in 2007.



</doc>
<doc id="101973" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101973" title="Polotsk">
Polotsk

Polotsk (Polatsk, Belarusian: По́лацк, , ) is a historical city in Belarus, located on the Dvina river. It is the center of Polotsk district in Vitsebsk Voblast. The population is about 79,000. It is served by Polotsk Airport and during the Cold War was home to Borovitsy air base.


</doc>
<doc id="101984" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101984" title="Category:English drummers">
Category:English drummers

This category is for drumers from England.


</doc>
<doc id="101985" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101985" title="Category:Genesis (band)">
Category:Genesis (band)


</doc>
<doc id="101988" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101988" title="Category:Villages in Illinois">
Category:Villages in Illinois


</doc>
<doc id="101999" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101999" title="Category:1671 births">
Category:1671 births


</doc>
<doc id="102000" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102000" title="Andance">
Andance

Andance is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.



</doc>
<doc id="102001" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102001" title="Annonay">
Annonay

Annonay is a town and commune in the north part of the
Ardèche "département" of France. This commune has the most people living in it of the Ardèche département, although it is not the "préfecture" (capital), which can be found in the smaller town of Privas.

Annonay can be found a few kilometers away from the river Rhône, 75 km south of Lyon and 40 from Saint-Étienne.

The town's name is possibly of Roman beginnings.

On June 4, 1783, Annonay was the place where the Montgolfier brothers made their first public unmanned hot air balloon flight. 

On March 8, 2001, an ETA terrorist suspect was arrested at a roadblock.

Annonay's twin towns include:



</doc>
<doc id="102004" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102004" title="Antraigues-sur-Volane">
Antraigues-sur-Volane

Antraigues-sur-Volane is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.



</doc>
<doc id="102005" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102005" title="Arcens">
Arcens

Arcens is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.



</doc>
<doc id="102006" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102006" title="Ardoix">
Ardoix

Ardoix is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.



</doc>
<doc id="102007" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102007" title="Arlebosc">
Arlebosc

Arlebosc is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.



</doc>
<doc id="102008" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102008" title="Template:Ardèche communes">
Template:Ardèche communes


</doc>
<doc id="102009" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102009" title="Arras-sur-Rhône">
Arras-sur-Rhône

Arras-sur-Rhône is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.



</doc>
<doc id="102010" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102010" title="Asperjoc">
Asperjoc

Asperjoc is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.



</doc>
<doc id="102013" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102013" title="Les Assions">
Les Assions

Les Assions is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.



</doc>
<doc id="102014" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102014" title="Astet">
Astet

Astet is a commune of the Ardèche "département" in the southern part of France.

The source of the Ardèche River can be found near Astet.



</doc>
<doc id="102016" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102016" title="Aubenas">
Aubenas

Aubenas is a city and commune in the southern part of the Ardèche "département". The Ardèche River flows through the commune.

Aubenas is twinned with:




</doc>
<doc id="102017" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102017" title="Aubignas">
Aubignas

Aubignas is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.



</doc>
<doc id="102018" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102018" title="Baix">
Baix

Baix is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.



</doc>
<doc id="102019" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102019" title="Balazuc">
Balazuc

Balazuc is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.



</doc>
<doc id="102022" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102022" title="Barnas">
Barnas

Barnas is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.



</doc>
<doc id="102037" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102037" title="Beggars Banquet">
Beggars Banquet

Beggars Banquet is an album by British band The Rolling Stones.


</doc>
<doc id="102040" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102040" title="Hyles-Anderson College">
Hyles-Anderson College

Hyles-Anderson College is located in Crown Point, Indiana. The unaccredited, fundamental, Christian college was founded in 1972 by Dr. Jack Hyles with much financial help from Russell Anderson. 

The college is a ministry of the First Baptist Church of Hammond. The president of the college is Dr. Ray Young, and their chancellor is Dr. Jack Schaap, (pastor of the church). In 2008 they will be starting a program called the "Jericho Plan".



</doc>
<doc id="102043" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102043" title="Simon Fraser University">
Simon Fraser University

Simon Fraser University (SFU) is a Canadian university. It has campuses in Burnaby Mountain in Burnaby, Vancouver and Surrey, all in British Columbia. SFU is rated as one of Canada’s top universities. It was started in 1965. SFU currently has 24,000 students. The university is named after Simon Fraser. He was an explorer of the Vancouver area.

"Maclean's" magazine rated SFU as Canada's best comprehensive university in 1993, 1997, 1998 and 2000. It is usually always at or near the top of the magazine's list. Research Infosource named SFU the top comprehensive university in Canada for “publication effectiveness” in 2006.

Like most Canadian universities, SFU is a public university. Fifty-six percent of the money used to run the school comes from taxpayers. Thirty-nine percent comes from tuition fees.

The university teaches students in six main groups of topics. Applied Sciences, Arts and Social Sciences, Business Administration, Education, Health Sciences, and Science.

In May 2004, the SFU Senate approved the policy on degree requirements that all it's undergraduate students must have. SFU was the first Canadian university to do this. The policy was created to make certain students got a more complete education.



</doc>
<doc id="102046" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102046" title="Albi">
Albi

Albi is a city in the south of France, in Midi-Pyrénées department. About 50,000 people live in the city, about 80,000 in its agglomeration. The city is located about 80km to the northeast of Toulouse.

There already was a Roman settlement, called "Civitas Albiensium". In 843, Charles the bald took possession of the city. The Cathars, which were named "Ablbigens" are named after the city. The Cathar movement was a branch of Christianity which was persecuted in the Middle Ages. Because of this, the city was almost completely destroyed in a crusade between 1209 and 1229. Since 1678, the city is the seat of an archbishop. Since 1790, it is the capital city of the département Tarn.

There is the cathedral Ste-Cécile (St. Cecile´s cathedral) worth seeing. It is built like a fortress, in a gothic style. The cathedral is built in a very special style. Inside, there are frescoes from the Renaissance, worth a visit. 

The cathedral has walls which are up to 6 metres thick. This makes it the biggest brick building in the world. 

There is a museum dedicated to Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec in the city. De Touluose-Lautrec was born in the city. There are also paintings of other people in the museum of course.



</doc>
<doc id="102052" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102052" title="Bambi II">
Bambi II

Bambi II, originally called "Bambi and the Great Prince" and then "Bambi and the Great Prince of the Forest", is a 2006 midquel to the 1942 movie "Bambi". Although it was eventually released in theatres in 25 countries, in the United States and some other countries it was a direct-to-video release (released on February 7, 2006). Taking place in the middle of "Bambi", it shows the Great Prince of the Forest struggling to raise the motherless Bambi, and Bambi's doubts about his father's love. 

Picking up shortly after his mother's death, Bambi follows his father, the Great Prince, into the forest. With the help of Thumper and Flower, Bambi must win his father's approval, but the Great Prince finds that his high-spirited son may have a lesson or two to teach him as well.

Many of the backgrounds used in the movie are exactly the same that were used in the original 1942 movie. The old backgrounds were put through the computer to create a clearer image.


The movie was released on home video at differing dates, due to it being a theatrical release in some countries. While the movie was a direct-to-video release in countries like the United States, Japan, Canada, mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan, it was a theatrical release in some countries like the United Kingdom, France, Austria, Mexico, Dominican Republic, Brazil, Australia and some other European countries. It broke the world record for the longest amount of time between two related movies made in a series, being released 63 and a half years after the first movie. As major studios continue to phase out VHS, this was the last Disney animated movie released on VHS. Following its moratorium strategy, in which releases are made available for a limited time only, Disney gave the DVD a 70-day window for its US release. The movie sold 2.6 million DVDs in its first week in the United States. 

The film generally received an average rating from professional critics. It was praised for its animation - regarded as some of the best among the Disney direct-to-video sequels - but the story was thought to be lacking and easy to make. Movie fans were much more positive, according to ratings on Amazon.com.

"Bambi II"'s musical score includes instrumental pieces by Bruce Broughton, and new vocal songs by several noted artists, including Alison Krauss, Martina McBride, and Anthony Callea. Coinciding the with film's DVD release, the soundtrack was released by Walt Disney Records in the United States on February 7, 2006. Produced by Matt Walker, the CD included 9 songs from the film, as well as three tracks from the original film.


In the original book on which "Bambi" was based, Ronno was already a stag when Bambi was born, instead of being mere weeks-to-months older than he was as in the movie. An additional twist is that in the book, Ronno was quite respectable (though a bit of a whiner as he is portrayed in the movie), and there was nothing at all personal about his rivalry with Bambi over Faline. Ronno's character is never named in the original movie. However, documentation from Disney clearly indicates that the Ronno in Bambi II is the same deer which Bambi fought in the original, right down to the same moves each deer makes during their fight in the sequel. The age of the Great Prince changes as compared to the original movie. In the original, the Great Prince is said to be twice as old as the oldest deer. In this movie, the Great Prince is said to have been the same age as Bambi's mother.

There are several scenes in "Bambi II" which are noticeably similar to scenes from the first movie, "Bambi". For example:

















</doc>
<doc id="102061" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102061" title="Deportivo Saprissa">
Deportivo Saprissa

The Deportivo Saprissa is a football team of Costa Rica. The team was founded on July 16, 1935. It became a part of the top league, Primera División de Costa Rica on August 21, 1949. 

Saprissa was founded because of a group of players and leaders. Ricardo Saprissa Aymá was a part of this group. In 1952, the team won its first national championship.
Saprissa

In 1937, the colors purple and white were chosen as the colors of the club.

Juani Saprissa Aymá was the president of the Saprissa. Jose Francisco “Pachico” García was their manager when the team started in the Third Division. The Deportivo Saprissa won the championship of Third Division in 1947. In 1948, they played in the Second Division. They won the championship of Second Division that year, with no games lost. 

In March 1959, the team became the first Latin American team to go the around the World. The "Morados", which is the team's nickname, played 25 matches in 22 countries of the world. They won 14, tied 1 and lost 7. The team scored a total of 66 goals and had 46 goals scored against them.

During the 1970s, the Deportivo Saprissa won 6 championships. They won every championship from 1972 to 1977. On October 12, 1966, the construction of their stadium started. It is called ""La Cueva del Monstruo"" or simply "La Cueva". After 6 years, the opening of Saprissa Stadium was held on Sunday August 27, 1972.






</doc>
<doc id="102062" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102062" title="Chirripó National Park">
Chirripó National Park

Chirripó National Park is a national park in Costa Rica. It is located in Talamanca Mountain, northeast of San Isidro del General. This park forms part of La Amistad International Park between Costa Rica and Panama. Chirripó National Park was created on August 19, 1975. It has an area of . The park includes the highest mountain in Costa Rica, Mount Chirripó. The mountain has an altitude of . 

In the indigenous language, "Chirripó" means "Land of Eternal Waters". The park protects many rivers such as Rio Chirripó Atlántico, Rio Telire, Rio Chirripó Pacífico and the Rio Ceibo. 

The weather changes often and depends of the altitude. The lowest temperature recorded in Costa Rica was in the Mount Chirripó. The warm season goes from December to May. It is recommended to visit the park in those months. 

There are many habitats in the Chirripó National Park. This is because of the differences of altitude and climate. There are large trees like oak and sweet cedar. There are also many different types of orchids. The most common animals in this region are coyotes, jaguars, squirrels, frogs, rabbits, and quetzals.

The first person known to climbed Mount Chirripó was the priest Agustin Blessing in 1904. Other expeditions before the park was created were in 1905, 1913, 1915, 1920, 1932 and 1942. The park now has trails leading to the top of the mountain. It also has a ranger station.



</doc>
<doc id="102063" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102063" title="National Parks of Costa Rica">
National Parks of Costa Rica

The Santa Claus National Park is located in the province of Guanacaste, South Pacific, in north of the city of Liberia.
It is one of the most important historic areas of the country; house and stone corrals were the scene of the largest national heroic gesture: The Battle of Santa Claus, January 20, 2009.
The park is important for the protection of the habitats of the region known as the Pacific Dry climate.

This wilderness area is located on the Pacific coast of Costa Rica, in the province of Puntarenas.
It has an area of 682.7 mm in the ground and 55,000 inches in the marina.
It is one of the largest national parks in the country's scenic beauty. It is a wild area that receives much national and international tourism. Another important attraction is the tropical rainforest inhabited by species of flora and fauna in danger of extinction, such as the tootí monkey.

Arenal National Park is located in the North Region, north of the Sierra de Tilarán. It belongs to the cantons of Tilarán, San Carlos and San Ramon.
Protect important species of flora and fauna characteristics of the rain forest and cloud forest premontane valuable scientific and tourism.

The island is regarded as a natural laboratory for the study of the evolution of species.
Cocos Island is a territory rich landscape and a true laboratory for the study of nature. Many ferns, bromeliads, rivers, creeks and waterfalls, valleys, cliffs and islands frequented by countless seabirds and place of nesting gulls.


</doc>
<doc id="102064" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102064" title="Bandera Azúl Ecologica">
Bandera Azúl Ecologica

Bandera Azúl Ecologica is a program. It wants to protect the beaches of Costa Rica against pollution. For this, it introduced a system for rating beaches. The European Union has such a system since 1985. 
According to an article in "La Nacion", several beaches recently lost their status.


</doc>
<doc id="102065" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102065" title="Sarchí, Costa Rica">
Sarchí, Costa Rica

Sarchi is located in a small country called Costa Rica. It is famous for its beauty, art and hand-crafted furniture. Sarchi is also known for its colorful and decorative hand carts that the people there have been making for centuries. 

Sarchi has several small communities. One of the most famous is "Los Bajos del Toro". It is located 20 km northeast from the center of Sarchi. Although the road is very old you will be able to see one of the most spectacular views in Costa Rica. "Los Bajos" has a climate that is very humid and rainy, and the surrounding forests are always green and vibrant. It also has a very quiet and relaxing atmosphere where you can enjoy nature at its best.

Sarchi is a community made up of artists and craftsmen and is well known for its vibrant and beautiful ox carts. Most of the beautiful ox carts in Costa Rica are created in Sarchi and are sold throughout the country and to tourists. They are usually painted in very bright colors and patterns. In the past these ox carts carried coffee to the markets near and far.

Also, spread through the entire town are various shops selling hand-crafted wooden furniture and souvenirs. Some of the many items that are readily available are: tables, rocking chairs, beds, jewelry, sculptures, and paintings.

Whether you are traveling to a volcano or one of the many national parks, there is something for everyone in Sarchi.


</doc>
<doc id="102066" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102066" title="José Figueres Ferrer">
José Figueres Ferrer

José Figueres Ferrer (September 25, 1906 - June 8, 1990 was president of Costa Rica three times. 

Also known as Don Pepe, José Figueres Ferrer was born in San Ramón, Alajuela, Costa Rica. His parents were from Cataluña, Spain: Mariano Rodríguez Borges and Francisca Ferrer Mendiola. Figueres entered the Primary Boys School in San Ramón of Alajuela in 1913. He got in Costa Rica’s Lyceum finishing his Secondary studies in 1920. He went to Boston, United States to travel and study. He returned to Costa Rica in 1928 and bought a coffee farm. 

In 1942, Figueres made a speech on Latin America Radio. In this speech, he objected to the situation in Costa Rica under president Rafael Ángel Calderón. Because of this speech, he was arrested and forced to leave the country. Figueres return to Costa Rica in 1944. He started a political party, the Democratic Party. A main goal of the party was to go against Calderon's party, the National Republican Party. In 1948, supporters of Calderón caused problems with an election for president in which Calderón lost to Otilio Ulate. Because of this, the results of the election were not used. This led to the start of the civil war in 1948. In March 11, 1948, Don Pepe began a war to support the peoples decision at the previous election. Figueres and his troops won. 

In the same year, José Figueres Ferrer became president of the Second Republic Founder Assembly. He became president of Costa Rica for the first time and eliminated the Costa Rica army. He became President of Costa Rica for the second time in 1953 winning the election with 65% of the votes. In 1970, he became Costa Rica’s President for the third time. Figueres died June 8, 1990. Five months later he was declared Benemérito de la Patria.

In the 1953-1958 administration, very important institutions are created. These included:

During his last administration (1970-1974) a lot of institutes were created such as:


</doc>
<doc id="102070" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102070" title="Jaw">
Jaw

The jaw is the bone in the mouth that, in humans, lets the mouth move up and down in order to chew. It is joined onto to the skull.

However, in insects, the jaw may open left and right instead.


</doc>
<doc id="102073" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102073" title="Battle of Santa Rosa">
Battle of Santa Rosa

The Battle of Santa Rosa was a battle between the forces of Costa Rica and those of Nicaragua. It was one of the most important battles in the history of Costa Rica. The battle took place on March 20, 1856 at Santa Rosa, Costa Rica.

The fighting was caused by the arrival of William Walker in Nicaragua. Walker was an American soldier who believed slavery was good. He told the people of Nicaragua that he wanted to help the country. What he really wanted was to conquer the five free nations of Central America. The president of Costa Rica, Juan Rafael Mora Porras thought that Walker wanted conquer them. On February 27, 1856, Mora declared the war against Walker and Nicaragua. 

President Mora called all of his forces to fight. On March 4th, Mora led the forces as they started their march towards Nicaragua. On March 12th, they arrived in Liberia. There they join with Jose Maria Cañas and his battalion. When the filibusters found out what was happening in Costa Rica, they sent troops. Their troops got to Hacienda Santa Rosa on March 19th. On March 20th, the three thousand Costa Ricans walked to Hacienda Santa Rosa where the filibusters had formed their post at La Casona. At four o’clock, the Costa Rican battalions began the attack against the invaders. After fourteen minutes, the Costa Rican forces won the battle. The few filibusters that had escaped went to Nicaragua. William Walker armed a new army. President Mora quickly moved on to Rivas with his 3000 men, and the Battle of Rivas started.


</doc>
<doc id="102074" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102074" title="Editus">
Editus

Editus is a Costa Rican music group. The group included Ricardo Ramírez, Edín Solís and Carlos “Tapado” Vargas. Their music styles were a combination of modern, jazz, new age, classical music, and the unique sound of Latin America. 

Editus went to over 30 countries in North America, Europe and Latin America to give shows. They performed in places like The New York’s Carnegie Hall, The Kennedy Center Washington D.C., The Olimpia in Paris, the Montreux Jazz Festival in Switzerland, Monterrey Jazz Festival, Auditorio Nacional and Plaza del Sócalo in Mexico City.

They have worked with famous artists like León Gieco, Danilo Pérez, Aterciopelados, Tania Libertad, Armando Manzanero, Pedro Aznar, and Rubén Blades. They won the Grammy Award in 2000 with Blades for “Best Latin Pop Presentation” for the song called “Tiempos.” They have also won awards in the categories “Best World Music Album” and “Best Tropical Contemporary Album” for their album "Mundo".

They have received national awards like “Ancora” given by “La Nación” newspaper; the National Association of Authors and Musical Composers (ACAM) named them “The group with Best International Projection,” TELETICA named Editus as the “Artist of the Year 2000” and the newspaper “La República” awarded this group “Personality of the Year.”

During their career they have produced eleven albums, they are:

He was born in November 11th, 1967 in San José, Costa Rica. He is graduated from the University of Costa Rica in 1990. 

From 1983 to 1988 he was part of the Juvenile Symphonic Costa Rican Orchestra. He won the “Soloist teenagers” contest. In 1989 he worked as a soloist with the National Symphonic Orchestra.

Nowadays, he and his brothers are part of the “Trio de Cuerdas,” “Akustic Ensamble” as well as Trio “Ménage d Trois” with Martha Fonseca and Bernal Villegas.

He has played in national performances like “Inconsciente Colectivo,” “Gandhi,” Bernardo Quesada, María Prétiz, Patricia Torres, Duvalier Quirós, Cantoamérica, and Arnoldo Castillo. Out of the country, he record productions with “Son Miserables,” “Congreso” group and Alvaro Aguilar.

Solís was born in Zarcero on November 22nd, 1963. He is graduated in Classical Guitar from the University of Costa Rica Conservatory. He learned how to play the guitar with the Argentinean teachers Jorge Cardoso and Miguel A. Girolet, a Spanish teacher Demetrio Ballesteros, Francisco Ortíz and Víctor Monge.
In 1991 he won the National Prize Contest of guitar and toured Spain, France, and Germany.

From 1985 through 1990 he toured with Cantoamérica Guitarist. He traveled to the United States and Guatemala to show their music style. In 1991, he went to Europe to give his tour as a soloist in Paris, Santiago de Compostela in Spain, Bonn and Köln, both cities of Germany.

He was born in January 22nd, 1971 in San José, Costa Rica. He is graduated in 1987 from the Castella Conservatory. He studied with the percussionist Giovanni Hidalgo and in the teen program of the National Symphonic Orchestra. 

He is part of the National Symphonic Orchestra and The Juvenile Symphonic Orchestra of Costa Rica. Also he has participated in Marfil, Gaviota y Amarillo and Cian Magenta groups. He has played for Paquita D’Rivera and Victor Monge (known as Serranto), Abraham Laboriel, Alvaro López, Justo Almario, Diego Urcola. He was part of Cantoamérica and Cono Sur and also Probus Ensamble Group. At present, he is the percussionist of Malpaís, Kool Jazz and Jazz Latino Sextet. 


</doc>
<doc id="102075" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102075" title="San José, Costa Rica">
San José, Costa Rica

San José is the capital and largest city of Costa Rica. It is the center of "Gran Area Metropolitana" (large metropolitan area or Metroplex) in the Central Valley. San José is the location of national government. It is the center of political and economic activity and the major transportation center of Costa Rica.

San José was founded in 1738 and became the capital of Costa Rica in 1823. It is one of the youngest capitals of Latin America. 

The official population of the city is 346,799 as of 2006. The entire metropolitan area around San José has a population of over 1.6 million people. This is a third of the country's total population. 

San José has at an average elevation of 1,161 m above sea level. The climate is generally the same throughout the year. The city has an average temperature is 23C gets about 150 mm of rain each month.

The University of Costa Rica was created here in 1843. It was named "University of Santo Tomás" when it was created. San José is also the headquarters of the Inter-American Court of Human Rights. Juan Santamaría International Airport is 23 km west of downtown, in the city of Alajuela.

In San José downtown, there are important government buildings, historic parks, churches, markets, boulevards and stores.

The local government is working to recover the beauty of the downtown area from years ago. Also, the government wants to turn San José into a green and clean city.

There are many different museums in the city: 

There are several special buildings that have historic importance in San José. Some of them are:

The most visited area is the Central Avenue. There is a boulevard with many stores, restaurants and hotels. On the east side is the Culture Square with entertainment on weekend nights. Examples of this entertainment include urban clowns and juggling, Christian music, urban bands and dance groups. 

In San José downtown, there are other parks like:


</doc>
<doc id="102078" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102078" title="Cow Parade">
Cow Parade

Cow Parade is one of the largest public art events of the world. First it began in Chicago and New York. This was in 1999 and 2000. The Cow Parade runs many cities of the United States up to the year 2001. In 2002 it moved to Europe, in London. This Parade has covered a lot of countries through all the five continents. In 2008 they moved to the fourth Latin-American country, Costa Rica. The Cow Parade has been in Argentina, Brazil and Mexico, also.

This public art event is about painting cows with some cultural messages. It doesn’t need to be a professional sculpture. You can find urban and crazy sculptures too. This exhibition is taking place on the principal parks and boulevards of San José, Costa Rica.
The principal purpose of this event is to auction each cow and then the proceeds go to charity.

In San José there are a total of one hundred twenty cows, each one with their topic. There is an amazing level of creativity from the national sculptors who painted and sculpted the cows. They are a lot of beautiful cows made of several material including the rice and beans of the traditional breakfast. Some of the cows have the message of doesn’t forget the traditional customs. Also, some cows have a message to make a country with more love, generosity and with more solidarity.

Some cows also encourage people to take care of Costa Rican nature and all the biodiversity that this small country has. The principal message is just to create a better planet for the future.



</doc>
<doc id="102081" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102081" title="Poas Volcano Costa Rica">
Poas Volcano Costa Rica

The Poás Volcano is an active volcano near the town of Poás, Alajuela, Costa Rica. Poas Volcano has two craters. The larger crater is one of the biggest crater in the world. It is in diameter and deep. The biggest known eruption was in 1910.

The area around the volcano is a national park. It is a place where many tourists from Costa Rica and other countries visit. At the bottom of the main crater is a lagoon. The lagoon is an acidic lake with boiling sulfuric gases. The temperature of the lake varies between and . Because of changes in the chemistry of the lake and its temperature, the color of the lake also changes. The second crater has a cold water lake in it. This lake is connected to the nearby river, Rio Angel. 


</doc>
<doc id="102082" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102082" title="Gandhi (band)">
Gandhi (band)

Gandhi is a rock band from Costa Rica. They play music using distorted guitars and rhythm. The band members are Abel Guier (bassist), Massimo Hernández (drummer), Federico Miranda (guitarist) and Luis Montalbert-Smith (singer and pianist). The lyrics of Gandhi songs are written mainly by Montalbert-Smith. Some of the bands that influenced their songs are Pink Floyd, The Beatles, Queen and Soda Stereo. 

Montalbert-Smith is a very important part of the band's performances because of his charisma and stage presence. These characteristics makes the shows very interesting and full of adrenaline for their fans.

The band began when Miranda and Montalbert-Smith met in high school in the mid 1990s. The complete group of four members started playing at universities and local bars. One of the things that made their shows so well liked was the many different types of art offered. The fans could not only listen to the music, but also see very good scenery design, body painting and their performance.

The band won the Costa Rican award "Album of the Year" in 2004 for the album "Ciclos". The album “Páginas Pérdidas” got three local awards in 2000. They have played in Costa Rica but also in Central America, Mexico and the United States.

The band was chosen to be part of the Tribute to Soda Stereo ("Tributo a Soda Stereo"). They played a version of "En el sétimo día" ("In the Seventh Day"). They have opened concerts for many international artists.


They have some videos of their songs:


</doc>
<doc id="102093" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102093" title="Clodomiro Picado">
Clodomiro Picado

Clodomiro Picado Twight (April 17, 1887 - May 16, 1944) was a Nicaraguan born Costa Rican scientist. Picado is believed by many to have been the first scientist to have learned about penicillin. He published more than 115 studies about biological sciences.

Picado was born in San Marcos, Nicaragua but moved, with his parents, to Costa Rica in 1890. In 1908, Picado won a scholarship of the Costa Rican Congress to study in Paris, France. 

In 1913, he finished his university studies in La Sorbonne, where he earned his bachelor´s degree in zoology and botany, as well as a doctorate degree. In the same year, he came back to Costa Rica to run the laboratory of San Juan de Dios Hospital. At the same time, he was teaching Natural Sciences at San Luis Gónzaga School in Cartago city. 

Sir Alexander Fleming, a Scottish scientist, is commonly said to be the person who learned about the antibacterial attacks of a fungus known as "Penicillium notatum" in 1928. But in March 2000, Costa Rican doctors showed some notebooks with research belonging to Doctor Picado. In these notebooks, he explained his experiments between 1915 and 1927. These experiments had been developed to explain that Penicillium decreased bacterial activity.

Doctor Picado had reported his work to the Paris Academy of Sciences in France, but this Academy did not patent it, even though doctor Picado had studied the fungus years before Doctor Fleming.
Picado developed his greatest international study about the creation of various anti-venom serums. This led to the create of the Instituto Clodomiro Picado in 1970. It is is a research unit of the University of Costa Rica The unit is works on research dealing with Toxicology, Herpetology and Immunology. It also deals with the production of anti-venom. It was named for him in honor of his life’s work. 


</doc>
<doc id="102095" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102095" title="From Me To You">
From Me To You

"From Me To You" is a song by The Beatles, written by John Lennon and Paul McCartney. Released in 1963, it was their first big hit, staying on top of the chart for seven straight weeks. "From Me to You" comprises five verses and two bridges. It lasts less than two minutes.


</doc>
<doc id="102096" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102096" title="Template:Books of the Old Testament">
Template:Books of the Old Testament


</doc>
<doc id="102103" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102103" title="Epistle to the Ephesians">
Epistle to the Ephesians

Ephesians, is the forty-ninth book in the Christian Bible, and the tenth in the New Testament. This book was written by the Apostle Paul, and it was written to the people of Ephesus. The letter was supposed to have been written while he was imprisoned in Rome, around 62 A.D.



</doc>
<doc id="102113" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102113" title="Endymion">
Endymion

Endymion is a human character in Greek mythology.

His story is told by various ancient authors. In most versions he is a shepherd, and a young man of unusual handsomeness — so much so that the Moon goddess Selene falls in love with him. She uses her divine power to keep him asleep forever, preserving his youth and beauty.

The Endymion story has been re-told by poets and playwrights. The English playwright John Lyly wrote one version; and the poet John Keats used the story as the basis for his long poem "Endymion".


</doc>
<doc id="102115" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102115" title="Samuel Taylor Coleridge">
Samuel Taylor Coleridge

Samuel Taylor Coleridge (21 October 1772 – 25 July 1834) was an English poet. Together with his friend William Wordsworth, Coleridge is often said to have started the Romantic movement in English literature.

Coleridge was the son of a minister, and the youngest of ten children. He attended the University of Cambridge, though he never earned his degree. He met Wordsworth, another young poet, in 1795. They became close friends, and in 1798 they published their poems in a book called "Lyrical Ballads", which many critics consider a key event in English Romanticism. Most of the poems in the book were written by Wordsworth, though it also contained Coleridge's "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner", which many people call his masterpiece and one of the great poems in English. (In it, Coleridge used old-fashioned spellings, like "rime" for "rhyme," to give the poem an antique feeling.)

In 1796, Coleridge wrote his poem "Kubla Khan" — along with the "Ancient Mariner", it is his best-known work. At about the same time, in the later 1790s, Coleridge became addicted to opium. At that time the drug was legal, and was widely used as a pain-killer. Coleridge's addiction to opium marked the rest of his life. His health suffered, and he had trouble supporting his wife and children. He also had a hard time finishing the writing projects he started.

Coleridge had a reputation as a great talker, and people often invited him to their dinner parties to hear him speak. He was a successful lecturer at times in his later life. He gained a reputation as a thinker and philosopher as well as a poet.

Scholars and critics of English literature have regarded Coleridge as a major figure. In his 1927 book "The Road to Xanadu", John Livingston Lowes used Coleridge's poetry, especially "Kubla Khan", to study the working of the human imagination. Critics have argued about the role that opium addiction played in the poet's life and work. In his 1971 book "Coleridge, the Damaged Archangel", Norman Furman showed that Coleridge was guilty of plagiarism in many of his later works. His opium addiction may have left Coleridge unable to tell when he was repeating the work of other writers that he had read.


</doc>
<doc id="102117" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102117" title="Category:Beatles songs">
Category:Beatles songs


</doc>
<doc id="102121" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102121" title="Category:The Beatles albums">
Category:The Beatles albums

This is a category for albums by The Beatles.


</doc>
<doc id="102124" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102124" title="With the Beatles">
With the Beatles

With the Beatles is The Beatles' second UK album. It was recorded four months after the band's first album, "Please Please Me" and was released on 22 November, 1963. The album sold so well in England, it qualified to enter the hit singles charts.

Most of the songs were used again in the first American Beatles album issued by Capitol Records, "Meet The Beatles!" Other songs appeared on "The Beatles' Second Album". In 2003, the album was ranked number 420 on Rolling Stone magazine's list of the 500 greatest albums of all time. 


</doc>
<doc id="102125" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102125" title="Beatles for Sale">
Beatles for Sale

Beatles for Sale is The Beatles' fourth album. It was released in late 1964. Many of its songs went into an American release, "Beatles '65", from Capitol Records, while the rest went into "Beatles VI", a compilation album.

Songwriting Beatles John Lennon and Paul McCartney had filled their earlier album, "A Hard Day's Night", with original songs. The band began recording their next album only a week after finishing "A Hard Day's Night", and they had little time to compose new music. The band filled the album with cover versions, of songs they had performed live in Hamburg, Germany and the Cavern in Liverpool, their hometown, before the Beatles were famous. Press agent Derek Taylor explained in the album's liner notes that all the recordings on "Beatles for Sale" were how the band played the music onstage.

The original songs on the album were praised, for showing Lennon and McCartney had grown and improved as writers. "I'm A Loser" was compared to Bob Dylan's work. "I'll Follow The Sun" was an early song, that was given a rewrite. "What You're Doing" imitated the musical style of The Byrds, who were just becoming popular.

Several live versions of the album's songs have since appeared, that the Beatles played in Germany, and for BBC Radio.


"All songs by Lennon/McCartney, unless credited differently"

+ "Also appeared on Beatles '65 in the United States"<br>
 "Also appeared on Beatles .


</doc>
<doc id="102126" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102126" title="Rubber Soul">
Rubber Soul

Rubber Soul is the sixth album by The Beatles. It was first released in December 1965. Its title is a play on words ("rubber sole", a common part of shoes). The Beatles admired soul music, and sometimes their sound imitated African-American music.

"Rubber Soul" was the first Beatles album to include songs written by each band member. George Harrison's two songs were "Think For Yourself" and "If I Needed Someone". Ringo Starr co-wrote "What Goes On" with Lennon and McCartney. The album was praised its innovations in recording, and was called a "concept album", though it was not meant to be one.

The album broke away from the usual "" that made up most pop music albums of the time. The songs talked about friendships, good and bad, and people with problems. Paul McCartney's "Michelle" included lyrics in French. John Lennon's songs especially moved away from what was expected. "Norwegian Wood" was a carefully-worded story of an adulterous affair. "The Word" looked at the greater meaning of love. "Run For Your Life" borrowed from an earlier song, "Baby Let's Play House", recorded by Elvis Presley and Buddy Holly.

The album's song selections were changed for the American market. Songs left over from the British version of "Help!" were included, and other songs taken out, to be added to a later compilation album, "Yesterday... and Today". Today's compact disc release follows the original British lineup.



</doc>
<doc id="102127" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102127" title="Abbey Road">
Abbey Road

Abbey Road is the twelfth official album recorded by The Beatles. It was released in September 1969.


"All songs written by Lennon/McCartney unless credited differently."


</doc>
<doc id="102129" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102129" title="Magical Mystery Tour">
Magical Mystery Tour

Magical Mystery Tour is a 1967 made by The Beatles. It is also the movie's title song, and the name of its soundtrack recording.

Paul McCartney had the original idea for "Magical Mystery Tour", coming back from the Monterey Pop Festival in California, during the summer of 1967. He drew a clock face on a paper plate, and filled it with parts of the show he imagined. McCartney based the idea on Ken Kesey's Merry Pranksters, who travelled the United States in a bus, and also "", which were low-budget weekend vacation trips taken in England.

The other Beatles liked the idea for the show, and made plans to produce and direct it themselves. After they stopped giving concerts in 1966, they had started making their own promotional films (called "promos"), much like today's music videos. They had success with promos, and wanted to try making a whole programme, to appear on television during the Christmas holidays.

Beatles manager Brian Epstein helped set up the production, and the Beatles asked friends, members of their staff, and some professional actors to ride with them in a rented bus over a holiday weekend, and film whatever happened, with magical elements to be added later. Making the movie was one of the first jobs of the Beatles's new company, Apple Corps.

Epstein unfortunately died before filming began. Without him to look over business details, things ran into trouble. By the time things were set up, John Lennon and George Harrison had changed their minds about performing, and spent much of the bus trip asleep. There also was not much for scenery along the roads, or entertainment among the passengers.

What turned into a bigger event than filming "Magical Mystery Tour" was the that began to surround the bus, wondering what the "tour" was all about. People followed the bus for miles, and caused . People who saw the bus go by expected a "happening" of some kind, but none had been planned. In trying to be , nobody had worked out a for the bus, or the trip. Most of the commotion ended after Lennon personally removed the MAGICAL MYSTERY TOUR lettering from the sides of the bus. Later a Beatles assistant said the traffic jams should have also been filmed.

Spots for songs and performances were included in "Magical Mystery Tour", and so was a explaining what the trip was about. The songs featured in the show included "The Fool on the Hill", "I Am The Walrus", "Blue Jay Way", an instrumental song, "Flying", and "Your Mother Should Know", with a choreographed dance sequence. Another band, the Bonzo Dog Doo-Dah Band, played live during a striptease performance.

"Magical Mystery Tour" appeared on British television on Boxing Day in 1967, and was a surprising flop. Part of the reason for its failure was because it was shown in black-and-white, while colour was an important feature. Another part was because most of the viewers did not understand what was supposed to be happening. Another part was that not much had happened on camera, for long parts of the programme, and it showed.

Ringo Starr made a personal appeal to the BBC to show "Magical Mystery Tour" again, in full colour. The BBC gave it a second broadcast, but it did not change opinions. ABC in the United States cancelled plans to show "Magical Mystery Tour" in America. (It later appeared as a "midnight movie", shown in small cinemas and on college campuses.)

Even though "Magical Mystery Tour" was not a television success, its soundtrack still sold well. The show's songs were released as a double EP in England, with a storybook and pictures from the show. In America, Capitol Records added songs from recent Beatles singles to the show songs, and released a whole album. The American version outsold the EP in England, and in 1977 Parlophone Records released a British version of the album.


+ "appeared in the show Magical Mystery Tour "

All songs were written by John Lennon and Paul McCartney, except "Flying" (by Lennon, McCartney, Harrison and Starr) and "Blue Jay Way" (by George Harrison).


</doc>
<doc id="102140" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102140" title="Hyperinflation">
Hyperinflation

In economics, hyperinflation is inflation that is "out of control," when prices increase very fast as money loses its value. 

One example of hyperinflation is in Germany in the 1920s. In 1922, the largest bank note was 50,000 Mark, In 1923 the largest bank note was 100,000,000,000,000 Mark. In December of 1923 the exchange rate was 4,200,000,000,000 Marks to 1 US dollar. Sometimes the rate of inflation was so high that prices "doubled" every two days. The Rentenmark was introduced to stop this problem. The exchange rate was set at 4.2 Rentenmarks to 1 US Dollar.

At one time, Bank notes were so worthless that people would burn them in fires to keep them warm. The notes would burn longer than the amount of wood you could buy with them.

In Zimbabwe, the inflation rate was 231,150,888.87% in July 2008.


</doc>
<doc id="102153" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102153" title="Template:Queen">
Template:Queen


</doc>
<doc id="102154" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102154" title="Brian May">
Brian May

Brian Harold May, (born 19 July 1947) is an English musician best known as the guitarist of the rock band Queen. He was a member of Queen from 1970 to 1997. He still very active in the music industry. May uses a guitar he built himself with the help of his father. The guitar they built is nicknamed the "Red Special" 

Apart from music, May earned his PhD in astrophysics in 2007 and is currently the Chancellor of "Liverpool John Moores University". Together with Patrick Moore and Chris Lintott, he wrote a book called "Bang! The Complete History of the Universe".

May was ranked 39th in Rolling Stone Magazine's list of the "100 Greatest Guitarists of All Time."
Biography

Brian May, the only child of Harold and Ruth May, was born in Hampton, London and attended Hampton Grammar School (now Hampton School).[4] During this time he formed his first band with vocalist and bassist Tim Staffell named Nineteen Eighty-Four after George Orwell's novel of the same name.[5] He graduated from Hampton Grammar School with ten GCE Ordinary Levels and four Advanced Levels in Physics, Mathematics, Applied Mathematics and Additional Mathematics.[5]
May's father Harold worked as a draughtsman at the Ministry of Aviation and had been a long-time cigarette-smoker. As a result, May dislikes smoking,[6] even to the point where he has prohibited smoking indoors at his more recent concerts.[7]
From 1974 to 1988, May was married to Chrissie Mullen, who is the mother of his three children: Jimmy, who was born on 15 June 1978; Louisa, who was born on 22 May 1981 and Emily Ruth, who was born on 17 February 1987. Chrissie and Brian separated in 1988.
He has stated in interviews that he suffered from depression in the late 1980s, even to the point of contemplating suicide,[8] for reasons having to do with his troubled first marriage and his perceived failure as a husband and a dad, his father Harold's death, and Freddie Mercury's illness [9].
May is now married to former Eastenders actress Anita Dobson, whom he met in 1986, and who gained fame in the 1980s for providing vocals to the theme tune to the aforementioned soap, entitled "Anyone Can Fall in Love".[10] May himself produced the song, which reached #4 in the UK Singles Chart in August 1986.
According to The Sunday Times Rich List he is worth £70 million as of 200


</doc>
<doc id="102155" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102155" title="John Deacon">
John Deacon

John Richard Deacon (born August 19, 1951, in Leicester) is a retired English musician. He is best known as the bass guitarist for the rock band Queen. He also was part of the controversial mix up that was he "supposedly " had hidden satanic messages in the ever famous song "Another One Bites The Dust". No comment was made by the bass guitarist who was accused of including the messages when writing the song.


</doc>
<doc id="102156" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102156" title="Roger Taylor">
Roger Taylor

Roger Taylor (born Roger Meddows-Taylor on July 26, 1949, in Dersingham, Norfolk) is an English musician. He is best known as the drummer and a singer in the rock band Queen.


</doc>
<doc id="102157" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102157" title="Le Béage">
Le Béage

Le Béage is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.



</doc>
<doc id="102158" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102158" title="Beauchastel">
Beauchastel

Beauchastel is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.



</doc>
<doc id="102159" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102159" title="Beaulieu, Ardèche">
Beaulieu, Ardèche

Beaulieu is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.



</doc>
<doc id="102160" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102160" title="Paul Rodgers">
Paul Rodgers

Paul Rodgers, (born December 17, 1949) is an English rock singer and songwriter. He is best known for being a member of Free and Bad Company. He has recently toured and recorded with Brian May and Roger Taylor of Queen in a group called Queen + Paul Rodgers.


</doc>
<doc id="102162" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102162" title="Beaumont, Ardèche">
Beaumont, Ardèche

Beaumont is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.



</doc>
<doc id="102164" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102164" title="Beauvène">
Beauvène

Beauvène is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.



</doc>
<doc id="102168" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102168" title="Rouffiac-des-Corbières">
Rouffiac-des-Corbières

Rouffiac-des-Corbières is a village in France. It is just below the castle of Peyrepertuse. In 2004, 97 people lived there. 


</doc>
<doc id="102169" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102169" title="Berrias-et-Casteljau">
Berrias-et-Casteljau

Berrias-et-Casteljau is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.



</doc>
<doc id="102170" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102170" title="Berzème">
Berzème

Berzème is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.



</doc>
<doc id="102171" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102171" title="Bessas">
Bessas

Bessas is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.



</doc>
<doc id="102172" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102172" title="Bidon">
Bidon

Bidon is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.



</doc>
<doc id="102173" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102173" title="Boffres">
Boffres

Boffres is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.



</doc>
<doc id="102174" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102174" title="Bogy">
Bogy

Bogy is a commune of the Ardèche "département" in the southern part of France. Bogy can be found about 10 km from Annonay, and 50 km from Valence.



</doc>
<doc id="102175" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102175" title="Borée">
Borée

Borée is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France. In 2008, the town had a population of about 167.


</doc>
<doc id="102176" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102176" title="Borne, Ardèche">
Borne, Ardèche

Borne is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.



</doc>
<doc id="102177" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102177" title="Boucieu-le-Roi">
Boucieu-le-Roi

Boucieu-le-Roi is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.



</doc>
<doc id="102178" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102178" title="Boulieu-lès-Annonay">
Boulieu-lès-Annonay

Boulieu-lès-Annonay is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.



</doc>
<doc id="102179" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102179" title="Bourg-Saint-Andéol">
Bourg-Saint-Andéol

Bourg-Saint-Andéol is a small commune of the Ardèche "département" in the Rhône Valley in the southern part of France. It is the capital of a canton in the arrondissement of Privas, with a population of about 8,000 as of the year 1999.




</doc>
<doc id="102180" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102180" title="Bozas">
Bozas

Bozas is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.



</doc>
<doc id="102181" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102181" title="Brossainc">
Brossainc

Brossainc is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.



</doc>
<doc id="102182" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102182" title="Burzet">
Burzet

Burzet is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.



</doc>
<doc id="102183" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102183" title="Cellier-du-Luc">
Cellier-du-Luc

Cellier-du-Luc is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.



</doc>
<doc id="102185" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102185" title="Chalencon">
Chalencon

Chalencon is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.



</doc>
<doc id="102186" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102186" title="Le Chambon, Ardèche">
Le Chambon, Ardèche

Le Chambon is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.



</doc>
<doc id="102187" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102187" title="Chambonas">
Chambonas

Chambonas is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.



</doc>
<doc id="102192" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102192" title="Kohistan District">
Kohistan District

Kohistan District can be any of the following:



</doc>
<doc id="102193" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102193" title="Queen (album)">
Queen (album)

Queen is the self-titled first album from the English rock band Queen, released in 1973. 



</doc>
<doc id="102194" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102194" title="Category:Queen albums">
Category:Queen albums

This is a category for albums by Queen.


</doc>
<doc id="102195" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102195" title="Queen II">
Queen II

Queen II is the second album by English rock band Queen, originally released in 1974.



</doc>
<doc id="102196" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102196" title="Template:User lad-1">
Template:User lad-1


</doc>
<doc id="102197" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102197" title="Sheer Heart Attack">
Sheer Heart Attack

Sheer Heart Attack is a Queen album from 1974.



</doc>
<doc id="102200" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102200" title="Template:Cathar castles">
Template:Cathar castles


</doc>
<doc id="102206" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102206" title="Peyrepertuse castle">
Peyrepertuse castle

Peyrepertuse castle is one of the Cathar castles. It was built before the 11th century. It is Aude, in Languedoc-Roussillion. It is built in a strategic position, on a cliff, about 30-40m high. The castle is first mentioned in the year 806, but the site seems to have been occupied since Roman times. At that time, it belonged to a Catalan count. It later changed hands, firct to the Count of Barcelona, then to that of Narbonne.

When the Treaty of Corbeil is signed in 1258, the border between France and Spain is right to the south of the castle. In the year 1240, after the Crusade against the Cathars, the castle becomes French. It is extended, and there is a garrison placed there; it protects against invasions until the 16th century when Roussillon becomes a French territory.

Today, the ruins of the castle attract about 100.000 visitors a year. There is a vineyard nearby. 



</doc>
<doc id="102208" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102208" title="Remlingen (Lower Saxony)">
Remlingen (Lower Saxony)

Remlingen is a municipality in district Wolfenbüttel. Remlingen is samt to Wittmar what is an old village from miners in the Asse. The inhabitants' of Remlingen
are 1953 in three villages. The mayor is named Klaus-Günter Warnecke.



</doc>
<doc id="102211" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102211" title="Category:Castles in France">
Category:Castles in France


</doc>
<doc id="102212" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102212" title="Bryan Ruiz Gonzalez">
Bryan Ruiz Gonzalez

Bryan Ruiz Gonzalez is a Costa Rican football player. He was born in August 18, 1985 in San Jose, Costa Rica. 

At the age of twelve, he started playing for Liga Deportiva Alajuelense minor leagues. Almost immediately, he became a famous young player, everyone in the minor leagues, not just his teammates and coach, talk about him as a promising soccer player. That fame, make him debut in first division in the year 2003, at the age of eighteen. He was playing for the same team that saw him born as a professional soccer player.

During the tournament, he developed a great ability and speed. Quickly, he was a vital piece in his team and take part of important games, like “El Clasico” when Alajuela goes against Saprissa, Alajuela’s archrival. In his second year, he faced his most difficult challenge at the moment, the CONCACAF Champion’s Cup. That competition is for the most skilled teams in the area, and even so he won that cup.

Back in Costa Rica, that tournament was won for his team, so another title was added to his trophy room. With just a short career as a professional soccer player, his future seemed to be bright as the sun. Surprisingly, the Costa Rica National Team coach called him to play representing his country. He did well and was acclaimed for the public.

Suddenly, in 2006, Bryan received an offer to play for a soccer team in Belgium. The team K.A.A. Gent wanted to sign him for a four-year deal. Since that day, Bryan has acquired some techniques that are helping him to be better each day. In Belgium, his reputation started to increase when he scored a lot of goals. Unexpectedly, he became the best scorer of his team, also got a hat-trick.

All of that, made him had a big audience, so he was called again to play with his national team. He came to Costa Rica again and put out a great presentation, showing that he has learned new tricks and developed innovative abilities. He is a promising soccer player for his country that hopes to be signed by a very good soccer team in Europe.
Then in 2009 he got a chance to play with FC Twente Enschede in Holland where he won the cup there and is now currently (2010) playing for the UEFA champions league cup.


</doc>
<doc id="102215" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102215" title="Jacó, Costa Rica">
Jacó, Costa Rica

Jaco Beach Costa Rica is located on the West Central coast of Costa Rica's Puntarenas province, on the Pacific Ocean side of the country. What started as a small surfing village popular with Costa Rican's from all over the Pacific coast,has developed into the most popular and visited tourism destination in the whole country. As the closest and most developed beach town from Costa Rica's Juan Santa Maria International Airport in San Jose, airport code (SJO), Jaco is only a quick 1 hour and 10 minute ride from the airport.

Jaco is home to the largest selection of Hotels, Vacation Rental Condos and private vacation rental homes than any other beach town in Costa Rica, as well as 3 Casinos, over 75 restaurants, 3 major grocery stores, surf shops, pharmacies, souvine and artesan shops, bakeries, dentists, emergency care, and 18-hole championship Golf Course. The region is also home to Costa Rica's best Zip line canopy tours, ATV tours, White Water rafting, Surfing and the Fishing Capital of Costa Rica at the Los Suenos Resort & Marina. located in Herradura Beach directly next to Jaco Beach.

To the immediate South of Jaco you'll find the famous surf town of Playa Hermosa (Hermosa Beach). 1 hour and 15 minutes to the South of Jaco Beach is the Manuel Antonio National Park and Wildlife preserve offering visitors a first hand glimpse of an abundance of Costa Rica's famed wildlife species such as white face monkeys, howler monkeys, sloths, pizotes, iguanas, butterflies, frogs, insects, and exotic jungle plants native to Costa Rica.



</doc>
<doc id="102218" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102218" title="Irazu Volcano">
Irazu Volcano

Irazu Volcano National Park has one of the most active volcanoes of Costa Rica. It is in the central mountain range at 31 km to northwest of the city of Cartago, 3,435 meters above sea level. It last erupted in 1963 and 1965. 

Irazu Volcano National Park offers many types of craters, some having small lakes. The park also includes 2,309 hectares of rain forest. From the highest point in the park, on a clear day, you can see both, the Pacific Ocean and the Caribbean Sea at the same time.

The Crater Principal lake has an unusual greenish yellow coloring caused by rainfall dissolving the minerals along the craters walls. It has also been known to change colour to rust-red depending on the minerals present. The inactive, dry Diego de la Haya crater sits just up to the right of the Crater Principal and is filled with volcanic ash.

The park is the site of a reforestation project to restore the area which was destroyed by the eruptions. The forest is made up of conifers and other exotic and native species. There is a native forest consisting mainly of oaks and alder, protecting the watershed of the Reventado River.

The vegetation of the park has been changed by the constant eruptions, but it is very beautiful and diverse. 



</doc>
<doc id="102220" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102220" title="Puerto Viejo-Talamanca, Costa Rica">
Puerto Viejo-Talamanca, Costa Rica

Puerto Viejo-Talamanca, Costa Rica


</doc>
<doc id="102221" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102221" title="List of Cantons of Switzerland by area">
List of Cantons of Switzerland by area

The following is a list of Cantons of Switzerland, by area:


</doc>
<doc id="102222" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102222" title="Cathar castles">
Cathar castles

Cathar castles ("Châteaux cathares" in French) is a term used by the French tourist industry; It used for castles in the Languedoc-Roussillion, usually built during the crusades against the Cathars. 

The Cathars built fortified homesteads. Some of them were Laurac, Fanjeaux, Mas-Saintes-Puelles. Certain sites like Lastours-Cabaret, Montségur, Termes or Puilaurens were "castra" before being razed to the ground and becoming royal citadels. The legend of Cathar architects and builders is no more than a myth. The only monuments which witnessed the events of the first half of the 13th century. The cathar church did not build anything. For this reason, the only ones which can claim the description "Cathar" are the small castles, often totally unknown to the public. Their unspectacular ruins are often far-away from tourist routes.

Because Raimond II was unable to recapture Carcassone in 1240, the city walls were strengthened by the French King. He also destroyed small "castra" in the Corbières region and built citadels to protect the frontier with the kingdom of Aragon.

These five castles are often called the "cinq fils de Carcassonne" (five sons of Carcassonne):

These five fortresses resisted various assaults led by the Aragonese army.

In 1659, Louis XIV and the Philip IV of Spain signed the Treaty of the Pyrenees. The French king also married the Infanta Marie Therese. The treaty changed the borders. It gave Rousillon to France and moved the frontier south to the crest of the Pyrenees, where it is now. The fortresses therefore lost their importance. Some maintained a garrison for a while, a few until the French Revolution, but they slowly fell into decay, often becoming sherpherds' shelters or bandits hideouts.



</doc>
<doc id="102224" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102224" title="Château d'Usson">
Château d'Usson

The Château d'Usson is one of the Cathar castles that is now in southwestern France. It can be found in the "commune" of Rouze, in the Ariège "département".


</doc>
<doc id="102228" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102228" title="Category:Cities in Costa Rica">
Category:Cities in Costa Rica


</doc>
<doc id="102230" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102230" title="Sertab Erener">
Sertab Erener

Sertab Erener (born December 4, 1964) is a Turkish pop music singer. She is one of the most successful female Turkish pop singers in Turkey. Erener is said to be one of the divas of Turkish pop music. 

She released her first album which produced by Sezen Aksu, "Sakin Ol" (Calm Down) in August 1992. Her debut song "Sakin Ol" became greatly popular. Next album "Lal" (Ruby) released in October 1994. Lal was important for her career, because songs in the album such as "Rüya" (Dream), "Sevdam Ağlıyor" (My Love is Crying), "Mecbursun" (You Have to), "Gel Barışalım Artık" (Let's Make Peace) and "Lal" became hit quickly. 

In May 1997, Sertab released her third album, "Sertab Gibi" (Like Sertab). She stopped working with Sezen Aksu and she worked with Demir Demirkan in this album. Although album's sales were very low, album is the favorite album of fans. "Aşkolan Aşktır" (Love Matters), "Seyrüsefer" (Navigation) and "İncelikler Yüzünden" (Because of the Niceties) were the important songs from the album. Sertab Erener released self-titled fourth album in March 1999. Albums hit were "Yanarım" (I Burn), "Zor Kadın" (Hard Woman) and Vur Yüreğim (Hit, My Heart). Vur Yüreğim's video clip was including real scenes from shocking and afflictive events such as martyr funerals, atomic bomb and natural disasters.

In Europe, she is best known for winning the Eurovision Song Contest 2003 with her hit song "Every Way That I Can".


</doc>
<doc id="102231" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102231" title="Digital download">
Digital download

A digital download is when a song is released to be bought from the internet, and not one that comes on a CD. Sites such as iTunes Store and Zune Marketplace sell music in this way.


</doc>
<doc id="102233" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102233" title="Scouting">
Scouting

Scouting (sometimes called the Scout Movement) is a youth movement. It was started in 1907 as a movement for boys by Robert Baden-Powell. 

Baden-Powell took many ideas from the experiences he made with the Mafeking Cadet Corps. This corps was a paramilitary group made of boys. It was formed during a siege in the Second Boer War. The boys mainly carried messages; that way the soldiers could focus on defending the city.

Originally, the scout movement was for boys only, A similar movement for girls, called "Girl Guides" was started in 1910. In most countries there are at the same time associations for Scouts and for Girl Guides. Today, often, the Scouts accept girls, too.

In the scout movement, people learn to work together to achieve a goal. They also train their character, to become better adults.

Usually when they start in the scouts they give a promise to live by certain rules, and to help others when they can.

Scouts spend their time outdoors, whenever possible.

In 2005, there were more than 28 million boy scouts and over 10 million girl guides, from 216 different countries. Only in six countries was there no scout movement in 2006. They were Andorra, People's Republic of China, Cuba, Laos, Myanmar and North Korea. 

In Cuba, there was a scout organisation, but the Communist government replaced it by the José Martí Pioneer Organization, which is similar to scouts, but without the international brotherhood and the peace mission. 

Scouting organisations have been banned in People's Republic of China. They have been replaced by Young Pioneers of China and Communist Youth League of China. These organisations are a bit similar to scouts, but without the international brotherhood and the peace mission. There is a Scout Association in Hong Kong and one in Macau. Hong Kong and Macau are Special Autonomous Regions of the People's Republic of China, so the scout associations there are still allowed to exist. In the Republic of China (Taiwan) scouting was never banned. 

There are no scouting organisations in Myanmar, but there are a few boy scouts and girl scouts (headed by the US scout movement) in Yangoon.

Baden-Powell was a military officer. He was stationed in India and Africa in the 1880s and 1890s. Since his youth, he was fond of woodcraft and military scouting. He therefore showed his men how to survive in the wilderness. He noticed that if he taught the soldiers to develop independence, they would no longer follow the orders given by their officers blindly.

In 1896, during the Second Matabele War, Baden-Powell first met and became friends with the American-born British Army Chief of Scouts Frederick Russell Burnham. From Burnham he learned the ways of cowboy and indian scouts of the Western United States, he started to wear a scout hat like the one worn by Burnham, and he discussed with Burnham a scout training program for boys. Three years later during the Second Boer War, Baden-Powell was besieged in the small town of Mafeking by a much larger Boer army (the Siege of Mafeking). The Mafeking Cadet Corps was a group of youths that supported the troops. The cadets carried messages. This freed the men for military duties. It also kept the boys occupied during the long siege. The Cadet Corps performed well, helping in the defence of the town (1899–1900). This experience was one of the many factors that inspired Baden-Powell to form the Scouting movement. Each member received a badge that showed a combined compass point and spearhead. The badge's logo was similar to the fleur-de-lis that Scouting later adopted as its international symbol. 

In the United Kingdom the public followed his struggle to hold Mafeking through newspapers. After the siege, Baden-Powell had become a national hero. This pushed the sales of a small instruction book he had written about military scouting, "Aids to Scouting". 

On his return to England he noticed the large interest of boys in this book, which was also used by teachers and youth organizations. Several people suggested to him to rewrite this book for boys, especially during an inspection of the Boys' Brigade. This brigade was a large youth movement, drilled with military precision. Baden-Powell thought this would not be attractive and suggested that it could grow much larger when scouting would be used. He studied other schemes, parts of which he used for Scouting.


In his original book on boy scouting, General Baden-Powell introduced the scout promise, as follows:

Since the scouts were formed, other people have tried to form scout-like movements. These movements are a bit like the scouts, but they put more weight on different things. There are for example scout-like movements that focus more on the fact that the young people should get a good education in religious matters. The movements that have been formed in countries such as Cuba or China are much like scouts; they leave out some elements though, that the national governments thought would harm the country.



</doc>
<doc id="102236" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102236" title="History of Indonesia">
History of Indonesia

The History of Indonesia or more precisely of the Indonesian archipelago in South East Asia with 17,508 islands goes back to "Homo erectus" (popularly known as the "Java Man"). There have been found fossilized remains of about one million years ago. 

Austronesian people, who form the majority of the modern population, came to South East Asia from Taiwan. They arrived in Indonesia around 2000 BCE. The native Melanesian peoples went to the far eastern regions. The agricultural conditions were very good. When wet-field rice cultivation was developed as early as the eighth century BCE,
villages and towns developed. And small kingdoms began to flourish by the first century CE. Indonesia's sea-lane position helped international trade. There was trade with both Indian kingdoms and China already several centuries BCE. Trade has since fundamentally shaped Indonesian history.

From the seventh century CE, the powerful Srivijaya naval kingdom flourished as a result of trade. Hinduism and Buddhism were imported with it. In the late 13th century, the Hindu Majapahit kingdom was founded in eastern Java and under Gajah Mada, its influence stretched over much of Indonesia; this period is often referred to as a "Golden Age" in Indonesian history.

During the 13th century Islam spread to the in northern Sumatra. More and more Indonesian areas gradually adopted Islam. By the end of the 16th century it was the dominant religion in Java and Sumatra. But it mixed with existing cultural and religious influences. 

The first Europeans arrived in Indonesia in 1512, when Portuguese traders, led by Francisco Serrão, sought to monopolize the sources of nutmeg, cloves, and cubeb pepper in Maluku. Dutch and British traders followed. In 1602 the Dutch established the Dutch East India Company (VOC) and became the dominant European power. But Dutch control stretched not very far. Only in the early 20th century it extended to borders of today.

During the Second World War the Dutch lost control and in August 1945, Sukarno, an influential nationalist leader, declared independence and was appointed president. After some fights the Netherlands formally recognized Indonesian independence in December 1949 (with the exception of The Dutch territory of West New Guinea).

Sukarno moved from democracy towards dictatorship. But Sukarono lost power to the head of the military, General Suharto who was formally appointed president in March 1968. He was supported by the US government, and encouraged foreign direct investment in Indonesia, which helped economic growth during the following thirty years. But his rule went along with corruption and suppression of political opposition.

In 1997 and 1998, Indonesia was the country hardest hit by the Asian Financial Crisis. This increased popular discontent with the New Order and led to popular protests. Suharto resigned on 21 May 1998. In 1999, East Timor voted to leave the state of Indonesia, after a twenty-five-year military occupation. After Suharto's resignation democracy improved. A regional autonomy program was introduced, and the first direct presidential election took place in 2004. But some political and economic instability has remained. A political settlement to an armed separatist conflict in Aceh was achieved in 2005.



</doc>
<doc id="102238" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102238" title="Book of Leviticus">
Book of Leviticus

Leviticus is the third book of both the Bible, and the Torah, known as Wayiqra' in transliterated Hebrew, meaning 'And He will declare.' It was written by the Old Testament Patriarch Moses. Leviticus was written to the Hebrew people of Israel. The book has several main topics, some of which are the Jewish laws of sacrificing to God, and the work of the Priests.

This book probably was written around 1400 B.C. 



</doc>
<doc id="102241" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102241" title="John C. Mather">
John C. Mather

Professor John Cromwell Mather Virginia is an American astrophysicist and cosmologist who was born on August 7, 1946, Roanoke. He was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics in 2006 for his work on COBE satellite with George Smoot. The COBE satellite measures black holes and cosmic radiation. 

This work supported the big-bang theory of the universe beginning and made cosmology much more accurate. The Nobel Prize committee said: "the COBE-project can also be regarded as the starting point for cosmology
as a precision science."

Mather is a Senior Astrophysicist at the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center in Maryland and he is a professor of physics at the University of Maryland, College Park. In 2007, Mather was listed in "Time" magazine's 100 Most Influential People in The World.


After being awarded his Ph.D. Professor Mather went to work at the Goddard Institute for Space Studies at Columbia University, he started the work on COBE (1974-1976). More than 1,000 researchers, engineers and other workers made the COBE satellite. John Mather was in control of them all and created the technology for measuring the cosmic radiation. George Smoot had the job of measuring small changes in the temperature of the radiation.

Professor Mather and John Boslough wrote all about the COBE teams work in a book called "The Very First Light".





</doc>
<doc id="102246" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102246" title="Book of Joshua">
Book of Joshua

The Book of Joshua is the sixth book of the Christian Bible, and also the sixth book of the Hebrew Tanakh. It is clear who wrote the book, because most of the Jewish tradition believe it was Joshua, son of Nun. It is the first of the books of the Tanakh (Old Testament) covering the history of Israel from the arrival in the Promised Land to the Babylonian captivity.

It is thought that the book was written around the 15th century B.C.

After the death of Moses, God put Joshua in charge of the people. Joshua sent two spies to spy on the city of Jericho. A women hid these two men and said they had already left. She hid them on top of her roof, underneath stalks of flax. The spies later promised that they would keep the oath that Joshua made with them.

Jericho fell when the people of Israel circled around the wall of Jericho seven times and blew their ram's horns, causing the wall to fall.

Joshua told the spies to go to Rahab's house and bring out her family and belongings. The spies did as they were told, as they kept the oath. Joshua saved Rahab's life, and she went to live in Israel.

Later, God told Joshua to invade the city of Ai. After they did this, the people of Gibeon told Joshua that they do not want to be invaded, so they made a treaty that said the could not fight.

However, three days later, the people of Israel realized that they really made a treaty with Gibeon's neighbors, the Hivites. The Hivities became cursed, but the people of Gibeon promised that they would do whatever the Israelites say.

After making peace with the Hivites, they went to lay siege to Gibeon. The Gibeonites sent a message to Joshua saying he needs to save the people of Gibeon. So, God killed many of the Amorites by making large hailstones. Then Joshua made the sun stay over Gibeon, and the moon over Ajalon. Joshua later got very old and died, and the people of Israel became captives of Jabin, who was king of Canaan.



</doc>
<doc id="102258" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102258" title="Homeschooling">
Homeschooling

Homeschooling is a form of education where the parent or guardian is the instructor. The reason for this form of education is usually the guardian is not happy with the nearby schools, or for religious purposes or they are too poor to go to school



</doc>
<doc id="102259" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102259" title="Shinjuku Station">
Shinjuku Station

Shinjuku Station is a railway station located in Shinjuku and Shibuya wards in Tokyo, Japan. It is the busiest train station in the world.








</doc>
<doc id="102261" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102261" title="San Pedro de Macorís (city)">
San Pedro de Macorís (city)

The Dominican city of San Pedro de Macorís is the head municipality of the San Pedro de Macorís province, on the southeast of the country.

It has the nickname of "Macorís del mar" ("Macorís of the sea") to differentiate it from San Francisco de Macorís, in the Duarte Province.

The municipality had, in 2002, a total population of 217,141: 105,070 men and 112,071 women. The urban population was 89.2% of the total population. In this numbers are included the population of the municipal district Guayacanes.

There were two very small towns on the left side of the mouth of the river Macorís (or Higuamo): "Mosquito" (because there were too many mosquitos) and "Sol" (English: "Sun", because there were not trees). Even today, San Pedro de Macorís is called sometimes "Mosquitisol" after those two old and small towns.

Since 1852, there was a military post in this place: the Military Post of Macorís, part of the Hato Mayor del Rey municipality in the El Seibo Province.

In 1856, the priest Pedro Carrasco built a Catholic church with the name "San Pedro Apóstol"; the church was between the two towns of Mosquito and Sol. Both towns grew in direction of the church, forming one town called San Pedro de Macorís.

When the country was again a Spanish colony, San Pedro de Macorís was made a "Comandancia de Armas" (an Spanish military category). When the country was free again, in 1865, every town with the category of "Comandancia de Armas" became a municipality. But San Pedro de Macorís was still a very small town of the El Seibo Province.

After 1868, with the sugarcane plantations and the sugar factories, San Pedro de Macorís began to grow and it became one of the most important city in the Dominican Republic. Many people from Cuba and Puerto Rico came to live here during the last years of the 19th century and the first years of the 20th century. Later came people from the Spain and the Middle East (Lebanon, Syria) to work in businesses.

To work in the sugarcane fields and factories, people from Haiti and the British West Indies came to San Pedro de Macorís and other regions of the country.

The economy of San Pedro de Macorís grew around the sugar production; there were several sugar factories and most of that sugar was sent to other countries through its port and then it became one of the most important port of the country. Rhum is also produced in the city; rhum is made with alcohol from the sugar cane.

There are also some important industries, mainly to produce cement and textiles to send to other countries.


</doc>
<doc id="102263" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102263" title="Epistle to the Galatians">
Epistle to the Galatians

The Epistle to the Galatians (or Galatians) is the forty-eighth book in the Bible (and ninth in the New Testament), written by the Apostle Paul. The book was written to the people of Galatia, with whom Paul had, at a previous date, founded the Congregation in their area. 

It is not known for sure, but most believe that the book was written around 57 A.D.

The book contains some of the most known Bible teachings, such as that all have need of Salvation (Galatians 3:28-29), and the Fruits of the Spirit (Galatians 5:22-23).



</doc>
<doc id="102264" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102264" title="Label (disambiguation)">
Label (disambiguation)

A label can have several meanings:




</doc>
<doc id="102275" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102275" title="Neanderthal">
Neanderthal

The Neanderthal, a species of the genus "Homo", was a near relative of our own species. Its scientific name is "Homo neanderthalensis" or "Homo sapiens neanderthalensis". 

Neanderthal fossils are only found in Europe, Asia Minor and up to central Asia. The first fossil was found in the mid 1800s.

Neanderthals became extinct about 30,000 years ago. They perhaps evolved from "Homo heidelbergensis" and split off (last common ancestor) from modern humans between 700,000 and 300,000 years ago. 

Neanderthals are either classified as a subspecies of modern humans ("Homo sapiens neanderthalensis") or as a separate human species ("Homo neanderthalensis").

Neanderthal remains have been found in most of Europe south of land covered by ice including the south coast of Great Britain. Finds have also been made outside of Europe in the Zagros Mountains and in the Levant.

In August 1856 the specimen that was to become known as Neanderthal 1 was discovered in the Neander Valley, Germany. The material was found in a limestone quarry near Düsseldorf. A skull cap was first discovered, followed by two femurs, five arm bones, part of the left pelvis, and fragments of a shoulder blade and ribs. 

Actually, some remains had been found earlier, but not recognised as a separate species from us. The Engis child from Belgium was the first Neanderthal discovered, in 1829. The second discovered was the Forbes Quarry find from Gibralter in 1848. 

Neanderthal men were about 164–168 cm tall and averaged 77.6 kg in weight. Neanderthal women stood about 154 cm tall and averaged 66.4 kg in weight. 

Neanderthals had stronger (more robust) build and distinctive morphological features, especially of the skull. They were much stronger than modern humans; especially in the upper body.

Neanderthal long bones and joints are thicker than ours, and some long bones have a slight curve. Both the thickness and the curve suggest the need for more strength than our species.

Since 2007, tooth age can be directly calculated using the noninvasive imaging of growth patterns in tooth enamel by means of x-ray synchrotron microtomography.

This research suggests much more rapid physical development in Neanderthals than in modern human children. The x-ray synchrotron microtomography study of early "H. sapiens" argues that this difference existed between the two species as far back as 160,000 years before present.

Neanderthals seemed to suffer a high frequency of fractures. These fractures are often healed and show little or no sign of infection, suggesting that injured individuals were cared for during times of incapacitation. 

Neanderthals showed a frequency of such injuries comparable to that of modern rodeo professionals, showing frequent contact with large, combative mammals. The fractures suggest they may have hunted by leaping onto their prey and stabbing or even wrestling it to the ground.

They lived in Eurasia during the ice ages of the Pleistocene, and hunted large mammals, such as bison, auroch (an ancestor of living cattle), deer, reindeer, musk ox and mammoth.

The skulls are slightly larger than "Homo sapiens", and this implies intelligence and probably the use of language. The skeleton, on the other hand, suggests they tended to solve their problems (such as hunting) more by force than we do.

Neanderthal stone tools are called Mousterian, and are an advance on the Acheulean tools made by earlier species of Man. "Homo sapiens" stone tools are far more varied still, and suggest that our species relied more on tools than the Neanderthals.

Neanderthals were almost exclusively meat eaters although their diet did include cooked vegetables. They made good tools and lived in complex social groups. Research on their remains has shown that it is possible that they had a spoken language but the nature of any such language is unknown.

There are a number of theories that try to explain why the Neanderthals died out. It has been suggested that they may have been unable to adapt to the changing climate. Alternatively it has been suggested that they were unable to successfully compete with the ancestors of modern humans.





</doc>
<doc id="102277" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102277" title="Oldenzaal">
Oldenzaal

Oldenzaal is a municipality and a town in the eastern Netherlands, near the border with Germany.

It got city rights in 1249.



</doc>
<doc id="102284" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102284" title="Homo erectus">
Homo erectus

Homo erectus (Latin: "upright man") is an extinct species of the genus "Homo". Fossile remains were found in Java (1890s) and in China (1921). But nearly all of them were lost during World War II. But there are casts that are considered to be reliable evidence.

Early in the 20th century it was believed that the first modern humans lived in Asia. But during the 1950s and 1970s, many fossil finds from East Africa (Kenya) showed that the oldest hominins came from there.

"Homo erectus" remains one of the most successful and long-lived species of the "Homo" genus. It is generally considered to have given rise to a number of descendant species and subspecies. The oldest known specimen of the ancient human was found in southern Africa. 

"Homo erectus yuanmouensis",
"Homo erectus lantianensis",
"Homo erectus pekinensis",
"Homo erectus palaeojavanicus",
"Homo erectus soloensis"

Other species:
"Homo floresiensis",
"Homo antecessor",
"Homo heidelbergensis",
"Homo neanderthalensis",
"Homo sapiens",
"Homo sapiens sapiens",
"Homo rhodesiensis",
"Homo cepranensis",

Some of the major "Homo erectus" fossils:

Australopithecus



</doc>
<doc id="102287" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102287" title="Paramilitary">
Paramilitary

Paramilitary is a way to describe forces that are organised like military forces, but that do not have the same status. Examples for such forces would be police forces guarding the borders of a country. There are paramilitary groups that are run by a country, and others that are not.

The name comes from Greek "para" (which means "beside") and Latin "miles" (which means "soldier"). 


</doc>
<doc id="102308" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102308" title="Champagne, Ardèche">
Champagne, Ardèche

Champagne is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.



</doc>
<doc id="102310" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102310" title="Champis, Ardèche">
Champis, Ardèche

Champis is a commune of the Ardèche "département" in the southeastern part of France.



</doc>
<doc id="102311" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102311" title="Chandolas">
Chandolas

Chandolas is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.



</doc>
<doc id="102313" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102313" title="Chanéac">
Chanéac

Chanéac is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.



</doc>
<doc id="102316" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102316" title="Charmes-sur-Rhône">
Charmes-sur-Rhône

Charmes-sur-Rhône is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.



</doc>
<doc id="102317" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102317" title="Charnas">
Charnas

Charnas is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France. About 715 or 722 people lived there in 2008.




</doc>
<doc id="102318" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102318" title="Palaeolithic">
Palaeolithic

The Palaeolithic, (or Paleolithic), refers to the prehistoric period when stone tools were made by humans. They are found in the Great Rift Valley of Africa from about 2.6 million years ago. They are found in Europe somewhat later, from about 1 mya (0.7mya for Britain). The Palaeolithic is by far the longest period of humanity's time, about 99% of human history. The geological period which corresponds to the Palaeolithic is the Pleistocene. 

Stone tools were not only made by our own species, "Homo sapiens". They were made by all previous members of the genus, starting with relatively crude tools made by "Homo habilis" and "Homo erectus". In Europe, the large-brained Neanderthal Man ("Homo neanderthalensis") made tools of high quality, and was in turn outshone by the many tools made by our own species. These tools are the first cultural products which have survived.

The Palaeolithic dates from about 2.6 million years ago and ended around 15,000 with the Mesolithic in Western Europe, and with the Epipaleolithic in warmer climates such as Africa. The Palaeolithic age began when hominids (early humans) started to use stones as tools for bashing, cutting and scraping. The age ended when humans began to make small, fine tools (Mesolithic) and finally when plant crops and have other types of agriculture (Neolithic). In some areas, such as Western Europe, the way that people lived was affected by the Ice age. The move towards agriculture started in the Middle East. 

During the Palaeolithic Age humans grouped together in small bands. They lived by gathering plants and hunting wild animals. As well as using stone tools, they used tools of wood and bone. They probably also used leather and vegetable fibers but these have not lasted from that time.

The Oldowan is the archaeological term used to refer to the stone tool industry that was used by Hominids during the earliest Palaeolithic period. The Oldowan is the earliest stone tool industry in prehistory, from 2.6 million years ago up until 1.7 million years ago. It was followed by the more sophisticated Acheulean industry. Oldowan tools were therefore the earliest tools in human history, and mark the beginning of the archaeological record. The term "Oldowan" is taken from the site of Olduvai Gorge in Tanzania, where the first Oldowan tools were discovered by the archaeologist Louis Leakey in the 1930s. 

It is not known for sure which species actually created and used Oldowan tools. It reached its peak with early species of "Homo" such as "H. habilis" and "H. ergaster". Early "Homo erectus" appears to inherit Oldowan technology and refines it into the Acheulean industry beginning 1.7 million years ago. Oldowan tools are sometimes called "pebble tools", so named because the blanks chosen for their production already resemble, in pebble form, the final product. Oldowan tools are sometimes subdivided into types, such as chopper, scrapers and pounders, as these appear to have been their main uses.

Acheulean is the industry of stone tool manufacture by early humans of the Lower Palaeolithic era in Africa and much of West Asia and Europe. Acheulean tools are typically found with "Homo erectus" remains. They are first developed out of the more primitive Oldowan technology some 1.8 million years ago, by "Homo habilis".

It was the dominant technology for the vast majority of human history. More than a million years ago Acheulean tool users left Africa to colonize Eurasia. Their distinctive oval and pear-shaped hand axes have been found over a wide area. Some examples attained a very high level of sophistication. Although it developed in Africa, the industry is named after the type site of Saint-Acheul, now a suburb of Amiens in northern France where some of the first examples were identified in the 19th century.

John Frere is generally credited as being the first to suggest a very ancient date for Acheulean hand-axes. In 1797 he sent two examples to the Royal Academy in London from Hoxne in Suffolk. He had found them in prehistoric lake deposits along with the bones of extinct animals and concluded that they were made by people ""who had not the use of metals"" and that they belonged to a ""very ancient period indeed, even beyond the present world"". His ideas were ignored by his contemporaries however, who subscribed to a pre-Darwinian view of human evolution.

Radiometric dating, often potassium-argon dating, of deposits containing Acheulean material is able to broadly place Acheulean techniques from around 1.65 million years ago to about 100,000 years ago. The earliest accepted examples of the type, at 1.65 m years old, come from the West Turkana region of Kenya although some have argued for its emergence from as early as 1.8 million years ago.

In individual regions, this dating can be considerably refined; in Europe for example, Acheulean methods did not reach the continent until around 400 thousand years ago and in smaller study areas, the date ranges can be much shorter. Numerical dates can be misleading however, and it is common to associate examples of this early human tool industry with one or more glacial or interglacial periods or with a particular early species of human. The earliest user of Acheulean tools was "Homo ergaster" who first appeared about 1.8 million years ago. Not all researchers use this formal name however and instead prefer to call these users "early Homo erectus". Later forms of early humans also used Acheulean techniques and are described below.

There is considerable chronological overlap in early prehistoric stone-working industries and in some regions Acheulean tool-using groups were contemporary with other, less sophisticated industries such as the Clactonian and then later, with the more sophisticated Mousterian also. The Acheulean was not a neatly defined period, but a tool-making technique which flourished especially well in early prehistory. The term Acheulean does not represent a common culture in the modern sense, rather it is a basic method for making stone tools that was shared across much of the Old World.

The Clactonian is an industry of European flint tool manufacture that dates to the early part of the interglacial period 400,000 years ago. Clactonian tools were made by "Homo erectus" rather than modern humans. Early, crude flint tools from other regions using similar methods are called either Clactonian or "core & flake" technology.

The Clactonian is named after finds made at Clacton-on-Sea in the English county of Essex in 1911. The artefacts found there included flint chopping tools, flint flakes and the tip of a worked wooden shaft along with the remains of a giant elephant and hippopotamus. Further examples of the tools have been found at sites in Swanscombe, Kent, and Barnham in Suffolk; similar industries have been identified across Northern Europe. 

The Clactonian industry involved striking thick, irregular flakes from a core of flint, which was then employed as a chopper. The flakes would have been used as crude knives or scrapers. Unlike the Oldowan tools from which Clactonian ones derived, some were notched implying that they were attached to a handle or shaft.

The Clactonian industry may have co-existed with the Acheulean industry, which used identical basic techniques but which also had handaxe technology; tools made by bifacially working a flint core. However, the 2004 excavation of a butchered Pleistocene elephant at the Southfleet Road site of High Speed 1 in Kent recovered numerous Clactonian flint tools but no handaxes. A handaxe would have been more useful than a chopper in dismembering an elephant carcass, so this is evidence of the Clactonian being a separate industry. Flint of sufficient quality was available in the area and probably the people who carved up the elephant did not possess the knowledge to make the more advanced bifacial handaxe.

The Mousterian is an industry of stone tools associated with Neanderthal Man, "Homo neanderthalensis". It dates from about 300,000 years to about 30,000 years ago. There are up to thirty types of tools in the Mousterian as contrasted with about six in the Acheulean.

The Mousterian was named after the type site of Le Moustier, a rock shelter in the Dordogne region of France. Similar flintwork has been found all over unglaciated Europe and also the Near East and North Africa. Handaxes, long blades
and points typify the industry. Overall, the items are more perfectly finished than any previous work. The method used to get the blades and flakes is called the Levallois technique. It is a prepared-core technique: the core is worked on so that a long, fine blade can be struck off. For this quality of work, a 'soft' hammer made of something like deer antler is necessary, rather than a stone hammer. The extra brain size of the Neanderthals is probably relevant to these advances.

The cultures which follow the Mousterian are all cultures of modern humans, "Homo sapiens". It is characteristic of our species to produce many more tools, all specialised for particular tasks. There are at least 100 types of tools in the Upper Palaeolithic compared to a maximum of 30 tools in the Mousterian.

The Palaeolithic is sometimes divided into three (somewhat overlapping) periods which mark technological and cultural advances in different human communities:
After the Palaeolithic follows the Mesolithic and Neolithic eras, which marks the end of Stone Age. The Bronze Age and the Iron Age come right after the Stone Age.

Possibly among the earliest traces of art are Venus figurines. These are "figurines" (very small statues) of women, mostly pregnant with visible breasts. The figurines were found in areas of Western Europe to Siberia. Most are between 20,000 and 30,000 years old. Two figurines have been found that are much older: the Venus of Tan-Tan, dated to 300,000 to 500,000 years ago was found in Morocco. The Venus of Berekhat Ram was found on the Golan Heights. It has been dated to 200,000 to 300,000 years ago. It may be the one of the earliest things that show the human form. 

Different kinds of stone, bones and ivory were used to make the figurines. Some are also made of clay which was then burned in a fire. This is one of the earliest known traces of the use of ceramics.

Today it is not known what the figurines meant to the people who made them. There are two basic theories:
Scientists have excluded that these figurines were linked to the fertility of fields, because agriculture had not been discovered at the time the figurines were made.

The two figurines that are older may have mostly formed by natural processes. The Venus of Tan-Tan was covered with a substance that could have been some kind of paint. The substance contained traces of iron and manganese. The figurine of Berekhat Ram shows traces that someone worked on it with a tool. A study done in 1997 states that these traces could not have been left by nature alone.

Cave paintings are paintings that were made on the walls or roofs of caves. Many cave paintings belong to the Palaeolothic Age, and date from about 15,000 to 30,000 years ago. Among the most famous are those in the caves of Altamira in Spain and Lascaux in France. There are about 350 caves in Europe where cave paintings have been found. Usually, animals have been painted, like aurochs, bisons or horses. Why these paintings were done is not known. They are not simply decorations of places where people lived. The caves they were found in usually do not show signs that someone lived in them.

One of the oldest caves is that of Chauvet in France. Paintings in the cave fall into two groups. One has been dated to around 30,000 to 33,000 years ago, the other to 26,000 or 27,000 years ago. The oldest known cave paintings, based on radiocarbon dating of "black from drawings, from torch marks and from the floors". As of 1999, the dates of 31 samples from the cave have been reported. The oldest paintings have been dated from 32,900±490 years ago.

Some archaeologists have questioned the dating. Züchner believe the two groups date from 23,000–24,000, and 10,000–18,000 years ago. Pettitt and Bahn believe the dating is inconsistent. They say the people at that periods of time painted things differently. They also do not know where the charcoal used to paint some things is from, and how big the painted area is.

People from the Palaeolithic era drew well. They knew about perspective, and they knew of different ways to draw things. They also were able to observe the behaviour of animals they painted. Some of the paintings show how the painted animals behaved. The paintings may have been important for rituals.




</doc>
<doc id="102321" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102321" title="Biface">
Biface

In archaeology, a biface is a two-sided stone tool, made by chipping off flakes with another tool. It shows flake scars on both sides. A view from the side of the final product tends to exhibit a lenticular shape (i.e., as a convex lens). Bifacial artifacts can be made on large flakes or blocks, and may be grouped into many distinct classes. 


</doc>
<doc id="102324" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102324" title="Bolas">
Bolas

Bolas (from Spanish "bola", "ball", also known as "boleadoras") are a throwing weapon made of weights on the ends of interconnected cords, designed to capture animals by their legs. They are used by the gauchos in South America today, but have been found in excavations of pre-Hispanic settlements, especially in Patagonia, where indigenous peoples used them to catch guanaco and ñandu.
Gauchos use boleadoras to capture running cattle or game. The thrower gives the balls momentum by swinging them and then releases the boleadoras. The weapon is usually used to entangle the animal's legs, but when thrown with enough force might even break the bone.

There is no uniform design; most bolas have two or three balls, but there are versions of up to 8 or 9 balls. Some bolas have balls of equal weight,others vary the knot and cord. Gauchos use bolas made of leather cords with wooden balls or small leather sacks full of stones in the ends of the cords.

Bolas can be named depending on the amount of weights used:

Bolas of three weights are usually designed with two shorter cords with heavier weights, and one longer cord with a light weight. The heavier weights fly at the front parallel to each other, hit either side of the legs, and the lighter weight goes around, wrapping up the legs.

Other unrelated versions include "qilumitautit", the bolas of the Inuit, made of sinew and bone weights and used to capture water birds.



</doc>
<doc id="102327" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102327" title="Cord">
Cord

Cord may refer to:




</doc>
<doc id="102329" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102329" title="Howard Hughes">
Howard Hughes

Howard Robard Hughes, Jr. (December 24, 1905 – April 5, 1976), was an American businessman and movie producer. During his life, he was one of the richest people in the world. He was born in Texas to a wealthy family. He went to Hollywood and became a movie producer and aviator. Hughes broke several world records for flying aeroplanes. He created his own air company. It was later bought by TWA. Many people now think Hughes may have had OCD or obsessive compulsive disorder. This is because later in life, he kept himself away from the outside world. He lived in a hotel room at The Desert Inn in Las Vegas as a . He never left his room. He also did not cut his hair or fingernails. He had a group of doctors and other people to help take care of him. In 1972, a man named Clifford Irving claimed to have co-written the autobiography of Hughes. It was later shown to not be real. Hughes died while being moved to a hospital in Mexico. After he died, there was an argument over his will.


</doc>
<doc id="102330" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102330" title="Template:Lts/">
Template:Lts/


</doc>
<doc id="102332" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102332" title="Template:Col-start">
Template:Col-start

</noinclude>

</doc>
<doc id="102334" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102334" title="Template:Col-7">
Template:Col-7

<includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="102335" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102335" title="Tarzan">
Tarzan

Tarzan is a fictional character. He is in many books by Edgar Rice Burroughs. Edgar Rice Burroughs first wrote about Tarzan in 1912. The book was called "Tarzan of the Apes". Tarzan's father was an English lord who died in the jungle in Africa. The baby Tarzan was left alone in the jungle. Giant apes found the baby Tarzan and took care of him. In the stories, he has many exciting adventures. Tarzan has appeared in books, as well as movies, comic books, and television programs.


</doc>
<doc id="102336" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102336" title="Surfer Rosa">
Surfer Rosa

Surfer Rosa is the first music album by the Pixies. It was released by a record label called 4AD in March 1988.



</doc>
<doc id="102337" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102337" title="OK Go">
OK Go

OK Go is a rock band from Chicago. The band members are Damian Kulash (lead vocals and guitar), Tim Nordwind (bass guitar and backing vocals), Dan Konopka (drums and percussion) and Andy Ross (keyboards, guitar and backing vocals). Their best known song is "Here It Goes Again".


</doc>
<doc id="102338" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102338" title="Death zone">
Death zone

The death zone is the name used by mountain climbers for high altitude where there is not enough oxygen for humans to breathe. This is usually above 8,000 metres. Most of the 120 climbers who have died on Mount Everest, 8848 metres high, have died in the death zone. At the top of Mount Everest there is only about one-third of the oxygen in the air that there is at sea level; a human could only be there for a few minutes before they became unconscious. Climbers have to carry oxygen bottles to be able to reach the top.

Climber Lincoln Hall, who was left for dead on Everest in 2006, managed to survive. Lack of oxygen in his blood made it easier for him to get frostbite. He also had headaches, nausea and vomiting. He thinks he had cerebral oedema – or swelling of the brain. This is caused at high altitude when blood leaks into the brain itself. The swelling would have caused headaches, confusion and disorientation (not knowing where you are). This could kill a person if their brain became too compressed. Hall was left for dead when his breathing and heartbeat stopped. He was found the next day wandering near a cliff without his gloves or oxygen, and his climbing suit unzipped.


</doc>
<doc id="102347" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102347" title="George F. Smoot">
George F. Smoot

George Fitzgerald Smoot III (b. February 20, 1945) is an American professor of astrophysics and cosmology. In 2006 he won a Nobel Prize of physics for his work on COBE with John C. Mather that made it possible to measure black holes and cosmic radiation much more exactly than was possible before. 

This work gave new evidence for the big-bang idea that the universe was once a big explosion. This work was completed using the Cosmic Background Explorer Satellite (COBE). The Nobel Prize committee said: "the COBE-project can also be regarded as the starting point for cosmology as a precision science."

Professor Smoot works for the University of California, Berkeley Department of Physics. In 2003 he was awarded the Einstein Medal. 

Professor Smoot was born in Yukon, Florida. He went to Upper Arlington High School in Upper Arlington, Ohio until 1962. He studied mathematics for some time before going to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where he was awarded two bachelor's degrees for mathematics and physics in 1966, and a Ph.D. in particle physics in 1970.

Smoots cousin, Oliver R. Smoot, also studied at MIT (Massachusetts Institute of Technology), and was made famous for the Smoot measurement of the Harvard Bridge between Cambridge and Boston. The "Smoot" length was marked in paint over 360 times on the bridge and is repainted there every year. Oliver later worked as the Chairman of the American National Standards Institute.

Professor Smoot began to study cosmology, and went to Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory where he worked with Luis Walter Alvarez on the experiment HAPPE, a high up weather balloon for detecting antimatter in the upper atmosphere. 

He then took up an interest in the microwaves in cosmic radiation which had been discovered by Arno Allan Penzias and Robert Woodrow Wilson in 1964. This work gave new evidence of what the universe is made of. Some researchers thought that the universe was rotating, which would mean that temperature of microwaves would seem different when measured from different angles. With the help of Alvarez and Richard A. Muller, Professor Smoot developed a radiometer to measure the difference in temperature from two angles 60 degrees apart. The radiometer was put on top of a Lockheed U-2 plane, but the measurements seemed to show that the universe was not rotating. It did, however, detect another difference in the microwave temperature on one side of the sky. They called this a dipole pattern and a Doppler effect of the Earth's motion. A doppler effect happens because the Sun, and the Milky Way are moving at nearly 600 km/s. They think this is caused by gravity from the Great Attractor.

The measurements from the radiometer showed that one side of the sky was different to the other but this was surprising because it was expected that many differences would be found all over the sky. Smoot was working on finding these smaller differences in the late 1970s when he gave NASA an idea to make a satellite with a detector that was similar to the one mounted on the Lockheed aeroplane. This detector would be much more powerful and it would not be affected by the atmosphere. NASA spent US$160  million on the satellite and named it the COBE. The COBE satellite was delayed after the Space Shuttle Challenger was destroyed, but was launched successfully on November 18, 1989. After more than two years, on 21 April 1992, the COBE research team claimed that the satellite had detected the small differences they were looking for. This was very important in the study of the early universe. The study was "evidence for the birth of the universe". Professor Smoot said: "If you're religious, it's like looking at God."

More than 1,000 researchers, engineers and other workers helped to make the COBE. John Mather was in control of the whole project and the experiments that made the COBE possible. George Smoot was in control of measuring the small differences in the temperature of the radiation.

Smoot worked with the "San Francisco Chronicle"s journalist, Keay Davidson, to write a book called "Wrinkles in Time", all about the team's work. In the book "The Very First Light", John Mather and John Boslough write more of the COBE story. Mathers book says that Professor George was giving news of COBE to the press before NASA did. This made problems between Smoot and Mather in the past.

After COBE, Smoot helped with another experiment with a stratospheric balloon called the MAXIMA experiment. This ballon took some better measurements than the COBE. Smoot has continued studying cosmic radiatin and now works on the third generation COBE satellite Planck. He is also working on the design of a Supernova/Acceleration Probe (SNAP), a satellite which is to measure dark energy. He has also assisted in analyzing data from the Spitzer Space Telescope in connection with measuring far infrared background radiation.



</doc>
<doc id="102357" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102357" title="Soundgarden">
Soundgarden

Soundgarden is a American rock band. The band started in 1984 in Seattle, Washington. The state of Washington has been a theme in many of their songs. The members before the break-up was singer Chris Cornell, bass guitarist Ben Shepherd, guitarist Kim Thayil, and drummer Matt Cameron.
As of 2010, Soundgarden had sold over nine million records in the United States,and an estimated twenty-one million worldwide.
Soundgarden have released a total of five studio albums. Their two first albums were not very successful. The band's members changed several times during the 1980s and early 1990s, but Cornell and Thayil would been with the band to their break up in 1997. When Shepherd joined in 1990, Soundgarden's next album, "Badmotorfinger", became a mainstream success. It was the band's first album to appear on the top 100 on the "Billboard" music chart and chart outside the United States. Their fourth album, "Superunknown", was even more popular and made them celebrities. It sold over five million copies in the United States. "Down on the Upside" was their fifth and last studio album and was released in 1996. The album was not able to meat the sales of Soundgardens two earlier albums in the United States and Canada. Soundgarden broke up in 1997 after they released the compilation album A-Sides. Soundgarden is remembered as one of the big four of Seattle with Alice in Chains, Pearl Jam and Nirvana.As of 2010, Soundgarden had sold over nine million records in the United States,and an estimated twenty-one million worldwide.

Soundgarden was formed in 1984 by Chris Cornell (drums and vocals) and Hiro Yamamoto (bass); they were later joined by Kim Thayil (guitar). Thayil had moved to Seattle from Park Forest, Illinois with Yamamoto and Bruce Pavitt, who would later start Sub Pop Records. The band named themselves after a wind-channeling pipe sculpture, "The Sound Garden," located in Magnuson Park, Seattle.

Cornell originally played drums while singing, but in 1985 the band enlisted Scott Sundquist to allow Cornell to concentrate on vocals. The band's first recordings were three songs that appeared on a compilation for C/Z Records called "Deep Six". It also featured songs by fellow grunge pioneers Green River, Skin Yard, Malfunkshun, The U-Men and the Melvins. In 1986, Sundquist left the band and was replaced by Matt Cameron, who was the drummer for Skin Yard.

KCMU-FM DJ Jonathan Poneman was impressed after seeing Soundgarden perform one night, later saying, "I saw this band that was everything rock music should be." Poneman offered to fund a release by the band, so Thayil told him to team up with Bruce Pavitt. Poneman offered to contribute $20,000 in funding for Sub Pop, effectively turning it into a full-fledged record label. The band signed to Sub Pop, releasing the "Screaming Life" EP in 1987, and the "Fopp" EP in 1988. A combination of the two was issued as "Screaming Life/Fopp" in 1990.

Though the band was being courted by major labels, in 1988 it signed to the lesser known SST Records to release its debut album, "Ultramega OK", for which the band earned a Grammy nomination for Best Metal Performance in 1990. The band's first music video, "Flower", was directed by Mark Miremont, and aired regularly on MTV's "120 Minutes". Soundgarden supported "Ultramega OK" with a tour of the United States in the spring of 1989 and a tour of Europe which began in May 1989 and which was the band's first overseas tour.

In 1989, the band released their first album for a major label, "Louder Than Love", through A&M Records. The signing caused a bad relations between Soundgarden and its traditional audience. Thayil said, "In the beginning, our fans came from the punk rock crowd. They abandoned us when they thought we had sold out the punk tenets, getting on a major label and touring with Guns N' Roses. There were fashion issues and social issues, and people thought we no longer belonged to their scene, to their particular sub-culture." "Louder Than Love" became the band's first album to chart on the "Billboard" 200, peaking at number 108 on the chart in 1990. Because of some of the song lyrics, most notably on "Hands All Over" and "Big Dumb Sex", the band faced various retail and distribution problems upon the album's release.

A month before touring for "Louder Than Love" was released, bassist Hiro Yamamoto left to go back to college. He was replaced by former Nirvana bassist Jason Everman. Soundgarden went on a North American tour that startet in December 1989 and ended in March 1990. On this tour the band served as the opening act for Voivod on the band's "Nothingface" tour, with Faith No More also serving as an opening act at the beginning and end of the tour. The band then went on to tour Europe. Bassist Jason Everman was fired immediately after Soundgarden completed its promotional tour for "Louder Than Love" in mid-1990. "Louder Than Love" spawned the EP "Loudest Love" and the video compilation "Louder Than Live", both released in 1990.

Bassist Ben Shepherd joined Soundgarden in 1990. Soundgarden released "Badmotorfinger" in 1991. Although overshadowed at the time of its release by the sudden popularity of Nirvana's "Nevermind", the focus of attention brought by "Nevermind" to the Seattle scene helped Soundgarden gain attention. The singles "Outshined" and "Rusty Cage" were able to find an audience at alternative radio and MTV. The first single from "Badmotorfinger", "Jesus Christ Pose", garnered attention when MTV decided to ban its music video in 1991. Many listeners were outraged by the song and its video, calling it anti-Christian. The band received death threats while on tour in the United Kingdom in support of the album. "Badmotorfinger" was nominated for a Grammy for Best Metal Performance in 1992.

Following the release of "Badmotorfinger", Soundgarden went on a North America tour that startet in October 1991 and ended in November 1991. Afterward, the band took a slot opening for Guns N' Roses in North America on the band's Use Your Illusion Tour. Soundgarden was personally selected by Guns N' Roses as its opening band. The band took a slot opening for Skid Row in North America in February 1992 on the band's "Slave to the Grind" tour, and then headed to Europe for a month-long headlining theater tour. The band returned for a tour of the United States and subsequently rejoined Guns N' Roses in the summer of 1992 in Europe as part of the Use Your Illusion Tour along with fellow opening act Faith No More. Regarding the time spent opening for Guns N' Roses, Cornell said, "It was not a whole lot of fun going out in front of 40,000 people for 35 minutes every day. Most of them had not heard our songs and did not care about them. It was a bizarre thing." The band would go on to play the 1992 Lollapalooza tour with the Red Hot Chili Peppers, Pearl Jam, and Ministry, among others. The band later released the video compilation "Motorvision", which was filmed at the Paramount Theatre in 1992. The band also made an appearance in the movie "Singles" performing "Birth Ritual". The song appeared on the soundtrack, as did a Chris Cornell solo song, "Seasons".

Soundgarden released "Superunknown" in 1994 and became the band's best-selling album, driven by the singles "Black Hole Sun", "Spoonman", "My Wave", and "Fell on Black Days". Upon its release in March 1994, "Superunknown" debuted at number one on the "Billboard" 200 album chart. The songs on "Superunknown" captured the creativity and heaviness of the band's earlier works, while showcasing the group's newly evolving style. Lyrically, the album was quite dark and mysterious, as much of it is often interpreted to be dealing with substance abuse, suicide, and depression. The album was also more experimental than previous releases, with some songs incorporating Middle-Eastern or Indian music. Reviewer J.D. Considine of "Rolling Stone" said "Superunknown" "demonstrates far greater range than many bands manage in an entire career." He also stated, "At its best, "Superunknown" offers a more harrowing depiction of alienation and despair than anything on "In Utero"." The music video for "Black Hole Sun" became a hit on MTV and received the award for Best Metal/Hard Rock Video at the 1994 MTV Video Music Awards. Soundgarden won two Grammy Awards in 1995; "Black Hole Sun" received the award for Best Hard Rock Performance and "Spoonman" received the award for Best Metal Performance.

Soundgarden startet the tour in January 1994 in Australia, Japan, and New Zealand, areas where the record came out early, as well as regions where the band had never toured before. This round of touring ended in February 1994, and then in March 1994 the band moved on to Europe. The band began a theater tour of the United States on May 27, 1994, with the opening acts Tad and Eleven. In late 1994, after touring in support of "Superunknown", doctors discovered that Cornell had severely strained his vocal cords. Soundgarden canceled several shows to avoid causing any permanent damage. Cornell said, "I think we kinda overdid it! We were playing five or six nights a week and my voice pretty much took a beating. Towards the end of the American tour I felt like I could still kinda sing, but I was not really giving the band a fair shake. You do not buy a ticket to see some guy croak for two hours! That seemed like kind of a rip off." The band would make up the dates later in 1995.

The band's last studio album was "Down on the Upside" released in 1996. Four singles where released from the album: "Pretty Noose", "Blow Up the Outside World", "Burden in My Hand", and "Ty Cobb". The album was notably less heavy than the group's previous albums, and marked a further departure from the band's grunge roots. Soundgarden explained at the time that it wanted to experiment with other sounds. David Browne of "Entertainment Weekly" said, "Few bands since Led Zeppelin have so crisply mixed instruments both acoustic and electric." However, tensions within the group startet during the sessions, with Thayil and Cornell reportedly clashing over Cornell's desire to shift away from the heavy guitar riffing that had become the band's trademark. Despite favorable reviews, the album did not match the sales of "Superunknown".

The band took a slot on the 1996 Lollapalooza tour with Metallica, who had insisted on Soundgarden's appearance on the tour. After Lollapalooza, the band embarked on a world tour. Tensions continued to increase during the tour in support of the album. When asked if the band hated touring, Cornell said, "We really enjoy it to a point and then it gets tedious, because it becomes repetitious. You feel like fans have paid their money and they expect you to come out and play them your songs like the first time you ever played them. That's the point where we hate touring." At the tour's final stop in Honolulu, Hawaii on February 9, 1997, Shepherd threw his bass into the air in frustration after suffering equipment failure, and subsequently stormed off the stage. The band retreated, with Cornell returning to conclude the show with a solo encore. On April 9, 1997, the band announced its disbanding. Thayil said, "It was pretty obvious from everybody's general attitude over the course of the previous half year that there was some dissatisfaction." Soundgarden's final release, a greatest-hits compilation titled "A-Sides", was released the following fall.

Chris Cornell released his debut album in September 1999, titled "Euphoria Morning". Later, in 2001, he formed the supergroup Audioslave with the former members of Rage Against the Machine. Cornell recorded three albums as Audioslave's vocalist until the bands breakup in early 2007. His second solo album "Carry On" was released to mixed commercial success in June 2007.

Kim Thayil befriended ex-Dead Kennedys vocalist Jello Biafra, former Nirvana bassist Krist Novoselic and drummer Gina Mainwal for one show, performing as the No WTO Combo during the WTO ministerial conference in Seattle on December 1, 1999. Thayil later contributed guitar tracks to Steve Fisk's 2001 album "999 Levels of Undo", as well as Dave Grohl's side-project album "Probot", released in 2004. In 2006, Thayil performed guitar on the album "Altar", the collaboration between the bands Sunn O))) and Boris.

Matt Cameron turned his efforts to his side-project Wellwater Conspiracy, to which both Shepherd and Thayil have contributed. He then worked briefly with The Smashing Pumpkins and was even rumoured as a replacement for Jimmy Chamberlin. In 1998, he stepped in on drums for Pearl Jam's Yield Tour, and subsequently joined the band as a permanent member.

Ben Shepherd was the vocalist on Wellwater Conspiracy's first studio album, "Declaration of Conformity", released in 1997, however he left the band in 1998. He has toured with Mark Lanegan and released the second Hater album in 2005.

Regarding a future Soundgarden reunion, Cornell stated in an October 2005 interview that it would "probably not happen". He continued, "It's almost like we sealed the lid and said, this is Soundgarden and this is its lifespan, and put it out there. And it looks really great to me. I think getting back together would take the lid off that and then could possibly change what... to me seems like the perfect lifespan of the band. I can not think of any reason to mess with that." In interviews following his departure from Audioslave in February 2007, Cornell reiterated that the members of Soundgarden had no interest in reuniting. In an interview in early August 2007, Cornell mentioned that Thayil has wanted to release a box set or B-sides album of Soundgarden rarities, although no further information was given.



</doc>
<doc id="102389" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102389" title="Template:Remove">
Template:Remove


</doc>
<doc id="102391" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102391" title="Template:Question">
Template:Question


</doc>
<doc id="102394" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102394" title="Template:Unsupport">
Template:Unsupport


</doc>
<doc id="102396" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102396" title="Template:Info">
Template:Info

 Info:

</doc>
<doc id="102397" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102397" title="Template:Strongly oppose">
Template:Strongly oppose


</doc>
<doc id="102398" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102398" title="Template:Strongly support">
Template:Strongly support


</doc>
<doc id="102400" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102400" title="Template:Agree">
Template:Agree


</doc>
<doc id="102401" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102401" title="Template:Move">
Template:Move


</doc>
<doc id="102402" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102402" title="Template:Delist">
Template:Delist


</doc>
<doc id="102411" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102411" title="Book of Judges">
Book of Judges

The Book of Judges is the seventh book in both the Christian Bible (Old Testament), and the Hebrew Tanakh. It was originally written in Hebrew, to the people in Israel. The Hebrew word for the book is Shaptiym, which means, 'people of judgment.'


</doc>
<doc id="102412" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102412" title="Black people">
Black people

Black people is a phrase that is used for a racial group of humans with a dark skin color. The word has also been used to name a number of different people into one group. Some meanings of the word mean only people of Sub Saharan African descent (see African diaspora). Others use the word for any of the groups that have dark skin color. A meaning that also includes certain groups in Oceania and Southeast Asia. southern South Asia, and the southern Middle East.



</doc>
<doc id="102423" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102423" title="Book of Ruth">
Book of Ruth

The Book of "Ruth" (meaning "pity or compassion") is the eight book of the Old Testament (Christian), and the Tanakh (Jewish). It is one of the shortest books in both the Jewish and Christian holy books, consisting of only four chapters. It is unknown who wrote the book. Some think that it was written by Samuel, but there is no evidence for that. According to many scholars, this book was originally part of the Book of Judges, and was later taken from that book and made independent. It was probably written around 900 BC.

The book tells the story of the family of Elimelech, his wife Naomi, and their sons Mahlon and Chilion. Because of a famine, they were forced to leave Bethlehem and go to the land of Moab. Once there, Elimelech died, and his sons married two Moabite women. Mahlon married Ruth, and Chilion married Orpah. After some time there, Mahlon and Chilion both died.

Naomi was forced to return home because her husband and sons were dead. She then told Ruth and Orpah to return home to their families and find new husbands. Orpah returned home but Ruth promised she would follow Naomi wherever she went. 

They returned to home and Ruth decided she would go into the fields to pick up grain the wealthy people would drop on the ground (a common practice in that time). A kind man named Boaz, who was the owner of the field, noticed her and her beauty. He told his workers to drop extra grain for her. When she went home to tell her mother-in-law how much she received, they found out that Boaz was a close relative of theirs.

After an even closer relative said he would not marry her, Boaz and Ruth were happily married. She would bear him a son named Obed, who was the father of Jesse, who was the father of David, who was, according to the New Testament, the ancestor of Jesus.



</doc>
<doc id="102424" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102424" title="Mesolithic">
Mesolithic

The Mesolithic was a period in the development of human technology between the Paleolithic and Neolithic periods of the Stone Age. 

In the Palaeolithic, people were pure hunter-gatherers. In the Neolithic they were farmers in settlements with domesticated animals and wheat, with over 100 kinds of tools and with pottery. The Mesolithic was a transitional period between the two. It happened at different times in different places.

The term was introduced by John Lubbock in his work "Pre-historic times", published in 1865. It was not much used until V. Gordon Childe popularized it in his book "The dawn of Europe" (1947).

The Mesolithic culture can be set apart from that of the Palaeolithic in these ways:

The Fertile Crescent was the first part of the world to move out of the Palaeolithic.

In some areas, such as the Near East, agriculture was already underway by the end of the Pleistocene, and there the Mesolithic is short. In areas with limited influence of ice age, the term "Epipaleolithic" is sometimes preferred. 

Regions that experienced greater environmental effects as the last ice age ended have a much more evident Mesolithic era. This lasted millennia. In Northern Europe, societies were able to live well on rich food supplies from the marshlands. Such conditions produced distinctive human behaviours which are preserved in characteristic finds. These conditions also delayed the coming of the Neolithic until as late as 4000 BC (6,000 before present) in northern Europe.



</doc>
<doc id="102425" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102425" title="Category:Stone Age">
Category:Stone Age


</doc>
<doc id="102428" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102428" title="Epipalaeolithic">
Epipalaeolithic

The Epipaleolithic or "peripheral old stone age" is a term used for the hunter-gatherer cultures that existed after the end of the last ice age, before the Neolithic. 

The term is sometimes confused with Mesolithic, and the two are sometimes used as synonyms. Yet, when a distinction is made, Epipaleolithic is used for those cultures that were not much affected by the ending of the Ice Age and the term Mesolithic is reserved for Western Europe where the extinction of the Megafauna had a great influence on the paleolithic populations at the end of the Ice Age.


</doc>
<doc id="102430" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102430" title="Thinker">
Thinker

Thinker could mean:


</doc>
<doc id="102432" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102432" title="Agricultural revolution">
Agricultural revolution

Agricultural revolution could mean:

There are also several more local events related to agriculture and called revolutions:



</doc>
<doc id="102433" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102433" title="Neolithic Revolution">
Neolithic Revolution

The Neolithic Revolution was the first agricultural revolution—the transition from nomadic hunting and gathering communities and bands to agriculture and settlement. It occurred in different prehistoric human societies at different times. Most societies changed 9–7 thousand years ago. 

The term ugh refers to both the general time period over which these developments took place and the following changes to Neolithic human societies which are associated with, the adoption of early farming techniques, crop cultivation, and the domestication of animals.
The Neolithic Revolution is important for developments in social organization and technology. The changes most often associated with the Neolithic Revolution include an increased tendency to live in permanent or semi-permanent settlements. Because of this fewer people led a nomadic lifestyle. To be able to know who the crops grown belonged to, the concept of land ownership needed to be developed. Modifications to the natural environment, the ability to sustain higher population densities, an increased reliance on vegetable and cereal foods in the total diet, the development of hierarchy in society and of "trading economies" that use surplus production from increasing crop yields are other changes often cited.

When humans started to domesticate crops, and certain animals such as dogs, goats, sheep, and cattle, human society changed. Because people now grew crops and raised livestock they no longer needed to move around that much. They could build better settlements. Their diet also changed. It included more oats and vegetables. People also started to keep and manage some foods - it was not advisable to eat all grain seeds, because then there would be no seeds left to plant the next year. Also, as there were surpluses in some years, these could be traded for other goods with other people.

These changes happened in several places of the world, independently. They did not happen in the same order though. The earliest farming societies in the Near East did not use pottery. It is still unclear, to what extent plants were domesticated in Britain, or if permanently settled communities existed at all. Early Japanese societies used pottery "before" developing agriculture.

In the Paleolithic there were many different human species. According to current research, only the modern human reached the Neolithic though.
Vere Gordon Childe gave the name "Neolithic Revolution" to this process in the 1920s. He thought that it was as important as the Industrial Revolution (which happened in the 18th and 19th century).

There are different theories why this transition could have happened:

According to Harland, there are three main categories of causes why the Paleolithic revolution happened:




</doc>
<doc id="102438" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102438" title="Category:Costa Rican people">
Category:Costa Rican people


</doc>
<doc id="102443" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102443" title="British Army">
British Army

The British Army is the land armed forces branch of the British Armed Forces. It came into being with unification of the Kingdoms of England and Scotland into the Kingdom of Great Britain in 1707. The new British Army incorporated Regiments that had already existed in England and Scotland and was administered by the War Office from London. Since 1963 it has been managed by the Ministry of Defence.

From roughly 1763 the United Kingdom has been one of the leading military and economic powers of the world. The British Empire expanded in this time to include colonies, protectorates, and Dominions throughout the Americas, Africa, Asia and Australasia. Although the Royal Navy is widely regarded as having been vital for the rise of Empire, and British dominance of the world, the British Army played important roles in colonisation. 

The British army was heavily involved in the Napoleonic Wars in which the army served in Spain, across Europe, and in North Africa. The war between the British and French Empires stretched around the world. The British Army finally came to defeat Napoleon at one of Britain's greatest military victories at the battle of Waterloo.

Under Oliver Cromwell, the English Army had been active in the conquest, and the settlement, of Ireland since the 1650s. The Cromwellian campaign was characterised by its uncompromising treatment of the Irish towns that had supported the Royalists during the English Civil War. 



</doc>
<doc id="102445" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102445" title="Mario Kart">
Mario Kart

Mario Kart is a series of racing video games made by Nintendo. It features Mario and his friends driving race karts. The first game was called "Super Mario Kart" and was made for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System video game console in 1993.

Eight racers gather on a circuit and race for three or five laps until one kart finishes first. Along the way, players can pick up items to use against rivals. Some items help the player and others hurt the other players. For instance, a lightning bolt will make all the other racers smaller and slow them down, allowing the player who used it to speed ahead. A mushroom will give a speed boost to the player who uses it.

All games after "Super Mario Kart" feature another mode called "battle mode". In this mode, all racers are given a number of balloons and they race around a track. If they get hit by an item, they lose one balloon, and when they lose all of them they lose the game. The last player with any balloons is the winner. 

Each game features two different racing modes. Players can either go right into whichever track of their choosing or they can play GP. In GP, players race on four or five tracks in a row and win a championship depending on how they place. They receive points for how they placed in the race.

The two latest games, "Mario Kart DS" and "Mario Kart Wii", use the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection service to race against other players online. In "DS", players could only race on tracks. In "Wii", players can go into battle mode.

Characters are listed in alphabetical order. * means they are unlockable (secret) characters, ** means they are very secret characters.


</doc>
<doc id="102446" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102446" title="City Loop, Melbourne">
City Loop, Melbourne

The Melbourne City Loop is where Melbourne, Victoria's railway lines meet. Most of the stations are under the ground. The stations in the loop are Flinders Street Station, Southern Cross Station, Parliament, Melbourne Central and Flagstaff.


</doc>
<doc id="102448" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102448" title="Percy Bysshe Shelley">
Percy Bysshe Shelley

Percy Bysshe Shelley (4 August 1792 – 8 July 1822) was an English poet of the early nineteenth century. He is widely thought of as one of most important poets of the Romantic movement in English literature. Some of his poems, like "Ozymandias" and "Ode to the West Wind", are among the most famous in English.

Shelley was the son of a member of Parliament. He attended the University of Oxford, for only one year; he was expelled for being an atheist. In his own time Shelley was very unpopular for his political and religious views and for his personal conduct. He married young, but left his wife to run away with Mary Godwin. After Shelley's first wife committed suicide, Shelley married Mary Godwin; she later became famous as Mary Shelley, the author of the novel "Frankenstein". 

Shelley left England and spent much of his life travelling in Europe, especially in Italy. He became a close friend of the poet Lord Byron, who also left England and travelled in Europe because of controversy at home. Shelley continued to write poetry throughout this time; he wrote several major works, like the verse drama "The Cenci" and long poems like "Alastor" and "Adonais", as well as many shorter poems.

About a month before his 30th birthday, Shelley drowned in a boating accident off the coast of Italy. He was one of a trio of important English Romantic poets of the same generation who died young; the other two were Lord Byron and John Keats.


</doc>
<doc id="102465" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102465" title="Romani language">
Romani language

Romani or Romany (native name: "romani ćhib") is the language of the Roma and Sinti. The Indo-Aryan Romani language should not be confused with either Romanian (spoken by Romanians), or Romansh (spoken in parts of southeastern Switzerland), both of which are Romance languages.

Analysis of the Romani language has shown that it is closely related to those spoken in central and northern India, Pothwari in particular. This linguistic relationship is believed to indicate the Roma's and Sinti's geographical origin. Loanwords in Romani make it possible to trace the pattern of their migration westwards. 

The following table shows the distribution of Romani speakers in Europe according to Bakker et al. (2000) . The last column shows the percentage of Romani speakers in the Roma population in each country. 

</div>



</doc>
<doc id="102466" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102466" title="Fudge">
Fudge

Fudge is a sometimes cake-like candy that can be rich and can have the flavor of cocoa. It is made by putting sugar, butter, milk, and chocolate and mixing them together.



</doc>
<doc id="102468" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102468" title="Sinti">
Sinti

Sinti or Sinta (Singular masc.=Sinto; sing. fem.=Sintisa) is the name of some communities of the nomadic people usually called "Gypsies" in English. This includes communities known in German and Dutch as "Zigeuner" and in Italian as "Zingari". They are closely related to, and are usually considered to be a subgroup of, the Roma people.

While the Sinti were, until quite recently, chiefly nomadic, today only a small percentage of the group remains unsettled. In earlier times, they frequently lived on the outskirts of communities, generally in squalor.

The Sinti arrived in Germany and Austria in the Middle Ages, eventually splitting into two groups: "Eftavagarja" ("the Seven Caravans") and "Estraxarja" ("from Austria"). These two groups then expanded, the Eftavagarja into France, where they assimilated into the local Romani groups (Manouches), and the Estraxarja into Italy and Eastern Europe, mainly what are now Croatia, Hungary, Transylvania, the Czech Republic and Slovakia, eventually adopting various regional names.

In Italy they are present mainly in Piedmont region.

The Sinti have produced a great number of renowned musicians, such as jazz guitarist Django Reinhardt. 



</doc>
<doc id="102472" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102472" title="Strapping Young Lad">
Strapping Young Lad

Strapping Young Lad is a Metal band from Vancouver, Canada. They play Death Metal. These people play in the band: Devin Townsend (guitar, vocals), Jed Simon (guitar, vocals), Byron Stoud (bass, vocals), Gene Hoglan (drums).



</doc>
<doc id="102475" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102475" title="Rock climbing">
Rock climbing

Rock climbing is a sport where someone uses his hands and feet to climb up a rock or a 
artificial climbing wall. Rock climbing is a very difficult sport because you need to have a lot of strength. Rock climbers must know how to use ropes, carabiners and harnesses for their own safety.

Because of many different kinds of rocks around the world, many different kinds of climbing started.


</doc>
<doc id="102477" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102477" title="Doug Henning">
Doug Henning

Douglas James Henning (1947-2000) was a Canadian magician, illusionist and escape artist. He helped to re- magic shows, during his in the 1970s.

Henning's approach to magic and performing was different from earlier magicians. While magicians usually performed in black , Henning wore colorful clothes. He also studied psychology in college, to know how the human mind works.

Henning is credited by many for the resurgence of the public's interest in magic, thanks to his breakthroug Broadway show, "The Magic Show," which opened in 1974 and ran for almost five years. This was followed by eight television specials on NBC (the first of which remains the most watched magic television special in history, with over fifty million viewers). In 1982, he appeared in another Broadway show, "Merlin", which ran for seven months. Though the magic in Merlin was met with accolades, critics trounced the show's book and music.

Henning was a spokesperson for Polaroid, TWA, Minolta and Chrysler.

He was a student of the Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, and used transcendental meditation to help him focus and to relax. He tried to help the Maharishi open a theme park, called Vedaland. Henning also ran for in Canada, but lost the election. 

Henning died in 2000 of liver cancer. Instead of normal medical treatments, he tried to cure himself through natural and diet, but this did not work. After his death, Henning's widow kept the Vedaland campaign going.

The first and only written biography of Doug Henning, "Spellbound: The Wonder-filled Life of Doug Henning" was published in 2009 (John Harrison, BoxOffice Books, New York.)


</doc>
<doc id="102478" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102478" title="Rancid (band)">
Rancid (band)

Rancid are an influential ska-punk band formed in 1991 in Albany, California by Tim Armstrong and Matt Freeman.


Rancid were formed in 1991 out of the ashes of out of the seminal ska punk band Operation Ivy, which had broken up two years earlier. Following Operation Ivy's breakup, Tim Armstrong and Matt Freeman decided to form a new band, and started a hardcore punk group called Generator, which quickly broke up. They also started two other ska influenced bands, Downfall and Dance Hall Crashers, but moved on quickly from both. In 1991, after Armstrong and Freeman recruited drummer Brett Reed, Rancid officially became Rancid.

Rancid's first official recorded release was a 1992 self-titled EP, which is currently out of print, for Operation Ivy's old label Lookout! Records. Also during 1992, shortly after releasing this, Rancid were signed to Bad Religion guitarist Brett Gurewitz's label, Epitaph Records, and finally released their first album in 1993, which is also self-titled. Prior to its release, the band was looking for a second guitarist and Armstrong asked former UK Subs guitarist Lars Frederiksen to be Rancid's second guitarist, but he immediately turned down the request. However, after Billie Joe Armstrong (who was in Green Day at the time) declined, Frederiksen changed his mind and decided to join Rancid.

Frederiksen was present on Rancid's second album, "Let's Go", which was released in 1994 and spawned the radio hit "Salvation". That year their label-mates, The Offspring, experienced a huge success with their album "Smash". The Offspring took Rancid on tour with them, and helped "Let's Go" make it to #97 on Billboard's Heatseekers and Billboard 200 charts, respectively. With the success of the album Rancid were pursued by several major labels, including Madonna's Maverick Records, but the band eventually turned down the idea of signing to a different label and decided to just stay on Epitaph.

Rancid's popularity grew in 1995 with their third album, "...And Out Come the Wolves", which quickly surpassed "Let's Go" in terms of success. The critically-acclaimed album, also the band's most successful, produced three singles, "Roots Radicals", "Time Bomb", and "Ruby Soho", which all charted on the North American Billboard Modern Rock Tracks, and the band performed two of these songs on "Saturday Night Live". "...And Out Come the Wolves" was certified gold by the RIAA on January 22, 1996. It was also certified platinum on September 23, 2004.

Since the release of "...And Out Come the Wolves", Rancid would became one of the most important punk bands of the 1990s, along with ALL, Bad Religion, Face to Face, Green Day, Guttermouth, Lagwagon, NOFX, The Offspring, Pennywise, Social Distortion (the latter of which Freeman would eventually join and later leave), The Vandals, and many others.




</doc>
<doc id="102479" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102479" title="Glen Canyon Dam">
Glen Canyon Dam

Glen Canyon Dam is a large dam on the Colorado River. It is located in Page, Arizona. The dam is 583 feet high and it is 1,560 feet wide. It creates Lake Powell which is 186 miles long. The purpose of the dam is to create electricity and to prevent floods. The reservoir can store 27 million acre-feet of water (which is the amount of water that can cover one acre to 1 foot deep). Construction of the dam began in 1956. It was able to begin storing the flow of the river in 1963.



</doc>
<doc id="102485" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102485" title="Superunknown">
Superunknown

Superunknown is the fourth studio album by the American rock band Soundgarden. The album was released in 1994. The album is well known thanks to singles like "Black Hole Sun", "Spoonman" and "Fell on Black Days".



</doc>
<doc id="102487" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102487" title="Badmotorfinger">
Badmotorfinger

Badmotorfinger is the third studio album by the American rock band Soundgarden. It is one of Soundgarden's best-selling albums. The album was released October 8, 1991.


"Satanoscillatemymetallicsonatas" was a bonus CD included with some editions of "Badmotorfinger" (like how "Songs from the Superunknown" was included with "Superunknown". The title is a palindrome ("Satan, oscillate my metallic sonatas.")



</doc>
<doc id="102518" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102518" title="Bernoulli's principle">
Bernoulli's principle

Bernoulli's principle is a concept of fluid dynamics. It says that when an incompressible fluid moves through different sizes of tube, the fluid's speed changes. This change in velocity is called "acceleration". Newton showed that acceleration only occurs through the action of a force. When a force acts over an area, it is called "pressure". So any change in a fluid's speed must be matched by a change in pressure (force). Bernoulli saw that the speed of the flow went up in the smaller part of the tube while the pressure on the side of the tube went down.

Basically the Bernoulli principle says that as speed of the fluid increases, pressure decreases. The photo on the right shows this happening. The air in the wide part of the tube has a higher static pressure than the thin part. For a steady flow, the amount of fluid entering the pipe must equal the amount leaving the pipe, so the fluid speed in the thin part must increase.

The full version of Bernoulli's principle includes both the work performed by the pressure and by the changes in potential energy from changes in height. In this form, the principle says the sum of the pressure, kinetic energy, and potential energy is a constant. (Bernoulli does not take into account viscosity or compressibility.)


</doc>
<doc id="102540" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102540" title="Book of Proverbs">
Book of Proverbs

The Book of Proverbs is a book in both the Tanakh (Judaism), and the Old Testament (Christianity). The book contains some of the most important teaching and instructions in each of their respective Religions. 

Most scholars believe that Solomon was the writer of at least part of the book. Other authors are mentioned as well, but these references are missing in the Greek Septuagint. The Septuagint sees King Solomon as the author of the whole Book of Proverbs. In the Middle Ages, scholars thought the Vulgate was a more faithful rendering of 30:1 and 31:1. In their eyes the words "Agur" and "Lamuel" were only other names for Solomon.

Dates for the writing of the book are unclear. Because of suggested authorship of Solomon, and the workings of Hezekiah's men, there are some dates that can be worked with. However there are not enough to give specific timing to the completion of the book, though it could have been as late as third century BC



</doc>
<doc id="102548" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102548" title="Welwitschia">
Welwitschia

Welwitschia or "Welwitschia mirabilis" is known as one the oldest living plants. It can be called a "living fossil". The plant is mainly found in the deserts of Namibia. It is debated that certain plants are more than 5000 years old. This would make it the oldest living thing on Earth.

It is named after the discoverer, Dr. Friedrich Welwitsch. The plant is locally called "long haired thing". Its structure consists of a short, woody, topshaped stem, and never more than two leaves, which are enormously long, (two or three metres) and at length split into diverging segments.


</doc>
<doc id="102550" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102550" title="Petasites">
Petasites

Petasites is a genus of herbs with leaves in the shape of a heart in the family Asteraceae. The common english name of petasites is "Butterbur". Plants of this genus grow near rivers and other water places in Europe, Asia and North America.
In general, the leaves are very big. His root is very long and grows very quick. Flowers are white, yellow, white-yellow or white-red, they are small and in a great number.

Butterbur is used in medical purposes, but there is a poison in all parts of the plant.

Some species of Butterbur are cultivated as a garden plant.
<br style="clear:left">



</doc>
<doc id="102553" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102553" title="Category:Asteraceae">
Category:Asteraceae


</doc>
<doc id="102555" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102555" title="Death Angel">
Death Angel

Death Angel is a thrash metal band from Concord, California. They played from 1982 to 1991. In 2001 they started to play again. All of their members are from the Philippines. The members are: Mark Osegueda (vocals) Rob Cavestany (guitar, vocals), Ted Aguilar (guitar), Andy Galeon (drums), Dennis Pepa (bass, vocals)



</doc>
<doc id="102556" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102556" title="Arch Enemy">
Arch Enemy

Arch Enemy is a death metal band from Sweden. They started in 1996. The members are: Angela Gossow (vocals), Michael Amott (guitar, vocals), Christopher Amott (guitar), Sharlee D'Angelo, (bass) Daniel Erlandsson (drums).





</doc>
<doc id="102557" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102557" title="Trivium">
Trivium

Trivium may mean:



</doc>
<doc id="102559" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102559" title="Living fossil">
Living fossil

Living fossil refers to life forms which have survived with little change for a long time, and which are still around today. 








</doc>
<doc id="102560" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102560" title="Caliban (band)">
Caliban (band)

Caliban is a metal band from Hattingen, Germany. They started in 1997. They play "metalcore" which is mixture of Hardcore and Heavy metal. The members are: Andreas Dörner (vocals), Denis Schmidt (guitar, vocals), Marc Görtz (guitar), Marco Schaller (bass, vocals) and Patrick Grün (drums).




</doc>
<doc id="102567" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102567" title="NetBSD">
NetBSD

NetBSD is an open source version of the Unix-derivative BSD computer operating system.

NetBSD is known for being very portable (able to work with a many kinds of computers), such as a small ARM or big amd64 Opteron computers. It is also seen as being fast (does things quickly), secure (hard for people to do bad things to) and stable (does not break often).

When people use NetBSD, like most software, they must agree to a license. The BSD license, which NetBSD uses, allows everyone to use, change, give away or sell NetBSD, as long as they do not take away the copyright notice and license text. This means people can make new things from NetBSD without having to give people the source code (information for the computer to make the program run).




</doc>
<doc id="102571" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102571" title="Soilwork">
Soilwork

Soilwork is a death metal band from Helsingborg, Sweden. They started in 1996. They have made 7 albums until now. The members are: Bjørn „Speed“ Strid (vocals), Daniel Antonsson (guitar), Ola Flink, (bass), Dirk Verbeuren (drums) and Sven Karlsson (Keyboard).


</doc>
<doc id="102572" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102572" title="Lamb of God">
Lamb of God

Lamb of God is a metal band from Richmond, Virginia. They started in 1990. They play a style called Groove metal with Death metal influences. This style is similar to Thrash metal but has more rhythm. Their music is very similar to Pantera's music. The members are: Randy Blythe (vocals), Mark Morton (guitar), Willie Adler (guitar), John Campbell (bass) and Chris Adler (drums).



</doc>
<doc id="102573" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102573" title="Carabiner">
Carabiner

A Carabiner is a metal loop, which can be opened on one side. This side is called gate. The other side is called spine. Carabiners are often used for rock climbing, sailing and canoeing. They also are used for construction of high buildings or window cleaning. The word comes from the German word ""Karabinerhaken"", which means "hook for a carbine". 

Climbing carabiners are very strong. Many can hold loads greater than 20 kN. Securing devices like a Grigri or an ATC must be used in combination with a carabiner with a locking feature to prevent the carabiner from opening accidentally.


The last two types exist with and without locking devices. HMS carabiners usually are not produced without locking device. Non-locking-carabiners are often used in quickdraws.


</doc>
<doc id="102574" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102574" title="Category:Rock climbing">
Category:Rock climbing


</doc>
<doc id="102575" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102575" title="Cyclamen">
Cyclamen

Cyclamen is a genus of 20 species of flowering plants, classified in the family Myrsinaceae. The genus is most widely known by its scientific name Cyclamen being taken into common usage; other names occasionally confusingly, Persian violet (it is not related to the violets), or primrose (neither is it a primrose), is to remember Cyclamen was classified in Primulaceae families by authorities. 

Cyclamen are native to the Mediterranean region from Spain east to Iran, and also in northeast Africa south to Somalia. They are perennial herbaceous aestivating plants, with a surface or underground tuber (derived from the hypocotyl) 4-12 cm diameter, which produces leaves in late winter, and flowers in the autumn; the leaves die down during the hottest part of the Mediterranean summer drought to conserve water. Each leaf or flower grows on its own stem, which shoots up from the hypocotyl. The variegation is thought by some botanists to be a form of natural disruptive camouflage to reduce grazing damage by animals. 

The hypocotyl grows leaves and flowers on stems, either one flower or one leaf per stem. The stem for leaves and flowers appears identical except in height. The leaves grow on stems of around 6 cm height.
Here are the species of this genus:



</doc>
<doc id="102576" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102576" title="Bambi (character)">
Bambi (character)

Bambi is the main character in Felix Salten's book "Bambi, A Life in the Woods". He is a European Roe Deer. Bambi is also the main character in the Disney movies based on the book: "Bambi" and "Bambi II". In the movies, Bambi was an American white-tailed deer.


</doc>
<doc id="102578" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102578" title="Grigri">
Grigri

Grigri is a securing device for rock climbing. Unlike many other securing devices, a Grigri is half-automatic. It works like a seat belt in a car. The rope can be slowly pulled through, but if there is lot of weight on the rope the Grigri locks the rope. "Grigri" is a trademark of the company Petzl, but because it was the first half-automatic securing device, many people call devices of other companies also Grigri.


</doc>
<doc id="102579" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102579" title="Thumper (Bambi)">
Thumper (Bambi)

Thumper is a fictional rabbit in the Disney movies "Bambi" and "Bambi II". He is Bambi's sidekick.


</doc>
<doc id="102582" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102582" title="Template:Disclaimer-header">
Template:Disclaimer-header

__NOEDITSECTION__
<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="102584" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102584" title="Wikipedia:Content disclaimer">
Wikipedia:Content disclaimer

Wikipedia's goal is to collect all human knowledge. Because of this, Wikipedia contains millions of on a wide range of subjects. A few of these subjects are frequently censored by educational, governmental, corporate, parental and other filtering schemes.

Wikipedia's current policy is to include such content, as long as it does not break any of our (especially ) nor the laws of the state of Florida in the United States, where Wikipedia is hosted. See for some examples of articles that may contain such content. Some of these articles contain warnings, but many do not.

In any case, Wikipedia is a work in progress, and many articles contain , , , or simply need . We encourage readers to help us fix these problems. Most of our articles are written by people who are not subject matter experts, and may lack academic or professional credentials in the area. 

Wikipedia contains obscure information that would not be covered in a conventional encyclopedia. Wikipedia's coverage of subjects is patchy, based on the whims of its volunteer contributors (in particular, subjects of interest to young technical people are likely, but not certain, to receive heavier coverage than other subjects). Readers should not judge the importance of topics based on their coverage in Wikipedia, nor assume that a topic is important merely because it is the subject of a Wikipedia article. 

See also: .


</doc>
<doc id="102585" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102585" title="Wikipedia:Risk disclaimer">
Wikipedia:Risk disclaimer

PLEASE BE AWARE THAT ANY INFORMATION YOU MAY FIND IN WIKIPEDIA MAY NOT BE CORRECT. IT MIGHT BE DANGEROUS OR ILLEGAL.

As some information on Wikipedia may be wrong, there is a risk for readers who choose to use information found on Wikipedia in their own activities.

None of the authors, contributors, sponsors, administrators, vandals, or anyone else connected with Wikipedia, in any way at all, can be responsible for your use of the information in or linked from these web pages.

Please take all steps to make sure that any information you copy from Wikipedia is correct and has references. Check the at the end of the article. Read the article's and revision history to see if there are any outstanding questions over the content of the article. Double-check information with other sources.

If an article contains suggestions regarding dangerous, illegal or unethical activities, remember that anyone can post this information on Wikipedia. The authors may not be qualified to write enough information or to tell you about proper steps you can take to prevent injury or other damages to your property or reputation. If you need further advice (for example, medical, legal, risk management) please seek someone licensed or knowledgeable in that area.

The information on Wikipedia is not checked before it is added. Readers may find and correct mistakes in the article, but they have no legal duty to do so. All information read here is without any warranty of fitness for any purpose or use whatsoever. 

No damages can be claimed from Wikipedia, as it is a voluntary group of individuals developed freely to create various open source online educational, cultural and informational resources. 
This information is being given to you gratuitously and thus there is no agreement or understanding between you and Wikipedia regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the GNU Free Documentation License. 

DO NOT RELY UPON ANY INFORMATION FOUND IN WIKIPEDIA WITHOUT INDEPENDENT SOURCES.


</doc>
<doc id="102588" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102588" title="Wikipedia:Legal disclaimer">
Wikipedia:Legal disclaimer

Wikipedia contains articles on many legal topics; however, no warranty whatsoever is made that any of the articles are accurate. There is absolutely no assurance that any statement contained in an article touching on legal matters is true, correct or precise. Law varies from place to place and it evolves over time — sometimes quite quickly. Even if a statement made about the law is accurate, it may only be accurate in the jurisdiction of the person posting the information; as well, the law may have changed, been modified or overturned by subsequent development since the entry was made on Wikipedia.

The legal information provided on Wikipedia is, at best, of a general nature and cannot substitute for the advice of a licensed professional, i.e., by a competent authority with specialised knowledge who can apply it to the particular circumstances of your case. Please contact a local bar association, law society or similar association of jurists in your legal jurisdiction to obtain a referral to a competent legal professional if you do not have other means of contacting an attorney-at-law, lawyer, civil law notary, barrister or solicitor.

Neither the individual contributors, system operators, developers, or sponsors of Wikipedia nor anyone else connected to Wikipedia can take any responsibility for the results or consequences of any attempt to use or adopt any of the information or disinformation presented on this web site. 

Nothing on Wikipedia.org or of any project of Wikimedia Foundation Inc., should be construed as an attempt to offer or render a legal opinion or otherwise engage in the practice of law.


</doc>
<doc id="102589" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102589" title="Wikipedia:Medical disclaimer">
Wikipedia:Medical disclaimer

There are many articles in this Wikipedia that talk about medical topics such as diseases and conditions. These articles sometimes also have a section that talks about how such a problem is usually solved, or how a disease can be treated. There is no guarantee that these descriptions are good, or that they are true. What is said in the article may not be true, correct, precise or accurate. Even if it is, it may not apply to your case. 

Most of these articles are not written by professionals. 

The medical information given on Wikipedia is of a general nature, at best. "Medical professionals" (such as doctors, physicians, nurses, pharmacists/chemists...) have studied how to solve such problems. The information on a medical subject present in Wikipedia cannot replace the advice of a medical professional. Wikipedia is not a doctor.

Wikipedia has no influence on how the material on this site is used. No contributor, system operator, developer, or sponsor of Wikipedia, nor anyone else connected to Wikipedia can take any responsibility for the results or consequences of any attempt to use or adopt any of the information presented on this web site. 

Nothing on Wikipedia.org or on any project made by the Wikimedia Foundation Inc. should be made to look like an attempt to offer or give a medical opinion or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine.


</doc>
<doc id="102591" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102591" title="Jacmel">
Jacmel

Jacmel (Kréyòl: "Jakmèl") is a city in southeast Haiti, on the Caribbean coast, at the mouth of the river "Grande Rivière de Jacmel". It is the capital city of the Sud-Est "Département".

The city is in the "Baie de Jacmel" ("Jacmel Bay") about 86 km south of the Haitian capital Port-au-Prince. It is also the chief town of an "arrondissement" (a part of a department) with the same name. The "arrondissement" has four "communes" (a "commune" is like a municipality): Jacmel, Cayes-Jacmel, La Vallée and Marigot.

"Jacci" was the Taíno name for the region where is located Jacmel. It was changed to the Spanish word "Yáquimo" (sometimes written as "Jáquimo") and then to the French word Jacmel.

Christopher Columbus gave the name "Puerto de Brasil" ("Brazil port") to the place where Jacmel is now because there were many trees called "Brasil" (English: Brazilwood) in the region that were cut and sent to Spain; the tree has a yellow substance (and wood) that was used to give that color to hair, cloths and other objects.

In 1504, Nicolás de Ovando, Spanish governor of the Hispaniola, founded the town of "Villanueva de Yáquimo" (or "Villanova de Yáquimo"). But people left the town and French people came to live here; in 1698, the new town of Jacmel was founded.

There are many beautiful old houses in Jacmel, from the 1880s. Since 2004, the 'Festival Film Jakmèl' is celebrated in Jacmel and, since 2007, the international music festival 'Festival Mizik Jakmèl'.

Many visitors come to Jacmel for its carnival, the "Bassins Bleu" waterfalls, and the white sand beaches near the city.


Jacmel has sister relationships with:



</doc>
<doc id="102592" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102592" title="Honda S2000">
Honda S2000

The Honda S2000 is a roadster created by the car company Honda. It was first on sale in April 1999. It is the Successor (new model) of the S800. 

AP1
The S2000 was introduced in 1999 as a 2000 model.

AP2
In 2004, the new S2000 was introduced.



</doc>
<doc id="102607" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102607" title="Caliban">
Caliban

Caliban can mean:


</doc>
<doc id="102611" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102611" title="Narre Warren railway station, Melbourne">
Narre Warren railway station, Melbourne

Narre Warren Railway Station is a railway station in Metcard Zone 2, located in Narre Warren, Victoria.


</doc>
<doc id="102612" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102612" title="Premium station">
Premium station

A Premium station is a term used in the Melbourne train system for a station where there are better things than the other stations. There are currently 72 stations like this. All 5 City Loop stations are Premium stations, as well as the following stations -


</doc>
<doc id="102615" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102615" title="Wikipedia:Administrators' noticeboard/Current issues and requests archive 11">
Wikipedia:Administrators' noticeboard/Current issues and requests archive 11

 has done repeated vandalism to Wrestling articles I think this calls for a Temporary block per and because of his contributions.<br>--  †   20:10, 7 March 2008 (UTC)
This sort of this does not go on this page. you either report them to a an admin or you put them on page 20:15, 7 March 2008 (UTC)

I updated , but didn't simplify it. As I need to do the same with many other wikis, I'd be grateful if someone else handles the simplification part. - 12:39, 8 March 2008 (UTC)

The article featured on the main page has the same paragraph about violins repeated. () 14:16, 8 March 2008 (UTC)

Having heard of the change brought on by his various medication I propose allowing Benniguy to return for a two week evaluation, on the following conditions:


He is definitely not allowed to touch:

After the two week period, let us review. If he has stuck to the rules and created and edited the articles he says he has fine, if he is the same time-intensive Benniguy the ban is reimposed.-- 19:11, 9 March 2008 (UTC)



I agree with Snake and Creol's sentiments. This place practically ceased all productive action to deal with Benniguy. I think unblocking him is a bad, bad, "bad" idea. · 13:51, 10 March 2008 (UTC)

 as I of one who need a second or third chance know what difference makers they can be...let him on for a week even. Let's see if he has or hasn't change. Y'all have never been banned so you don't know what it's like. What it feels like emotionally to know your hated and/or not wanted. It hurts mentally. Let him back on for the two week evaluation.--  †   17:40, 11 March 2008 (UTC)

. Yes, I support Barliners proposal, but if his treat,ent fails him and he goes back to his old self, the ban should be placed again. But hopefully that won't happen, because everything has been gong well so far. 11:38, 16 March 2008 (UTC)

. I recently worked with him at EN (where my account is SamEV), and found him to be a positive contributor. I don't know the details of his behavior here, or even all of them at EN, as I tend to focus more on my editing than on administrative activity. Still, purely based on my personal experience and on my email communications with him, and since he's promised me he'll behave and is taking his medication, I believe he's changed enough and deserves this last chance. Thanks. () 21:15, 19 March 2008 (UTC)

. I fully support letting disabled and the like editing this Wikipedia. What I meant was that Ben should be able to edit here despite his differences. -- () 09:48, 25 March 2008 (UTC)

. From all I have read, it sounds as if he has made improvments. Forgive me for saying so, but many of comments are just heartless. Come on, give the guy another chance and see how he does! -- () 13:04, 6 April 2008 (UTC)

. I think Ben can be given a chance. He sounds like a good guy. I can tell he wants to do good. Please let him edit! 13:38, 6 April 2008 (UTC) 

 with the same reasoning Tygrrr gave above. - 21:49, 19 March 2008 (UTC)


The accounts and have been blocked as being sockpuppets of KA. The Brazilian-Canadian and Russian-New Jersey girls both tagged identical IPs tracing back to KAs ISP and location. -- 22:06, 9 March 2008 (UTC)
I don't think an abuse complaint is worthwhile, however, this may mean KA is back from a brief break and could be creating more new sockpuppets. So I think editors should be "on the lookout" for KA-type users. --() 20:01, 10 March 2008 (UTC)

There appears to be a few sockpuppets voting at the page. Please investigate. ( ▪ ) 10:02, 11 March 2008 (UTC)

I have also expressed concern about this on the actual RfA page. Kindly investigate this...thanks :) 13:08, 11 March 2008 (UTC)

I noticed they decided to do a ban review of my ban on enWP and wanted to know from everyone here have I been a good editor...or have I been like I was on enWP? All opinions wanted. You can comment here and/or there. If you comment there comment here too so I can read it then comment to it. Thanks, Guys!!!!--  †   04:54, 12 March 2008 (UTC)
I don't know the proper term, but this is a meta-approved wiki as far as I know. One post to this noticeboard does not constitute excessive canvassing or campaigning, IMHO. Christianman is sometimes difficult but has always eventually complied with requests from administrators and the community. - 13:29, 12 March 2008 (UTC)

Tygrrr, you and Barliner give me your opinions like Browne34 did and I end this discussion.--  †   17:56, 12 March 2008 (UTC)

THREAD CLOSED!!! NO MORE POSTINGS TO THIS THREAD.--  †   06:15, 13 March 2008 (UTC)

I blocked Orange DSL's range (91.108.192.0/18) being used by Kevin Scally for one month. The user has been banned for a while for excessive sockpuppetry and recently has been on a binge of tagging his pages. Checks on the range showed only two computers active and the second one's sole useage has been vandalism also. -- 23:53, 12 March 2008 (UTC)

I'm temporarily retiring to get rid of the mental distress caused by both you guys on Simple and EN. I'll be back one day...so please don't delete my pages.--  †   06:31, 13 March 2008 (UTC)
Now I'm back...and wrestling will not die on seWP!!!!--  †   20:14, 16 March 2008 (UTC)

Normally I would not announce a name change, but as this is an admin account I felt it best to give a heads up to everyone here. This is mainly so heads don't explode wondering "who's the new guy?" and "How did he get admin???" Browne34 is now . -- 19:10, 14 March 2008 (UTC)

Can someone rename me to Texcarson? () 17:18, 18 March 2008 (UTC)

This is the only Wiki I had a SUL conflict on. Someone already has my regular username here, and it has a couple edits. What needs to be done to have this account usurped to my SUL username? "()" 23:13, 25 March 2008 (UTC)

Can you please change my name to . This is my regular username on all wikis (see ) and there is a conflict here. there are no edits for . () 10:29, 26 March 2008 (UTC)

Our joined only 4 months ago, and has a working e-mail, so I have sent a letter seeking permission, and also put a copy of it on that user's talk page. - 15:42, 26 March 2008 (UTC)

 - Promoting Islam. Please block him. ( ▪ ) 09:32, 27 March 2008 (UTC)

I know this isn't the place for this but I have to let y'all know my Mom might have just had a Heart attack at the age of 43 years old. Due to this I must take an emergency Wikibreak. I will pop in every now and then and will be back in full force ASAP. Anybody that prays please do so for my mother. And if you want to I would like one of you to let WP:PW on the english wikipedia know. They may have a ban on me but I think they have the heart for me to show sympathy and pray. Thanks.--  †   16:36, 27 March 2008 (UTC)

The doctors say my mother only had an Anxiety attack and she gonna be fine after a couple days of rest. PRAISE GOD!!! Thanks, Majorly, for showing your sorrow. And to the others of seWP that saw this but did not comment, "Why?" I will be back in a few hours to a few days full force on editing. Again, Be Blessed!!!--  †   18:50, 27 March 2008 (UTC)

Recently, a number of IPs from the same network have been spamming the site, especially on date-related articles. This is the output generated by the User Contributions gadget:


The list has been truncated. To see the whole list, enable the gadget and search for 79.113.* on .

Please list the site calendaryear.net on the local spam blacklist as no such spamming was found on enWP. ( ▪ ) 12:36, 29 March 2008 (UTC)

Hi, I get this error while trying to delete pages (), does anyone else get this error? ..-- 05:27, 31 March 2008 (UTC)

Multiple accounts have been blocked and their talk pages protected today. These accounts were created by Simple11 from multiple IPs (all known IPs are blocked currently). As he decided to jump from account to account and edit the talk pages with threats of continued vandalism, I protected all accounts blocked from the IPs to limit the disruption. -- 12:57, 31 March 2008 (UTC)

</doc>
<doc id="102659" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102659" title="Walker Percy">
Walker Percy

Walker Percy (May 28, 1916 – May 10, 1990) was an American author. He wrote a novel called "The Moviegoer". 


</doc>
<doc id="102663" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102663" title="Talcott Parsons">
Talcott Parsons

Talcott Parsons (December 13, 1902 - May 8, 1979) was a American who created an idea called structural functionalism. This is a type of sociology.


</doc>
<doc id="102664" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102664" title="Edward Hopper">
Edward Hopper

Edward Hopper (born July 22, 1882 – died May 15, 1967) was an American painter. He created paintings called "The Nighthawks" and "Chop Suey".


</doc>
<doc id="102665" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102665" title="Elias Canetti">
Elias Canetti

Elias Canetti (born July 25, 1905 – died August 14, 1994) was an Bulgarian-Swiss Jewish author who wrote "Crowds and Power". A mountain in Antarctica is named for him.


</doc>
<doc id="102667" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102667" title="Gao Xingjian">
Gao Xingjian

Gao Xingjian (pron. ; ; Wade-Giles: Kao Hsing-chien; born January 4, 1940), is a French Chinese émigré writer. He won the 2000 Nobel Prize in Literature. He is also a stage director and a painter.


</doc>
<doc id="102675" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102675" title="English Renaissance drama">
English Renaissance drama

English Renaissance drama, or English Renaissance theatre, means the stage plays written and acted in the later 16th century and the first half of the 17th century, during the Renaissance period in England. This period in English history saw a great growth in drama as an art form and public entertainment. William Shakespeare, widely thought of as the greatest writer in English literature, is the most famous of many important playwrights, poets, and writers who worked in this era.

English Renaissance drama is sometimes called Elizabethan drama, since its most important developments started when Elizabeth I was queen of England from 1558 to 1603. But this name is not very accurate; the drama continued after Elizabeth's death, into the reigns of King James I (1603–1625) and his son King Charles I (1625–1649). Shakespeare, for example, started writing plays in the later years of Elizabeth's reign, but continued into the reign of James. When writing about plays from James's reign, scholars and critics sometimes use the term Jacobean drama; plays from Charles I's reign are called Caroline drama. (These names come from the Latin forms of the two kings' names, "Jacobus" for James and "Carolus" for Charles.) But for the subject as a whole, terms like English Renaissance drama or theatre are more accurate.

The year 1576 was a key date in this subject, since that is when the first permanent theatre building was built in London. It was called simply The Theatre, because it was the only place of its kind in England at the time. Before 1576, plays were acted in public halls and large houses, and in inns and public squares and courtyards and other open spaces, by troops of actors that mostly travelled around the countryside between cities and towns. Once the actors had a permanent place to act plays, they could develop their art without the constant need to travel. The Theatre was followed by other theatres in the London area; there were the Curtain, The Rose, the Swan, the Globe, and others too. More plays were written by more playwrights to fill these theatres.

Playwrights worked in both the classic types of drama, tragedy and comedy. They also began their own type of history play, mainly about earlier English kings and the events of their reigns. Richard Thayer Roberts the third and Shakespeare's "Richard III" and Marlowe's "Edward II" are two examples of this type of English history play. Plays were often written in poetry; early plays were mainly in rhymed verse, though as time passed playwrights came to prefer unrhymed blank verse. Prose was also used in some plays, mostly for comedy.

English Renaissance drama grew and developed until 1642, when it suddenly stopped. In the early years of the English Civil War, the Puritans who were fighting King Charles gained control of London and the region around it. The Puritans were against play-acting; they thought it was sinful and immoral. On September 2, 1642, the Puritans forced the London theatres to close, and to stay closed for most of the time until 1660. Then the English Restoration brought a new king, Charles II, who let the theatres re-open. In the 18-year gap between 1642 and 1660, English society had changed a good deal, and a new style of drama rose up in the Restoration era; it is usually called Restoration drama or Restoration theatre.




</doc>
<doc id="102680" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102680" title="Blank verse">
Blank verse

The term Blank verse means poetry that does not use rhyme.

Blank verse relies on the meter of the lines in the poem to give structure, and to create the feeling of poetry as compared to prose. An example from William Wordsworth's poem "Michael" shows the lack of rhyme and the strict meter in blank verse — each line sticks fairly closely to the pattern of ten syllables and five beats:

Many critics judge blank verse to be better than rhyme for serious subjects, and many poets have used blank verse for their most important works. Shakespeare used rhyme in his early plays, but in his more mature works like "Hamlet" he preferred blank verse. John Milton wrote "Paradise Lost" in blank verse, including a note at the beginning of the poem saying that rhyming poetry was used to disguise badly written poems, and Wordsworth used it for "The Prelude" and "The Excursion". John Keats used rhyme in his "Endymion", his first try at a major poem; for his second attempt, "Hyperion", he switched to blank verse.

Many 20th century poets gave up both rhyme and the strict meter of blank verse to write free verse.


</doc>
<doc id="102682" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102682" title="Category:Bible versions">
Category:Bible versions


</doc>
<doc id="102683" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102683" title="Template:Vote merge">
Template:Vote merge


</doc>
<doc id="102695" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102695" title="Altamira (cave)">
Altamira (cave)

Altamira (Spanish for 'high view') is a cave in Spain famous for its Upper Paleolithic cave paintings featuring drawings and coloured paintings of wild mammals and human hands. It is located near the town of "Santillana del Mar" in Cantabria, Spain, 30 km west of the city of "Santander". The cave with its paintings has been declared a World Heritage Site by UNESCO.



</doc>
<doc id="102696" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102696" title="Altamira">
Altamira

Altamira could mean any of the following:



</doc>
<doc id="102703" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102703" title="FC Kuban Krasnodar">
FC Kuban Krasnodar

FC Kuban () is a Russian football club based in Krasnodar. In 2006 they won promotion to the Russian Premier League. Kuban have previously spent two seasons in Russian Premier League and three seasons in Soviet Top League.

The club was founded as Dynamo in 1928, but was named Neftyanik in 1954, Kuban in 1958, and Spartak in 1960. In 1963 the club was renamed Kuban and has been known by this name ever since.

Kuban and their predecessors mainly played at the lower levels of Soviet football, winning the RSFSR championship four times. Kuban played in the Soviet Top League in 1980-1982, achieving their best result (13th position) in 1981.

In 1992, due to the dissolution of the USSR, Kuban were entitled to play at the top level instead of being relegated to the Second League. They finished 18th out of 20 teams and were relegated. After spending several seasons in First and Second divisions, they won promotion back to the Premier League for 2004, but were again relegated straight away. This happened again in 2006 when they won promotion for the 2006-2007 season and then finished second to bottom.




</doc>
<doc id="102704" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102704" title="Category:Russian football clubs">
Category:Russian football clubs


</doc>
<doc id="102705" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102705" title="SM-liiga">
SM-liiga

SM-liiga is the top professional ice hockey league in Finland. It is generally thought of as one of the top leagues in Europe. It started in 1975. SM is a common abbreviation for "Suomen mestaruus", "Finnish championship".


</doc>
<doc id="102713" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102713" title="Aurochs">
Aurochs

The Aurochs, or urus, ("Bos primigenius") was a large species of cattle, once common in Europe but now extinct. It was a wild animal, not a domesticated animal. The extinct aurochs/urus is a completely separate species from the "wisent" (the European bison).

According to the Paleontologisk Museum, University of Oslo, aurochs developed in India some two million years ago, came into the Middle East and farther into Asia, and reached Europe about 250,000 years ago. They were once thought a different species from modern European cattle ("Bos taurus"), but today not any more. 

Modern cattle have become much smaller than their wild ancestors: the height of a large domesticated cow is about 1.5 meters (5 feet, 15 hands), while aurochs were about 1.75 meters (5.75 feet, 17 hands). 

Aurochs also had several features not often seen in modern cattle, such as lyre-shaped horns set at a forward angle, a pale stripe down the spine, and different color according to the gender. Males were black with a pale stripe down the spine, while females and calves were reddish (these colours are still found in a few domesticated cattle breeds, such as Jersey cattle). Aurochs were also known to have very aggressive behaviour, and killing one was seen as an act of courage in ancient cultures.

At one time there were three aurochs subspecies, namely "Bos primigenius namadicus" (Falconer, 1859) that occurred in India, the "Bos primigenius mauretanicus" (Thomas, 1881) from North Africa and the "Bos primigenius primigenius" (Bojanus, 1827) from Europe and the Middle East. Only the European subspecies survived until recent times.




</doc>
<doc id="102714" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102714" title="Privas">
Privas

Privas is a commune of France and a "préfecture" (capital) of the Ardèche "département". With a 1999 census population of only 9,170 people, it is the second smallest prefecture of any department in France. There are four bigger communes in Ardèche, called Annonay, Aubenas, Guilherand-Granges, and Tournon-sur-Rhône. The French footballer Cyril Théréau was born here. 

Privas is twinned with:




</doc>
<doc id="102715" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102715" title="Guilherand-Granges">
Guilherand-Granges

Guilherand-Granges is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.



</doc>
<doc id="102717" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102717" title="Tournon-sur-Rhône">
Tournon-sur-Rhône

Tournon-sur-Rhône is a commune of the Ardèche "département", in France. The commune has a population of 9,960 people as of the year 1999.

It can be found on the right bank of the Rhône River, across from the Tain-l'Hermitage. That can be found in the Drôme "département".

The Great Bridge of Tournon was one of the largest bridge arches in the world before 1600.

Tournon-sur-Rhône is twinned with:



</doc>
<doc id="102718" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102718" title="Battle of Marion">
Battle of Marion

The Battle of Marion (December 17–December 18, 1864) was a military engagement in the American Civil War that occurred when Major General George Stoneman, commander of the Union Army in Kentucky and Tennessee, raided Southwestern Virginia. General Stoneman's plan was to destroy anything that might benefit the Southern war effort and was approved by his commanding officers on December 6, 1864.

The Confederates managed to hold the key positions on the battlefield against numerous Union charges. Eventually, the Confederates ran short of ammunition and were forced to withdraw. The total casualties for this battle were 274, relatively low for a battle during the Civil War.

After the battle, the Union expedition set out to destroy the salt mines, lead works, and anything else in the area that could be of benefit to the Confederates.

The town of Marion is in southwest Virginia on the Middle Fork of the Holston River in Smyth County, Virginia. It was about half way between the salt works at Saltville and the lead mines near Wytheville. Since it is near the Mason-Dixon line, many of the town's families were divided and fought on opposing sides. Until the winter of 1864, the town of Marion had been protected from fighting by the mountains and geographic location.

Major General George Stoneman, commander of the Union Army in Kentucky and Tennessee, proposed another expedition into southwest Virginia to destroy all facilities and supplies of benefit to the Confederate war effort. This gained the approval of Major General John Schofield on December 6, 1864.

Stoneman would use troops under General Alvan Gillem and those commanded by General Stephen Burbridge--including the 5 and the 6 U.S. Colored Cavalry who had participated in the failed previous attempt to destroy the salt works at the first Battle of Saltville. Stoneman ordered Burbridge to bring his army of 4,200 men through the Cumberland Gap to join Stoneman and General Gillem at Knoxville, Tennessee where Gillem was refitting his own command into a picked force of 1,500 men. Stoneman did not reveal the objectives of the expedition to his subordinates until three days after it had departed Knoxville on December 10. On December 12, Stoneman's force flanked and forced back Confederate General Basil Duke's cavalry at Rogersville, Tennessee. The Federals defeated and scattered the Confederates the next day at Kingsport, Tennessee. There General Gillem captured 84 prisoners, including Col. Richard C. Morgan and the brigade's supply train. 

On the 14th, the Union army began to push Duke's cavalry back toward Abingdon, Virginia. The next day, Stoneman and his cavalry went into camp at Glade Spring, Virginia, which was about west of Marion. On December 16, Stoneman's cavalry rode toward Marion, destroying infrastructure and public buildings along their path.

The opposing force of General Stoneman was the army of Major General John C. Breckinridge, who was the commander of the Department of Southwest Virginia. Breckinridge's command consisted of approximately 1,000 regular troops with another 500 militia reserves. Most of the army had been transferred to the Army of Northern Virginia to help in the defense of Richmond.

Breckinridge's army consisted of Colonel Henry Giltner's brigade, (which was formed from the soldiers of the 4th Kentucky Cavalry and the 10th Kentucky Cavalry); the 10th Kentucky Mounted Rifles (later renamed to the 13th Kentucky Cavalry), and the 64th Virginia Mounted Infantry. Breckinridge's army also included General Basil Duke's cavalry, General George Cosby's cavalry and Colonel Vincent Witcher and his 34th Battalion of Virginia Cavalry.

On the night of December 16, General Breckinridge and his troops moved out of Saltville, Virginia in an effort to stop Stoneman. Taking the regular troops with him, Breckinridge left Colonel Robert Preston in charge of the 500 militia men to defend the salt works. General Breckinridge sent Witcher and his men of the 34th on ahead of his main force and ordered them to harass the Union army.

At about 3 a.m. (Local Time), Breckinridge and his small army began to travel across Walkers Mountain. In the last few days before the march, 4 of rain fell, making travel difficult across the muddy roads. At 4:00 a.m. (Local Time), they reached the main road near Seven Mile Ford, Virginia where Breckinridge waited for daylight before continuing.

Around noon of December 17, 1864, Breckinridge's men mounted their horses rode toward Marion. Meanwhile, General Stoneman sent some of his Tennessee regiments to Wytheville, Virginia to destroy anything that looked valuable. Stoneman also sent two regiments of cavalry to destroy the lead mines and smelting facilities that were about ten miles (16 km) from Wytheville.

Stoneman and Burbridge continued on toward Marion where they encountered Witcher and his men. Burbridge's front regiment easily pushed back Witcher's small regiment, who stopped just so they could fire a volley into the Union cavalry. They then continued to retreat toward Marion. Witcher sent a courier to inform Breckinridge that they were coming to join them at Marion.

General Breckinridge's front regiment was the 10th Kentucky Mounted Rifles, under the command of Colonel Benjamin Caudill. Caudill's men dismounted and fired into the Union cavalry, causing several casualties. As the rest of Breckinridge's troops began to arrive on the scene, General Stoneman's men secured the high hill overlooking the river. Breckinridge observed that these hills were the best defensive positions in the area; following which he ordered the men of the 10th Kentucky Mounted Rifles to charge up the hill and drive out the Union army. The rest of Giltner's Brigade also joined in the charge, routing the Union soldiers. The result of the charge ended in Confederate favor, and the Confederates gained control of the hill.

Burbridge then began to form his men up in columns to counterattack the Rebel defenses. As soon as the men were in position, he ordered all columns to charge in unison. After the signal, the Union Army surged forward. The first Confederate volley of shots depleted the Union forces considerably. Even after the volley, the Rebel forces were still vastly outnumbered. Confederate Artillery commander Major Richard Page and his battery of four 10-pounder Parrott rifles began to fire, attempting to slow the charge. The overwhelming fire forced the Union soldiers to fall back with many casualties.

The Union officers then reorganized their men and with a yell of their own, charged again. Like the previous charge, this charge also was repelled. One more charge occurred that day. Courageously, the men formed and prepared to face the withering fire that they knew would come from the breast works in their front. For the final time that day, the Union army charged into Confederate fire with the same results as the previous charges. The Rebels had held on to their position during the first day of battle.

Breckinridge ordered his men to move forward and build new breastworks. These new defensive positions placed the two armies less than one hundred fifty yards apart. During the night, one Union officer was ordered to take positions at the covered bridge near the river. He and 75 men took up positions in and around the covered bridge. This was the only advance of that night by the Union army.

The Union army that was positioned at the covered bridge fired the first few volleys at the rebels to harass their front positions. General Burbridge attacked just as the fog lifted. To entertain themselves, soldiers from both armies began to hurl insults across the fields between them. About midmorning Burbridge decided that the light rain probably would not stop falling any time soon and had his officers prepare to commence the battle.

Both armies yet again raised their battle cries. Columns of Union men charged across the fields into the same fire they had received the day before. A combination of the colored and the white troops managed to push the 4th Kentucky Infantry and General Cosby's positions back. Cosby rallied his men and counterattacked, retaking their breastworks. The Union soldiers that had taken positions at the covered bridge the night before began to take pressure from the 4th Kentucky in their front. They realized their location was not safe one and some began to try to run back to the Union lines. As these men would attempt to retreat from their positions at the bridge, the rebels of the would pick most of them off. The remaining Union soldiers at the bridge decided to wait out the battle. Later in the day General Burbridge ordered one of his regiments to charge across the bridge on horseback to relieve the pressure on the trapped men. The regiment solely received a few casualties and then retreated.

On the far right, General Duke was being pressed hard by the heavy columns of attacking soldiers. Seeing this, Colonel Giltner sent his regiment to reinforce Duke. Before the 2nd arrived, Duke and his men counterattacked the Union line and routed it. Duke and Witcher then combined forces and charged the Union's extreme left flank. This Union colored regiment was also completely routed.

Burbridge and his men then went into a disorderly retreat. The confederate rail breastworks had held, but the holding of the line had resulted in the use of a huge amount of ammunition. Each Rebel defender had shot at least seventy-five rounds, and some having fired as many as a hundred shots. The Union army then ordered another charge with a large cavalry regiment that reinforced the Union infantry. The unexpected fighting capabilities of the small Confederate army had temporarily created a reprieve for the salt works.

Breckinridge ordered his field officers to make an inspection of the troops and to report back with the condition of his army. The number of men wounded and killed had depleted his army to the point that he could judged that he could no longer hold back the Union army at the front lines. Ammunition in the camp was also running low; each man had no more than ten cartridges apiece. With their supplies destroyed by Stoneman's army at the towns of Wytheville and Abingdon, there was little hope of being resupplied or reinforced in time.

Breckinridge then ordered his men to retreat from the battlefield. Though the men faced miserable conditions, they were confident they could hold the field the next day. Angrily they obeyed orders and silently began to move out with Colonel Ben Caudill and his Mounted Rifles leading the way.

The battle at Marion was a Union victory. The vastly outnumbered Rebels had inflicted moderate casualties and slowed the advance on Saltville, but were unable to stop it. Finding their own path to Saltville's defenses blocked, Breckinridge and his men retreated further south, while the Union raiders advanced. Saltville would fall to a night attack on December 20 - December 21 and the salt works would be destroyed by the Union army.

The damage to the leadmines near Wytheville would keep them out of production for three months, and then only partial production would be possible. Salt production would not be resumed for over a month. All railroad locomotives, cars, depots and bridges in the vicinity had been destroyed by the raid. General Stoneman claimed to have captured 34 officers and 845 enlisted men during the raid.



</doc>
<doc id="102719" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102719" title="FC Angusht Nazran">
FC Angusht Nazran

FC Angusht Nazran are a Russian football club from Nazran. In 2006 the club played in the Russian First Division, the second level of Russian professional football.

The club was founded in 1993 as "Ingushetia Nazran" and entered the Russian Third League in 1994. In 1995 the club was renamed Angusht and finished second in their zone, securing promotion to the Second League. Angusht finished second in 1998 and third in 2000, and in 1995 they managed to win their Second Division zone to get another promotion. The club spent the 2006 season in the First Division, finishing last between 22 teams. After the season Angusht went bankrupt, were renamed FC Nazran and joined the Amateur Football League.



</doc>
<doc id="102720" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102720" title="Union Army">
Union Army

The Union Army was the name of the army that fought for the Union during the American Civil War. It was also known as the Federal Army, the U.S. Army, the Northern Army, or the National Army. 

It consisted of the small United States Army (the regular army), increased by many numbers of units supplied by the Northern states, composed of volunteers as well as draftees.

The Union Army fought and defeated the Confederate States Army during the war, from 1861 to 1865. Of the 2.5 million men who served in the Union Army during the war, about 9.5% were African American, about 360,000 died from being hurt in battle, disease, and 280,000 were wounded.


</doc>
<doc id="102721" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102721" title="Confederate States Army">
Confederate States Army

The Confederate States Army (GSA) was organized in February 1861 to defend the newly formed Confederate States of America from military action by the United States government during the American Civil War. As many as 1.4 million men fought in the Army throughout the war. Although it won a significant number of battles (particularly in the Eastern Theater under General Robert E. Lee), a lack of centralized control of the Army and the logistical and manpower advantages of the United States doomed the CSA to eventual failure and the last of its field armies surrendered in May 1865. On June 23, 1865, Georgia's Stand Watie became the last Confederate general to surrender.


</doc>
<doc id="102722" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102722" title="Stand Watie">
Stand Watie

Stand Watie (December 12, 1806 – September 9, 1871) (also known as Degataga meaning to "stand firm" and Isaac S. Watie) was a leader of the Cherokee Nation and a brigadier general of the Confederate States Army during the American Civil War. He commanded the American Indian cavalry made up mostly of Cherokee, Creek and Seminole.



</doc>
<doc id="102725" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102725" title="George Stoneman">
George Stoneman

George Stoneman, Jr. (August 22, 1822 – September 5, 1894) was a career U.S. Army officer, a Union cavalry general in the American Civil War, and the Governor of California between 1883 and 1887.


</doc>
<doc id="102727" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102727" title="Cornas">
Cornas

Cornas is a French "commune" that can be found in the département of Ardèche in the region of Rhône-Alpes. The name is Celtic for "burnt land." It has a population of 2,082 people.



</doc>
<doc id="102728" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102728" title="Coux">
Coux

Coux can be any of the following communes of France:



</doc>
<doc id="102730" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102730" title="Military history">
Military history

Military history is the history of what happened in the history of humanity that are considered to be conflicts. This could mean anything as small as a fight between two tribes or a conflict as large as a world war. Military historians record military history.



</doc>
<doc id="102731" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102731" title="Coux, Ardèche">
Coux, Ardèche

Coux is a commune of the Ardèche "département" in the south-east of France. The commune has a population of 1,466 people as of the year 1999.



</doc>
<doc id="102732" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102732" title="Cruas">
Cruas

Cruas is a village and commune that can be found by the Rhône River in the Ardèche "département" of France. The commune has a population of 2,405 people as of the year 1999.




</doc>
<doc id="102734" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102734" title="Davézieux">
Davézieux



</doc>
<doc id="102736" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102736" title="Désaignes">
Désaignes



</doc>
<doc id="102738" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102738" title="Félines">
Félines

Félines can be the names of any of the following communes of France:



</doc>
<doc id="102739" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102739" title="Félines, Ardèche">
Félines, Ardèche

Félines is a commune of the Ardèche "département" in the south-east of France. The commune has a population of 1,106 people as of the year 1999.



</doc>
<doc id="102740" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102740" title="Jaujac">
Jaujac

Jaujac is a town and commune in the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France. The commune has a population of 1,048 people as of the year 1999.



</doc>
<doc id="102741" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102741" title="Joyeuse (disambiguation)">
Joyeuse (disambiguation)

Joyeuse is the name of Charlemagne's sword.

Joyeuse can also be any of the following:



</doc>
<doc id="102742" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102742" title="Joyeuse, Ardèche">
Joyeuse, Ardèche

Joyeuse ()is a "commune" in the French department of Ardèche in the region of Rhône-Alpes. It is the seat of the canton of Joyeuse. Joyeuse has a population of 1,487 people as of the year 1999.

Joyeuse can be found in the region of Bas-Vivarais that has a lot of history. It can be found in the valley of the Beaume, which is a tributary of the Ardèche River.


Joyeuse is twinned with Jupille and Vilassar de Dalt. 




</doc>
<doc id="102743" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102743" title="Template:Lang-oc">
Template:Lang-oc


</doc>
<doc id="102744" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102744" title="Labégude">
Labégude

Labégude is a town and commune in the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France. The commune has a population of 1,337 people as of the year 1999.



</doc>
<doc id="102746" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102746" title="Lachapelle-sous-Aubenas">
Lachapelle-sous-Aubenas



</doc>
<doc id="102748" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102748" title="Chauvet Cave">
Chauvet Cave

The Chauvet Cave or Chauvet-Pont-d'Arc Cave is near Vallon-Pont-d'Arc, in the Ardèche département, in southern France. It became famous in 1994 when Paleolithic artwork was found on the walls.Fossilized remains of many animals, including some that are now extinct and some preserved footprints of animals and humans were also discovered. The Cave was soon regarded as one of the most significant pre-historic art sites, along with Lascaux, Altamira, and Cosquer.

The gorges of the Ardèche region have many caves. Many of them have geological or archaeological importance. The Chauvet Cave, however, is unusually large and the artwork is well preserved and of good quality. It has been called spectacular . It appears to have been occupied by humans during two different periods: the "Aurignacian" and the "Gravettian". Most of the artwork dates to the earlier Aurignacian era (30,000 to 32,000 years ago). 
The only traces left of the later occupation during the Gravettian include a child's footprints, the charred remains of ancient hearths and carbon smoke stains from torches that lit the caves. It seems nobody had been in it after the child, until it was discovered in 1994. The footprints are probably one of the oldest human footprints in existence, being between 20,000 and 30,000 years old.

The floor of the cave is of a soft material, almost like clay. There are paw prints of cave bears. There are also large rounded depressions in the floor. These are believed to be the "nests" where the bears slept. There are many fossilized bones, including the skulls of cave bears and the horned skull of an ibex.

There are hundreds of animal paintings there. At least 13 different species, including those which have rarely or never been found in other ice age paintings are represented. In addition to commonly hunted animals: horses, cattle, reindeer, etc.. The walls of the Chauvet Cave are covered with predatory animals: lions, panthers, bears, owls, rhinos and hyenas. Typical of most cave art, there are no paintings of complete human figures, although there is one possible, partial "Venus" figure that may represent the legs and genitals of a woman. A peculiar figure appears to have the lower body of a woman with the upper body of a bison. There are a few panels of red ochre hand prints and hand stencils made by spitting pigment over hands pressed against the cave surface. Abstract markings—lines and dots—are throughout the cave. There are also two unidentifiable images that have a vaguely butterfly shape to them. This combination of subjects has led experts in pre-historic art and cultures to believe that there was likely a ritualistic, shamanistic, or magical aspect to these paintings.

The artists who produced these unique paintings used techniques not often observed in other cave art. Many of the paintings appear to have been made only after the walls were scraped clear of debris and concretions. This left a smoother and noticeably lighter area upon which the artists worked. Similarly, a three dimensional quality is achieved by incising or etching about the outlines of certain figures. This visually emphasizes some of the animals and allows torch light to cast shadows about the edges.

The cave contains the oldest known cave paintings, based on radiocarbon dating of "black from drawings, from torch marks and from the floors." Clottes concludes that the "dates fall into two groups, one centred around 27,000-26,000 BP and the other around 32,000-30,000 BP." As of 1999, the dates of 31 samples from the cave had been reported, with the earliest being 32,900±490 BP.

However, some archaeologists have questioned these dates. 

The cave was named after Jean-Marie Chauvet, who discovered it on December 18,1994, together with Christian Hillaire and Eliette Brunel-Deschamps.

The researchers found that the cave had been untouched for 20,000-30,000 years.





</doc>
<doc id="102751" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102751" title="Druid">
Druid

A druid was a member of the priestly and learned class in the pre-Christian, ancient Celtic societies. These societies existed through much of Western Europe, Britain and Ireland, until the Roman government took over and, later, Christianity arrived. Druids were part of the cultures of the tribal peoples who were called "Keltoi" ("Κέλτοι") or "Keltai" ("Κέλται") and "Galatai" ("Γαλάται") by the Greeks and "Celtae" and "Galli" by the Romans. In the communities they served, druids combined the duties of priest, , healer, scholar, and . Both men and women served as druids, although there is no early proof for female druids, or druidesses.

From what little we know of late druidic practices, it appears deeply traditional and conservative, in the sense that druids were conserving the old culture and for their communities. It is impossible now to judge whether this continuity had deep historical roots and originated in the social transformations of the late La Tène culture, or whether there had been a discontinuity and then a religious innovation.

Greek and Roman writers on the Celts commonly made at least passing reference to druids, though before Caesar's report merely as "barbarian philosophers"; They were not concerned with ethnology or comparative religion and consequently our historical knowledge of druids is very limited. Druidic lore consisted of a large number of verses learned by heart, and Caesar remarked that twenty years were required to complete the course of study.

Druidic culture are believed to be practicers of rituals and such magic, Druids were believed to be a neutral people they were known as Druid(ae) similar to priests and scholars believed to have studied rituals of Human sacrifice and Familiars (Known currently as a form of a pet from a practicer; Witch, Druidae, Warlock). The Druidic culture was believed to have some form of religious complication.
Druids are known to have practiced such as reincarnation as animals of worship (Bird, Lion, Tiger, Cat, Monkey), but such cannot be proved as what we know so far.
They were said to have lived in Roman times in Great Britain and Ireland it is said that they have some form of connection to stonehenge and other monuments.


</doc>
<doc id="102752" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102752" title="Lalevade-d'Ardèche">
Lalevade-d'Ardèche



</doc>
<doc id="102753" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102753" title="Lamastre">
Lamastre



</doc>
<doc id="102754" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102754" title="Lavilledieu">
Lavilledieu

Lavilledieu is a "commune" in the Ardèche "département" in the southern part of France. The commune has a population of about 1,400 people as of the year 1999.




</doc>
<doc id="102756" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102756" title="Druid (disambiguation)">
Druid (disambiguation)

Druid could mean:


</doc>
<doc id="102758" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102758" title="Saint-Péray">
Saint-Péray

Saint-Péray is a town and commune in the Ardèche "département", in the southern part France. The commune has a population of about 6,500 people as of the year 1999.



</doc>
<doc id="102759" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102759" title="La Voulte-sur-Rhône">
La Voulte-sur-Rhône



</doc>
<doc id="102761" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102761" title="Viviers">
Viviers

Viviers can be any one of the following communes in France:



</doc>
<doc id="102764" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102764" title="Viviers, Ardèche">
Viviers, Ardèche

Viviers is a commune in the French "département" of Ardèche. The commune has a population of about 3,400 people as of the year 1999.

Viviers became the capital of the Gaulish Helvii tribe following the falling of nearby Alba-la-Romaine. 




</doc>
<doc id="102767" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102767" title="Druidism">
Druidism

Druidism or Druidry (referred to as Neodruidry or Neodruidism by some followers) is a form of modern spirituality that generally promotes harmony with nature, often through the form of nature worship. It is considered to be a Neopagan faith. 

Originally inspired by 17th, 18th and 19th century romantic movements, early neo-druidism was based upon largely historically incorrect depictions of the Iron Age Celtic druids, and has no direct relation to the ancient Celts or their culture. 
Neo-druidic beliefs vary wildly, and there is no set dogma or belief system by which all adherents follow. The main belief is an idea that the Earth and nature is sacred, and is worthy of worship itself. For this reason many druids are pantheistic. 




</doc>
<doc id="102773" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102773" title="Shutter (2008 movie)">
Shutter (2008 movie)

Shutter is an American movie released on March 21, 2008. It is about a newly married couple finding disturbing, ghostly images in photographs they develop after a tragic accident. Fearing the manifestations may be connected, they investigate and learn that some mysteries are better left unsolved.


</doc>
<doc id="102778" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102778" title="Tits">
Tits

Tits may mean:




</doc>
<doc id="102781" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102781" title="Rajput">
Rajput

Rajput constitute one of the major Hindu Kshatriya groups from India. They claim descent from ancient royal warrior dynasties of Kshatriyas. They are identified with the word "Rajanya" found in ancient Indian literature and trace their roots to Rajputana or Rajputstan (India). In ancient times the son of a king was referred as to Rajput- Raja-putra. The Rajputs consist of many different clans. 



</doc>
<doc id="102784" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102784" title="Metcard">
Metcard

A Metcard is a type of ticket used to use public transport in Melbourne, Australia. It allows the holder to use Trains, Trams and Buses, in two zones (Zone 1 and Zone 2). Zone 1 covers areas close to the CBD, and Zone 2 covers the rest of the city. There used to be a Zone 3 , but that has been merged with Zone 2. The ticket is about the size of a credit card, and contains a magnitic strip that tells a computer what type of ticket it is.

Metcard replaced a identical yet simpler system of scratchies used on the Melbourne public transport network. Scratchies were easy to cheat and the system was eventually abandoned in 2002, but not before tickets for many years of use were printed.

Moves towards automated ticketing were first made by the then state Liberal Government in 1992. Tenders were called for the design, supply, installation and on-going maintenance of such a system, with the 'OneLink Transit Consortium' announced as the preferred people to do it in September 1993. The contract was signed in May 1994, with the major technology supplier being the ERG Group. 

Testing of prototypes commenced in December 1993, and the roll-out of the system was carried out from August 1996 to April 1998, and acceptance occurred in November 1997. Public field trials were carried out on buses from August 20 1996, and on rail services from September 18 1996. The system commenced full revenue service from May 1998 at a cost of $330 million. Contractual issues between OneLink and the Victorian Government were not settled until May 2002 with the payment of up to $65 million in a staged settlement.

Controversy surrounded Metcard at its introduction, due to it costing to much, the abolition of tram conductors and the unreliability of ticket purchasing and validation machines. The machines were attacked by vandals frequently (often by pouring liquids into the coin slot), and have seen several revisions to their design since.

Consistent with the privatisation ethos of the government of the day, Metcard's operation was entirely outsourced, with the transport operators (at that time government-owned) having nothing to do with the system. Metcard even had its own website and branding which became stronger than the anonymous and constantly renaming government then privatised operators.

An study released by the State Government in 2001 showed over 1 in 4 (27.2%) of the machines at train stations did not work, and 11.9% of mobile equipment in buses and trams was non-operational. The State Government renegotiated with ticketing network contract operator "OneLink Transit Systems" to improve the service to commuters. Following these improvements, a 2002 audit showed an increase in availability of machines to 92.1% at train stations, and 98.3% on buses and trams. Usability was also improved, with tram machines able to sell daily tickets. Furthermore, vandalism across the network dropped by 62% between 2001 and 2002.

V/Line tickets were aligned with the Metcard system in April 2006, with each V/Line ticket to stations in the Metcard area having the relevant zones printed on them. In March 2007 the Nightrider bus service was also brought under the Metcard system. Zone 3 was removed from the Metcard system (and merged into zone 2) on March 4 2007, due to a State Election promise made by Opposition Leader Ted Ballieu and matched by then Premier Steve Bracks. 

The original Metcard contract with OneLink was to last nine years, expiring in March 2007. In 2005 the contract was changed to permit the system to be extended and changed as work on the replacement myki project keeps going, with the contract being able to be cancelled on six months notice.

Most Metcards can be purchased in Zone 1; Zone 2 and Zone 1 + Zone 2 types, with them being valid within their respective zones. All Metcards, except for the City Saver Metcard, are valid for muplitle trips on Trains, Trams and Buses.



</doc>
<doc id="102791" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102791" title="Piety">
Piety

Piety (from the Latin word pietas, meaning "devout" or "good") is generally used to refer either to Religious devotion or to spirituality. A common element in most ideas of piety is humility. It can also refer to a way to win the favor or forgiveness of one's God, or gods.


</doc>
<doc id="102797" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102797" title="Anne of Green Gables">
Anne of Green Gables

Anne of Green Gables is a book by Canadian author Lucy Maud Montgomery. It was published in 1908. It was written as fiction for readers of all ages, for a few decades has been classified as a children's book. Montgomery wrote the book after seeing a newspaper article about a couple that were mistakenly sent an orphan girl instead of a boy, yet decided to keep her.

The book takes place on Prince Edward Island, Canada, where the author grew up.

Montgomery continued the story of Anne Shirley in a series of sequels. They are listed in the order of Anne's age in each of the novels.



</doc>
<doc id="102802" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102802" title="Secondary sex characteristic">
Secondary sex characteristic

Secondary sex characteristics are features that make it easy to tell the sexes of a species apart. The features are not directly linked to reproduction. 

Male birds usually have much more colourful feathers (plumage), the females are better able to hide, their feathers (plumage) stands out less.

Well-known secondary sex characteristics in humans are the deeper voice, facial hair (beard) and more muscular build in men. In women, those characteristics usually cited are more prominent breasts, lips, eyes, hair, wider hips, more fat, and generally a higher voice. Faces, generally, make a big impact. It is the part other people interact with.

However, the wider hips are needed to give birth. Babies are born through the space between the three bones of a woman's pelvis. So is doubtful to call this a "secondary" characteristic, except so far as the width helps attract mates. Breasts are also essential, but in humans they are much larger in proportion to other mammals, and they do serve to attract males. 



</doc>
<doc id="102803" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102803" title="Poltergeist">
Poltergeist

Poltergeists are said to bother only one person at a time. This person is called their "focus". Poltergeists will bother only their focus. They are said to only last a few weeks, then will move on to another target. Often poltergeists are reported around children and adolescents. Some scientists think that poltergeists only exist in a person's head as a result of psychokinesis. They think that the "poltergeist effect" is a result of mental trauma.

There was a movie made in 1982 called "Poltergeist".

In "Harry Potter" there is a poltergeist named Peeves. However, Peeves is not a classic poltergeist. He can be seen and does not focus on bothering just one person.



</doc>
<doc id="102804" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102804" title="Pura Cup">
Pura Cup

The Pura Cup (formerly known as the Sheffield Shield) is a first class cricket competition in Australia. The six state teams play in a round-robin series of 4-day matches against every other team. After each pair of teams have played each other twice, the two highest ranked teams play a 5-day final.


</doc>
<doc id="102806" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102806" title="Mercy">
Mercy

Mercy can refer both to a compassionate behavior on the part of those in power (for example, "mercy" shown by a judge toward a criminal by not punishing them as much as they might be punished) or on the part of a compassionate third party (e.g. a trip out of "mercy" trying to treat sick children in Africa). The word is very common in several religions (for example, the mercy of God). 


</doc>
<doc id="102810" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102810" title="Template:Cookie">
Template:Cookie


</doc>
<doc id="102817" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102817" title="Tatnet">
Tatnet

Tatnet (short for "Tatar Internet") is the name Tatar-speaking Internet users commonly use for the "segment of the Internet" about the Tatar people or Tatarstan. It includes webpages and websites in many languages.

The first e-mail message in Tatar was probably sent and received in 1991 when employees of the Tatar-Bashkir Service of Radio Liberty/Radio Free Europe Inc. started using the Internet and electronic communication on a regular basis. In 1994, a Tatar-language mailing list (TMG, standing for Tatar Mailing Group) was established and this year is commonly regarded as the birthyear of the Tatar Internet. Since approximately 2000, Tatnet has been developing explosively, with many web pages and web sites added to it annually. The existence of Tatnet continues to contribute tremendously to the cohesion and consolidation of the Tatar people, a signficant achievement because Tatars are despersed all over the world and a substantial majority of Tatars live outside their ethnic homeland, Tatarstan. Tatar Internet users employ Latin and Cyrillic scripts with the former gradually becoming more dominant.


</doc>
<doc id="102819" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102819" title="Tatarstan">
Tatarstan

Tatarstan is an autonomous republic within Russia. The Republic is located approximately 800 kilometers (497 miles) east of Moscow. It lies between the Volga River and the Kama River (a tributary of the Volga), and extends east to the Ural mountains. The majority of population are the Tatars,

Its capital is Kazan.


</doc>
<doc id="102824" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102824" title="Charles Chesnutt">
Charles Chesnutt

Charles Waddell Chesnutt (June 20, 1858 – November 15, 1932) was an African-American writer. He wrote several books like "The Marrow of Tradition" and "The House Behind the Cedars" as well as for a short story about a haunted yard called "The Goophered Grapevine".



</doc>
<doc id="102825" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102825" title="Kansas City Royals">
Kansas City Royals

The Kansas City Royals is a Major League Baseball team based in Kansas City, Missouri. The team won a World Series title in 1985. From 1973 to the present, the Royals have played in Kauffman Stadium. They are owned by David Glass, managed by Ned Yost, and their General Manager is Dayton Moore.



</doc>
<doc id="102826" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102826" title="Edwidge Danticat">
Edwidge Danticat

Edwidge Danticat (born January 19, 1969) is a Haitian born American writer. Her books include "Krik? Krak!" and "Breath, Eyes, Memory", which was chosen for the Oprah Book Club in 1998.


</doc>
<doc id="102833" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102833" title="Detroit Pistons">
Detroit Pistons

The Detroit Pistons are a team of the National Basketball Association, and are located in Detroit, Michigan. The team's home arena is The Palace of Auburn Hills. In 1948, the team was located in Fort Wayne, Indiana, but that was before moving to Detroit in 1957. The team has won NBA championships in 1989, 1990, and 2004. Their head coach is John Kuester, they are owned by Karen Davidson, and their General Manager is Joe Dumars.



</doc>
<doc id="102836" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102836" title="Category:Kansas City, Missouri">
Category:Kansas City, Missouri


</doc>
<doc id="102838" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102838" title="History of Africa">
History of Africa

The History of Africa begins from the first modern human beings and leads to its present difficult state as a politically developing continent. 

Africa's ancient historic period includes the rise of Egyptian civilization, the further development of societies outside the Nile River Valley and the interaction between them and civilizations outside of Africa. In the late 7th century North and East Africa were heavily influenced by the spread of Islam. That lead to the appearance of new cultures such as those of the Swahili people. This also lead to an increase in the Slave trade that had a very bad influence for the development of the whole continent till the 19th century. African independence movements had their fist success in 1951 when Libya became the first former colony to become independent. Modern African history has been full of revolutions and wars as well as the growth of modern African economies and democratization across the continent.


|Nubia


</doc>
<doc id="102843" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102843" title="History of America">
History of America

The history of America is the history of North and South America, including Central America and the Caribbean. It begins with people migrating to these areas from Asia and possibly Oceania during the height of an Ice age. These groups are generally believed to have been isolated from peoples of the "Old World" until the coming of Europeans in the 10th and 15th centuries.

The ancestors of today's Native Americans were hunter-gatherers who migrated into North America. The most popular theory says that migrants came to the Americas via the Bering Land Bridge, Beringia, the land mass covered by the cold ocean waters in the Bering Strait. Small Paleo-Indian groups probably followed the mammoth and other prey animals. It is possible that groups of people may also have traveled into North America on shelf or sheet ice along the northern Pacific coast.

Cultural traits brought by the first immigrants later evolved and spawned such cultures as Iroquois on North America and Pirahã of South America. These cultures later developed into civilizations. In many cases, these cultures expanded at a later date than their Old World counterparts. Cultures that may be considered advanced or civilized include: Cahokia, Zapotec, Toltecs, Olmec, Aztecs, Chimor, and the Inca.

The Pueblo people of what is now the Southwestern United States and northern Mexico, living conditions were that of large stone apartment like adobe structures. They live in Arizona, New Mexico, Utah, Colorado, and possibly surrounding areas.

Chichimeca was the name that the Mexica (Aztecs) applied to a wide range of semi-nomadic peoples who inhabited the north of modern-day Mexico, and had the same sense as the European term "barbarian". The name was adopted with a negative tone by the Spaniards when they spoke of the semi-nomadic hunter-gatherer peoples of northern Mexico.

The Zapotec emerged around 1500 years BCE. Their writing system influenced the later Olmec. They left behind the great city Monte Alban.

The Olmec civilization emerged around 1200 BCE in Mesoamerica and ended around 400 BCE. Olmec art and concepts influenced surrounding cultures after their downfall. This civilization was thought to be the first in America to develop a writing system. After the Olmecs abandoned their cities for unknown reasons, the Maya, Zapotec and Teotihuacan arose.

Maya history spans 3,000 years. The Maya may have collapsed due to changing climate in the end of the 10th century.

The Toltec were a nomadic people, dating from the 10th - 12th century, whose language was also spoken by the Aztecs.

Teotihuacan (4th century BCE - 7/8th century CE) was both a city, and an empire of the same name, which, at its zenith between 150 and the 5th century, covered most of Mesoamerica.

The Aztec having started to build their empire around 14th century found their civilization abruptly ended by the Spanish conquistadors. They lived in Mesoamerica, and surrounding lands. Their capital city Tenochtitlan was one of the largest cities of all time.

The oldest known civilization of the Americas was established in the Norte Chico region of modern Peru. Complex society emerged in the group of coastal valleys, between 3000 and 1800 BCE. The Quipu, a distinctive recording device among Andean civilizations, apparently dates from the era of Norte Chico. 

The Chavín established a trade network and developed agriculture by as early as (or late compared to the Old World) 900 BCE according to some estimates and archaeological finds. Artifacts were found at a site called Chavín in modern Peru at an elevation of 3,177 meters. Chavín civilization spanned from 900 BCE to 300 BCE.

Holding their capital at the great city of Cusco, the Inca civilization dominated the Andes region from 1438 to 1533.
Known as "Tahuantinsuyu", or "the land of the four regions," in Quechua, the Inca culture was highly distinct and developed. Cities were built with precise, unmatched stonework, constructed over many levels of mountain terrain. Terrace farming was a useful form of agriculture. There is evidence of excellent metalwork and even successful brain surgery in Inca civilization.

The number of Native Americans is increasing now in the U.S. by actual population growth, changing enrollment laws, and from the immigration from Spanish America, especially from Mexico, though the definition being applied to them is Hispanic.

Slavery has had a significant role in the economic development the New World after the colonization of the Americas by the Europeans. Slaves helped build the roads upon which they were transported. The cotton, tobacco, and sugar cane harvested by slaves became important exports for the United States and the Caribbean countries. 




</doc>
<doc id="102847" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102847" title="Lifeguard">
Lifeguard

A lifeguard is a person on the beach or at a public pool who educates patrons in the correct way of using the water facility and prevents accidents from happening. They are trained in rescue situations. "Lifeguards" will usually be found at most public pools and lakes.


</doc>
<doc id="102851" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102851" title="A Night at the Opera (Queen album)">
A Night at the Opera (Queen album)

A Night at the Opera is a Queen album from 1975.



</doc>
<doc id="102852" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102852" title="A Day at the Races (album)">
A Day at the Races (album)

A Day at the Races is a Queen album from 1976.



</doc>
<doc id="102854" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102854" title="News of The World (album)">
News of The World (album)

News of the World is the seventh studio album from the English rock band Queen, released in 1977. 



</doc>
<doc id="102855" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102855" title="The Scream">
The Scream

The Scream is a painting made by Edvard Munch. It was painted in the early 20th century. It is a painting of a person screaming and that person is on a street.


</doc>
<doc id="102856" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102856" title="Category:Edvard Munch">
Category:Edvard Munch

Pages about Edvard Munch and his art.


</doc>
<doc id="102860" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102860" title="Category:Soundgarden">
Category:Soundgarden


</doc>
<doc id="102862" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102862" title="Category:Fluid mechanics">
Category:Fluid mechanics


</doc>
<doc id="102869" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102869" title="Jazz (album)">
Jazz (album)

Jazz is a 1978 album by English rock band Queen. It was the band's seventh studio album.



</doc>
<doc id="102870" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102870" title="Category:Geobox2 include">
Category:Geobox2 include


</doc>
<doc id="102871" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102871" title="The Game (album)">
The Game (album)

The Game is a rock album by English band Queen released June 30, 1980. It was the only Queen album to reach the #1 position in both the United Kingdom and the United States.



</doc>
<doc id="102872" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102872" title="Category:Geobox include">
Category:Geobox include


</doc>
<doc id="102873" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102873" title="Category:Party shortnames templates (United Kingdom)">
Category:Party shortnames templates (United Kingdom)


</doc>
<doc id="102874" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102874" title="Flash Gordon (album)">
Flash Gordon (album)

Flash Gordon is a 1980 album by English rock band Queen. It is the soundtrack album to the science fiction movie "Flash Gordon".



</doc>
<doc id="102875" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102875" title="Mark Speight">
Mark Speight

Mark Warwick Fordham Speight (6 August 1965—April 2008) was a British TV presenter. He was best known for was showing the long-running BBC children's art program "SMart". He found his fiancee, Natasha Collins, also a BBC presenter dead at their flat in London on January 2008. He was then arrested as a suspect, but was released without any charges put against him. On 13 April 2008, police found his body hanging from the roof of the MacMillan House.


</doc>
<doc id="102883" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102883" title="Mettingen">
Mettingen

Mettingen is a municipality in the district of Steinfurt, in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany.

Mettingen is about 25 km east of Rheine and 20 km west of Osnabrück. 

Villages close to Mettingen are Recke in the west, Neuenkirchen, (Lower Saxony) in the north, Ibbenbüren in the south and Westerkappeln in the east.

The founders of the textile company C&A, Clemens and August Brenninkmeyer, were born in Mettingen. Also Annika Suthe, participant of the 2004 Summer Olympics (javelin throw) was born there.



</doc>
<doc id="102890" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102890" title="Mauves">
Mauves



</doc>
<doc id="102891" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102891" title="Mercuer">
Mercuer



</doc>
<doc id="102892" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102892" title="Le Pouzin">
Le Pouzin



</doc>
<doc id="102893" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102893" title="Quintenas">
Quintenas



</doc>
<doc id="102897" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102897" title="Rochemaure">
Rochemaure

Rochemaure is a "commune" in the Ardèche "département" in the southern part of France. The commune has a population of about 1,800 people as of the year 1999.



</doc>
<doc id="102899" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102899" title="Rosières">
Rosières

Rosières can be any of the following places in France:



</doc>
<doc id="102900" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102900" title="Rosières, Ardèche">
Rosières, Ardèche

Rosières is a commune of the Ardèche "département" in the south-eastern part of France. The commune has a population of about 1,000 people as of the year 1999.



</doc>
<doc id="102901" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102901" title="Ruoms">
Ruoms

Ruoms is a "commune" of the Ardèche "département" in the southern part of France. The commune has a population of about 2,100 people as of the year 1999.



</doc>
<doc id="102903" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102903" title="Ucel">
Ucel

Ucel is a town and commune in the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France. The commune has a population of about 1,700 people as of the year 1999.



</doc>
<doc id="102914" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102914" title="Tokio Jokio">
Tokio Jokio

Tokio Jokio is a 1943 Looney Tunes short movie directed by U.S. Corporal Norman McCabe. It stars Mel Blanc. The movie is a Tokyo newscast about all areas of everyday living in Japan.



</doc>
<doc id="102919" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102919" title="List of Solar System objects">
List of Solar System objects

This is a list of Solar System objects by orbit, by distance from the sun. 

Most named objects in this list have a diameter of 500 km or more.



The Solar System also contains:



</doc>
<doc id="102921" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102921" title="List of minor planets">
List of minor planets

This is a list of numbered minor planets, nearly all of them asteroids, in sequential order.

As of September 2010, there are 231,665 numbered minor planets, and many more not yet numbered. Three minor planets have also been classified as dwarf planets. But most asteroids are ordinary and not particularly noteworthy—less than 15,000 of them have been named (the first nameless asteroid having number 3708). For a smaller list of notable asteroids, see List of important asteroids.

The list is much too long to fit on one page, so see these subpages:




</doc>
<doc id="102925" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102925" title="Template:List of asteroids/footer">
Template:List of asteroids/footer


</doc>
<doc id="102926" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102926" title="Template:List of asteroids/header1">
Template:List of asteroids/header1

! Name
! Provisional<br>name
! Date it was found on
! Where it was found
! Who found it


</doc>
<doc id="102927" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102927" title="Template:TOC001">
Template:TOC001


</doc>
<doc id="102929" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102929" title="Template:List of asteroids/navigator">
Template:List of asteroids/navigator


</doc>
<doc id="102931" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102931" title="Template:List of asteroids/Helper">
Template:List of asteroids/Helper

<includeonly>

</includeonly>


</doc>
<doc id="102933" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102933" title="Daimyo">
Daimyo

The () were powerful feudal rulers from the 10th century to the early 19th century in Japan. Each daimyo had control over a part of the country. The Shogun had power over the daimyo.

The first daimyo were called .

The Edo period began in 1600 after the Battle of Sekigahara. The Shogun changed the power and position of the daimyo.

Sankin kotai was a system to control daimyo. The shogun made the daimyo come to Edo every other year.


</doc>
<doc id="102959" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102959" title="Evil on Your Mind">
Evil on Your Mind

"Evil on Your Mind" is the name of a popular Country music song, originally made famous by Grand Ole Opry star, Jan Howard in 1966.

In the mid-60s, Jan Howard was not acquiring any significant hits. Only one of her songs hit the Top 20, which was in 1960 with, "The One You Slip Around With", which hit No. 13. In 1966, Howard wrote and released her first single of the year, "Evil on Your Mind". The song was written by Howard, and talked of her troubled marriage to legendary singer-songwriter, Harlan Howard. The song hit the Top 5 on the Billboard Country music charts, peaking at No. 5 there. Soon an album of the same name was released that year, featuring Howard's big hit. A follow-up single was released that titled, "Bad Seed" which hit the Top 10 that year, proving a successful follow-up for Howard. The song set the stage for a number of Top 20 and Top 10 hits Howard would have as a solo and duet artist between 1966 and 1971.

The song talks about a husband trying to convince his wife to visit her sister out west, but the narrator (the wife) notices that something is going on, which her husband is trying to hide. She believes he's thiking of having an affair, which she calls, "evil on your mind". 

The song has been mentioned the in the book, "Heartaches By the Number: The 500 Greatest Country Singles". 

A rock music group titled, The Stumbleweeds recorded Howard's "Evil on Your Mind".


</doc>
<doc id="102960" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102960" title="Jan Howard">
Jan Howard

Jan Howard (born Lula Grace Johnson on March 13, 1930 in West Plains, Missouri) is an American Country Music Singer and Grand Ole Opry star. She was one of Country music's trailblazing female vocalists during the height of her career in the mid-1960s. Her last name (Howard) comes from her ex-husband, legendary singer-songwriter, Harlan Howard.

Jan Howard's bigggest hit and signature song is the 1966 classic Country hit, "Evil on Your Mind", which has been featured in the book, "Heartaches By the Number: The 500 Greatest Country Music Singles". In the late 60s and early 70s, she dueted with Bill Anderson, on a number of hits that hit the Top 10, including the No. 1 hit "For Loving You".


</doc>
<doc id="102962" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102962" title="Howell County, Missouri">
Howell County, Missouri

Howell County is a county located in the U.S. state of Missouri. As of 2000, the population was 37,238. Its county seat is West Plains. Howell County was organized on March 2, 1857, from Oregon County. It was named for James Howell, who made the first settlement in Howell Valley.


</doc>
<doc id="102963" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102963" title="Oregon County, Missouri">
Oregon County, Missouri

Oregon County is a county located in the U.S. state of Missouri. It was organized in 1845 and named for the Oregon Territory. As of 2000, the population is 10,344. Its county seat is Alton. 


</doc>
<doc id="102964" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102964" title="Oregon Territory">
Oregon Territory

The Oregon Territory is the name applied both to the unorganized Oregon Country claimed by both the United States and Britain (but normally referred to as the Oregon Country), as well as to the organized U.S. territory formed from it that existed between 1848 and 1859. 

The Territory of Oregon was organized on August 14, 1848, by an act of Congress out of the U.S. portion of the Oregon Country below the 49th parallel north. It originally included all of the present-day states of Idaho, Oregon and Washington, as well as Montana west of the Continental Divide, and Wyoming west of the Continental Divide and north of the 42nd parallel north—the northern border of the Mexican Cession.

The first territorial capital was in Oregon City. The capital was later moved to Salem in 1851.

In 1853, the portion of the territory north of the lower Columbia River and north of the 46th parallel east of the river was organized into the Washington Territory.
On February 14, 1859, the territory entered the Union as the U.S. state of Oregon within its current boundaries. The remaining eastern portion of the territory (the portions in present-day southern Idaho and western Wyoming) was added to the Washington Territory.

In 1861 and then 1863, portions to the east were organized into the Nebraska Territory and Idaho Territory (respectively.)


</doc>
<doc id="102965" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102965" title="Continental divide">
Continental divide

A continental divide is a line of raised terrain that creates a border between two watersheds. Water falling on one side of the line travels to one ocean, and water on the other side travels to another, perhaps on the other side of the continent. 

Because the exact border between bodies of water is usually not very easy to see, the continental divide is not always clear. The International Hydrographic Organization's publication "Limits of Oceans and Seas" describes the exact boundaries of oceans, but it is not recognized around the world. A complication is that some rivers empty into deserts or inland seas, and so do not end up in the ocean.


</doc>
<doc id="102966" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102966" title="Terrain">
Terrain

Terrain, or relief, is the third or vertical dimension of land surface. When relief is described underwater, the term bathymetry is used. Topography has recently become an additional synonym, though in many parts of the world it retains its original more general meaning of description of place.

Terrain is used as a general term in physical geography, referring to the lie of the land. This is usually expressed in terms of the elevation, slope, and orientation of terrain features. Terrain affects surface water flow and distribution. Over a large area, it can affect weather and climate patterns.


</doc>
<doc id="102970" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102970" title="Hukah">
Hukah

A Hukah (or Hookah, (, "hukka") or shisha (, ) or (Turkish: nargile) is a certain kind of Water pipe. It is often made of glass. Originally, it came from India. but it is also popular in other countries, especially in the Arab World. It had gained popularity under the reign of the Ottoman Dynasty. A hookah operates by water filtration and indirect heat. It can be used for smoking herbal fruits.

There are many other names (often of Arab, Indian, Turkish, Uzbek, or Persian origin) for a hookah. " Arghile" or "Nargila" is the name most commonly used in Lebanon, Syria, Iraq, Jordan, Armenia, Albania, Kosovo, Greece, Turkey, Palestine, Israel, Bulgaria and Romania. The first "n" is often dropped in Arabic. "Narghile" is from the Persian word "nārgil" or "coconut", from Sanskrit "nārikela" (नारिकेल)--as the original hookahs were made out of coconut shells. "Shisha" (شيشة) is from the Persian word "shishe" (شیشه, literally translated as "glass" and not bottle). The word is primarily used for water pipes in Egypt and the Arab countries of the Persian Gulf (such as Kuwait, Bahrain, Qatar, UAE, and Saudi Arabia) as well as Morocco, Tunisia, Somalia and Yemen. In Iran it is called "ghalyun" (غلیون), "ghālyun" (قالیون), or "ghalyān" (قلیان) and in India and Pakistan it is referred to as "huqqa" (हुक्का /حقہ). The more colloquial terms "hubble-bubble" and "hubbly-bubbly" may be used in the region surrounding the red sea.

The archaic form of this latter Indian name "hookah" is most commonly used in English for historical reasons. It was in India that many English-speakers first sampled the effects of the water pipe. William Hickey wrote in his "Memoirs" that shortly after his arrival in Kolkata, India in 1775:


</doc>
<doc id="102983" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102983" title="First Baptist Church of Hammond">
First Baptist Church of Hammond

The First Baptist Church of Hammond (or FBCHammond) is a fundamental Independent Baptist church in Hammond, Indiana. It is the largest church in the state of Indiana and one of the largest churches in the United States. It was founded in 1887. It was under Jack Hyles' leadership from 1959-2001 that it became a megachurch, one of the first in the United States, with a steady weekly attendance of around 20,000. It also operates Hyles-Anderson College and two K-12 schools, named "City Baptist Schools" (for children of the bus route of the church) and "Hammond Baptist Schools" (for children of the members of the church). Jack Schaap, Hyles' son-in-law, succeeded as pastor after Hyles' death in 2001.

First Baptist Church was founded in November 1887 by "Allen Hill" of Jennings County, Indiana. Its first meeting was on 14 November 1887 with 12 members on the 28th. However, it originally met in the Morton House Hotel which stood on what is currently the 100 block of Willow Court. Allen Hill's was only their pastor for around 4 months. 

By April 1888, B.P. Hewitt became the church's permanent pastor and Allen Hill went on to start several other churches. Needing more room, Hewitt moved the church's meeting place to the Hohman Opera House at the corner of State and Hohman streets. In 1889, the church erected its own structure for $2,358 when Marcus Towle, Hammond's first mayor and a member of FBC, donated land on "Sibley Street" to the church.

On January 3, 1901, Pastor E.T. Carter proposed a new building, and the first service was held on 14 April 1901. On 27 November of that same year, Pastor Carter announced his resignation for a job at the Central Baptist Orphanage in Michigan.
Dr. Jack Schaap (born October 1, 1957), has been the Pastor of the First Baptist Church of Hammond, Indiana since 2001. Following the death of the former pastor Dr. Jack Hyles, he became the pastor of the largest church in Indiana, and with their average weekly attendance of more than 20,000, it has become one of the largest churches in America.

He is also the of Hyles-Anderson College. On June 1, 1979, he married Mrs. Cindy Schaap. Dr. and Mrs. Schaap have been married for 28 years and now have two children, Jaclynn and Kenny. 

Jack Frasure Hyles (September 25, 1926 – February 6, 2001) was a leading person in the Independent Baptist movement. He was pastor of the church from 1959 until his death in 2001.



</doc>
<doc id="102986" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102986" title="Yves Chauvin">
Yves Chauvin

Yves Chauvin (born October 10, 1930) is a French chemist. He was awarded a Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 2005. He is honorary research director at the "Institut français du pétrole" and a member of the French Academy of Science. Chauvin received his degree from the Lyon's School of Chemistry, Physics and Electronics in 1954.

He was awarded the 2005 Nobel Prize in Chemistry, along with Robert H. Grubbs and Richard R. Schrock, for his work from the early 1970s on olefin metathesis. Chauvin was embarrassed to receive his award and at first did not want to accept it . In the end, he accepted the award from the King of Sweden and gave a big speech .




</doc>
<doc id="102989" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102989" title="Template:Newbot">
Template:Newbot

<onlyinclude></onlyinclude>

</doc>
<doc id="102990" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102990" title="Template:Infobox Bot">
Template:Infobox Bot


</doc>
<doc id="102993" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102993" title="Robert H. Grubbs">
Robert H. Grubbs

Robert H. Grubbs (born 27 February 1942 in Possum Trot, Kentucky) is an American chemist. He won Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 2005.

In his Nobel Prize autobiography he says, "In some places, my birthplace is listed as Calvert City, Kentucky and in others Possum Trot (both in Marshall County). I was actually born between the two, so either one really is correct." He spent his early childhood in Marshall County and attended public school at McKinley Elementary, Franklin Junior High and Paducah Tilghman High School in Paducah, Kentucky. Grubbs studied chemistry at the University of Florida where he was awarded a B.S. and an M.S.. He worked with Merle Battiste in Florida University, and Columbia University, where he obtained his Ph.D. in 1968. He was taught by Ronald Breslow in Columbia. 

He next spent a year with James Collman at Stanford University. He was then made part of the faculty at Michigan State University. In 1978 he moved to California Institute of Technology where he still works as the Victor and Elizabeth Atkins Professor of Chemistry. 

His main interest is for organometallic chemistry and organic chemistry. These interests are for catalysts, such as Grubbs' catalyst for olefin metathesis and ring-opening metathesis polymerization and norbornene. He also produced some important work on "living polymerization".


Grubbs received the 2005 Nobel Prize in Chemistry, along with Richard R. Schrock and Yves Chauvin, for his work in the field of olefin metathesis.



</doc>
<doc id="102997" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102997" title="CD (disambiguation)">
CD (disambiguation)

CD can mean:


</doc>
<doc id="102998" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102998" title="Billabong">
Billabong

Billabong is an Australian word.



</doc>
<doc id="103000" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103000" title="Category:National Hockey League teams">
Category:National Hockey League teams


</doc>
<doc id="103008" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103008" title="Wikipedia:Simple talk/Archive 28">
Wikipedia:Simple talk/Archive 28

Has anyone else had problems with Simple running slow? The pages load very slow. ENWP and UNCYC are fine for me though. 21:16, 5 April 2008 (UTC)

Just so all those involved know, I have voted to support the unblocking of . The verdict is now 5/4 and can be found here. -- () 13:22, 6 April 2008 (UTC)

I'd like to also just say (as I said almost verbatim on the Inkpen talk page): As much as Benniguy would like it to be, it's not just about the numbers. Ultimately, a decision will be made one way or the other as to whether or not he'll be allowed back on a trial basis. The decision will take into consideration all comments and all facts as we know them. This "voting" is really only to get a clearer picture of where members of the community stand on the issue. The "results" will not be "law". This is not an RfA, RfD, proposal for VGA, or similar official vote where there is a set percentage of support that must be reached. 

He is still distracting everyone, even while banned. He wants us all to keep an open mind about him. Here's what I have to say to everyone about that. If you have an open mind, you're taking in all information as it comes to you and processing it to form an up-to-date opinion about a person or situation. The information that "my" open mind keeps taking in is continued pouting, insincere apologies, yelling (in caps in edit summaries) to get attention, and bickering with anyone who comments on his page and says something he doesn't agree with. I can't speak for anyone else's open mind though... · 16:48, 7 April 2008 (UTC)

Your conversation seems to be typical for Wikipedia for me. One is speaking in a certain context to a certain person, but one is watched by many people. If one is not cautious that can lead to arguing.
But that seems to be comparitively harmless for me. 

I think the main problems of Wikipedia are: 1. It has a potential to make addictive 2. It can cause a lot of stress. (I think most of you who are experienced Wikipedians know what I am speaking about.) - Inkpen2 tells us, he is seriously ill and needs medication to overcome his problems. My question: Is there anybody here who knows for certain that neither stress nor addictive potential can do any harm to Inkpen2? If he knows then he should explain where his knowledge comes from. -- () 13:51, 10 April 2008 (UTC)

I have copied some wrestling articles and some other articles from enWP into for simplifying and could use some help doing so...please feel free to help out. Please help, I can't do it quickly on my own.--  †   06:28, 6 April 2008 (UTC)

On the left hand side of the page where other wiki links are beside a grey square the Hrvatski link has a gold star. why? ~ .. 19:45, 6 April 2008 (UTC)

Congratulations, Simple English Wikipedia! With the creation of Transformer and Energy (society) (also known as Energy (technology), we have now completed "every" article on the core article list! 15:59, 7 April 2008 (UTC)

Under the Offensive usernames section of : "Do not choose something that might be offensive. Your user name should not suggest that you hold any particular political, religious or other belief."

A new user called has just been created, and this rule would also affect ChristianMan if we chose to enforce it. I personally think that we should - it seems that whenever we mix politics and religion in with what we're doing, we get arguments and fights. It's very easy to take a dislike to someone over such trivial things over the Internet, and I really can't see why personal beliefs have any place in what we're doing. The original policy on userboxes was to only allow Babel and Wikimedia based boxes to try and prevent the kind of divides in the community. Do we think that this rule should be enforced, mildy encouraged or totally ignored? - 14:45, 8 April 2008 (UTC)

As to the userbox rule, I am one for strictly enforcing that rule because I think that we are too small of a Wikipedia/community to have userboxes at this time. Maybe in the future, when we have more than 25 active users (more like around 100 active users) is the time when we should have userboxes, not just yet.
Cheers, 14:52, 8 April 2008 (UTC)

My username is the same one as on the main Wikipedia, and they allowed my username there. They did discuss it but declined the block. More in the main wikipedia, there are so many UserNames that haven't been blocked. Including mine. Why I don't have many edits is because I only got on today, I will stop using this account if I have to, but prefer to not. Blessings, 19:45, 8 April 2008 (UTC)

I could, I am not very established on here so I guess if somebody is that persistent, I wont be a problem. But, I don't know how! If you really want me to, you'll have to tell me. Blessings, 20:11, 8 April 2008 (UTC)

Or we can let this discussion continue and let a bureaucrat decide if consensus has been reached. He doesn't need to change his name yet. He will be politely asked by a bureaucrat if and when that time comes. No need to shove him to it yet. - 20:18, 8 April 2008 (UTC)

I have caused so much talk today... Amazing! No really, if you really want my name changed, I don't need a Bureaucrat. I have asked Archer7 that it be changed to American Eagle and I think I'll go through with it. Strange day ;], Blessings, 20:39, 8 April 2008 (UTC)

... are not available to the person using the IP. Although messages are often left for a user logging on with an IP, there is no link at the top of the page for an IP user to access their talk page. Only a log in/create account link. ~ .. 15:21, 11 April 2008 (UTC)

I just copied some new polling templates from Commons...check them out at --  †   20:15, 11 April 2008 (UTC)

One of our bureaucrats, Blockinblox has seemed to become more inactive over the passed several weeks. While his lastest edits date to March 26 (which is approx. 2 weeks ago), he has rarely been using his sysop/'crat tools. As far as I'm concerned, Blockinblox has almost never used his 'crat tools, as shown and . The lack of use for the tools show that Blockinblox might have no need for the tools, although I'm not saying that he's a poor sysop. Since the addition of Creol, we now have 4 'crats and the removal of 1 'crat does not cause any real loss. I propose that we demote him if he [Blockinblox] agrees with us or is willing to step down and that we either replace him or continue on with 3 bureaucrats. But I think that he is still worthy to keep his sysop tools and still edits occassionally. To see his contribs, see below:

P.S. I'm back everybody! :) -- 06:09, 12 April 2008 (UTC)

strong --" " 07:31, 12 April 2008 (UTC)

Oppose no need to remove his tools. 14:40, 12 April 2008 (UTC)

"The more the merrier", I'd wish that was true, but bureaucrats are supposed to be devoted in improving the wiki their in. Blockinblox has shown little need fot the tools and has put little effort in doing so. Also I only insisted to remove only his bureaucrat tools, not his sysop tools as well. Also I'm not trying to be mean by demoting Blockinblox, all I'm trying to tell if we could fing a better bureaucrat for the sake of the wiki. Also if Creol was meant to replace Blockinblox, why is he [Blockinblox] still a 'crat? I know that Blockinblox also edits here occassionally, but I've noticed that it is nowdays required for new administrators to be constantly active while Blockinblox puts in like 5 edits a week? That would be lame for new admins and to-be admins. Also what's the point in "more the merrier", are we trying to show off against other mid-sized wikis or to see who has the most 'crats in a wiki? That's not the point in trying to have dedicated sysops improve this wiki. Otherwise, why not have 5 or 6 or a dozen bureaucrats if "more the merrier" is such a great idea? I'm just trying to illistrate a point here and I do not have anything against Blockinblox personally. He's a terrific wikipedian as an admin, but id not active enough to be a 'crat. -- 08:04, 13 April 2008 (UTC)

I would like to allow my bot to use AWB. Do I just add the name to the checkpage or does my bot have to go through a more formal process?     11:05, 12 April 2008 (UTC)

</doc>
<doc id="103010" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103010" title="Console manufacturer">
Console manufacturer

A console manufacturer is a company that makes and sells video game consoles. It is a multi-million dollar industry.


</doc>
<doc id="103011" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103011" title="History of computer and video games">
History of computer and video games

Video games were introduced as an entertainment medium in 1971, becoming the start for a big entertainment industry in the late 1970s/early 1980s in the United States, Japan, and Europe. After a bad industry collapse in 1983 and a rebirth two years later, the video game industry has experienced large growth for over twenty years. Now it is a $10 billion industry, and now it earns almost as much money as the motion picture industry.
Nowadays we have companies such as Sony Playstation and Nintendo that are very popular in most countries.


</doc>
<doc id="103012" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103012" title="Jimboomba">
Jimboomba

Jimboomba is a town in south east Queensland, Australia. About 1,400 people live there. It is 21 kilometers north of Beaudesert on the Mount Lindsay Highway.

Jimboomba was first settled by Europeans in 1845, when Thomas Dowse started to graze cattle and sheep in the area. In 1880, the first hotel, the Norfolk Hotel, opened for business, with several more hotels opened in the next few years as the railway from Beaudesert reached the town. The railway station became a loading spot for the local saw mill. The first school was opened in 1890 in the Presbyterian Church hall.


</doc>
<doc id="103013" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103013" title="Category:Dams">
Category:Dams


</doc>
<doc id="103014" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103014" title="Category:Caves">
Category:Caves


</doc>
<doc id="103015" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103015" title="The Bats (American band)">
The Bats (American band)

The Bats is an American band. Its members are Jon Brion, Bill Murphy and Don "Riff" Fertman. The band started in 1980.

In the early 1980s, Jon Brion and Bill Murphy began writing together in New Haven, Connecticut. They recorded some demo tracks in makeshift apartment studios, and worked out their arrangements in basement practice rooms on the Yale University Campus. In time, the duo enlisted the talents of bassist Don "Riff" Fertman to form The Bats, not to be confused with another group of the same name which formed concurrently in New Zealand. 
In the spring of 1982 the trio created a imaginative set of pop songs in a small studio in Connecticut. A single called "Popgun" followed by an LP entitled How Pop Can You Get? were released on the independent label Gustav.

In October, the album became a Billboard Magazine “Recommended LP”, saying:

"From the cover, this looks like wacky new wave pop a la B-52’s. What’s on the vinyl though is well-crafted, if youthful power pop. This group is only a trio, and from their looks quite young but manages to project a full, powerful sound. Though on a small label the sound is crisp and professional. To those who wake up every morning to well worn copies of the Rasperries’ “Go All the Way,” this one's for you." – Billboard October 2, 1982.

Even with much critical acclaim, the album failed to chart, and the group disbanded a year or so later. Jon Brion has gone on to become a Grammy Award winning producer, Academy Award nominated film composer and solo artist. Bill Murphy is now an Emmy Award winning television producer. 
Don Fertman is in corporate management with the Subway sandwich franchises, worldwide.



</doc>
<doc id="103027" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103027" title="Charles, Prince of Wales">
Charles, Prince of Wales

The Prince Charles, Prince of Wales (Charles Philip Arthur George; born 14 November 1948), is the eldest son of Elizabeth II and Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh. He has held the titles of Prince of Wales and Earl of Chester since 1958.

Prince Charles was married to his first wife, Diana, Princess of Wales, from 1981 until they divorced in 1996. They had two sons, Prince William and Prince Harry. Charles has been married to his second wife, Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall, since 2005.


</doc>
<doc id="103029" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103029" title="Formaldehyde">
Formaldehyde

Formaldehyde (or Methanal) is a chemical compound.

It is a colorless gas with a bad smell. It is flammable and toxic.
It is the simplest aldehyde. Its main application is as a disinfectant. It is a biocide, this means it can kill most bacteria and fungi. It is also used to make dyes, to make textiles wrinkle-free,preservatives, explosives, and certain polymers. About 23 million tonnes (50 billion pounds) of formaldehyde was made worldwide in 2005.

<references>


</doc>
<doc id="103031" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103031" title="Tulu language">
Tulu language

Tulu is a language spoken in south India, mainly in the states of Karnataka and Kerala. In Karnataka it is spoken mainly in the district of Dakshina Kannada. In Kerala it is spoken in the Kasargod district. The area where Tulu is spoken is sometimes called Tulunadu.
There are various dialects. The most important are: 
bunt


</doc>
<doc id="103039" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103039" title="SMart">
SMart

SMart is a long running children’s art show. The presenters show how to create pictures from items easily found around the house.

The show has a number of spin offs, because it is so popular. Some of these are 



</doc>
<doc id="103040" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103040" title="Hot Space">
Hot Space

Hot Space is an album by English rock band Queen, released in 1982.



</doc>
<doc id="103041" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103041" title="The Works (Queen album)">
The Works (Queen album)

The Works is a 1984 pop/rock album by English band Queen. It was the band's eleventh studio album.



</doc>
<doc id="103042" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103042" title="A Kind of Magic">
A Kind of Magic

A Kind of Magic is a 1986 album by English rock band Queen. It was the band's twelfth studio album, and is based on the soundtrack to the movie "Highlander".



</doc>
<doc id="103043" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103043" title="The Miracle (album)">
The Miracle (album)

The Miracle is a 1989 album by English rock band Queen. It was the band's thirteenth studio album. 



</doc>
<doc id="103044" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103044" title="Innuendo (album)">
Innuendo (album)

Innuendo is a 1991 album by English rock band Queen. It is the band's fourteenth studio album and the last to be composed entirely of new material. It is also the final studio album to be released while lead singer Freddie Mercury was still alive. 



</doc>
<doc id="103045" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103045" title="Made in Heaven">
Made in Heaven

Made in Heaven is Queen's fifteenth studio album, released in November 1995. After Freddie Mercury's death in 1991, the remaining band members John Deacon, Roger Taylor and Brian May worked with vocals that Mercury had previously recorded, along with newly recorded lyrics by the remaining band members. "Made In Heaven" would be the final studio album performed by all four original band members. 



</doc>
<doc id="103047" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103047" title="Sassanid Empire">
Sassanid Empire

The Sassanid Empire or Sassanian Dynasty is the name used for the Persian dynasty which lasted from 224 to 651 AD. 

The Sassanid Empire, which succeeded the Parthian Empire, was recognized as one of the two main powers in Western Asia, alongside the Roman Empire and later the Byzantine Empire, for more than 400 years.

The Sassanid dynasty was founded by Ardashir I when he had defeated the last Parthian (Arsacid) king, Artabanus IV, and ended when the last Sassanid Shahanshah ("King of Kings"), Yazdegerd III (632–651), lost a 14-year struggle to drive out the early Arab Caliphate, the first of the Islamic empires. 

The Sassanid Empire's traditional territory included all of today's Iran, Iraq, Armenia, Afghanistan, eastern parts of Turkey, and parts of Syria, Pakistan, Caucasia, Central Asia and Arabia. 

The Sassanid era is considered to be one of the most important and influential historical periods in Iran. In many ways the Sassanid period saw the highest achievement of Persian civilization, and constituted the last great Iranian Empire before the Muslim conquest and adoption of Islam. 

Persia influenced Roman civilization considerably during the Sassanids' times, and the Romans reserved for the Sassanid Persians alone the status of equals. The Roman Emperor wrote letters to the Persian Shahanshah, which were addressed to "my brother". Their cultural influence extended far beyond the empire's territorial borders, reaching as far as Western Europe, Africa, China and India, and played a prominent role in the formation of both European and Asiatic medieval art. 

This influence carried forward to the early Islamic world. The dynasty's unique, aristocratic culture transformed the Islamic conquest of Iran into a Persian renaissance. Much of what later became known as Islamic culture, architecture, writing and other skills were borrowed mainly from the Sassanid Persians and propagated throughout the broader Muslim world.

In the spring of 632, a grandson of Khosrau I, Yazdegerd III who had lived in hiding, ascended the throne. In that same year, the first raiders from the Arab tribes made their raids into Persian territory. They were united by Islam. Years of warfare had exhausted both the Byzantines and the Persians. The Sassanids were further weakened by economic decline, heavy taxation, religious unrest, rigid social stratification, the increasing power of the provincial landholders, and a rapid turnover of rulers. These factors made the Islamic conquest of Persia easier than it would have been in earlier times.

The Sassanids never mounted a truly effective resistance to the pressure applied by the early Arab armies. 

226–241: Reign of Ardashir I:

241–271: Reign of Shapur I:

271–301: A period of dynastic struggles.

283: War with Rome. Romans sack Ctesiphon

296-8: War with Rome. Persia cedes five provinces east of the Tigris to Rome.

309–379: Reign of Shapur II "the Great":

387: Armenia partitioned into Roman and Persian zones.

399–420: Reign of Yazdegerd I "the Sinner":

420–438: Reign of Bahram V:

438–457: Reign of Yazdegerd II:

482-3: Armenian and Iberian revolt.

483: Edict of Toleration granted to Christians.

484: Peroz I defeated and killed by Hephthalites.

491: Armenian revolt. Armenian Church repudiates the Council of Chalcedon:

502-506: War with Constantinople.

526-532: War with Constantinople.

531–579: Reign of Khosrau I, "with the immortal soul" (Anushirvan)

540–562: War with Constantinople.

572-591: War with Constantinople. Persia cedes much of Armenia and Iberia to Constantinople.

590–628: Reign of Khosrau II

603–628: War with Byzantium. Persia occupies Byzantine Mesopotamia, Syria, Palestine, Egypt and the Transcaucasus, before being driven to withdraw to pre-war frontiers by Byzantine counter-offensive.

610: Arabs defeat a Sassanid army at Dhu-Qar.

626: Unsuccessful siege of Constantinople by Avars and Persians.

627: Byzantine Emperor Heraclius invades Assyria and Mesopotamia. Decisive defeat of Persian forces at the battle of Nineveh.

628–632: Chaotic period of multiple rulers.

632–642: Reign of Yazdegerd III.

636: Decisive Sassanid defeat at the Battle of al-Qādisiyyah during the Islamic conquest of Iran.

642: Final victory of Arabs when Persian army destroyed at Nahavand (Nehavand).

651: Last Sassanid ruler Yazdegerd III murdered at Merv, present-day Turkmenistan, ending the dynasty. His son Pirooz and many others went into exile in China.



</doc>
<doc id="103051" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103051" title="Edguy">
Edguy

Edguy is a metal band from Fulda, Germany. Their style of metal is power metal. They formed in 1992. The members right now are: Tobias Sammet (vocals), Jens Ludwig (guitar), Dirk Sauer (guitar), Tobias Exxel (bass), Felix Bohnke (drums).










</doc>
<doc id="103053" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103053" title="Wikipedia:Edit conflicts">
Wikipedia:Edit conflicts

An edit conflict is when someone saves a page but newer information has been saved before the person that lost the conflict saves. Example:



</doc>
<doc id="103055" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103055" title="Turbonegro">
Turbonegro

Turbonegro is a punk band from Oslo, Norway. They formed in 1989. They call their style "deathpunk", which is a mixture of punk and hard rock. The members are: Hank Von Helvete (vocals), Happy-Tom (bass), Euroboy (guitar), Pål Pot Pamparius (guitar, keyboard), Tomas Dahl (drums)
Friends of the band are Bam Margera.


</doc>
<doc id="103060" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103060" title="Cheek">
Cheek

Cheeks are the area of the face under the eyes and between the nose and the ears.

It is fleshy in humans and mammals, the skin being held up by the chin and the jaws, and making the wall of the human mouth, touching the cheekbone below the eye.

In animals, markings on the cheek area (i.e. stripes/spots), often are features between species or individuals.


</doc>
<doc id="103061" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103061" title="Simony">
Simony

Simony means that one pays for an office or a position in the hierarchy of Christian church. It is regarded as a crime in church. but it also extends to other forms of trafficking for money in "spiritual things".

In the Middle Ages there were endless problems with simony and accusations of simony, especially during the Investiture Controversy. Rulers wanted to employ the educated and centrally organized clergy in their administrations.



</doc>
<doc id="103065" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103065" title="Flesh">
Flesh

Flesh is the soft part of the body between the skin and the bones. It is sometimes compared to bones, in the saying "flesh and bone". If it is to be eaten, it is normally called meat instead.


</doc>
<doc id="103067" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103067" title="Locomotive">
Locomotive

A locomotive is the part of a train that makes the train move. Normally it is the first part of the train, and has an engine.
A diesel locomotive is a powered by a diesel engine. The diesel engine may drive the locomotive's wheels directly via a gearbox, shaft or chain (called mechanical transmission); by generating electricity which is in turn used to power the wheels (called diesel-electric); or by using a hydraulic transmission system (diesel-hydraulic). Diesel locomotives are extremely popular worldwide, due to their ease of use and reliability.

A steam locomotive uses wood, coal or oil (but mostly coal) to heat water in a boiler, which turns into steam which is used in pistons to power the train. Steam locomotives are not widely used any more due to their operational costs, especially the fuel costs; steam locomotives are now mostly only used on tourist railroads.

An electric locomotive is a locomotive that runs on electricity as the name suggests. Electric locomotives cost the least to operate, but it costs the most to build the track and provide electricity, making it only the second next used type, behind diesel locomotives.


</doc>
<doc id="103068" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103068" title="The Man Who Knew Too Much">
The Man Who Knew Too Much

The Man Who Knew Too Much is a 1934 suspense movie directed by Alfred Hitchcock and released by the Gaumont British company. It was one of the most successful and critically acclaimed movies of Hitchcock's British period. 

Hitchcock remade the movie in 1956 for Paramount Pictures, the only one of his movies that he ever remade. The two movies are however very different in tone, in setting, and in many plot details.


</doc>
<doc id="103069" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103069" title="Regent">
Regent

A regent is a position of government in a country where there is a monarchy (like a king or queen). He (or she) is an "acting king", and does the job of a king where the real king is either too young, sick or cannot do what he is meant to for some other reason. 

They may also be voted in if there are no monarchs in line to the throne, for instance, if the current king or queen does not have any relatives when s/he dies.

The Regency period was nine years from 1811 to 1820 in Great Britain. The future George IV of the United Kingdom was Prince Regent during the long illness of George III. He was crowned after George III's death in 1820. The Regency era was notable for its excesses, its political uncertainty, and its style. Beau Brummell, Lord Byron and the architect John Nash were important figures.

The era saw the final defeat of Napoleon. A rapid growth in population led to the growth of criminal rookeries in cities like London. It was a great period for architecture.


</doc>
<doc id="103074" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103074" title="Transcendental Meditation">
Transcendental Meditation

The Transcendental Meditation technique, or TM technique, is a kind of meditation, that was developed by Maharishi Mahesh Yogi. Today, the name is trademarked.

The meditation is practiced while sitting down with the eyes closed and is practiced twice a day. A review of research studies found the effects of this mediation technique to be the same as health education, while other studies found the technique to have positive health effects.

The Transcendental Meditation technique is learned in seven steps. There are two lectures, and a personal interview, followed by four sessions in which the student learns how to meditate and the meditation is checked to make sure the technique is being done correctly.

The goal of the Transcendental Meditation technique is said to be that the meditator continue to feel the deep rest, and the comfort of the meditation while living everyday life.

In 1955, Maharishi Mahesh Yogi (born Mahesh Prasad Varma) began teaching a meditation technique he says was based on the Vedas. He gave this method for meditation the name, Transcendental Meditation.

Before this, Maharishi had studied with Swami Brahmananda Saraswati, and was his secretary from 1941 until Brahmananda Saraswati's death in 1953. In 1957, Maharishi began the Spiritual Regeneration Movement in Madras, India, on the final day of a festival held in memory of his teacher. In 1958 he began the first of a number of worldwide tours in which he began to teach the TM technique to people around the world.

In the early 1970s, Maharishi began to establish one Transcendental Meditation teaching center for each million of the people in the world, which at that time would have meant 3,600 Transcendental Meditation centers throughout the world. In 1990, Maharishi moved to the town of Vlodrop, the Netherlands, where he began an organization he called The Global Country of World Peace that takes care of all of the teaching of the Transcendental Meditation technique around the world and says there are more than 6 million people worldwide who have learned the Transcendental Meditation technique.

Transcendental Meditation has been found not to have any advantages over health education in improving a persons health. 

Transcendental Meditation has been researched on since 1970. The earliest study, done in 1970, showed that with the Transcendental Meditation technique the body rests deeply, but is not asleep, and is alert. This study also showed that with the Transcendental Meditation technique stress became less.

A study published in 1977, showed no effect on blood pressure. Later studies show that the Transcendental Meditation technique has positive effects on blood pressure, cholesterol, insomnia, aging, illness, smoking, alcoholism, anxiety, heart attack, and stroke.

Transcendental Meditation websites say the Transcendental Meditation technique does not interfere with religion. 

Cardinal Sin, an Archbishop in the Catholic Church believes the technique interferes with Christian religions. There are clergy who believe the technique does not interfere with religious belief and practices.

Experts on cults say those who use the Transcendental Meditation technique may show cult-like actions, while David Orme-Johnson, a researcher who was once a professor at Maharishi University of Management, says studies show that those who use the Transcendental Meditation technique act in ways that are adult and self – sufficient, and do not act in the way people in cults are said to act.




</doc>
<doc id="103081" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103081" title="Honshū">
Honshū


</doc>
<doc id="103083" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103083" title="Most Haunted Live!">
Most Haunted Live!

Most Haunted Live is a British paranormal television program based on investigating possible paranormal activity. It is shown on the satellite and cable channels Living, Living2 and Virgin 1 (Formerly Ftn), mainly for the UK market. It is the Live version of Most Hanuted which is going in to its 10th series on February 19, 2008. . It is made by Antix Productions, and is led by Yvette Fielding and her husband Karl Beattie.

The team's latest series leads them to travel to Italy, Turin. Investigating possible paranormal 'hotspots' for 24 hours witihn the city.

Investigators 
Presenters 



</doc>
<doc id="103097" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103097" title="Category:1729 deaths">
Category:1729 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="103098" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103098" title="Category:1210 deaths">
Category:1210 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="103099" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103099" title="Category:1801 establishments">
Category:1801 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="103100" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103100" title="Category:1609 disestablishments">
Category:1609 disestablishments


</doc>
<doc id="103102" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103102" title="Category:Harvard University">
Category:Harvard University


</doc>
<doc id="103103" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103103" title="Category:Harvard University alumni">
Category:Harvard University alumni


</doc>
<doc id="103108" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103108" title="Gerolamo Cardano">
Gerolamo Cardano

Gerolamo Cardano or Girolamo Cardano (English Jerome Cardan, Latin Hieronymus Cardanus; September 24, 1501 - September 21 1576) was a celebrated Italian Renaissance mathematician, physician, astrologer and gambler.

As he was an illegitimate child, he could not enter the college of physicians. Despite this he was a relatively successful physician. The first description of Typhoid fever is attributed to him. 

Today he is mainly known as a mathematician. He made some discoveries in algebra. He proposed ways to solve cubic and quartic equations. Niccolò Fontana Tartaglia told him about the solution of one particular cubic equation, "formula_1". This caused a long fight. His student Lodovico Ferrari solved the quartic equations. Cardano also speaks about imaginary numbers in the same book, "Ars Magna". He did not completely understand what they were like though.

Cardano was often short of money. He gambled. A book of his, called "Liber de ludo aleae" (aproximately translates to as "Book on the game of chances") contains the first systematic treatment of probability, as well as a section on how to cheat. He wrote it in the 1560s, but it was only published after his death, in 1663. 

He invented various things. He also thought that perpetual motion was impossible, except for stars. 


</doc>
<doc id="103118" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103118" title="Violent crime">
Violent crime

Violent crime means a crime where the offenders use violence upon the victim. Different country have different definition of violent crime. Common examples of violent crime include homicide, abduction, robbery etc.


</doc>
<doc id="103123" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103123" title="Roentgenium">
Roentgenium

Roentgenium (, ) is a chemical element. It is a transition metal. Its symbol is Rg, and its position in the periodic table of the elements is 111. It is named in honor of Wilhelm Conrad Röntgen, a German physicist.

So far, it has not been found in nature. There seem to be 7 isotopes. All of them are radioactive. They have a half life of between 1.6 milliseconds and 26 seconds. Because of the Inert pair effect, it could have a color similar to that of gold.


</doc>
<doc id="103124" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103124" title="MediaWiki:Confirmedittitle">
MediaWiki:Confirmedittitle

E-mail confirmation is needed to edit

</doc>
<doc id="103125" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103125" title="MediaWiki:Confirmdeletetext">
MediaWiki:Confirmdeletetext

You are about to delete a page along with all of its history.
Please confirm that you want to do this, that you understand what will happen, and that you are doing this according to the policy.

</doc>
<doc id="103126" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103126" title="MediaWiki:Eauthentsent">
MediaWiki:Eauthentsent

A confirmation e-mail has been sent to the e-mail address.
Before any other e-mail is sent to the account, you will have to follow the instructions in the e-mail, to confirm that the account is yours.

</doc>
<doc id="103127" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103127" title="MediaWiki:Editthispage">
MediaWiki:Editthispage

Change this page

</doc>
<doc id="103128" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103128" title="MediaWiki:Editsectionhint">
MediaWiki:Editsectionhint

Change section: $1

</doc>
<doc id="103129" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103129" title="MediaWiki:Editusergroup">
MediaWiki:Editusergroup

Change user groups

</doc>
<doc id="103130" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103130" title="MediaWiki:Emailauthenticated">
MediaWiki:Emailauthenticated

Your e-mail address was accepted on $1.

</doc>
<doc id="103131" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103131" title="MediaWiki:Emailnotauthenticated">
MediaWiki:Emailnotauthenticated

Your e-mail address is not yet accepted.
No e-mail will be sent for any of the following features.

</doc>
<doc id="103132" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103132" title="Michigan International Speedway">
Michigan International Speedway

The Michigan International Speedway (or MIS) is a two-mile (3.22 km) long racetrack. It contains more than 1,400 acres, near Brooklyn, Michigan. The track is used mostly for NASCAR events. It is sometimes known as the "sister track" of Texas World Speedway. Construction for the track began on September 28, 1967, and opened October 13, 1968 with budget of around $4-6 million.

Michigan is now one of the fastest tracks in NASCAR due to its wide, sweeping corners and long straightaways. It normal speeds of more than 190 mph, but corner entry speeds easily pass 200 mph (~320 Km/h).



</doc>
<doc id="103133" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103133" title="International health">
International health

International health means two different, but related, things. It means care of people who travel from one country to another, and knowledge of diseases foreign to the traveler. It also means people from one country trying to improve health in another.

There are different kinds of groups that are involved in international health. They engage in international health for different reasons and with different ethics and rules.

Governments of wealthy, "developed" countries are often interested in the health of other countries. They are especially interested in the health of neighbor countries. The reasons for this are many: if they have extra resources, they may want to share them with their neighbors; but also they may want to stop spread of diseases from their neighbor country across the border. For example, the United States is a richer country than Mexico and has little problem with measles (in children) or rabies (in mammals) in the interior, but along the border with Mexico these diseases are more common.

The Western Hemisphere's countries have formed PAHO, the Pan American Health Organization, to deal with these kinds of problems in an organized way. PAHO knows that people and goods flow across borders in both directions, and a problem in one counbtry will soon be a problem in its partner countries. PAHO is an example of an international organization.

Non-government organizations (NGOs) are associations organized outside of the government by volunteers and others, and which serve a particular interest. Often, NGOs interested in health perform important functions in international health, both in direct care and in development.


</doc>
<doc id="103150" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103150" title="Salam">
Salam

Salam or salaam (in Arabic language: سلام "salam") is an Arabic word that literally means "the peace", but is also used as a general greeting, above all in Arabian countries and by the Muslims, but also in other countries where Islam is important. 

This word appears also in longer greetings, as "assalamoe `alaykum" (السلام عليكم) to which it is possible to answer: "wa`alaykum assalam". In addition, "As-Salam" is one of the 99 Names of God. 

The Hebrew version is "shalom", that in Israel is used in the same way like "salaam".


</doc>
<doc id="103152" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103152" title="Tekken (series)">
Tekken (series)

Tekken is a fighting video game series made by a gaming company called "Namco".



</doc>
<doc id="103154" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103154" title="Tekken 3">
Tekken 3

Tekken 3 is a fighting video game made by Namco and was released in 1998.






</doc>
<doc id="103155" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103155" title="Tekken Tag Tournament">
Tekken Tag Tournament

Tekken Tag Tournament is an update to Tekken 3. It has most of the characters from Tekken 1, Tekken 2 and Tekken 3. It was released on the PS2 in 2000.

Tekken Tag Tournament has no story so that makes it non-canonical.

Marshall Law, the Jack robot from the original "Tekken" game, the first King, the first Kuma, and Doctor Boskonovitch, as well as Gon, the manga character who appeared in the PlayStation version of "Tekken 3", were not included as characters in "Tekken Tag Tournament". However, Doctor Boskonovitch makes a cameo in the Tekken Bowling minigame.

|width=28% valign=top|
|width=44% valign=top|




</doc>
<doc id="103156" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103156" title="Tekken 4">
Tekken 4

Tekken 4 is a fighting video game made by Namco. It was released for the PS2 in 2002.

Two years ago, Heihachi could not capture Ogre.

Not wanting to give up, Heihachi said to his researchers to get blood samples, skin tissue, and hoof fragments left behind by Ogre (or known as True Ogre in its true manifestation) in order to conduct genetic experiments. Heihachi’s goal was to make a new life form by splicing Ogre’s genome with his own. However, the research was unsuccessful.

After long experimentation, Heihachi’s bioengineers came to the conclusion that an extra gene - the "Devil Gene" - was needed in order to successfully splice Ogre’s genetic code into another living organism. Heihachi learned that his own genome did not have the Devil Gene, but he knew someone who had it, Jin Kazama.

Jin, who defeated Ogre in The King of Iron Fist Tournament 3, was shot and wounded by Heihachi. As his life slipped away, Jin transformed into a Devil. Upon his transformation, he struck down Heihachi and took flight. Jin’s whereabouts were unknown after the Tournament.

Heihachi searched for Jin to no avail. However, Heihachi found a photograph during his search that made him curious. The 20-year-old photograph was an image of a burnt corpse covered with laceration wounds. Heihachi paid much attention to the corpse’s back, which had what looked like deformed, protruding wing-like limbs.

Thinking that the picture was of Kazuya, his own son whom he threw into a volcano 20 years ago, Heihachi diverted all his resources into a search for the body. This search led Heihachi to G Corporation, a modern biotech firm making unprecedented advances in the field of biogenetics research.

Heihachi found out that the G Corporation found the corpse and got its genetic data. In fact, Heihachi learned that the company was in the middle of creating a new life form by using the data. Heihachi also determined that Kazuya’s remains and research data were secured at G Corporation’s Nebraska and Nepal research laboratories, respectively.

Friday, 25 December. The Tekken Force raided G Corporation’s maximum security research laboratory in Nepal. The bottom floors of the building were destroyed, and the remaining data storage facility containing file servers was taken away by a group of heavy-duty helicopters.

At the same time, a separate unit led by Heihachi infiltrated the underground research facility in Nebraska, where Kazuya’s remains were preserved. As Heihachi looked from his helicopter, he soon realized that unlike the Nepal facility, the operations in Nebraska were not going according to plan. The tactical status monitor screens showed the first wave of the Tekken Force troops being blown out from the storage room where Kazuya’s remains were supposedly kept.

A silhouette of a large figure slowly emerged from the room... When Heihachi could see clearly enough, he instantly recognized the large figure as Kazuya.

Kazuya was brought back to life in G Corporation’s research facility. After his resurrection, Kazuya offered his body as research material to determine the true nature of the Devil that resided within him. Kazuya’s goal was to combine his two selves into one. Kazuya theorized that if he unified his body with the Devil, he would be able to truly get its powers. He could then finally take revenge against Heihachi and the Mishima Zaibatsu (Financial Empire).

Enraged that Heihachi thwarted his plans, Kazuya obliterated the heavily armed Tekken Force and vanished into the flames of the lab’s wreckage. Heihachi was infuriated by Kazuya’s escape and took out his anger on his hapless subordinates who reported the escape.

Dr. Abel, Heihachi’s lead scientific advisor, urged the enraged Heihachi to quickly find a way to capture Kazuya. Once his anger subsided, Heihachi focused his mind and decided on a plan. An evil smile crept upon his lips.

Two years had passed since The King of Iron Fist Tournament 3. The Mishima Zaibatsu announced The King of Iron Fist Tournament 4 and placed the massive financial empire as the top prize. The champion who manages to defeat Heihachi at the end of the Tournament would inherit the Mishima Zaibatsu.

Well aware that the tournament is just a trap designed to lure him out, Kazuya nevertheless enters - it is his chance to defeat Heihachi

Tekken 4 is the first game of the Tekken series where players can be heard talking to each other (aside from Julia's Tekken 3 ending, in which she speaks to Michelle). Some may speak in other languages (in part of Hwoarang's ending, Jin Kazama speaks in English.) Tekken 4 is also the first game of the Tekken series when the player hears a person speaking in the beginning of the Story Mode. In the background, sketches are seen that follow the characters story. Some may appear in the epilogue of a characters ending.





</doc>
<doc id="103157" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103157" title="Discussion">
Discussion

Discussion means talking about something with other people in order to reach some kind of decision. Discussions do not have to happen in person, they can happen over the telephone or on the Internet. Wikipedia uses discussion ("talk" pages) so that people can decide on how the article should be written.



</doc>
<doc id="103159" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103159" title="Tekken 5">
Tekken 5

Tekken 5 is a fighting video game made by Namco. It was released on the PlayStation 2, PlayStation Portable and the PlayStation 3.

After the end of King of Iron Fist Tournament 4, father Kazuya Mishima and son Jin Kazama, battle each other at Honmaru, somewhere in the Mishima estate. Jin quickly beats his father. The oldest Mishima, Heihachi, enters the Honmaru to find his son defeated and asleep. Heihachi and Jin begin to fight. During the fight, Jin begins to show the Devil he got from his father, Kazuya. Just as it appears that Jin will kill Heihachi, Jin suddenly gains control of his body and flies away.

Suddenly, a bunch of "Jack" robots interrupt the battle. Both Kazuya and Heihachi are surprised at the attack, and begin fighting as a team against the Jack robots. During the battle however, Kazuya goes against his father, throws him into the Jack robots and runs away. Raven, watching on top of the cliff, speaks into a headphone and says: ""Heihachi Mishima...is dead.""

After hearing of Heihachi's death, people though that it would bring the end of the Mishima Zaibatsu. However, an unknown person had taken control, and a month later Mishima Zaibatsu announced the opening of The King of Iron Fist Tournament 5.

Following the end of the King of Iron Fist Tournament 4, Heihachi Mishima defeated Kazuya Mishima and led him to Honmaru Temple, planning to let both his son Kazuya and his grandson, Jin Kazama, battle and steal their "Devil Genes". Jin defeats both his father and his grandfather and flies away, leaving the latter two asleep. Shortly after, a group Jack-4 robots invade the Honmaru. The robots were made to take Heihachi's life. At the start, Kazuya and Heihachi fight the Jack-4's as a team, but eventually Kazuya throws Heihachi across the room as soon as he notices that Heihachi is getting tired. Then, Kazuya turns into Devil Kazuya and escapes, leaving Heihachi to deal with the Jack-4's by himself. They quickly explode, leaving Heihach. The explosion brings Heihachi's father Jinpachi Mishima back to life from his 50 year sleep beneath the Temple, and goes to and become head of the Mishima Zaibatsu. A few months later, the King of Iron Fist Tournament 5 is announced. It turns out that Heihachi survived the explosion, and now promises to find out and ""break the neck of the one who started this ridiculous tournament!""
Tekken 5 kept many features from the older games, as well as new features, such as the new "Crush System" and the chance to dress up all chaaracters differently (except for Mokujin). It was also the first Tekken game to have a mini-game that hade a story of its own. It also had stages with no walls like the stages in all the older Tekken games (except for Tekken 4). The stages did not also have all the slopes and uneven ground, like they did in Tekken 4.

Tekken 5.1 was a small upgrade of the original Tekken 5 that was not released on consoles and instead, was only on arcades. It contained different balance changes to characters of the original game. It also fixed the damage done when using fground moves, instead of ground moves doing 100% damage, they now only did 70% damage. The character health bars for this game is a different colour to the health bars on the original Tekken 5.

Tekken: Dark Resurrection (DR for short) is an upgraded version of Tekken 5. It added two new characters, Emily "Lili" Rochefort and Sergei Dragunov, and it also added a returning older character, Armor King. Eddy Gordo also got his own character box, rather than just sharing a character box with Christie Monteiro. Plus, the game had new moves for the characters, as well as some changes to some older moves, in order to balance out the characters more, new customization items to use to dres up the characters, new stages, and new before fight and win animations, as well as some camera angle changes to some older ones. The game also recolored the main outfits of most of the characters, and the game's final boss, Jinpachi Mishima, got a new design, giving him a flame-like appearance, with a horn coming out of his head.

Tekken 5 was re-released on the PlayStation Portable as Tekken: Dark Resurrection (known as Tekken 5: Dark Resurrection in arcades and on PlayStation 3) with new stages, two new characters, one extra returning character, an online mode , new costumes and more. The character select screen is also different and there are new modes such as the "Tekken Dojo" mode, where the player has to enter a tournament, defeating ghosts (not actual ghosts you see at Halloween). Later on, after the release of Tekken: Dark Resurrection on the PSP, Namco decided to release the arcade version of Tekken: Dark Resurrection (called Tekken 5: Dark Resurrection) on the PlayStation Store. The PS3 version was a bit different from the PSP version. It was very much like the arcade version, but not exactly. The only things missing are Story mode, Ghost downloads, Tekken Dojo and a Customizing mode (although you can dress your characters up after you select them and before you fight with them). On the PS3 version, Jinpachi is also a playble character, unlike in Tekken 5 and Tekken: Dark Resurrection where he was unpplayable, unless a cheat device such as GameShark or an Action Replay was used (CWCheat and custom firmware 3.40 for PSP).







</doc>
<doc id="103165" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103165" title="Tekken 6">
Tekken 6

Tekken 6 is a fighting video game made by Namco. It was released in Japanese arcades on November 26, 2007. and was released on the PlayStation 3 and the Xbox 360 on October 27, 2009. It will be released on the PlayStation Portable on November 24, 2009.

Tekken 6, was released on October 27, 2009 for the PS3, and Xbox 360, and will be released on November 24, 2009 for the PSP, is the sequel to Tekken 5 and Tekken 5: Dark Resurrection. Both games have been liked by fans. Katsuhiro Hirada, game director for Tekken 6 and previous Tekken games, said that the stages will be bigger and will have more movement and interactivity,[9] such as walls or floors that can be broken so you can fight in new fighting areas. The character customization feature has been changed and become better, and will be more involved with the gameplay.

A new "rage" system has been added, which allows characters to do more damage per hit when their health is low. In re mode, a reddish energy aura appears around the character and their health bar starts to flicker red. The rage aura can be changed into different colors and effects to appear like fire, electricity, ice and others. Another new feature added is the "bound" feature. Every character has some moves that, when used on the enemy that is currently midair in a juggle combo, will cause the opponent to be smashed hard into the ground, bouncing them off the floor, stunned and letting the attacker to perform another combo or attack.

The console versions will have an extra mode called "Scenario Campaign" which is similar to the "Tekken Force" and "Devil Within" modes from previous games. This mode is playable only by one player offline, but in the future the mode will be playable co-operatively online with two players. In this mode players can pick up weapons such as poles and gatling guns. Players can move almost any way they wantt to between fights, but when fighting enemies, the gameplay switches to the traditional Tekken style.

Both the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 versions of the game will include an online versus multiplayer mode over PlayStation Network and Xbox Live respectively.
Tekken 6: Bloodline Rebellion was supposed to be released on consoles instead of Tekken 6. It was supposed to be an upgrade of Tekken 6, having new fighting arenas, characters and more. In the end, Namco decided to release the original Tekken 6 on consoles with the updates and more things that can only be played on the console version.




<nowiki>*</nowiki><br><nowiki>**</nowiki><br>


</doc>
<doc id="103167" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103167" title="Category:Crime by Country">
Category:Crime by Country


</doc>
<doc id="103168" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103168" title="Sola scriptura">
Sola scriptura

Sola scriptura (Latin for "by scripture alone") means "The Bible only". The Protestants believed that they should only read the Bible to find out what God wants them to believe. They did this instead of listening to the Pope or the Priests in the Roman Catholic Church.

"Sola scriptura" was a principle of the Protestant Reformation of the reformer Martin Luther and is a principle of Protestants today (see Five solas).




</doc>
<doc id="103172" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103172" title="Human Rights Watch">
Human Rights Watch

Human Rights Watch is an international non-governmental organization. Its activities include research and advocacy on human rights. The headquarters of the organization is in New York City.




</doc>
<doc id="103173" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103173" title="Arms trafficking">
Arms trafficking

Arms trafficking is smuggling of weapons and ammunition. Today arms trafficking is a global problem, it happens everywhere. It is most serious problem in regions of political turmoil. International organizations for human rights, especially Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch research and combat aganst this problem.


</doc>
<doc id="103177" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103177" title="Template:EveryWiki">
Template:EveryWiki

<includeonly></includeonly>
<includeonly>
</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="103179" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103179" title="Template:VGA-Class">
Template:VGA-Class

<noinclude>


</doc>
<doc id="103180" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103180" title="Template:GA-Class">
Template:GA-Class


</doc>
<doc id="103188" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103188" title="Category:Unassessed articles that every Wikipedia should have">
Category:Unassessed articles that every Wikipedia should have

This category contains articles that have not been and are articles that every Wikipedia should have. Please help out and assess them.

</doc>
<doc id="103203" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103203" title="Sola fide">
Sola fide

Sola fide means "Faith only". Most protestants believe that people must trust Jesus. They have to trust that Jesus brings people back into relationship with God. Christians believe that sin creates a gap between people and God, and Jesus, who was perfect, died, taking the punishment for sin in place of people, bridging the gap. This is called salvation because Jesus 'saves' people from a life and afterlife without God. The idea of sola fide means that trust in Jesus is the only way to get salvation and finally get into heaven after death. 

This belief in faith as the only way to be saved was a principle of the Protestant Reformation of the reformer of the Catholic Church Martin Luther and is a principle of Protestants today (see Five solas). Some groups like the Catholic and Eastern Orthodox Christians believe Jesus died to bridge the gap between God and people, but they must also try to be good people in order to get salvation. Protestants also believe that Christians need to do what is right, but their salvation only depends on their faith.



</doc>
<doc id="103207" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103207" title="Society of Jesus">
Society of Jesus

The Society of Jesus (Latin: "Societas Iesu", "S.J." and "S.I." or "SJ", "SI" ) is a Roman Catholic Church religious order whose members are called Jesuits, "Soldiers of Christ", and "Foot soldiers of the Pope", because the founder, Saint Ignatius of Loyola, was a knight before becoming a priest.

Jesuits are the largest male religious order of the Roman Catholic Church with 19,216 members (13,491 priests, 3,049 scholastic students, 1,810 brothers and 866 novices). 










</doc>
<doc id="103212" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103212" title="Rosenhan experiment">
Rosenhan experiment

The Rosenhan experiment is a test in psychiatry. It wants to see how good a psychiatric diagnosis really is. The first person to do the test was David Rosenhan. The test is named after him. It was first conducted in 1972. Rosenhan published the results in the journal "Science" under the title "On being sane in insane places."

The test is made of two parts. In the first part, psychiatrically sane people said they saw hallucinations, to get admitted to a psychiatric ward. This was done to test how the psychiatric hospitals would react. The second part was the reverse. Rosahan told the hospitals, he would send "fake patients". But he did not send any "fake" patients. 

The results of the study were very controversial. When Rosenhan sent the people, the hospitals was unable to detect them. On the other hand, when he told them he had sent some patients, but really did not, the hospitals recognised a large number of "fake patients". The study said that it was impossible to tell a difference between the sane and the insane. 


</doc>
<doc id="103219" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103219" title="Chassiers">
Chassiers

Chassiers is a town and commune in the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France. The commune has a population of about 850 people as of the year 1999.


</doc>
<doc id="103220" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103220" title="Châteaubourg">
Châteaubourg

Châteaubourgcan be one of 2 communes in France:



</doc>
<doc id="103221" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103221" title="Châteaubourg, Ardèche">
Châteaubourg, Ardèche

Châteaubourg is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France. The commune has a population of about 200 people as of the year 1999.


</doc>
<doc id="103224" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103224" title="Châteauneuf-de-Vernoux">
Châteauneuf-de-Vernoux

Châteauneuf-de-Vernoux is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.


</doc>
<doc id="103228" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103228" title="Category:Colleges and universities in Japan">
Category:Colleges and universities in Japan


</doc>
<doc id="103230" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103230" title="Category:Colleges and universities in the United Kingdom">
Category:Colleges and universities in the United Kingdom

Articles about universities and colleges in the United Kingdom.


</doc>
<doc id="103231" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103231" title="Category:Colleges and universities in Colorado">
Category:Colleges and universities in Colorado


</doc>
<doc id="103232" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103232" title="Category:Colleges and universities in the United States">
Category:Colleges and universities in the United States


</doc>
<doc id="103233" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103233" title="Category:Colleges and universities by country">
Category:Colleges and universities by country


</doc>
<doc id="103234" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103234" title="Template:User3-small">
Template:User3-small

 ( [ logs])

</doc>
<doc id="103235" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103235" title="Category:Colleges and universities in Russia">
Category:Colleges and universities in Russia


</doc>
<doc id="103236" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103236" title="Category:Colleges and universities in Canada">
Category:Colleges and universities in Canada


</doc>
<doc id="103238" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103238" title="Category:Colleges and universities in Thailand">
Category:Colleges and universities in Thailand


</doc>
<doc id="103244" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103244" title="Template:Redlinks">
Template:Redlinks

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="103249" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103249" title="Dominican Order">
Dominican Order

The Order of Preachers (Latin:"Ordo Praedicatorum", "OP") is a Roman Catholic religious order. Its members follow the rules St. Dominic gave them. After the 15th century they are commonly known as Dominicans.


</doc>
<doc id="103253" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103253" title="M-Train">
M-Train

M>Train was a train operator of half of Melbourne's suburban railway network. It stopped operations at 3:00am 18 April 2004, with Connex Melbourne then taking over all rail operations. M>Train and M>Tram's slogan was Moving Melbourne. M>Train operated the Craigieburn, Cranbourne, Frankston, Pakenham, Sandringham, Sydenham, Upfield, Werribee, Williamstown lines, and maintained the 3 underground city loop stations. Their network was more than 268 kilometers long, and owned 125 trains, with 62 new trains on order when M>Train stopped operations.

Bayside Trains (later known as M>Train) were awarded a 15 year contract to run half of Melbourne's railway network on 31 October, 1999, by the Victorian State Government. On October 1, 2001, Bayside Trains renamed themselves to M>Train, along with Swanston Trams renaming themselves to M>Tram .


</doc>
<doc id="103258" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103258" title="Diploma">
Diploma

A diploma is a certificate you receive when you have studied a subject with good results. For many jobs a diploma is needed, because it proves that you are good at the subject you studied. A diploma is usually a basic degree that is lower than a Bachelor's degree.


</doc>
<doc id="103270" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103270" title="Authorized King James Version">
Authorized King James Version

The Authorized King James Version is an English translation of the Christian Bible. King James I of England told the Church of England to begin working on it in 1604. The first book was published in 1611. This Bible is known as the "King James Version" in the United States, or "KJV" for short. This version of the Bible is also called the "Authorized Version", or "AV".



</doc>
<doc id="103280" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103280" title="809 Lundia">
809 Lundia

809 Lundia is a small, binary, V-type asteroid orbiting in the Flora family in the Main Belt. It is named after Lund Observatory, Sweden.

The V-type spectrum says that it is not genetically related to the Flora family, but rather is probably a piece (actually two pieces) blown off the surface of nearby 4 Vesta by a big impact in the past. Its orbit is too far from Vesta for it to actually be a member of the Vesta family It is not clear how it came at an orbit so far from Vesta, but other examples of V-type asteroids fairly far from their parent body are known. A mechanism of interplay between the Yarkovsky effect and nonlinear secular resonances (mainly involving Jupiter and Saturn) has been suggested

A moon, designated S/2005 (809) 1, was seen based on lightcurve sightings in 2005. In fact, the size of the two bodies appear to be close in size, because during mutual occultations the brightness drops by a similar amount independently of which body is hidden . Assuming an albedo similar to 4 Vesta (around 0.4), suggests that the bodies are about 7 km across. It takes 15.4 hours to orbit each other, which says that the binary is very close — the separation being of the order of 10-20 km, if normal asteroid albedo and density values are assumed.



</doc>
<doc id="103282" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103282" title="Hato Mayor Province">
Hato Mayor Province

Hato Mayor is a Dominican province; it is on the eastern part of the country. Its name comes from the name of its capital city, Hato Mayor del Rey (in English: "the largest cattle farm of the King").

It is one of the last provinces created in the Dominican Republic; it was made a province on 3 December 1984. The province's territory was part of the El Seibo province.

Hato Mayor is bordered to the northwest by the province of Samaná, to the west by Monte Plata and to the south by the San Pedro de Macorís province. The Samaná Bay is to the north of the province.

Some native groups lived close to the coast, in caves in Los Haitises region. There were other groups, mainly Taínos, living inland but, in general, the population was low.

When the Spanish people came to this region, they found that there were many savannas with good grasses for food for cattle (cows), horses and sheep). And they made nine "hatos". "Hato" is a word from southern Spain that means a large farm for raising cattle (a ranch); it is a common word in the Dominican Republic. One of those "hatos" was Hato Mayor del Rey, made in the name of King Charles I of Spain (Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor) but given as a "Mayorazgo" (a family property) to Francisco Dávila as the manager and the property was called sometimes "Hato Mayor de Dávila".

Because there were many French people and from other countries trying to live in the Samaná region, the colonial government founded the city of Sabana de la Mar in 1760 and brought people from the Canary Islands to live here.

The area of Hato Mayor was part of the El Seibo province until the new province began in 1984.

In 2002 (last national census), there were 87,631 people living in the Hato Mayor province, and 58,769 (67.06%) living in towns and cities. The population density was 66 persons/km².

The estimated population in the province for 2007 was of 98,491 inhabitants: 51,019 men and 47,472 women, for a population density of 74.09 persons/km².

Hato Mayor has a total area of 1,329.29 km². It has 2.7% of the area of the Dominican Republic and it is ranked as the 15th (out of 31 plus the National District) largest province.

The territory of the province covers across four geographical regions. From north to south, these regions are:

Rivers with their sources on the northern side of the Cordillera Oriental are short and flow into the Samaná Bay. The longest here is the River Yabón (44 km long) with its mouth west of the city of Sabana de la Mar.

Those rivers that flow to the south of the Cordillera Oriental and into the Caribbean Sea are longer. The most important rivers are, from east to west:

There are two main roads in the province. One is the "Carretera Mella" ("Mella National Road") that begins in Santo Domingo and goes through Hato Mayor del Seibo, the El Seibo province and ends in Higüey; it is one of the most important road in the country.

The second road begins in Hato Mayor del Rey and ends in Sabana de la Mar.

There are 3 municipalities and 4 municipal districts (M.D.) in the province. Municipal districts are similar to municipalities but they depend on a municipality.

The municipalities and its municipal districts (M.D.) are:

The main economic activity of the province is farming; the main products are cacao (in the Cordillera Oriental), flowers and oil palm around El Valle, and sugar cane south of Hato Mayor.

Because there are many savannas with grasses around Hato Mayor del Rey and to the south of it, cattle raising is a very important activity in the province; the dairy industry is important, with a large amount of cheese produced in the province.

Fishing is important in Sabana de la Mar and other towns around the Samaná Bay.


</doc>
<doc id="103283" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103283" title="Steinfurt (district)">
Steinfurt (district)

Steinfurt is a "Kreis" (district) in the northern part of North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany. Neighboring districts are Bentheim, Emsland, district-free Osnabrück and the Osnabrück district, Warendorf, district-free Münster, Coesfeld, Borken.

The district is at the Lower Saxon border, north of Münster. The Ems river runs through the district from south to north. The highest point in Steinfurt is the "Westerbecker Berg" with 234m, the lowest point is the Bentlage castle at 32m.

In late medieval times Steinfurt became an independent earldom. At first it was a part of the earldom of Bentheim, before it became independent in 1454. 1804 Steinfurt was joined back with Bentheim, before it became a part of the Prussian province of Westphalia in 1815. The new government in 1816 made the districts Steinfurt and Tecklenburg.

In 1975 the old district Steinfurt was merged with the district Tecklenburg, and together with Greven and Saerbeck from the old district Münster the current district was made.



</doc>
<doc id="103284" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103284" title="Rheine">
Rheine

Rheine is a city in the district of Steinfurt, in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany. It is the biggest city in the district.

Rheine is on the river Ems, about 40 kilometers north of Münster, about 45 kilometers west of Osnabrück and 45 kilometers east of Enschede (Netherlands).

Rheine consists of 15 districts:

Although a lot of people have lived in the area around the city since prehistorical times, Rheine was first mentioned in a document signed by Louis the Pious only in 838. On 15 August 1327 it got its town charter from Louis II, Bishop of Münster. 

The settlement was founded by reason of two old merchant roads crossing nearby, as well as a ford crossing the river Ems. Frankish soldiers secured this strategic point by a barrack yard at first. Later a church and more buildings were added to this outpost. 

In the end of Thirty Years' War the city burned down almost completely. Swedish and Hessian troops besieged imperial soldiers who entrenched themselves in Rheine. On 20th/21st September and 19th October 1647 glowing cannonballs set fire to the city, 365 houses got razed.

During the industrialisation textile industry prospered. It continued to be an important economical factor until the second half of the 20th century. Today engineering industries and services form the largest part of economy in Rheine.




</doc>
<doc id="103285" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103285" title="Recke">
Recke

Recke is a municipality in the district of Steinfurt, in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany.

Recke is about 20 km north-east of Rheine and 25 km north-west of Osnabrück.





</doc>
<doc id="103290" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103290" title="Template:Location map Costa Rica">
Template:Location map Costa Rica

Costa Rica


</doc>
<doc id="103296" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103296" title="Help:Translate English into Simple English">
Help:Translate English into Simple English

This is how to translate English into Simple English. A word in English will be shown and next to it will be the Simple English version. This is in alphabetical order.


Please expand and improve as well if you see any mistakes or if you have any other more sensible suggestions.

For more help with translation, visit the Simple English Wiktionary, or see .


</doc>
<doc id="103299" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103299" title="Bryggen">
Bryggen

Bryggen (Norwegian for "the Wharf"), also known as Tyskebryggen ("the German Wharf"), is a series of Hanseatic commercial buildings found on the eastern side of the fjord coming into Bergen, Norway. Bryggen is on the UNESCO list for World Cultural Heritage sites. The name has the same origin as the Flemish city of Brugge.


</doc>
<doc id="103304" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103304" title="Ibbenbüren">
Ibbenbüren

Ibbenbüren (Ibbenbueren) is on the Ibbenbürener Aa river, at the northwest end of the Teutoburger forest and rather exactly in the center of the two cities Rheine in the west and Osnabrück in the east, both about 20 km away.

Ibbenbüren is said in documentary evidence for the first time in 1146, when the bishop of Osnabrück at that time, Philipp of Katzenelnbogen, donated a tenth of his possessions in Ibbenbüren to the Getrudenkloster of Osnabrück. Although Ibbenbüren is already much older and a document of the year 1348 already occupies the establishment of a church in the year 799, the year 1146 is officially considered as the year of the foundation of Ibbenbüren.

In the years 1219 and/or 1234 it appears as church village. In this transition of the High Middle Ages to the Late Middle Ages the noble gentlemen of Ibbenbüren, that is the abbot of Herford and the counts of Tecklenburg, possessed basic rule in the place. To this time Ibbenbüren belonged to the Diocese of Osnabrück. During this time the castle of Ibbenbüren was built by the noble gentlemen of Ibbenbüren starting from 1150. Last remainder of this castle are the remnants of the heath tower in the proximity of the Aasee.

After the noble gentleman of Ibbenbüren died out, Ibbenbüren came under the exclusive rule of the counts of Tecklenburg. This rule lasted until the end of the 15th or beginning of the 16th century, when Ibbenbüren finally fell into possession Charles' V. in 1548 by awkward and luckless tactics used by the counts of Tecklenburg. Karl donated it to his sister Mary of Habsburg, governor of the Netherlands. Ibbenbüren was assigned to the office Lingen. Into this period also the falls the beginning of coal mining.

After Ibbenbüren repeatedly fell under control of the Netherlands and Spain in the Dutch Revolt, it was assigned to the House of Orange-Nassau after the Peace of Westphalia in 1648. In this time falls the beginning of iron ore mining in and around Ibbenbüren, which ended in the first half of the 19th century. By succession it came under Prussian rule in 1702. On February 1, 1724 Ibbenbüren attained municipal rights, which stood among other things in connection with the introduction excise duty. In the year 1743 the first magistrate and mayor appointed.

During the rule of Napoléon Bonaparte at the beginning of the 19th century, Ibbenbüren belonged to the first French Empire, until it was freed by Prussian and Russian troops in 1815. It came back under Prussian rule on January 1, 1816, resulting to be assigned to the district of Tecklenburg. After the end of World War II the city Ibbenbüren and the municipality Ibbenbüren Land formed by December 31, 1974 the department federation Ibbenbüren, resulting in today's city of Ibbenbüren. With the simultaneous dissolution of the district of Tecklenburg and fusion with the old district of Burgsteinfurt, Ibbenbüren was assigned to the new district of Steinfurt. 

Coats of arms has a golden anchor on blue reason. City colors are blue and gold. The origin of the anchor is not free of doubts clarified yet. Such is in addition, in the coats of arms of some close places.



</doc>
<doc id="103307" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103307" title="Westerkappeln">
Westerkappeln

Westerkappeln is a municipality in the district of Steinfurt, in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany. It is about 15 km north-west of Osnabrück.


</doc>
<doc id="103313" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103313" title="Osnabrück (district)">
Osnabrück (district)

Osnabrück () is a district ("Landkreis") in Lower Saxony, Germany. It is near the districts of Emsland, Cloppenburg, Vechta and Diepholz, the state of North Rhine-Westphalia (districts of Minden-Lübbecke, Herford, Gütersloh, Warendorf and Steinfurt) and the City of Osnabrück.

The district is almost the same as the Prince-Bishopric of Osnabrück which existed until 1803. When the clerical states of Germany were dissolved, Osnabrück became part of the Kingdom of Hanover, which in turn fell to Prussia in 1866. The district was established in 1972 by merging four old districts (Osnabrück, Melle, Bersenbrück, Wittlage).

The landscape is characterised by two mountain chains: the Wiehengebirge in the north and the northern foothills of the Teutoburg Forest in the south. These chains go around the City of Osnabrück.



</doc>
<doc id="103317" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103317" title="Michelle Branch">
Michelle Branch

Michelle Jacquet Branch-Landau (born July 2, 1983) is a singer from the United States. She writes songs and plays the guitar. She made her first album, "Broken Bracelet", in 2000, and released the platinum-selling albums "The Spirit Room" and "Hotel Paper" in August 2001 and June 2003, respectively. During this period, she worked with Carlos Santana on the single "The Game of Love", which won a Grammy Award. In 2004, she formed the musical duo The Wreckers with fellow musician Jessica Harp.


</doc>
<doc id="103320" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103320" title="Domestic rabbit">
Domestic rabbit

The domestic rabbit is the domesticated form of the European Rabbit ("Oryctolagus cuniculus").

Domestic rabbits are kept as livestock, for meat or their fur; or they are kept as pets. Like other domesticated animals, there are many different breeds.


</doc>
<doc id="103322" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103322" title="Template:Box">
Template:Box

</table>
</div>

</doc>
<doc id="103326" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103326" title="Category:Tekken">
Category:Tekken


</doc>
<doc id="103355" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103355" title="Scanning electron microscope">
Scanning electron microscope

The scanning electron microscope (SEM) is a type of electron microscope that uses a focused beam of high-energy electrons in producing a variety of signals at the surface of a solid specimen . The signals produced by the interacting electrons contain useful information such as the shape, atomic structure and conductivity.

When an electron hits the surface, it may be reflected ("backscattered"), absorbed, or conducted away. Electrons that are absorbed can cause the atom that they hit to become unstable, forcing it to give off another electron (a secondary electron), or to give off light in order to stabilize. Different detectors, for the different types of reactions, may be fitted to an electron microscope, depending on what is being looked for.

The magnification that can be achieved in a scanning electron microscope depends on how narrow the beam of electrons that strikes the surface can be, and can reach 1 nanometer, about the size of 3 to 5 atoms. The control of the beam is achieved using magnetic fields, with other magnetic fields being used to shape the beam, and to move it across the sample. The range of magnification may range from 30x to as high as 500,000x.

The electron beam is affected by air and water molecules, so the sample must be placed in a vacuum. The sample must also be conductive to allow the electrons not reflected or absorbed to be conducted away. This gives some limits on the type of sample that can be used. In the case of samples from plants or animals, it often means that they must first be coated in gold before they can be placed in the microscope. This is done in order to preserve the sample and keep it from changing or decaying throughout the scanning process.

The scanning electron microscope is made up of several components:

1. The electron gun is located at the very top or bottom of an SEM and is used to fire a beam of electrons at the object that we are looking at under SEM.

2. The lenses are used to focus electron beams so that we can get clear and detailed images of the examined object. They are not made of glass, but they are made of magnets that change the path of electrons created from the electron gun.

3. The sample chamber is the area where the specimen of interest is examined under SEM. As the technique is very sensitive, the chamber must be very sturdy and have no vibrations happen. This is to allow for the specimen to be kept very still in order for the SEM to produce good images.

4. The detector is the "eyes" of the microscope. It is able to produce the most detailed images of a specimen's surface. Many different detectors can be used depending upon the information wanted from the sample used.

5. The vacuum chamber is used to keep the electron beam from constant interference from air. The air particles are bad for electron beams in that the electrons would be knocked out of the air and onto the specimen, which will produce bad distorted surfaces of the specimen.


</doc>
<doc id="103358" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103358" title="Leporidae">
Leporidae

Leporidae is a mammal family in the order Lagomorpha. It has about 50 species of rabbits and hares. The animals of the family Leporidae are called Leporids. The names "rabbit" and "hare" are not names of separate biological groups, but are "randomly" given to different leporid species.



</doc>
<doc id="103363" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103363" title="Casimir III of Poland">
Casimir III of Poland

Casimir III the Great (Polish "Kazimierz III Wielki") (April 30, 1310 – November 5, 1370) was the King of Poland from 1333 until 1370. He was the son of Wladyslaw I. He was the last king of the Piast dynasty, his daughter Jadwiga having married the Lithuanian duke Wladyslaw Jagiello.

Casimir III is the only Polish king to ever receive the title of "the Great". His reign was a time of prosperity and growth for the Polish kingdom. He focused on the economy and strengthening of the country and not on wars and expansion. He kept peace with the Teutonic Order during his reign, for he knew that Poland was weak and would not survive the confrontation with the knights. Because of that, he focused his attention on the south-eastern borders of the country and expanded there. In 1340, he conquered Red Ruthenia (Lviv along with it) from Hungary. Various trade laws created by him made it easier for Polish cities to accumulate wealth. Cracow and Lviv gained in importance during his reign.



</doc>
<doc id="103370" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103370" title="Category:Polish kings">
Category:Polish kings


</doc>
<doc id="103377" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103377" title="Category:Hormones">
Category:Hormones


</doc>
<doc id="103378" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103378" title="Category:Extraterrestrial life">
Category:Extraterrestrial life


</doc>
<doc id="103379" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103379" title="Category:Cells">
Category:Cells


</doc>
<doc id="103380" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103380" title="Template:-Importance">
Template:-Importance

style="background: transparent" align="center" | ???

</doc>
<doc id="103382" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103382" title="Category:Genetics">
Category:Genetics


</doc>
<doc id="103383" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103383" title="Category:Evolutionary biology">
Category:Evolutionary biology


</doc>
<doc id="103385" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103385" title="Template:EveryWiki/doc">
Template:EveryWiki/doc

This template is for use on talk pages.

You need to set what the right class is, using codice_1. It will work with the following:

You also need to set an importance level, using codice_1:

There are also other things you can set:

To add this to articles, paste the following onto the talk page of the article.

codice_1

You can then fill in what you can.

This is what appears when using all the things you can [except small]:

codice_1

makes:


</doc>
<doc id="103386" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103386" title="Thunbergia">
Thunbergia

Thunbergia Retz. is a genus of flowering plants in the family Acanthaceae, native to tropical regions of Africa, Madagascar and southern Asia. Its members are known by various names, including thunbergias; clockvine on its own usually refers to "Thunbergia grandiflora", while "Thunbergia alata" is often known as Black-eyed Susan vine or just Black-eyed Susan (not to be confused with other flowers called Black-eyed Susan). Orange clockvine is the name of "Thunbergia gregorii".

Thunbergia was named for Carl Peter Thunberg.


</doc>
<doc id="103387" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103387" title="The Pillows">
The Pillows

The Pillows (or the pillows) is a Japanese rock band made in 1989. They sang FLCL's theme song.






</doc>
<doc id="103392" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103392" title="Rio Negro (Amazon)">
Rio Negro (Amazon)

The Rio Negro is a river which flows through the amazon rainforest in north-western Brazil, in the state of Amazonas.
It's called "Negro" (Spanish and Portuguese for "black") because its waters are colored by particles of humus, which make them not properly black but dark-brown, much like tea.


</doc>
<doc id="103393" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103393" title="Castella">
Castella

Castella ("Kasutera" in Japanese) is a sponge cake produced in Japan. It is made of sugar, flour, eggs, and starch syrup, very common at festivals and as a street food.
It was originally produced in Portugal during medieval times, and when the Portuguese reached Japan they gave some of it to the Japanese nobility. The name is derived from Portuguese "Pão de Castela" which means "bread of Spain".


</doc>
<doc id="103395" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103395" title="Mallow, County Cork">
Mallow, County Cork

Mallow (Irish "Mala" "plain of the rock") is the "Crossroads of Munster" and the administrative capital of north County Cork, in the Republic of Ireland. The Northern Divisional Offices of Cork County Council are in the town.


</doc>
<doc id="103396" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103396" title="List of Gumby episodes">
List of Gumby episodes

This list displays the 7 pilot and all 233 episodes of Gumby.

Pilot Episodes (1953-19??):

Season 1 (December 29, 1956-May 9, 1959):


</doc>
<doc id="103400" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103400" title="Krishnadevaraya">
Krishnadevaraya

Sri Krishnadevaraya (, , 1509-1529 CE) was the most famous king of Vijayanagara Empire. He ruled this empire at the time when it was most important. He is considered to be one of the great kings of India. Emperor Krishnadevaraya also earned the titles "Kannada Rajya Rama Ramana (ಕನ್ನಡರಾಜ್ಯರಮಾರಮಣ)", "Moorurayaraganda (ಮೂರುರಾಯರಗಂಡ)" (what means "King of three kings") and "Andhra Bhoja (ఆంధ్రభోజ)". Much of our information about his reign comes from the accounts of Portuguese travelers Domingos Paes and Nuniz. 

Paes describes the king's attitude to law and order by the sentence, "The king maintains the law by killing." Offences against property (designed to maintain stability) and for murder ranged from cutting of a foot and hand for theft and beheading for murder (except for those occurring as a result of duel). Paes could not estimate the size of Vijaynagar as his view was obscured by the hills but estimated the city to be at least as large as Rome. Furthermore, he considered Vijaynagar to be "the best provided city in the world" with a population of not less than a half a million.

Paes praises Krishnadevaraya as, “the most feared and perfect King… a great ruler and a man of much justice”. 

The rule of Krishnadevaraya was an age of good literature in many languages. But it is known as a golden age of Telugu literature. Many Telugu, Sanskrit, Kannada and Tamil poets enjoyed the patronage of the emperor. Emperor Krishnadevaraya was fluent in many languages.




</doc>
<doc id="103402" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103402" title="Tocantins River">
Tocantins River

The Tocantins River is a river that flows through the northeastern part of Brazil. It rises in the district with a lot of mountains known as the Pireneus. These can be found to the west of the Federal District. Its western tributary, the Araguaia River, has headwaters very far south on the slopes of the Serra dos Caiapós.


</doc>
<doc id="103404" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103404" title="Template:Nointerwikis">
Template:Nointerwikis


</doc>
<doc id="103405" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103405" title="Category:Articles lacking interwiki links">
Category:Articles lacking interwiki links

All pages tagged with :


</doc>
<doc id="103425" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103425" title="Bukka">
Bukka

Bukka ಬುಕ್ಕ್ (1356-1377 CE) (also known as Bukka Raya I was an emperor of the Vijayanagara Empire from the Sangama Dynasty. Bukka patronised Telugu poet Nachana Soma.
It is said that Bukka also sent a mission to China during his reign. 

Important works of literature were also written during his rule. Dozens of scholars lived under the guidance of Vidyaranya and Sayana. Sayana's commentary on the Vedas, Brahmanas and Aranyakas was written under the patronage of Bukka.




</doc>
<doc id="103431" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103431" title="Template:Natural satellites">
Template:Natural satellites

<br clear=all>


</doc>
<doc id="103464" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103464" title="Template:Lang-hi">
Template:Lang-hi


</doc>
<doc id="103465" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103465" title="Template:Lang-ur">
Template:Lang-ur

Urdu: 

</doc>
<doc id="103466" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103466" title="Template:LangWithNameNoItals">
Template:LangWithNameNoItals


</doc>
<doc id="103467" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103467" title="Category:National parks in Costa Rica">
Category:National parks in Costa Rica


</doc>
<doc id="103468" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103468" title="McGill University">
McGill University

McGill University or just McGill is an university in Montreal, Canada. It was created in 1821, few years before the country Canada existed. McGill University does a lot of important research and has North America's first Museum, called Redpath Museum.

Many people think McGill University is one of the best universities in North America.


</doc>
<doc id="103470" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103470" title="Category:Microscopes">
Category:Microscopes


</doc>
<doc id="103481" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103481" title="Renault Koleos">
Renault Koleos

The Renault Koleos ist the second SUV from Renault after the Renault Scénic RX4. It was first presented on the Geneva Motorshow in the year 2000, then on the "Autosalon Paris" 2006. It was designed by Patrick le Quément (chief designer) and developed by Nissan.

This car ist 4520 mm long, 1890 mm wide and 1700 mm high and has a weight of 1800 kg.


</doc>
<doc id="103483" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103483" title="Beagle">
Beagle

The Beagle is a breed of small to medium-sized dog. It is a Hound, and it has short legs and long, soft ears. Beagles are mostly developed for hunting and finding hare, rabbit, and other kinds of game. They can do this because they can smell well and have very quick instincts. They are also popular as pets because of their good size, sweet temper, and health. This kind of character also makes them be used very much for animal testing. 

Beagles can be different colors. Some variations can be tri-colored, orange, red, or lemon, although they are widely known for sporting the tri-colored look (Black, brown, and white). They usually have brown eyes.

Although beagle-type dogs have existed for over 2,000 years, the modern kind came from Great Britain around the 1830s.

Beagles have been included in popular culture since the times when Queen Elizabeth began to rule, in literature and paintings, and more recently in film, television and comic books. Snoopy of the comic strip "Peanuts" has been picked as "the world's most famous beagle".

Dogs that look almost the same as the modern Beagle can be traced in Ancient Greece
back to around the 5th century BC. In the "Treatise on Hunting" or "Cynegeticus", written by Xenophon, who said there was a hound that hunted hares by scent and was followed by foot. Small hounds were mentioned in the Forest Laws. If these laws were true, it would be enough proof that beagle-type dogs lived in England before 1016, but it is likely that the laws were written in the Middle Ages for tradition. 
In the 11th century, William the Conqueror brought the Talbot hound to Britain. The Talbot was a white, slow hound. Once, English Talbots were crossed with Greyhounds to make them faster in running. They are extinct now, but once they had made the Southern Hound more popular, which helped the Southern Hound descend to the Beagle.

From medieval times, "beagle" was used as a general description for small hounds, even though they are actually very different from the modern breed. Small breeds of beagle-type dogs were living even from the times of Edward II and Henry VII. Edward and Henry both had packs of Glove Beagles, who were named because of their small size. Also, Queen Elizabeth I kept a breed known as a Pocket Beagle, which stood at the shoulder. It was named so because it could fit in a "pocket" or saddlebag, when they rode along on the hunt. Elizabeth I called the dogs her "singing beagles" and often entertained guests at her royal table by letting her Pocket Beagles cavort amid their plates and cups. Ever since then, it is possible that the name was used to refer to the same kind of small hounds. In George Jesse's "Researches into the History of the British Dog" from 1866, Gervase Markham is quoted referring to the Beagle as small enough to sit on a man's hand and to the:


</doc>
<doc id="103484" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103484" title="N. T. Rama Rao">
N. T. Rama Rao

Nandamuri Taraka Rama Rao (Telugu:నందమూరి తారక రామా రావు)(28 May 1923–18 January 1996), more commonly known as N.T. Rama Rao, NTR by his fans, or Anna garu, was an Indian movie actor, director, producer, and politician. He founded the Telugu Desam Party and served three times as Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh. His movies included mythological, social, and folk themes. He was awarded the Padma Shri by the Government of India in the 1960s for his work in Telugu cinema. After acting, Rao became a political activist and party leader.


</doc>
<doc id="103485" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103485" title="Piast dynasty">
Piast dynasty

The Piast dynasty was a Polish dynasty that ruled Poland as first lords in the 10th century, until 1370. Piasts ruled also in Masovia until 1526 and Silesia until 1675.


</doc>
<doc id="103491" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103491" title="M-Tram">
M-Tram

M>Tram was a tram operator in Melbourne, Victoria. They got a 12 year contract on 29 August, 1999 to run the Swanston Trams franchise, which was later renamed to M>Train. M>Tram stopped running trams in April 2004. Yarra Trams runs all tram services in Melbourne now. M>Tram's slogan was Moving Melbourne.



</doc>
<doc id="103496" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103496" title="Category:Polish dukes">
Category:Polish dukes


</doc>
<doc id="103500" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103500" title="Scrooge McDuck">
Scrooge McDuck

Scrooge McDuck or Uncle Scrooge is a fictional character first appearing in the comic book "Christmas on Bear Mountain". The character was created by Carl Barks and has appeared in many comic books, television shows, films, and video games. Since 1952 Scrooge McDuck has appeared in his own comic book series, called "Uncle Scrooge". 

Scrooge was born in Scotland in 1867, the son of Fergus McDuck. His family is very poor, so Scrooge emigrates to USA where he finds gold and becomes rich. In 1902 he moves to Duckburg and builds the Money Bin on Killmotor Hill in the center of Duckburg. Over the next years, Scrooge travels the world, learning about many cultures. In 1930, Scrooge became the richest duck on Earth.

In 1942, Scrooge retires and buys a mansion called the Manor McDuck. In 1947, he invites his nephew Donald Duck and his grand-nephews Huey, Dewey and Louie to spend Christmas at his mansion. A criminal gang called the Beagle Boys keep trying to steal Scrooge's money. 


</doc>
<doc id="103501" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103501" title="Money Bin">
Money Bin

Money Bin is a fictional building of Scrooge McDuck. The building was constructed in 1902, after Scrooge entered the diamond market.

The building contains all Scrooge's fortune, billions of dollars. The old duck also owns factories, mines, railroads, oil wells and spaceships. 

The building appears on Ducktales, The Life and times of Scrooge McDuck, and Ducktales the movie.


</doc>
<doc id="103502" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103502" title="Manor McDuck">
Manor McDuck

Manor McDuck is a luxurious fictional building that is residence of the fictional cartoon billionaire Scrooge McDuck.

The mansion has pool, airport and a modern kitchen. The place is worth $ 14,000,000 and was bought in balance in 1942, when Scrooge retired. According to The Life and Times of Scrooge McDuck the mansion was sold after the Christmas of 1947.


</doc>
<doc id="103505" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103505" title="Template:Spelling">
Template:Spelling

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="103507" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103507" title="Resurrection Ship">
Resurrection Ship

The Cylon Resurrection Ship is a fictional type of spacecraft found in the television series "Battlestar Galactica". The ship is a part of Cylon Fleet.

Cylons who are killed have their consciousness downloaded into a nearby resurrection ship. A new body is created for their consciousness. This lets them live again after they die. If a cylon is too far away from the nearest resurrection ship, death will be permanent. With nowhere for the consciousness to download to, they will simply cease to exist.


</doc>
<doc id="103508" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103508" title="DIY">
DIY

DIY or "Do it yourself" is a method of home improvement, whereby the home owner procures materials and tools for themself, then completes the work on their own, without professional help.


</doc>
<doc id="103513" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103513" title="Boleslaw I of Poland">
Boleslaw I of Poland

Bolesław I the Brave (Polish "Bolesław I Chrobry") (967 - June 17, 1025) was the duke of Poland from 992 to April 18, 1025 and King of Poland from April 18 to June 17, 1025. He was the son of Mieszko I, first known ruler of Poland.

During his ruled Poland made more powerful and strong. New lands was conquered (Slovakia, Moravia, Red Strongholds and Lusatia). He was able to rule country, which changed religion no long time before. Bolesław was first king of Poland, but died 2 months after get the crown.

We know 7 children of Bolesław I. Two of them, Mieszko II Lambert and Bezprym ruled later Poland.

Bolesław was the first King of Poland to ever be crowned, even though he died two months later his son then took over for him.



</doc>
<doc id="103518" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103518" title="Bo Diddley">
Bo Diddley

Bo Diddley (born Ellas Bates, December 30 1928 in McComb, Mississippi, died June 2, 2008 in Archer, Florida) was an American singer, guitarist and songwriter. He was one of the original rock and roll musicians; he, along with others, created rock music. 

In 1955, he recorded and released his first songs. He is most famous for the rhythm which he has made popular in many of his recordings. The rhythm has become known as the Bo Diddley beat. Some of the most popular songs which feature the Bo Diddley beat include "Not Fade Away" and "I Want Candy", George Michael's song "Faith" and U2's song "Desire". Bo Diddley is also famous for the unusual shapes of many of his guitars, for his exciting stage shows and for his use of female musicians.

Bo Diddley made many appearances on radio, television and in the movies. In 1956, he co-wrote the popular song "Love Is Strange" for the singing duo Mickey and Sylvia.

Some of his most popular songs are: "I'm A Man" (1955), "Pretty Thing" (1955), "Bring It To Jerome" (1955), "Diddy Wah Diddy" (1955), "Who Do You Love" (1956), "Mona (I Need You Baby)" (1957), "Before You Accuse Me" (1957), "Crackin' Up" (1959), "Say Man" (1959), "Say Man, Back Again" (1959), "Road Runner" (1960), "Pills" (1961), "You Can't Judge A Book By The Cover" (1962) and "I Can Tell" (1962).

Bo Diddley often sang simple or amusing songs about himself. Some of these songs are "Bo Diddley" (1955), "Diddley Daddy" (1955), "Hey Bo Diddley" (1957), "Bo Meets The Monster" (1958), "Bo Diddley's A Gunslinger" (1960), "Just Like Bo Diddley" (1989), "Bo Diddley Is Crazy" (1996) and "Oops! Bo Diddley" (1996).

His songs have been recorded by many other popular recording artists, including Aerosmith, The Animals, Eric Clapton, Creedence Clearwater Revival, Dr. Feelgood, The Doors, Buddy Holly, Chris Isaak, New York Dolls, Quicksilver Messenger Service, Rolling Stones, Bob Seger, George Thorogood and The Destroyers, The Who and The Yardbirds.

In 2003, U.S. Representative John Conyers paid tribute to Bo Diddley in the United States House of Representatives when he described him as "one of the true pioneers of rock and roll, who has influenced generations".

In 2005, Bo Diddley celebrated his 50th anniversary in music with successful tours of Australia and Europe and with coast-to-coast shows across North America. 




</doc>
<doc id="103520" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103520" title="Template:Inuniverse">
Template:Inuniverse


</doc>
<doc id="103522" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103522" title="DuckTales">
DuckTales

DuckTales is an animated Disney television series. The main characters of the series are Scrooge McDuck and his great nephews Huey, Dewey and Louie. The series was originally shown from September 11, 1987 to May 6, 1990. It had a total of 100 episodes.

"DuckTales" is about the adventures of Scrooge and his nephews. The nephews used to live with their uncle, Donald Duck. They were left with Scrooge when Donald went off to join the Navy.

Scrooge is the richest duck in the world. He has no want for anything. This does not stop him from finding ways to try to get more money. Other common plots deal with him protecting his wealth from villains. In general, there were several different plotlines that were used many time in many of the episodes. Some of these plotlines included:





Somebody is sabotaging Scrooge's ranch when McDuck and his nephews go by plane to Australia. Scrooge, the Manager and MacQuack go by airplane to explore but they are attacked by light swords. Meanwhile, Webby loses herself in the jungle and sleeps on the woods.

The next day, Webby and some animals find an opal mine and discover that the Manager is responsible. The manager wants to buy Scrooge's ranch and become a rich man. Fortunately, Webby and the animals show who is the Manager and Scrooge preserves his ranch. Scrooge asked Webby when, how she made up to captured the bandit, she said "group work".

Scrooge McDuck and Huey, Dewey and Louie go to the Sahara desert to find Aladdin's lamp. Flintheart Glomgold follows them. The ducks find the lamp's vault but Scrooge and Glomgold rub it at the same time. The djinni comes out and because he can't tell who rubbed the lamp first, he decides to have a race between Scrooge and Glomgold. By Scrooge's suggestion, the djinni decides live in Manor McDuck during the race. Once the djinni and the nephews go to the mansion, Scrooge fights Glomgold's tramps (like the villain trying to kill him with a rock avalanche). Scrooge decides to win the race to Glomgold leave his nephews without a dime.

At McDuck's mansion, the djinni starts to like the luxuries of Scrooge's house (because he can eat burgers, swim in the pool and watch TV). He likes it so much that he decides to send Scrooge and Glomgold to back in time so he can live free forever. Because the two billionaires do not know about the time voyage, they continue running when they find a palace. The Sultan, thinking that they are spies of Hemir, decides to give them to crocodiles. But Schewebazade, the Sultan's young wife, saves them and they escape from the palace. The guards follow them and Glomgold go for his count. Meanwhile, the nephews and Webby, who witnessed the evil act of the djinni, put the djinni back in the lamp and let him leave only when he agrees to bring Scrooge back from the past.

At this moment, Scrooge and Glomgold come back to the present-day. Unfortunately, Glomgold finds and explores and make over win the race. Obviously, Scrooge can make over come to Duckburg only to discover that Glomgold won the race. Glomgold's first wish is to send Scrooge to a desert island. Glomgold uses his second wish by mistake to go to the desert island with Scrooge (he said he wishes he could see the look on Scrooge's face face when he gets there). At the island, Glomgold wishes that the lamp was never found in the first place. This puts everything back in time to when the ducks open the vault entrance. The explosion made the lamp fall and despite the ducks can back to Duckburg alive, the lamp stays in the vault as never found.

One night, Scrooge McDuck and Launchpad go back to Manor McDuck. When Scrooge enters the mansion, he discovers that it is his birthday and his family prepared a surprise party. Scrooge is unhappy because he is old. When Mrs. Beakley mentions the fountain of youth, Scrooge runs to the library. There he finds a book that talks about "Ponce de Loon", a Spanish explorer who said he found the fountain of youth in Florida.

The next day, in Florida, the ducks are in a tropical forest when they meet an old man who is also trying to find the fountain of youth. After finding a map, the guys find the Fountain of Youth. However, they find out that the fountain only makes their reflection look youthful. Scrooge goes home and realizes that people have to age.

One day, at Manor McDuck, Huey, Dewey and Louie are watching the television show "Ducks of Galaxies when Scrooge buys the Duckburg studios, the place where the "Ducks of Galaxies" is filmed. Scrooge tells Gyro to build a toy spaceship, but Gyro builds an real spaceship.

The spaceship sends the Captain, Huey, Dewey, Louie, and MacQuack to space where they are captured by aliens. The nephews find out that the Captain is evil. Eventually, Huey, Dewey, and Louie go back to Earth where Scrooge punishes the Captain.

On Valentine's Day, Scrooge tells his nephews and Webby his only love story:

Scrooge and the others go to Klondike where they try to get the lost gold back. Scrooge meets Goldie and their relationship is of hate\love at the end of the episode. Scrooge discovers that Dangerous Dan is the real thief and, when he tries to tell that to Goldie, she discovers a goldmine. Before the episode ends, Scrooge realizes that Goldie did not steal his gold, she stole his heart.


</doc>
<doc id="103542" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103542" title="All Grown Up!">
All Grown Up!

All Grown Up! is a Nickelodeon animated television series. It is also a spin-off from the "Rugrats". The series is about the original Rugrats characters being nine years older. It was first shown on April 12, 2003. 




</doc>
<doc id="103543" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103543" title="Randalstown">
Randalstown

Randalstown is a town in County Antrim in Northern Ireland.

One famous person who came from Randalstown is the suspected serial killer John Bodkin Adams, born in 1899.


</doc>
<doc id="103546" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103546" title="Connex Melbourne">
Connex Melbourne

Connex was a train operator in Melbourne, Australia. They ran all Melbourne railway lines, and took over all M-Train services on April 16, 2003, however Metro Trains Melbourne took over all Connex's services on November 30, 2009. All Connex services used the Metcard fare system.

Official website


</doc>
<doc id="103547" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103547" title="Category:Battlestar Galactica">
Category:Battlestar Galactica


</doc>
<doc id="103548" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103548" title="Category:Fictional races">
Category:Fictional races


</doc>
<doc id="103549" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103549" title="Battlestar Galactica">
Battlestar Galactica

Battlestar Galactica is a science fiction franchise. It includes two separate television series, one sequel series, movies, books, comic books, toy and other merchandise. The series are named after the main spacecraft, the Battlestar (a large type of warship in space) Galactica.

The first series was created in 1978 after the successful theater release of "". The series was shown on the American network ABC. The series lasted for eight months and 17 episodes before it ended. The cost of making the series was said to be one of the reasons for it ending. The series starred Lorne Greene as Commander Adama, captain of the Galactica. Richard Hatch played his son, the pilot Apollo. Dirk Benedict played Apollo's friend and fellow pilot, Starbuck.

In 1980, ABC made the sequel series "Galactica 1980". This series took place after the fleet got to Earth. The series did not do well in the ratings and quickly ended. Several movies were made using edited version of both series.

In 2003, Universal Television along with the Sci-Fi Channel and Sky One created a three hour mini-series based on the original television series. This series was very well liked by both the audience and critics. This led to the Sci-Fi Channel making it into a series in 2004. After the 2007 season of "Battlestar Galactica", the Nielsen ratings said that over 119 million people watched the series. This made it the highest rated and most watched series on cable networks. Edward James Olmos plays Commander William Adama. Jamie Bamber plays his son, Lee "Apollo" Adama. Katee Sackhoff plays Kara "Starbuck" Thrace. Starbuck was one of several characters to be changed from a male character into a female character.

All of the "Battlestar Galactica" series have the same basic setting. In a far away part of the universe, a civilization of humans live on planets known as the "Twelve Colonies". In the past, the Colonies were at war with a cybernetic race known as the Cylons. With the help of a human named Gaius Baltar, the Cylons attacked on the Colonies. This surprise attack caused much damage to the planets where the humans lived and killed most of their populations. A few thousand of humans did not die in the attacks. They fled into space aboard any spacecraft they could. Of all the Colonial Fleet, the battlestar "Galactica" appears to be the only military ship that was not destroyed in the attack. Under the leadership of military leader Commander Adama, the Battlestar "Galactica" and its crew lead and protect the fleet of survivors into space in search of a fabled Thirteenth Colony and its home planet, Earth.



</doc>
<doc id="103556" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103556" title="Black-capped Chickadee">
Black-capped Chickadee

The Black-capped Chickadee ("Poecile atricapillus") is a passerine songbird of the family Paridae. It lives in Canada, Alaska and the northern United States. This is a small, common bird which sings a simple song. 

The Black-capped Chickadee is about 12–15 cm (5–6 in) long and weighs 9-15 g (0.32-0.49 oz).

The male and female black-capped chickadees look the same. The black-capped chickadee has black and white on its head. The top of the head and throat are black, and the sides are white. It has a short, black beak.

The back of the body of the black-capped chickadee is gray. The front of the body is white and light brown. The bird has short wings and a short tail.

The song of the black-capped chickadee is a clear whistle.

In the summer, Black-capped Chickadees eat many insects. In the winter, they eat seeds and berries. They will hide seeds in different places and return later to eat
them. When two chickadees want to build a nest, they will use a hole in a tree.


</doc>
<doc id="103557" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103557" title="Harihara">
Harihara

Harihara is the deity that combines Vishnu and Shiva. It comes from the Hindu tradition. "Harihara" is also sometimes used as a philosophical term when one wants to speak of the unity of Vishnu and Shiva as different aspects of the same Supreme God. 




</doc>
<doc id="103559" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103559" title="Harihara I">
Harihara I

Harihara I, (1336-1356 CE) also called Hakka ಹಕ್ಕ and "Vira Harihara I", was the founder of the Vijayanagara empire. He was the eldest son of Bhavana Sangama and was founder of the Sangama dynasty, the first among the four dynasties that ruled Vijayanagara. Immediately after coming to power, he built a fort at Barkuru, on the west coast of present day Karnataka. Kannada inscriptions of his time call him "Karnataka Vidya Vilas" (master of great knowledge and skills), "Bhashegetappuvarayaraganda" (punisher of those feudatories who do not keep their promise), "Arirayavibhada" (fire to enemy kings). Among his brothers, Kampana governed Nellur region, Muddppa administered Mulabagalu region, Marappa oversaw Chandragutti and Bukka Raya was his second in command.

At first he conquered the valley of Tungabhadra River, then he expanded his control to certain regions of Konkan and Malabar Coast. By that time Hoysala Empire had lost its last ruler and Harihara I could gain power. 

An inscription of 1346 speaks of Harihara I as the ruler of “whole country between the eastern and the western seas, and the inscription describes "Vidya Nagara" (that is, the city of learning) as his capital. 

Harihara I was succeeded by Bukka I who was the most distinguished amongst the five rulers (Panchasangamas) of the Sangama dynasty. 



</doc>
<doc id="103565" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103565" title="Li people">
Li people

The Hlai or Li (; pinyin: Lí) are an ethnic group living primarily on the island of Hainam, off the southern coast of mainland China and just east of Vietnam. The Hlai are one of the 56 ethnic groups officially recognized by the Chinese government.

The Hlai were known to the Sui Dynasty Chinese by the name Liliao. Presently they refer to themselves as the Hlai or Sai people. The ethnic group is called Lí in Mandarin and Lai in Cantonese.

The Hlai people have their own language. Some dialects of the Hlai language are too different from each other for people to mutually understand each other. The Hlai language is distantly related to languages such as Thai, Lao, and Cuengh. The Hlai language did not have a writing system before the 1950s, when the Latin alphabet was adopted. Some to most Hlai people nowadays can understand Mandarin, Hainamese, and Cantonese.


</doc>
<doc id="103567" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103567" title="Li (disambiguation)">
Li (disambiguation)

Li could mean:



</doc>
<doc id="103568" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103568" title="Altes Museum">
Altes Museum

Altes Museum (German for Old Museum) is a museum in Berlin. It is on an island of the Spree River. The museum is made of Greek columns but it is not of Greek origin. It was created between 1822-1830 in a major German city.



</doc>
<doc id="103569" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103569" title="The Sleepers">
The Sleepers

The Sleepers is a painting by Gustave Courbet. The painting was made in 1866. In it, two naked women lie on a bed. It is typical of Courbet's later erotic paintings. The painting is done in oil on canvas. It measures 135 cm high and 200 cm wide. It is currently in the museum Petit Palais in Paris, France. The painting is also known as The Dream (French: "Le Sommeil"), or Lust or The Sloth and Friends.


</doc>
<doc id="103570" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103570" title="Religion in China">
Religion in China

Although China is officially atheist, many Chinese people are religious. The main religions in China are Buddhism (including Mahayana), Chinese folklore, Taoism and Confucianism. Because most Chinese religious people follow a mixture of all of the main four religions previously mentioned, the differences between and boundaries of those religions are blurred.

Chinese Buddhism () refers to one of the many branches and types of Buddhism. Buddhism in China is often mixed with Chinese philosophy, folklore and traditional mythology, as well as concepts of other philosophy-religions such as Confucianism and Daoism (Taoism). It is mainly practiced in mainland China, where almost all Han Chinese are Buddhists.

When Buddhism was introduced to China from Nepal is unclear, however, the first clear sign of Buddhism in China was around the 60s CE.

Chinese folk religion is a religion that has been practiced in China for thousands of years. There are at least 800,000,000 followers of Chinese folk religion worldwide (estimate). Most if not all of these followers are also followers of Buddhism, Confucianism and Taoism, as these three philosophy-religions are major influences of China's folk religion. The influence from and to these three philosophy-religions goes to the extent that some mythical figures from folk culture have merged into those philosophy-religions and vice versa.

Chinese folk religion is made up of a combination of religious practices, including Confucianism, ancestor veneration, Buddhism and Taoism. Folk religion also retains traces of some of its ancestral neolithic belief systems which include the veneration of the Sun, Moon, Earth, Heaven and various stars, as well as communication with animals. It has been practiced alongside Buddhism, Confucianism, and Taoism by Chinese people throughout the world for thousands of years.

Daoism, or Taoism, is a philosophy-religion that is at least 2,500 years old. It originated from China and is now widely practised in Korea.

道 Dao, also romanized as Tao, is the "Force" that Taoists believe makes everything in the world. It is very mysterious, and instead of trying to interpret or understand what Dao is

Instead of spending a lot of time trying to explain what the Tao is, Taoists focus on living a simple and balanced life in harmony with nature. This is one of the most important principles in Taoism. Taoists also believe that conflict is not good and that if you have a problem with something, it is better to find a way around it.

Some important Taoists are:


</doc>
<doc id="103574" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103574" title="Kim Ungyong">
Kim Ungyong

Kim Ung-yong (born 7 March 1963) was a Korean child prodigy. He was able to read and write in Japanese, Korean, German and English before he turned four years old. At the age of four, on 2 November 1967, he answered differential and integral calculus questions on Japanese television, showed that he could speak German, English, Japanese and Korean, and write poetry. Kim was listed in the Guiness Book of World Records under "Highest IQ"; the book guessed the boy's score at "over 200."

Kim was a guest student of physics at Hanyang University from the age of 3 until he was 6.. At the age of 7 he was invited to America by NASA.. He finished his university studies, eventually getting a Ph.D. in physics at Colorado State University before he was 15. In 1974, during his university studies, he began his research work at NASA and continued this work until his return to Korea in 1978.

When he returned to Korea, he decided to switch from physics to civil engineering and eventually received a doctorate in that field. Kim was offered the chance to study at the most prestigious universities in Korea, but instead chose to attend a provincial university.

As of 2007 he also serves as adjunct faculty at Chungbuk National University.





</doc>
<doc id="103575" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103575" title="Template:Clarify name">
Template:Clarify name


</doc>
<doc id="103576" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103576" title="Hikaru">
Hikaru

"Hikari" or "Hikaru" is a adaptation of , a Japanese language "kanji" which means "light" or "shining." It is also a given name. Some people with this given name are:


</doc>
<doc id="103577" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103577" title="Hikaru Nakamura">
Hikaru Nakamura

Hikaru Nakamura (中村光 "Nakamura Hikaru") is the leading U.S. chess grandmaster (GM). He was born on 9 December 1987 in Japan (Hirakata, Osaka Prefecture). His parents moved to the U.S.A. when he was two. He has twice won the U.S. chess championship.

From January 14 through January 30, 2011, Nakamura competed in the Tata Steel Grandmaster A tournament in Wijk aan Zee. His opponents included world #1 and defending champion Magnus Carlsen, world champion and world #2 Viswanathan Anand, world #3 and reigning World Blitz champion Levon Aronian, world #4 and former world champion Vladimir Kramnik, 


</doc>
<doc id="103580" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103580" title="Quickdraw">
Quickdraw

A quickdraw is used in rock climbing for lead climbing. One end is hooked into an anchor in 
the wall. Afterwards the rope is hooked into the other end. Usually quickdraws are used every few meters. Quickdraws are made of two carabiners connected by a sling. Quickdraws can hold up to 22 kN.
The quickdraw has one straight gate carabineer and one bent gate carabineer. The bent gate carabineer should always be the one clipped to the rope. For leading and top roping at an indoor climbing wall usually a quickdraw is already attached to each of the protection points on the route. The lower carabineer, (the one with the bent gate) should be clipped so the gate is pointing away from the rope and pointing away from the climbing wall or rock face. Doing this will help prevent the quickdraw from twisting the gate into the wall. The rope should run freely through the spine of each carabineer, not along the gate. The spine is the strongest part of the carabineer.


</doc>
<doc id="103583" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103583" title="Category:Municipalities in Lower Saxony">
Category:Municipalities in Lower Saxony


</doc>
<doc id="103584" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103584" title="Category:Renault">
Category:Renault


</doc>
<doc id="103585" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103585" title="Seedling">
Seedling

A seedling is a small plant that often will grow from a little seed. A "seedling" will sometimes be made into food and eaten.


</doc>
<doc id="103586" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103586" title="David Boreanaz">
David Boreanaz

David Paul Boreanaz (born May 16, 1969) is an American actor. He is best known for his role on the television series "Buffy the Vampire Slayer" and "Angel". On these series, he played the character Angel. Since fall of 2005, he has played Seeley Booth on "Bones". 

David Boreanaz was born on May 16, 1969 in Buffalo, New York. He grew up in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. His father is a television weatherman and his mother is a travel agent. He is of Italian descent. The surname Boreanaz is of Northern Italian origin. <small>Note: There is some disagreement between sources on the year of his birth. 1969 is considered the correct year by most people but 1971 is sometimes listed as his year of birth. </small/> He was raised Catholic.

Boreanaz went to high school in Malvern, Pennsylvania. He went to college at Ithaca College in Ithaca, New York. After graduating, Boreanaz moved to Hollywood, California to become an actor.

Boreanaz' first television acting job was a single episode on the hit American sitcom, "Married... with Children". He played Kelly's biker boyfriend. He was cast in the television series "Buffy the Vampire Slayer", after being seen by a producer when Boreanaz was walking his dog. In the series, he played Angel, a vampire with a soul. The series became very successful and Boreanaz starred in a spin-off series, "Angel". This new series gave the character a chance to evolve. It was mainly about on Angel's battle for . He appeared on "Buffy" from 1997 to 1999, at which point he began starring in "Angel", which ran until 2004. Totalling all of his appearances on "Buffy" & "Angel", including guest appearances, Boreanaz has been in more episodes of the 2 series than any other actor.

Boreanaz's only starring role in a major theatrical movie was in 2001's slasher horror movie, "Valentine". This movie also starred Denise Richards and Katherine Heigl. In 2003, he appeared in the music video for singer Dido's "White Flag". He was also the voice of Leon (aka Squall Leonhart) in the video game "Kingdom Hearts".

In 2005, Boreanaz began starring along with Emily Deschanel on the prime time television series, "Bones". He most recently appeared in "These Girls", a Canadian movie in which he played a biker. The movie was first shown at the Toronto Film Festival and the Vancouver International Film Festival. It was later shown in a small number of theaters in Canada in March of 2006. His future roles include parts in the independent films "Mr. Fix it" and "Suffering Man's Charity". It is also rumored that Boreanaz will star in the upcoming movie "Jurassic Park 4" which will be released some time in 2008. In that same year, he also voiced Hal Jordan in the direct to video DC Comics animated movie "".

Boreanaz lives in Los Angeles, California. He was married to Ingrid Quinn from June 7, 1997 to October 1999. He married actress and model Jaime Bergman on November 24, 2001. The couple has a son, Jaden Rayne Boreanaz, who was born on May 1, 2002. He and his wife are also good friends with Raven Symone. David attended her 21st birthday in December 2006.



</doc>
<doc id="103595" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103595" title="Ocean">
Ocean

À

An ocean is a large area of salt water between continents. Oceans are very big and they join smaller seas together. Together, the oceans are like one "ocean", because all the "oceans" are joined. Oceans (or marine biomes) cover 70% of our planet. 
The largest ocean is the Pacific Ocean. It covers 1/3 (one third) of the Earth's surface. The smallest ocean is the Arctic Ocean.
Different water movements separate the Southern Ocean from the Atlantic, Pacific and Indian oceans. It is also known as the Antarctic Ocean, because it covers the area around Antarctica. Older maps may not use the names Arctic Ocean and Southern Ocean. The deepest ocean is the Pacific ocean. The deepest point is the Mariana Trench, being about 11,000 metres (36,200 feet) deep. The deep ocean is characterized by cold temperatures, high pressure, and complete darkness. Some very unusual organisms live in this part of the ocean. They do not require energy from the sun to survive, because they use chemicals from deep inside the earth.

Although many people believe that the oceans are blue because the water reflects the blue sky, this is actually not true. Water has a very slight blue color that can only be seen when there is a lot of water. However, the main cause of the blue or blue/green color of the oceans is that water absorbs the red part of the incoming light, and reflects the green and blue part of the light. We then see the reflected light as the color of water.
Organisms that live in oceans can live in salt water. They are affected by sunlight, temperature, water pressure, and water movement. Different ocean organisms live near the surface, in shallow waters, and in deep waters. Small plant organisms that live near the surface and use sunlight to produce food are called phytoplankton. Almost all animals in the ocean depend directly or indirectly on these plants. In shallow water, you may find lobsters and crabs. In deeper water, marine animals of many different shapes and sizes swim through the ocean. These include many types of fish, such as tuna, swordfish and marine mammals like dolphins and whales. The skies above the open ocean are home to large sea birds, such as the albatross.

Nations like Russia and Japan have lots of huge ships that go to some of the world's best fishing areas for many months. These large ships have libraries, hospitals, schools, repair (fixing) shops and other things that are needed for fishermen and their families.

Many people look at the sea as a source of food, minerals and energy.

Oceanographers estimate (guess) that over 15,300 types of fish live in the oceans, some of which are used for food. Fish are a fine source of protein, so many people eat them. Fishing industries are very important because they make jobs and give food to millions of people. Today, usually through ocean fishing, the ocean supplies about 2% of the calories needed by people. Tuna, anchovies, and herring are harvested close to the surface of the ocean. Pollock, flounder and cod are caught near the ocean floor. More than a million tons of herring are caught every year in the North Pacific and North Atlantic, and almost eight fish out of ten fish are eaten as food for humans. The other fish are used as , glue, and pet and other animal food.

There are many different ocean temperatures in the open ocean, both vertically (from top to bottom) and . Icebergs are made over very cold waters at either pole, while waters at the equator are pretty warm. Water cools and warms more slowly than land does, so land influenced by the ocean has later and milder seasons than land that is farther away from the ocean.

The surface part of the ocean, also called the "mixed layer", is not much colder even when we go deeper down. Below this surface zone is a layer of sudden temperature difference, called a "thermocline". This is a middle layer hat is from the surface zone down to about 2,600 feet (800 m). Thermoclines may happen only at seasons or permanently, and may change depending on where and how deep it is. As evaporation happens, it begins cooling, and if the water evaporates very quickly, the water becomes saltier. The salty, cold water is denser, so it sinks. This is why warm and cold waters do not easily mix. Most animals and plants live in the warm upper layer. Below the thermocline, temperature in the deep zone is so cold it is just above freezing - between 32 &ndash 37.4 F (0 &ndash 3 C).


</doc>
<doc id="103599" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103599" title="Work (Kelly Rowland song)">
Work (Kelly Rowland song)

"Work" is a song recorded by American singer-songwriter Kelly Rowland. It was written by Rowland, Scott Storch and Jason "Pooh Bear" Boyd and co-produced by Storch and Boyd for Rowland's second studio album, "Ms. Kelly" (2007). 

Following the less successful chart performances of previous singles "Like This" and "Ghetto", "Work" was released during the first quarter of 2008 (see 2008 in music) as the album's second single in most international music markets. The song has since enjoyed commercial success, becoming Rowland's best-charting solo single since her 2002 song "Stole," reaching the top of the charts in Bulgaria and Poland, as well as the top 10 in Australia, Finland, France, Ireland, Malta, Poland, Switzerland and the United Kingdom.

These are the formats and track listings of major single-releases of "Work."




</doc>
<doc id="103605" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103605" title="Template:Imagerequest">
Template:Imagerequest

<includeonly></includeonly><noinclude>

</doc>
<doc id="103606" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103606" title="Category:Articles needing pictures">
Category:Articles needing pictures

All articles tagged with :


</doc>
<doc id="103607" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103607" title="Eluveitie">
Eluveitie

Eluveitie is a folk metal band from Switzerland. They started in 2002. Their style is a mixture of "Celtic folk metal" and "melodic death metal". Their style is sometimes called "Celtic Metal". Some of their lyrics are in Gaulish, others in English. They were founded by Christian "Chrigel" Glanzmann. 



They made videos for the songs Inis Mona, Omnos and Thousandfold. 

Official website


</doc>
<doc id="103612" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103612" title="Heaven Shall Burn">
Heaven Shall Burn

Heaven Shall Burn is a rock band from Saalfelden, Germany. Their music style is called "Deathcore" which is a mixture of "metalcore" and "death metal". Their members are: Matthias Voigt (drums), Maik Weichert (guitar), Alexander Dietz (guitar), Eric Bischoff (bass) and Marcus Bischoff (vocals).




</doc>
<doc id="103624" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103624" title="Paranaguá">
Paranaguá

Paranaguá is a coastal city in the state of Paraná in the south of Brazil. Founded in 1648, it is Paraná's oldest city. Its population was 147,934 as of January 2006 and an area of 826,652 km².

It is known for its excellent port facilities, being the sea port for Curitiba, the capital of Paraná.

The Port of Paranaguá is the sixth largest port in the world, the second largest in Brazil and the largest grain port of Latin America. His territorial extension is 13 km². It is the second largest port in Brazil, but the first in export of grains.


</doc>
<doc id="103632" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103632" title="Datura stramonium">
Datura stramonium

Datura stramonium, known by the common names, jimson weed, ditch weed, stink weed, loco weed,Korean morning glory, Jamestown weed, thorn apple, angel's trumpet, devil's trumpet, devil's snare, devil's seed, mad hatter, crazy tea, malpitte, the Devil's balls, is an erect annual herb, on average 30 to 150 cm (1-5 feet) tall with erect, forking and purple stems. The leaves are large, 7 to 20 cm (3-8 in) long and have irregular teeth

Flowers are trumpet-shaped, white to purple, and 2-7 in long.The fruit are walnut-sized, egg-shaped, and covered in prickles, they split into four chambers, each chamber with dozens of small black seeds
http://www.erowid.org/plants/datura/datura_info5.shtml


</doc>
<doc id="103643" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103643" title="Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull">
Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull

Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull is a 2008 adventure movie directed by Steven Spielberg. The story of the movie was written by Spielberg and executive producer George Lucas. Set in 1957, this fourth movie in the Indiana Jones movie series is based around an older and wiser Indiana Jones (played by Harrison Ford) against agents of the Soviet Union—led by Spalko (Cate Blanchett)—for the crystal skull. Indy is helped by his former lover Marion Ravenwood (played by Karen Allen), Mutt (played by Shia LaBeouf) and friend Mac (played by Ray Winstone). John Hurt, Jim Broadbent, and Ian McDiarmid also play fellow academics.

The movie was in "development hell" since the 1989 release of "Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade", because Spielberg and Ford did not agree over Lucas's choice of the skull as the center plot device. Screenwriters Jeb Stuart, Jeffrey Boam, M. Night Shyamalan, Frank Darabont and Jeff Nathanson wrote early versions, before David Koepp's script was chosen by all three men. Shooting finally started on June 18 2007, and took place in New Mexico, New Haven, Connecticut, Hawaii, Fresno, California, and at soundstages in Los Angeles. This movie uses more stunts than CGI (computer generated images) so that the movie looks like the rest in the series. The music was created once again by John Williams

At the beginning of the movie, the U.S Army is doing weapons testing in Nevada in 1957. It is then revealed that the Soviets have taken control of some of the army and shoot some security people dead. A group of Soviet men and agent Irina Spalko then pull Indiana Jones out of the car and make him get an object that he found ten years ago. He finds the box and tries to escape, but his friend Mac turns on him. After escaping, he finds himself in a fake town. The U.S Army then explodes an atomic bomb. Jones gets into a refrigerator and barely survives.

Because Jones was Mac's friend for a long time, the U.S government thinks that Jones might be a Communist. At Marshall College the next day (where Jones teaches), the head dean informs him that he is on a "leave of absence" and that the dean resigned in order to protect Jones. Jones packs his bags and leaves New York. Before he can leave, though, a young man named Mutt Williams comes to him and shows him a letter. Williams says that Harold Oxley, one of Jones's old friends, has been kidnapped. Later, these people kidnapped Williams' mother Mary and will kill them both if the crystal skull cannot be found.

Jones reads the letter and the puzzle and says that Oxley was referring to Cuzco, Peru. Jones and Williams fly down there, where Jones learns that Oxley was put in a jail a couple of months ago. In the prison, Oxley scratched out some drawings. Jones and Williams head to a grave site where they believe Francisco de Orellana lies buried; legend tells that he found the crystal skull but was never found. They find the skull and come up only to find Mac and some Soviets pointing weapons at them.

All of them fly to a new camp in the jungle. Spalko tells Jones that she believes that the skull was made by aliens and that it holds great power. There, Jones finds that "Mary Williams" is actually Marion Ravenwood, his old lover. He also finds Oxley, who is out of his mind, rambling and unable to speak a full sentence. Jones finds out what Oxley is saying. As the Soviets and Jones figure out where to go, Williams starts a fire and tries to get them to escape. Jones and Ravenwood fall in quicksand and start sinking. As they sink, Ravenwood tells Jones that Williams' real name is Henry Jones III and that he is Jones's son. Williams uses a snake to get them out of the sandpit. They are recaptured.

The next day, the Soviets begin destroying the forest as they seek to reach the Temple of Aktor, the area Oxley pointed out. Jones gets his ropes loose and takes over one of the cars, starting a long jungle chase. In the end, they find the area, the location where the crystal skull should be returned. Mac rejoins the group as a good guy, but in reality he was still not good, and left little blinking red lights as a trail so the slower Soviets can find where Jones and his party were.

In a chamber tomb, Jones and his party find that 13 crystal skeletons, with one missing a skull. Spalko takes the skull away from Oxley and puts it back. The temple begins to crumble. Spalko wants to know everything in the world but she soon knows too much and explodes. Jones and his party start to escape. Jones stops to try to get Mac, but Mac says it is okay and lets himself be taken away. After Jones exits the temple, he sees the temple collapse and reveal itself to be a flying saucer. Back home, Jones becomes the associate dean of Marshall College. He and Ravenwood get married.




</doc>
<doc id="103644" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103644" title="Indian Premier League">
Indian Premier League

The Indian Premier League (also known as the "DLF Indian Premier League"), is a Twenty20 cricket competition created by the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI). The first season of the Indian Premier League commenced on 18 April 2008.


</doc>
<doc id="103648" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103648" title="Template:MLB">
Template:MLB


</doc>
<doc id="103662" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103662" title="Fernando Pessoa">
Fernando Pessoa

Fernando António Nogueira Pessoa (Lisbon, 13 June 1888 - Lisbon, 30 November 1935), more known as Fernando Pessoa, was a Portuguese poet and writer. 

Pessoa is considered one of the greatest Portuguese poets of all times, to the height of Luís Vaz de Camões; his works reflect the infuence of classic tradition and French symbolism, his poetry comes from saudosism. He is famous for having written under 73 different names; each of these persons has its own presumed biography, physical qualities, relationship to the others, poetic voice, and perspective, and in part it reflects Pessoa's conviction that there does not exist one integrated personality. His work has been influenced also by the English language, learned in South Africa, where Pessoa spent a great part of his youth. 

He died of hepatitis age 47 in Lisbon; his last phrase was in English: "I know not what tomorrow will bring...". 

Among Pessoa's collections that include poems in English, there are "Sonnets" (1918), "English Poems" (1922), and "Mensagem" (1934).


</doc>
<doc id="103666" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103666" title="Category:Kelly Rowland songs">
Category:Kelly Rowland songs

Kelly Rowland songs


</doc>
<doc id="103670" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103670" title="Category:Religion in China">
Category:Religion in China


</doc>
<doc id="103671" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103671" title="Category:Sports in China">
Category:Sports in China


</doc>
<doc id="103680" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103680" title="Gaeltacht">
Gaeltacht

Gaeltacht areas are regions where most of the people speak the Irish language. Most Gaeltacht regions are in the Republic of Ireland. The largest Gaeltacht areas are in the counties of Kerry, Cork, Galway, Mayo, Donegal, Waterford and Meath. Irish is the most common language spoken in the Gaeltacht, but most of the people can also understand the English language.


</doc>
<doc id="103682" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103682" title="Template:Olympics infobox">
Template:Olympics infobox


</doc>
<doc id="103683" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103683" title="Template:Olympics infobox/Host city">
Template:Olympics infobox/Host city


</doc>
<doc id="103685" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103685" title="Template:Olympics infobox/doc">
Template:Olympics infobox/doc

<includeonly></includeonly>

<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="103686" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103686" title="Template:Olympics infobox/Events">
Template:Olympics infobox/Events


</doc>
<doc id="103687" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103687" title="Template:Olympics infobox/Opening ceremony">
Template:Olympics infobox/Opening ceremony


</doc>
<doc id="103688" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103688" title="Template:Olympics infobox/Closing ceremony">
Template:Olympics infobox/Closing ceremony


</doc>
<doc id="103689" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103689" title="Template:Olympics infobox/Stadium">
Template:Olympics infobox/Stadium


</doc>
<doc id="103691" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103691" title="Template:Roman">
Template:Roman


</doc>
<doc id="103694" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103694" title="Harass">
Harass

Harass or harassment is a when someone upsets someone else, usually many times in a row, and can feel like torture. It's done on purpose and makes the target feel scared, worried or sick from fear. Usually the scared person can't tell the people to stop because they might lose their job, see their friends or family hurt, or have even more harassment start. 

There are a lot of types of harassment: bullying at school or by neighbors, sexual harassment at work or when someone borrowed money, or racial and religious harassment. Even if the ways of writing a law differ between states or countries, it's almost always illegal to make someone feel scared or upset on purpose.


</doc>
<doc id="103695" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103695" title="Template:Roman/doc">
Template:Roman/doc

This template converts a whole number into the equivalent Roman Numerals.
Usage: 

<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="103699" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103699" title="Wikipedia:Requests for adminship/No requests">
Wikipedia:Requests for adminship/No requests


</doc>
<doc id="103730" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103730" title="Category:Fictional ducks">
Category:Fictional ducks


</doc>
<doc id="103734" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103734" title="Category:Sockpuppets of Jonesboy">
Category:Sockpuppets of Jonesboy


</doc>
<doc id="103743" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103743" title="Brná nad Labem">
Brná nad Labem

Brná nad Labem (German: "Birnai") is a part of city Ústí nad Labem, Czech republic. It is a small part of landscape park České středohoří on the right side of river Labe. It is close to Ústí nad Labem and it's area is about 4,23 km². 


</doc>
<doc id="103756" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103756" title="Goodies (song)">
Goodies (song)

Goodies is a pop song recorded by American R&B singer Ciara and rapper Petey Pablo for Ciara's debut album "Goodies" (2004) and written by Ciara, Sean Garrett, LaMarquis Jefferson, Craig Love and Jonathan Smith. "Goodies" is a combination of crunk and R&B. The song's lyrics are about female empowerment and virginity. The protagonist does not want to an object, while performing over a complex beat. The song's protagonist rejects a male's sexual advances, proclaiming that he will never get her "goodies" because "they stay in the jar".


These are the formats and track listings of major single releases of "Goodies".








</doc>
<doc id="103757" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103757" title="Category:Ciara songs">
Category:Ciara songs

Ciara songs.


</doc>
<doc id="103759" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103759" title="James I of Scotland">
James I of Scotland

James I (December 10, 1394 – February 21, 1437) was King of Scots from April 4, 1406, and ruled as King of Scots from May 1424 until February 21, 1437. 

He made many economic and legal changes. For instance, he tried to change the Parliament of Scotland to suit English lines. Many of his actions were useful, but they also upset many people. Therefore during the later years of his reign his ability was questioned, but when the king threw a party on February 21, 1437, he was assassinated by a group of Scots led by Sir Robert Graham. He attempted to escape his attackers through a sewer but could not because the sewer was blocked. A wave of executions followed, including the king's uncle, Sir Walter Sterwart and Sir Robert Steward.



</doc>
<doc id="103760" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103760" title="Shameless">
Shameless

Shameless is a BAFTA award-winning British comedy drama television series set in the fictional Chatsworth Estate in Manchester, United Kingdom. Produced by Company Pictures for Channel 4, the first seven-episode series aired weekly on Tuesday nights at 10pm from 13 January 2004. The dramedy which deals with issues related to chav culture in the UK has been accorded critical acclaim by various sections of the British media, including "The Sun" newspaper and "Newsnight Review" on BBC Two.


</doc>
<doc id="103761" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103761" title="Stele">
Stele

A stele is a stone or wooden , mostly taller than it is wide, that is erected for purposes. Mostly it is decorated with the names and titles of the person that shall remind of. This is , carved in relief or painted onto the slab.

Stelae were also used as territorial markers, as the boundary stelae of Akhenaten at Amarna, or to commemorate military victories. They were widely used in the Mesopotamia, Greece, Egypt, Ethiopia, and, quite independently, in China and some Buddhist cultures, and, more surely independently, by Mesoamerican civilisations, especially the Olmec and Maya. The huge number of stelae that survive from ancient Egypt and in Central America are one of the largest and most significant sources of information on those civilisations. 

Unfinished standing stones, set up without inscriptions from Libya in North Africa to Scotland were monuments of pre-literate Megalithic cultures in the Late Stone Age.

An obelisk is a specialized kind of stele. The Celtic high crosses of Ireland, Scotland, and Wales are "specialized stelae". Likewise, the Totem pole of North and South America is a type of stelae. Gravestones are also kinds of stelae.

In 2004 the architect Peter Eisenman created a field of some 2,700 blank stelae, the "Memorial to the Murdered Jews of Europe" in Berlin to memory of the Holocaust.






</doc>
<doc id="103763" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103763" title="Category:1394 births">
Category:1394 births


</doc>
<doc id="103764" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103764" title="Category:1437 deaths">
Category:1437 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="103772" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103772" title="Wikipedia:Simple talk/Archive 29">
Wikipedia:Simple talk/Archive 29

Pleeaase can someone sort of powerful admin-like person consider making the change. On the English-language version, typing WP in a link will automatically expand to Wikipedia, saving time (No, I'm not just lazy, I'm not just lazy, I'm not just lazy).

Of course, this might complicate things, but what with Parser functions and templates and everything I reckon it's worth it to speed things up.

"However", I'm just being lazy, so don't sweat :)

Many thanks, () 17:34, 13 April 2008 (UTC)

I would like to know whether this Wikipedia attempts to be appropriate for children in terms of image censorship. You say that your main targets are adults learning English and editors translating between Wikipedia languages, but with a little bit of censorship this would be very useful for children. -- () 17:35, 13 April 2008 (UTC)

There is a (in my opinion) quite important discussion going on at .

If not important because I think it is, the important because I added a link to , and I'm not a legal person ... (don't worry, I'm sure I haven't broken anything, .) :)

Many thanks! () 17:41, 13 April 2008 (UTC)

I know we have most of the basic classics down (Just a few of many: Lord of the Rings, The Chronicles of Narnia, The Odyssey, Animal Farm, I'll even go as far as to say Harry Potter). But what about other books. Like "New York Times" bestsellers? Children and Young Adult books that have been on the "New York Times" bestseller lists, too? Should there be articles created on such books? So far, I haven't created any such articles, because I guess I'm coming from a different direction than anyone here, based on the sketchy knowledge I know of old classic novels and how much I know about certain other kinds of literature. I think some "modern books" (is there a better term?) have become notable enough to have their own articles here, considering the sheer number of people who actually "read" these books. 

Is there any...guideline or policy I may not have noticed dealing this sort of thing? Because when you look at it from from a certain perspective, all the missing literature articles here are a huge gap in this encyclopedia. Plenty of music articles. Literature, all kinds, is just as important. --() 00:04, 14 April 2008 (UTC)

I am annoyed by the talk about it, people know about it, and the only reason to keep it is for people looking for that kind of stuff. Wikipedia should be for everyone, not just for adults and that kids should be blocked from this Family-Friendly (Or at least I thought) site. We need to keep this site at least a little bit accountable, unlike 99% of the rest of the web! Powerfully and Purposely yours, 03:42, 14 April 2008 (UTC)

I am not annoyed with people talking 'bout it, but just in a "It's for research purposes" way, What? If you want to see that, go look at almost all of the other sites on the web. I just want "Simple" to be clean, and safe... for everybody! See? 04:46, 14 April 2008 (UTC)

NO!!! I am "annoyed" because people said it is fine 'cause we need to have more information, not that their talking about it. And you go to the sites to see whats underneath their ""censored"" content, not to see it covered up. 04:56, 14 April 2008 (UTC)

WOW. This is confusing. OK, I was only saying I don't like improper things on "Simple" (That's not for kids). Oh, I'm a kid too! I think that rather than censorship, we should not have the things that need to be censored. Here what drives home my point, it's what RazorFlame said "If we were to censor these kinds of images, it would cripple our ability to provide the best possible information on a bunch of topics", No it keep the mind of kids (And adults) pure. I disagree with that. I agree with what ChristianMan16 said to take a medical drawing or something like that rather than any nudity , which is what I meant about other sites, they have nudity... a lot! Understand? 05:20, 14 April 2008 (UTC)

I don't know how old you are, but I am still young. I know what nudity and other related content does to a young mind. I am not pushing for paintings, just that we be concerned with who is reading (and seeing) the content on "Simple". It does not keep us ignorant, just protected. Many parents trust wikipedia to be a safe and useful tool for their child's use, and not wanting their child to exposed to things they're not ready for. Just because things are real, doesn't mean they are good for kids, teens, and adults. Like I said I am still young and need to go to bed. Thanks for talking with me Creol and Gwib, Good Night, 05:56, 14 April 2008 (UTC)

I came across this and I couldn't resist adding my two cents. Nudity on Wikipedia is inappropriate. If children want to learn about sexual behavior or body parts, they should ask their parents. If adults are looking for that type of thing, they're sick. Those who defend the nudity here on Wikipedia are pornographers. End of story. -- () 17:13, 14 April 2008 (UTC)

Wow, you have really missed the point.

My point is that nudity is not necessary on Wikipedia. I know that most parents don't teach their children the way they should. But that is not an excuse for Wikipedia to host porn. Two wrongs do not make a right. There is no reason why someone would come looking for a sexual article unless they were up to no good. Please forgive my frankness, but I know where my sexual parts are and how to use them (in a biblical manor, mind you). I don't need Wikipedia to tell me. -- () 08:06, 15 April 2008 (UTC)

Okay, seriously, what is there to discuss here? Wikipedia doesn't allow censorship. End of story. Some people may like not that we don't censor. These people either need to learn how to cope with this fact, or leave. People are starting to make this personal, are attacking others and calling names. This "discussion"/"vote"/"argument" or whatever you want to call it is nothing but destructive to the community. Let's just accept the non-censorship and move on with creating an encyclopedia as Archer7 suggested above.· 21:46, 15 April 2008 (UTC)

For this reason, I think our interest is higher in informing our users about those facts, than the interest of protecting whoever of seeing some images deemed "unsafe" or "immoral". The alternatives are to either force teenage mothers to live miserably, or we endanger them with abortion (which some see as immoral as well). This is my last statement on the subject. I propose to close the discussion about it now; there are no new points, so everything is settled.-- () 22:54, 15 April 2008 (UTC)

There's a new Wikiproject out there. . Just sign up if you'd like to join. 15:27, 14 April 2008 (UTC)

What I am saying by all this, is that I believe is that parents should decide what their child sees, not editors on wikipedia. Once a child turns 6 or 7 (the age where they learn to do right or wrong), they begin to be tempted for things. A young child has no concept of things of nudity. On the page telling how to write a good article it says "First, think about your readers... Other readers may be young (they may be children)..." Instead of just saying by ten, we've seen everything, we should let the parent of a kid keep control, and for many, they are offended. Why don't we put graphics on several articles instead of full nudity, that isn't stopping us from giving all the information, just making "Simple" useful for everyone. 18:10, 14 April 2008 (UTC)

So what your saying is rather than clean up Simple, we should just hope parents don't let their kids on here? Why not make it usable to "Everybody"? Which is what Simple is all about; making it Simple and usable for all. 19:55, 14 April 2008 (UTC)

Right... I'm sure you serious. Why are you defending this so much? I am not kidding, we can work in not offending other people with Hair, Men, and God. But I, and I'm sure others, think that at least Simple (I know Wikipedia is even worse) can be a place where parents can feel safe about letting their kids visiting for research, not hoping and watching to make sure their kids don't "stumble" into "explicit images" that some are saying "Without it, we can't give all the necessary information". A parent should be the one to talk and reveal in their own timeline such content, not for "editors". Right? 20:29, 14 April 2008 (UTC)

OK, so what your saying is: Simple is for adults, and kids should always be monitored by their parents, even on simple. But that is what I'm saying, I want it to be useful for everybody in this way, not only for adults and unmonitored kids. If everybody is against me than I will submit, I am just one editor. 20:51, 14 April 2008 (UTC)

http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Simple_talk#Censorship_-_pros_and_cons_-_Simple.wiki_says_it_is_for_children_to_understand ~ .. 21:42, 15 April 2008 (UTC)

Spured by the discussion above, I think should be changed, the following way:

Item 6 currently reads: Wikipedia does not provide censorship to minors. This can distort the facts of an article.

I propose to change this to: Wikipedia does not provide censorship to special groups of users, such as children, political or religious communities. Such censorship can distort the facts of an article.

Open to suggestions. -- () 20:53, 14 April 2008 (UTC)

Also, while we are at this, can we add a new section to stating that Wikipedia is not a linkfarm/link repository if it isn't already on there? Cheers, 20:59, 14 April 2008 (UTC)


What's wrong with the simple and straight-forward "Wikipedia is not censored. Censorship can change the facts of an article."? · 00:57, 15 April 2008 (UTC)

Is it just me, or are we voting on everything now? I think we should probably stop, per . Maybe I've just got too annoyed by the string of Benniguy votes, but I can't stand seeing all the supports and opposes (perhaps a bad attitude for a bureaucrat). I much preferred things in the form of "Shall we do this" - "I like it" - "I like this better" - "Me too" - "And me" - "Done!". - 22:42, 14 April 2008 (UTC)

As I was looking through the page, I noticed a new log has appeared in the list of logs: Global account management log. Just thought that I would let everyone know about this new log, as I have never seen this log before. Cheers, 14:56, 15 April 2008 (UTC)

Hello,

we have been living happily with our page. I have therefore changed its status from proposed guideline to guideline. -- () 15:08, 15 April 2008 (UTC)

In general, silence equals agreement here. If anyone has any objections or suggestions of changes, please bring them up now. If there aren't any within a few days I think we can safely change it to a guideline. Everyone already treats it like a guideline anyway so I don't feel like Eptalon's jumped to any outrageous conclusions here. · 18:25, 15 April 2008 (UTC)

(unindenting)When the CfA were discussed originally, the following problems came up:
On a side-note: It is not that hard ot get to "several hundred" edits (mostly outside User/Talk namespace) in the three months given. 

Guidelines are there to work with them. They are not policy, but most (active) editors will agree with most of the guideline. -- () 15:37, 16 April 2008 (UTC)

Can be seen on this page: Robert H. Grubbs ~ .. 20:09, 15 April 2008 (UTC)

Can we enable rollback and patroller for users to request? I wish I could use rollback here, and be able to patrol new articles. -- 21:27, 15 April 2008 (UTC)

Rollback can be used in other forms. The amount of users to grant rollback right to is minimal. Most of our trusted users are admins, unlike enwiki where many trusted editors choose not to be admins. ("") 23:53, 15 April 2008 (UTC)

No country with copyright laws would object to simple.wiki using copyrighted images as it is a non-profit organisation. It may be a waste of time to censor copyrighted material as it is not illegal to display it here, and all the latest stuff could be posted. ~ .. 22:38, 15 April 2008 (UTC)

</doc>
<doc id="103780" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103780" title="Qingzang railway">
Qingzang railway

The Qingzang railway (also called Qinghai–Xizang railway, or Qinghai–Tibet railway) is a railway line from Xining, Qinghai Province, to Lhasa in Tibet.

The line includes the Tanggula Pass, at 5,072 m (16,640 feet) above sea level the world's highest rail track and Tanggula Railway Station which is the highest railway station. The 1,338 m Fenghuoshan tunnel is the highest rail tunnel in the world, at 4,905 m above sea level. The 3,345-m Yangbajing tunnel is the longest tunnel on the line. It is 4,264 m above sea level, 80 kilometres north-west of Lhasa.

More than 960 km, or over 80% of the Golmud-Lhasa section, is at an altitude of more than 4,000 m. There are 675 bridges, totalling 159.88 km, and over half the length of the railway is laid on permafrost. The railway which was finished in 2006 is said to not help the people of Tibet.

It takes about 3 days to go from Lhasa to Guangzhou or Shanghai.


</doc>
<doc id="103790" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103790" title="Ostrava">
Ostrava

Ostrava is the third biggest city in the Czech Republic. It is also the government center of the Moravian-Silesian Region. The town was started in 1267 and it can be found in the north-eastern part of the country. More than 300,000 people live in Ostrava. Bishop of Roman Catholic Diocese of Ostrava-Opava is also based in Ostrava.


</doc>
<doc id="103796" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103796" title="Sleep disorder">
Sleep disorder

A sleep disorder is a problem that stops people from sleeping normally. There are many sleep disorders, and some of them are very serious. A test commonly ordered for some sleep disorders is the polysomnogram.

Sleep disorders can be put into groups. These groups include:

The most common sleep disorders include:

Changes in life style, such as shift work change or travelling over several time zones, can cause sleep disorders. Some other problems that can cause sleeping problems include:

A sleep diary or log can be used to help diagnose (define) the problem. It can also be used to measure improvements. 

According to Dr. William Dement of the Stanford Sleep Center, anyone who snores and is sleepy in the daytime should see a doctor about sleep disorders.

In case of chronic pain, both the pain and the sleep problems should be treated. Pain can lead to sleep problems and vice versa.

The choice of a treatment for a sleep disorder depends on the patient's diagnosis, his/her medical and psychiatric history, and how she or he prefers to be treated. Medications sometimes work fast. On the other hand, sometimes behavioral treatment of insomnia may give more lasting results.


</doc>
<doc id="103801" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103801" title="Template:Vandal-m">
Template:Vandal-m


</doc>
<doc id="103822" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103822" title="Bahebek Wahashtini">
Bahebek Wahashtini

"Bahebek Wahashtini" is a song written and sung by Emarati pop star Hussein El Jesmy, the song serves as the theme music for the popular Arabic film "Al Rahina (2006)", or "The Hostage". 

The words, when translated in Arabic to English, means "I love you and I've missed you"; this, of course, parallels the intimacy and loyalty that the character within the movie has for his mother country, Egypt.


</doc>
<doc id="103829" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103829" title="Kirk Cameron">
Kirk Cameron

Kirk Thomas Cameron (born October 12, 1970) is an American actor best-known for playing "Mike Seaver" on the television situation comedy, "Growing Pains", and in other television shows and movies. He was the main actor in the "Left Behind" movie series and in "Fireproof". He is also an active Christian evangelist, and works with Ray Comfort on "The Way of the Master". He co-started "The Firefly Foundation" with his wife, actress Chelsea Noble.

Cameron was born on October 12, 1970 in Panorama City, California. His parents are Robert Cameron, a retired school teacher, and Barbara Bausmith, a stay-at-home mom. He is the brother to Bridgette, Melissa, and Candace Cameron, who is played "D.J. Tanner" on the television sitcom, "Full House". He would go to school on the set of "Growing Pains", as opposed to a normal school. He graduated at age 17 with high honors.

Cameron and his wife, actress Chelsea Noble, were married on July 21, 1991. They now have six children, four of whom were adopted: Jack (born 1996), Isabella (born 1997), Anna (born 1998), and Luke (born 2000); and two biological: Olivia Rose (born July 18, 2001) and James Thomas (born April 13, 2003).

Cameron began acting at the age of nine, and his first job was for a breakfast cereal. His first starring role was at the age of ten in the television series "Two Marriages". At this age, he appeared in several television shows and films. He became famous after being cast as "Michael Seaver" in the 1985 television series "Growing Pains". In the series, Seaver's girlfriend was Kate MacDonald, who was played by Chelsea Noble, Cameron's future wife. Cameron subsequently became a teen heartthrob in the late 1980s, while appearing on the covers of several teen magazines, including "Tiger Beat", "Teen Beat", "16" and others. At the time, he was making $50,000 a week. He was also in a 60-second Pepsi commercial during Super Bowl XXIV.

Cameron went on to star in many films, for example 1987's "Like Father Like Son", which made a lot of money. His next movie, 1989's "Listen to Me", did not make very much money. When "Growing Pains" ended in 1992, Cameron went on to star in the sitcom "Kirk" which began in 1995 and ended two years later. In "Kirk", Cameron played Kirk Hartman, a 24-year-old who has to raise his siblings. Cameron and Noble also worked together on "Kirk".

Ten years after "Growing Pains" ended, was a part of "The Growing Pains Movie", in 2000, and "", in 2004. Cameron has also often worked in Christianity-related movies, among them the post-Rapture movies "", "", and "", in which he plays Cameron "Buck" Williams. Cameron's wife Noble also starred in these movies, playing Hattie Durham. Cameron has worked with Cloud Ten Pictures, and has been in several of their movies. He was also in "Fireproof", which was made by Sherwood Pictures. They only spent $500,000 making the movie. Cameron as the main actor, playing Captain Caleb Holt. Though it was a did not cost much money to make, the movie made $33,415,129. Cameron said, "["Fireproof" is] the best work of my life."

Cameron was once an atheist, but around the age of 17 - 18, during the height of his career on "Growing Pains", he developed a belief in God, and became a Christian. After converting to Christianity, he began to insist that storylines be stripped of anything he thought to be too adult or racy in "Growing Pains". The cast ostracized him from their activities. They did not attend his wedding, nor was he invited to any of theirs. A decade later, Cameron agreed to appear in "The Growing Pains Movie", where the entire main cast reunited with one another. Cameron said, "It’s a lot less crazy of a time than when we were teenagers. It’s an opportunity to begin new friendships as adults, and I’m really looking forward to that."

Cameron currently partners with fellow evangelist Ray Comfort, training Christians in evangelism. Together, they founded the ministry of "The Way of the Master", which is best known for its award-winning television show Cameron co-hosts. It also formerly featured a radio show known as "The Way of the Master Radio" with talk show host Todd Friel. The radio show was later canceled, and "Wretched Radio" began, hosted by Friel. He, with wife Noble, founded "The Firefly Foundation", which runs "Camp Firefly", an organization that gives terminally ill children and their families a free week's vacation.

Cameron and Comfort were a part in a debate on television with atheists Brian Sapient and Kelly O'Conner of the Rational Response Squad, at Calvary Baptist Church in Manhattan on May 5, 2007. It was moderated by ABC's Martin Bashir and parts of it were played on "Nightline". They debated weather or not there is a God. Some of the people in the audience believed in God, and some did not.

Young Artist Awards
Saturn Award
Golden Globe Awards
People's Choice Award
Nickelodeon Kids' Choice Awards





</doc>
<doc id="103846" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103846" title="Get on the Bus">
Get on the Bus

"Get on the Bus" was the third single from girl group Destiny's Child. The song featured rapper/producer Timbaland and is lifted from the original motion picture soundtrack of "Why Do Fools Fall in Love" (1998). It was the second single to be lifted from the soundtrack following Melanie B's debut single, "I Want You Back". Produced by Timbaland, it peaked at number twelve on the UK and Netherlands charts, and at number sixty on the German chart. The single was not comercially released in the U.S. and other major markets, It did receive some minor US Urban radio airplay, peaking at #58 on the US Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Airplay chart. The music video was directed by Earle Sebastian.



</doc>
<doc id="103854" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103854" title="Category:Wikipedians in Asia">
Category:Wikipedians in Asia


</doc>
<doc id="103864" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103864" title="Category:Sockpuppets of Dmits">
Category:Sockpuppets of Dmits


</doc>
<doc id="103868" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103868" title="Template:Chinese">
Template:Chinese


</doc>
<doc id="103869" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103869" title="Template:Chinese/doc">
Template:Chinese/doc

<includeonly></includeonly>
Use this template to show a Chinese name, word, term or phrase in various renderings. 

Optional Flags

Optional Showflag
By default no romanization will show outside of the hide area. You can call this flag when using the template to have certain romanizations appear permanently in favor of certain regions.


<includeonly>
</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="103870" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103870" title="MediaWiki:Gadget-CleanDeleteReasons">
MediaWiki:Gadget-CleanDeleteReasons

"Clean Delete Reasons:" This script will remove the automatic deletion reasons to keep the delete logs cleaner. It will not affect the reason that come from the URL.

</doc>
<doc id="103871" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103871" title="MediaWiki:Gadget-CleanDeleteReasons.js">
MediaWiki:Gadget-CleanDeleteReasons.js

//Written and maintained by 
function deletemods(){
addOnloadHook(deletemods);

</doc>
<doc id="103872" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103872" title="South China Sea">
South China Sea

The South China Sea is a marginal sea south of China. It is a part of the Pacific Ocean, occupying an area from Singapore to the Strait of Taiwan of around 3,500,000 km². It is one of the largest sea bodies after the five oceans. There are hundreds of minute South China Sea Islands, collectively an archipelago. The sea and its mostly uninhabited islands are subject to several competing claims of sovereignty by neighboring nations. These competing claims are also reflected in the variety of names used for the islands and the sea.


</doc>
<doc id="103892" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103892" title="Category:1310 births">
Category:1310 births


</doc>
<doc id="103893" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103893" title="Category:1370 deaths">
Category:1370 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="103897" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103897" title="Leo Belgicus">
Leo Belgicus

The Leo Belgicus is a map of the Low Countries (the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Belgium). They are drawn in the shape of a lion. The Leo Belgicus that came first was drawn by the Austrian cartographer Michael Aitzinger in 1583. The Netherlands were fighting the Eighty Years' War for freedom at this time.
There were three different drawings. In the most common one, the lion's head was found in the northeast part of the country and the tail in the southeast part of the country. The most famous version is the drawing of Claes Janszoon Visscher. It was made in 1609 when the Twelve Years' Truce was written. The third version was made late in the war. It was made after the freedom of the Dutch Republic was given in the Peace of Westphalia of the year 1648. It is called the "Leo Hollandicus", the Holland Lion, and shows only the province of Holland.


</doc>
<doc id="103909" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103909" title="Tebibyte">
Tebibyte

A tebibyte (TiB) is a unit of measurement in computers and similar electronic devices. Tebibytes hold 1024 gibibytes (GiB) or 1,099,511,627,776 bytes. Some people call this number of bytes a terabyte.

1,024 tebibytes make one exbibyte.


</doc>
<doc id="103920" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103920" title="Template:User ja-0">
Template:User ja-0


</doc>
<doc id="103921" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103921" title="Petabyte">
Petabyte

A petabyte (PB) is a unit of measurement in computers and similar electronic devices. Petabytes hold 1000 terabytes (TB) or a thousand trillion (1,000,000,000,000,000) bytes. 

Large organisations use petabytes of storage to hold massive amounts of data. To store this amount of data at home would require about 1000 large home computers. People at home probably do not use petabytes, they would use terabytes (primarily for very large backups), gigabytes, megabytes and occasionally kilobytes.

One thousand petabytes make one exabyte. 


</doc>
<doc id="103922" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103922" title="Template:User tl-2">
Template:User tl-2

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="103923" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103923" title="Template:User tl-0">
Template:User tl-0


</doc>
<doc id="103924" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103924" title="Template:User tl-1">
Template:User tl-1

<includeonly></includeonly>


</doc>
<doc id="103925" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103925" title="Exabyte">
Exabyte

An exabyte (EB) is a unit of measurement for computers of the future. Exabytes hold 1000 petabytes (PB) or a million trillion (1,000,000,000,000,000,000) bytes. An exabyte is so large that it would take about one million powerful home computers to store this amount of data.

One thousand exabytes make one zettabyte.


</doc>
<doc id="103926" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103926" title="Zettabyte">
Zettabyte

A zettabyte (ZB) is a unit of measurement for computers of the future. Zettabytes hold 1000 exabytes (EB) or a billion trillion (1,000,000,000,000,000,000,000) bytes, and 1000 zettabytes make one yottabyte. 

A zettabyte is so large that it would take about a million supercomputers (or a thousand million powerful home computers) 
to store this amount of data.


</doc>
<doc id="103928" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103928" title="Yottabyte">
Yottabyte

A yottabyte (YB) is a unit of measurement for computers of the future. Yottabytes hold 1000 zettabytes (ZB) or a trillion trillion (1,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000) bytes. 

A yottabyte is so large that it would take about one thousand million supercomputers to store this amount of data.


</doc>
<doc id="103936" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103936" title="Nature's services">
Nature's services

Nature's services is a term for the ways in which nature benefits humans. It means particularly those benefits that can be measured in economic terms. Robert Costanza and other theorists of natural capital analysed nature's services to humanity in the 1990s. 

The economic contribution of seventeen of these services they calculated to be about US$33 trillion per year, greater than the activities of the whole human economy, which was about US$25 trillion.
This was based on estimated costs of replacing the services nature provides. For that purpose they were compared with equivalent services that are produced by humans. This calculation makes clear that mankind cannot develop without nature's services.

This study is central for the theory of natural capital. 

But this study had no great influence on government policy or on WTO, IMF or G8 economic and trade policy. 




</doc>
<doc id="103946" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103946" title="Signing Time!">
Signing Time!

Signing Time! is a children's television show. It teaches American Sign Language to children age one through eight. It is shown in the United States. It is hosted by Rachel de Azevedo Coleman. It is shown by American Public Television in many cities across the United States.

Research shows that sign language can help children's learning ability to grow. With just a few simple American Sign Language signs, babies and toddlers — some as young as nine months old — can show people their needs before they can speak, which may make them have fewer tantrums. School-aged children enjoy the benefits of learning a second language. Children with developmental delays or special needs can find their own “voice” by using their hands to talk using sign language.

Signing Time helps children learn through three senses — visual (seeing), auditory (hearing), and kinesthetic (touch) — and reaches children with different learning styles and abilities by making children want to communicate with other people through signing, singing, speaking and dancing.

In the series, songwriter and musician Rachel Coleman, her daughter Leah (who is deaf), Alex (Leah’s cousin who can hear), and their pet frog named Hopkins, who is a cartoon, teach hundreds of useful American Sign Language signs. Children learn signs for words, questions, phrases, movements, colors, sports, days of the week, everyday objects, and activities that are done a lot. Signing Time! makes learning sign language easy for the whole family.

In 1996, Rachel Coleman had a daughter, who was named Leah. Fourteen months after she was born, Rachel and her husband, Aaron, found out that Leah was deaf since she was born. After that, the couple started to teach Leah sign language, first with Signing Exact English (SEE), then with American Sign Language (ASL),so that they could learn to communicate, becoming good signers. Rachel was surprised to see that after six months, Leah's sign language vocabulary had more words the vocabulary of hearing children her same age. Rachel's sister Emilie Brown and her husband Derek were teaching Leah's baby cousin, Alex, how to sign, and he learned it quickly also.

A few years later, Rachel had a second daughter. Lucy was born 8 weeks premature, with spina bifida (this means there is a hole in your back when you are born and your spinal cord is sticking out) and cerebral palsy (your brain has trouble controlling your muscles). Doctors worried that, because of her cerebral palsy, Lucy would never be able to speak or use sign language to communicate with her deaf sister, but after the first volume was made, Lucy started to sign, and later, to speak. Rachel then thought that signing could be beneficial to all children.

Rachel and Emilie decided to make a video for hearing children so that American Sign Language could be made accessible to all children, and made Two Little Hands Productions, their producing company, together.

Rachel hosts the show herself, with her daughter Leah and nephew Alex also starring to help teach signs. In My First Signs, Rachel was not going to be in the videos, but she was added to show the signs because Alex and Leah (who were 3 and 4 then) could not sign clearly enough all the time to teach viewers the signs. In the earlier episodes, Rachel did not want to sing and sign at the same time since it causes some problems for those who want true American Sign Language, but customers responded, wanting more songs and wanting to learn signs from them. So, already being a musician, Rachel wrote more songs. Rachel sings a lot of songs during each episode, signing the words at the same time. During the episode, Rachel shows many signs from a certain topic (schools, daytime activities, etc.) and then has Leah and Alex sign—they sign first now—alongside with many other children of different backgrounds. After that, the words are emphasized with song.

The second season has a new layout that includes new signs and more original music. Each program teaches signs from one theme, marked by a theme song, which is taught verse by verse. This lets children develop a comforting knowing of the melody line of each song, helping to give them a sense of mastery and a feeling like they are actually “with” the characters as they sing and sign along. Also, new parts “ABC Time,” “Counting Time,” “Game Time,” “Story Time,” and “Hopping/Moving Time” look into the episode theme or other skills in a playful way. These segments use teaching methods such as mnemonics (a way to make your memory better), songs, stories, and games, which are good for many different learning styles and abilities by promoting [wikt: interaction|interaction] through signing, singing, speaking and dancing.

Rachel is the host of the Signing Time! series. She has spent much of her adult life working in entertainment. While performing with her band We the Living, Rachel foun out that her 14-month old daughter ,Leah, was deaf. Rachel’s second daughter, Lucy, had fetal surgery (surgery before she was born) for spina bifida and was later diagnosed with cerebral palsy. In spite of such limitations, Lucy now communicates with both speech and sign language. After years of musical silence, Rachel has picked up that guitar again, writing and performing all of the songs for Signing Time!. She used to sing for her band. Now, she sings for Lucy, Leah, and children everywhere. In addition to starring in Signing Time!, Rachel is also a popular singer, performer, and speaker, and has performed for hundreds of thousands of children all across the country.

Leah Coleman is the person that made her mother want to make Signing Time! Diagnosed as profoundly deaf at 14 months old, she began learning American Sign Language (ASL) as fast as her parents could learn it and teach it to her. Leah could sign full sentences long before her ‘hearing’ peers could even speak, and because of that, her parents say she never threw a tantrum. Leah is now in fifth grade and loves reading, skating on her “Heelys” and playing with her little sister Lucy. She recently won first place in her very first horse show and got national attention for winning first place in her school Spelling Bee, despite being deaf. Her favorite food is sushi and she loves the color purple. She loves being in "Signing Time!" with her cousin Alex, and teaching ASL to other children.

Alex Brown was in in the very first episode of Signing Time! before his third birthday. He learned to sign as a baby so that he could communicate with his deaf cousin, Leah. He is now in fourth grade and loves to ride his bike, rollerblade, make comic books, draw mazes and play with his little brother Zachary. His favorite food is shrimp with shell pasta and his favorite color is green. He is a budding singer and pianist, but he enjoys "playing" the piano more than he enjoys practicing. A native of Salt Lake City, Utah, Alex has also lived in Virginia and California. He enjoys filming "Signing Time!" particularly when he gets to swing on the tire swing or have pillow fights on the set with Leah.

Originally developed as a gecko named ‘Twerp’ (a play on the nickname ‘Terp, for interpreter), “Hopkins” the frog was supposed to be Leah’s ‘voice’ and appear as a gift from Grandma and Grandpa. Alas, since Leah’s speech is developing on her own, Hopkins is now very happy being a little green animated sidekick who loves to swim, paint, lift large pieces of fruit and eat unsuspecting flies. He is proudly named after Thomas Hopkins Gallaudet, who in 1817 established the first free American school for the deaf and hearing-impaired.

All numbers are Signing Time! volume numbers from the official website.





Two Little Hands productions offers a wide variety of fun and educational American Sign Language (ASL) products.


Other items include printed materials including board books and flash cards, "Signing Time!" clothing, and "Signing Time!" music CDs.



</doc>
<doc id="103951" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103951" title="Wuthering Heights">
Wuthering Heights

Wuthering Heights is the only novel by Emily Brontë. It was first published in 1847 under the pseudonym (false name) Ellis Bell. After her death, a second edition was edited by her sister Charlotte. The story is about the love of Heathcliff and Catherine Earnshaw. It is a classic of English literature.



</doc>
<doc id="103952" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103952" title="Capitol Hill Baptist Church">
Capitol Hill Baptist Church

The Capitol Hill Baptist Church is a Baptist church located on Capital Hill in Washington D.C. Mark Dever serves as the senior pastor of the church.

In 1867 on "Capitol Hill", a group of people came together to pray for a church to be started in their area. The church would one decade later become known as the "Metropolitan Baptist Church". In 1878, it had 31 members. In the coming years, the church grew. In 1912 the church finished working on the new main hall. Their then current pastor "Dr. John Compton Ball" oversaw the church membership increase, it numbered in the thousands by 1950. Over the next several years, the membership slowly dropped, and hit a low of around one hundred people, in the early 1990s. In recent years the church has grown to a much bigger church.



</doc>
<doc id="103961" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103961" title="Gerry and the Pacemakers">
Gerry and the Pacemakers

Gerry and The Pacemakers were an English rock and roll group during the 1960s. Like The Beatles, they came from Liverpool and were also managed by Brian Epstein.

Gerry Marsden was born on September 24, 1942, in Liverpool, England. His brother, Freddie, was born on October 23, 1940, in Liverpool. They formed a musical group called "The Mars Bars", with Gerry playing guitar and Freddie the drums. They changed the name to The Pacemakers because the Mars candy company said they would take them to court for using the name. 

Les Chadwick (born John Leslie Chadwick) was born on May 11, 1943 in Liverpool. He worked in a bank before joining the band in 1959. He was their lead guitarist, but changed to bass. Les Maguire (born Leslie Maguire) was born on December 27, 1941 in Wallasey, Cheshire. He joined the band in 1960 after the group's piano player, Arthur McMahon, left the group. 

The Pacemakers were the second band to be managed by Brian Epstein, who was also manager of "The Beatles. Brian had heard the band at the "Cavern Club" in Liverpool in 1962. Their first three songs in 1963, "How Do You Do It?", "I Like It" and "You'll Never Walk Alone", all went straight to number one on the charts. "You'll Never Walk Alone", first written by Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein II for the musical "Carousel", became the favourite song of supporters of the Liverpool Football Club. The band enjoyed great success between 1963—1966, even making a very successful full length movie in 1965 called "Ferry Cross The Mersey". This was based on the song written by Gerry. The song made Liverpool's ferries world famous. Gerry also wrote eight other songs for the film. 

"[Our] songs were happy, the music simple and the lyrics nice to listen to," Gerry said. "We didn't try to change the world."

The group broke up in 1967, and Gerry went on to work as an actor and performer in musical theater. He reformed The Pacemakers with new members in 1972. Gerry wrote a book about his life, "You'll Never Walk Alone", which was published in 1993. Original band member, Freddie Marsden, died on December 9, 2006, at 66 years of age.


</doc>
<doc id="103962" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103962" title="Left Behind (series)">
Left Behind (series)

The Left Behind series (or just Left Behind) is a fictional book series written by Tim LaHaye and Jerry B. Jenkins. The series takes place during, and after the rapture. Besides the best-selling fiction book series, there are also graphic novels, CDs, and a series.

Note: The first three books were written later in time, but are a prequel to the series. 


Note: The first of the books were made into movies starring Kirk Cameron.



</doc>
<doc id="103973" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103973" title="Master Chief">
Master Chief

Master Chief, or Spartan-117, is the main protagonist of the "Halo" video game series. He appears in , Halo 2 and Halo 3 as a playable unit but is absent in Halo Wars.


</doc>
<doc id="103979" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103979" title="Arrowhead">
Arrowhead

An arrowhead is point of an arrow, or a shape resembling such a point.

Arrowheads are found all over the United States. Archaeologically they are usually made of stone: primarily being flint, obsidian, or chert; but in many excavations bone, wooden and metal arrowheads have been found. 

In North America, Arrowheads are sometimes mistakenly attributed to the Historic Period American Indians, but are actually from North America's prehistoric ancestors; some arrowheads date back to over 15,000+ years old (Paleo-Clovis Culture). 

In Scandinavia during the Viking age a wide range of arrowheads were used for a variety of tasks.

Arrowheads are attached to arrow shafts and may be "thrown" (similar to a spear thrower), or fired from a bow.

Stone tool



</doc>
<doc id="103981" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103981" title="Obsidian">
Obsidian

Obsidian is a natural volcanic glass found as a kind of igneous rock. It is produced when lava high in silica (SiO) cools rapidly, and solidifies without time for crystal growth. Because there is no crystal structure, obsidian blade edges can reach almost molecular thinness, leading to its ancient use as arrowheads, and its modern use as surgical scalpel blades.

Obsidian is mineral-like, but not a true mineral because as a glass it is not crystalline. Obsidian is dark in color similar to rocks such as basalt. It consists mainly of SiO (silicon dioxide), usually 70% or more. Crystalline rocks with obsidian's composition include granite and rhyolite.

Obsidian is metastable at the earth's surface: over time the glass becomes fine-grained crystals. So, no obsidian is older than Cretaceous age. This breakdown of obsidian is accelerated by the presence of water. Obsidian has a low water content when fresh, typically less than 1% water by weight , but takes it in when exposed to groundwater. 

Pure obsidian is usually dark in appearance, though the color varies depending on the presence of different materials. Iron and magnesium typically give the obsidian a dark green to brown to black color. A few samples are nearly colorless. In some stones, inclusions of small crystals produce a snowflake pattern ("snowflake obsidian"). It may contain patterns of gas which produce effects such as a golden sheen ("sheen obsidian") or a rainbow sheen ("rainbow obsidian").

Obsidian was valued in Stone Age cultures because, like flint, it could be fractured to produce hand axes, sharp blades or arrowheads. Like all glass and flint, obsidian breaks with a characteristic shell-shaped fracture. 

Pre-Columbian Mesoamericans' used obsidian a lot. It was carved and worked for tools and decorative objects. It was also polished to create early mirrors. Mesoamericans also made a type of sword with obsidian blades mounted in a wooden body. Called a macuahuitl, the weapon could cause terrible injuries, because it combined the sharp cutting edge of an obsidian blade with the ragged cut of a serrated edge.

Native American people traded obsidian throughout North America. Each volcano and in some cases each volcanic eruption produces a distinguishable type of obsidian. So archaeologists can trace the origins of a particular artifact. Similar tracing techniques have allowed obsidian to be identified in Greece also as coming from different islands in the Aegean Sea. Obsidian cores (unworked lumps) and blades were traded great distances inland from the coast. 

Modern archaeologists have developed a dating system to calculate the age of obsidian artifacts depending from the content of water in the object.

Obsidian can be found in locations which have experienced rhyolitic (high silicate) eruptions. Obsidan flows which you can hike on are found within the calderas of Newberry Volcano and Medicine Lake Volcano in the Cascade Range of western North America, and at Inyo Craters east of the Sierra Nevada in California. Yellowstone National Park has a mountainside containing obsidian between Mammoth Hot Springs and the Norris Geyser Basin, and deposits can be found in many other western US states including Arizona, Colorado, Texas, Utah, Oregon and Idaho. Obsidian can also be found in Armenia, Turkey, Italy, Mexico, Iceland, Greece and Scotland.

Obsidian is used in heart surgery, as well-crafted obsidian blades have a cutting edge many times sharper than high-quality steel surgical scalpels, with the edge of the blade being only about 3 nm wide. Even the sharpest metal knife has a jagged, irregular blade when viewed under a strong enough microscope. When examined under an electron microscope an obsidian blade is still smooth and even. One study found that obsidian produced narrower scars, fewer inflammatory cells, and less granulation tissue in a group of rats.

Obsidian is also used for ornamental purposes and as a gemstone. It possesses the property of presenting a different appearance according to the manner in which it is cut. When cut in one direction it is a beautiful jet black; when cut across another direction it is glistening gray.



</doc>
<doc id="103983" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103983" title="Obsidian (disambiguation)">
Obsidian (disambiguation)

Obsidian can refer to:


</doc>
<doc id="103986" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103986" title="Category:Polish scientists">
Category:Polish scientists


</doc>
<doc id="103992" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103992" title="Category:User tl-2">
Category:User tl-2


</doc>
<doc id="104000" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104000" title="Isle of Arran">
Isle of Arran

Arran or the Isle of Arran is the largest island in the Firth of Clyde, Scotland.

With an area of it is the seventh largest Scottish island. Just over 5,000 people live there. 

Arran shares with the Hebrides cultural and physical similarities. Arran is mountainous and has been described as a "geologist's paradise".

People have lived there since the early Neolithic period, from which time on there are numerous prehistoric remains. 

From the 6th century on peoples from Ireland colonised the island and it became a centre of religious activity. During the troubled Viking Age Arran became the property of the Norwegian crown before becoming formally absorbed by the kingdom of Scotland in the thirteenth century. 

The 19th century "clearances" led to significant reductions in population and the end of the Gaelic language and way of life.

The economy and population have recovered in recent years, the main industry being tourism. There is diversity of wildlife, including three species of tree endemic to the area. There are regular field trips in the summer by geology and biology students.

The island is sometimes referred to as "Scotland in miniature", as it is divided into "Highland" and "Lowland" areas by the Highland Boundary Fault which runs northeast to southwest across Scotland. 

The island is a popular destination for geologists, who come to see intrusive igneous landforms such as sills and dykes as well as sedimentary and metasedimentary rocks ranging in age from Precambrian to Mesozoic.
Most of the interior of the northern half of the island is taken up by a large granite batholith that was created by substantial volcanic activity around 60 million years ago in the Tertiary period. There is an older outer ring of coarse granites and an inner core of finer grained material. 

Sedimentary rocks dominate the southern half of the island, especially Old and New Red Sandstone. Sand dunes are preserved in Permian sandstones near Brodick, there are localised outcrops of Triassic rocks, and even some Cretaceous chalk. 

Visiting in 1787, the geologist James Hutton found his first example of an unconformity to the north of Newton Point near Lochranza, which provided evidence for his Plutonist theories of uniformitarianism, and about the age of the Earth. This spot is one of the most famous places in the study of geology.

The Pleistocene glaciations almost entirely covered Scotland in ice. After the last retreat of the ice at the close of the Pleistocene epoch sea levels were up to lower than at present and it is likely that circa 14,000 years ago the island was connected to mainland Scotland. 

Sea level changes and the isostatic rise of land makes charting coastlines a complex task, but the island is clearly ringed by post glacial raised beaches. 

What this means is that the huge weight of ice pressed down the Earth's crust here, and so the beaches were much higher up than now. Gradually, long after the ice melted, the island came back up.

King's Cave on the south west coast is an example of such a raised beach. This cave, which is over long and up to high, lies well above the present day sea level. 

There are tall sea cliffs to the north east including large rock slides under the heights of Torr Reamhar and at Scriden ("An Scriodan") at the far north end of the island. The Scriden rocks fell "some two hundred years ago, with a concussion that shook the earth and was heard in Bute and Argyllshire".


</doc>
<doc id="104002" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104002" title="Kurud">
Kurud

Kurud is a town found in the center of the state of Chhattisgarh in India.


</doc>
<doc id="104006" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104006" title="Germanic paganism">
Germanic paganism

Germanic paganism was a religion. It was a form of paganism. It was practiced in Central an Northern Europe before Christianity came there. The best documented form is called Norse paganism today. The religion was polytheistic, there were many gods. The main ones seem to have been Odin and Thor. Beforehand, the most important one may have been Tyr.

The Germanic gods have affected elements of every day western life in most countries that speak Germanic languages. An example is some of the names of the days of the week. The days were named after Roman gods in Latin (named after "Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn"). The names for Tuesday through Friday were replaced with Germanic versions of the Roman gods. In English and Dutch, Saturn was not replaced. Saturday is named after the Sabbath in German, and is called "washing day" in Scandinavia.

Also, many place names such as Woodway House, Wansdyke, Thundersley and Frigedene are named after the old deities of the English people.


</doc>
<doc id="104030" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104030" title="Miguel Ángel Asturias">
Miguel Ángel Asturias

Miguel Ángel Asturias Rosales (October 19, 1899 - June 9, 1974) was a writer and diplomat from Guatemala. He was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1967 for his "Banana Trilogy". He also wrote "El Hombre que lo tenía todo todo todo".

He was very important for literature in his country. 

prizes/literature/laureates/1967/asturias-bio.html Nobel org


</doc>
<doc id="104040" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104040" title="Category:Guatemala">
Category:Guatemala


</doc>
<doc id="104041" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104041" title="Hindustan">
Hindustan

The term Hindustan (Hindi: हिन्दुस्तान ["Hindustān"], ["Hindustān"], ) comes from the (Persian) word "Hindu" (which is itself derived from Sindhu, Sanskrit for the Indus River) + "-stān", often formerly written Hindoostan and the adjective Hindustani may relate to various aspects of three geographical areas:

Hindustan can also refer to the following:

For a list of Indian companies starting with Hindustan, see List of Indian companies.



</doc>
<doc id="104045" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104045" title="Plymouth Colony">
Plymouth Colony

Plymouth Colony (sometimes New Plymouth or The Old Colony) was an English colonial venture in North America from 1620 until 1691. The first settlement was at New Plymouth. The settlement, which served as the capital of the colony, is today the modern town of Plymouth, Massachusetts. At its height, Plymouth Colony occupied most of the southeastern portion of the modern state of Massachusetts.




</doc>
<doc id="104062" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104062" title="Open proxy">
Open proxy

An open proxy is a proxy server which any Internet user can use. Generally, a proxy server allows users within a network group to store and forward Internet services such as DNS or web pages, so that not as much bandwidth is used and it is more controlled. With an "open" proxy, however, any user on the Internet is able to use this forwarding service.

By using some open proxies ("anonymous" open proxies), users can hide their true IP address. Sometimes people will abuse open proxies, and so they are often seen as a problem. Anonymous open proxies will also make the user more anonymous and secure when browsing the web or using other internet services: a user's true IP address can be used by a hacker to get information from the user's computer.



</doc>
<doc id="104073" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104073" title="Zombie computer">
Zombie computer

A zombie computer (often shortened as zombie) is a computer attached to the Internet that has been compromised by a hacker, a computer virus, or a trojan horse. Generally, a compromised machine is only one of many in a botnet, and the hacker will make the computer do bad things from far away. Most owners of zombie computers do not know that their system is being used in this way. Because the owner tends to not know, these computers are compared to zombies.


</doc>
<doc id="104078" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104078" title="Template:ProvincesOfTheNetherlands">
Template:ProvincesOfTheNetherlands


</doc>
<doc id="104084" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104084" title="Rapture">
Rapture

The Rapture (meaning "to carry to another place") is a future event in Christian theology where Jesus Christ will return to Earth to bring his followers to Heaven. In Christianity it is believed that following this amazing event, the world will go through what is called "the tribulation". Then later following, will come the "millennium" (a thousand years).

The "tribulation" (or the "great tribulation") is supposed theory of life after the "rapture". Most Christians agree that the period lasts around seven years. During these years, it is believed that the Antichrist will come to power and control the world.

The "Millennium" is the period following the "rapture", and the "tribulation", that Christians believe they will live in glory on the Earth. They also believe that Jesus Christ will be in total control over earth for "1,000" years (a millennium). 

In 1950, the novel "Raptured" by "Ernest Angley" was published, and in 1995, the first of the Left Behind series was published. These and other books have made the story of the "rapture" and the "tribulation" popular.

The "Rapture" story has been retold in many movies. The most well-known production company is Cloud Ten Pictures. Which have created the "Left Behind film series" (, , and ), as well as several other movies. Some other notable end times movies are A Thief in the Night and The Omega Code.



</doc>
<doc id="104088" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104088" title="Zeeland (province)">
Zeeland (province)

Zeeland (also called Zealand) is a province in Netherlands. It is on the south-west of the country. About 380,000 people live in this province.


</doc>
<doc id="104091" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104091" title="Edo period">
Edo period

The , also called the Tokugawa period (徳川時代 "Tokugawa-jidai"), is the time from roughly 1600 through 1868 in history of Japan. These years come after the Muromachi period and before the Meiji restoration and the development of modern Japan. 

The period is marked the governance of the Tokugawa shogunate, which was functionally established at Edo in 1603 by the Tokugawa Ieyasu. 

The 15th and last shogun was Tokugawa Yoshinobu. 

The period ended with the Meiji Restoration, which was the restoration of imperial rule. The Edo period is also known as the beginning of the early modern period of Japan. 

The period was marked by the influence of neo-Confucianism. 

In this time Shinto developed as well.

In 1600, the Battle of Sekigahara establishes a context for the next two centuries. Tokugawa Ieyasu defeats a coalition of daimyo and establishes hegemony over most of Japan.

In 1868, Tokugawa Yoshinobu resigns, the Tokugawa shogunate ends. This marks the end of the Edo period. Emperor Meiji establishes his Imperial capital in Edo, which is renamed Tokyo ("eastern capital").




</doc>
<doc id="104115" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104115" title="Graduation (Kanye West album)">
Graduation (Kanye West album)

Graduation is a hip-hop album by Kanye West. It was released in September 2007.


</doc>
<doc id="104116" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104116" title="Savior">
Savior

Savior (or Saviour) refers to a someone who has saved another from danger. It can also refer to someone who has helped people achieve Salvation. Most Religions have a Savior. Christianity's savior is Jesus, the Christ. In Judaism, Jesus is not considered a savior. They believe that the Messiah, their own concept of a savior, has not yet come. In Islam, their savior is Mahdi. In Hinduism, Shiva, Vishnu, and Devi are often referred to as saviors.


</doc>
<doc id="104118" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104118" title="Pebibyte">
Pebibyte

A pebibyte (Peta Binary Byte, abbreviated PiB) is a large unit of measurement of bytes (computer memory). 
1 pebibyte = 2 bytes = 1,125,899,906,842,624 bytes = 1,024 tebibytes.
It is related to the petabyte which is 10 bytes.


</doc>
<doc id="104119" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104119" title="Exbibyte">
Exbibyte

An exbibyte (EiB) is a large unit of measurement for computers of the future. Exbibytes hold 1024 pebibytes (PiB) or 1,152,921,504,606,846,976 bytes. Some people call this number of bytes an exabyte.

1024 exbibytes make 1 zebibyte.


</doc>
<doc id="104121" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104121" title="Template:Sports">
Template:Sports


</doc>
<doc id="104122" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104122" title="Okrouhlička">
Okrouhlička

Okrouhlička is a small village in the Havlíčkův Brod District, Vysočina Region of the Czech Republic. About 199 people live there and it has 6,84 km². Okrouhlička was first documented in 1307.


</doc>
<doc id="104126" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104126" title="Water buffalo">
Water buffalo

Water buffalos are a kind of bovine. There are Wild Asian Water Buffalos and domestic buffalos or domestic Asian water buffalo. They occur (or rather, are bred) in Asia, South America and Southern Europe. They were bred from the Wild Asian Water Buffalo, which is now an endangered species. 

Today, these buffalos are used for their milk, which has more fat than that of cows. The milk is processed to make Mozzarella, and curd. Feral populations are sometimes used to manage uncontrolled growth of vegetation around wetlands, they will simply graze it off. This keeps such bodies of water usable by birds and other wildlife.

Females normally give birth calves every other year. Young bulls usually stay with herds of mothers, which have about 30 buffalo, for three years after birth. They then go on to form small all-male herds.

Water buffalo have been kept by humans for more than 5,000 years. They have helped humans with their meat, horns, hides, milk, butterfat, and power, plowing and transporting people and crops.

Wild water buffalo are endangered. They live only in a small number of protected areas stretching like India, Nepal, and Bhutan, and in Thailand.


</doc>
<doc id="104128" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104128" title="Lípa (Havlíčkův Brod District)">
Lípa (Havlíčkův Brod District)

Lípa is a village in the Havlíčkův Brod District, Vysočina Region of the Czech Republic. About 1024 people live there and it has 14,7 km². Lípa was first documented in 1351.


</doc>
<doc id="104129" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104129" title="Věžnička">
Věžnička

Věžnička is a village in the Jihlava District, Vysočina Region of the Czech Republic. About 116 people live there and it has 4.51 km². Věžnička was first documented in 1502.


</doc>
<doc id="104134" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104134" title="Kamenná (Jihlava District)">
Kamenná (Jihlava District)

Kamenná is a village in the Jihlava District, Vysočina Region of the Czech Republic. About 171 people live there and it has 6,33 km². Kamenná was first documented in 1308.


</doc>
<doc id="104137" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104137" title="Větrný Jeníkov">
Větrný Jeníkov

Větrný Jeníkov is a village in the Jihlava District, Vysočina Region of the Czech Republic. About 582 people live there and it has 12,22 km². Větrný Jeníkov was first documented in 1226.


</doc>
<doc id="104155" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104155" title="Florida State University">
Florida State University

Florida State University is a large school in Tallahassee, in the north part of Florida, U.S.A. It is one of the two most important public universities in Florida, together with the University of Florida. More than 40,000 students go to school there, usually starting after high school (secondary school) at an age of about 18 years. About 9,000 of the students already have a degree (diploma) from college, and are learning even more, to earn an advanced degree.

The University is made up of 16 colleges: Arts and Sciences; Business; Communication; Criminology and Criminal Justice; Education; Engineering; Human Sciences; Information; Law; Medicine; Motion Picture, Television and Recording Arts; Music; Nursing; Social Sciences; Social Work; and Visual Arts, Theatre and Dance.

Florida State University is more than 150 years old. The fees to attend the school (tuition) in 2006 were $3,175 for people from Florida and $16,306 for people from other places, for each term (about 4 months).

Their athletics team, the Seminoles have 17 varsity teams and have claimed 2 national championships (1993, 1999) in football. 



</doc>
<doc id="104165" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104165" title="Tiananmen Square protests of 1989">
Tiananmen Square protests of 1989

The Tiananmen Square protests of 1989 is the name for a series of protests that occurred in April and June of that year. China refers to them as the June Fourth Incident, most of the world calls it the Tiananmen Square massacre. There were other protests on Tiananmen square in 1919 and 1976. The protests of 1989 were organised by different groups of students, intellectuals and labour activists. There was no common cause or leadership in the protests; most protesters did not like the way the Communist party of China ran the economy, though. Some people also wanted a change towards more democracy. Most people protested on Tianmen Square in Beijing, but some also did in other cities, like Shanghai. The protests in cities other than Beijing stayed peaceful.

On June 4, the government forcefully dissolved the protests. This left many people injured or dead. The exact number is not known today, different people have different numbers. The Chinese government speaks about 200-300 victims, the "New York Times" says there were between 300 and 800 and the Chinese Red Cross talks about 2,000 - 3,000. 

The official Chinese position on the events was that the protests needed to be dispersed in order not to harm the stability of the country. 

Many of the scenes were shown around the world over western media (the most famous image is that showing a man standing in front of a file of tanks in the middle of the square).
As said before, the cause of the protests was the corruption of the Communist Party then and, over all, the economic politics that the Government were taking during the previous ten years, which, although helped in some way the level of life for farmers and people who lived in the countryside, was awful for intellectuals, students, and industrial workers, who feared the unemployment rising and social problems. 

It is said this was one of the largest pacific-purposed, overcrowded demonstrations that have been in all modern history.


</doc>
<doc id="104169" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104169" title="Evangelism">
Evangelism

Evangelism is the Christian practice of preaching about Jesus Christ to both Christians and non-Christians. The purpose of most "evangelism" is to help others receive eternal (forever) Salvation to people who have not heard of, or have denied God. "Evangelism" is done in obedience to the Great Commission, a command from Jesus to his disciples to convert others, as recorded in the New Testament. Christians who are good at "evangelism" are known as evangelists, whether in their areas or to far away places. Some Christian traditions consider "evangelists" to be in a leadership position, and they may be found preaching to large meetings.



</doc>
<doc id="104173" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104173" title="Southern Baptist Convention">
Southern Baptist Convention

The Southern Baptist Convention (SBC) is a United States-based Christian denomination. The name "Southern Baptist Convention" refers both to the denomination and to its annual meeting of members. 



</doc>
<doc id="104175" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104175" title="Times Square">
Times Square

Times Square is a major area in Manhattan, New York City, at the meeting point of Broadway and Seventh Avenue. The well-known city street area is probably most famous for its annual (every year) New Year's Eve ball drop.
It is one of the famous sights of New York. You can look at it on Broadway and 41st Street.



</doc>
<doc id="104176" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104176" title="FutureSex/LoveSounds">
FutureSex/LoveSounds

FutureSex/LoveSounds is the second solo studio album by American rhythm and blues singer Justin Timberlake. It was released on September 12, 2006 through Jive Records and Zomba Records. Timberlake started the FutureSex/LoveShow tour in support of the album in January 2007. He worked with several notable producers including: Danja, Rick Rubin, Timbaland and will.i.am. The album sold slightly more than his first solo album, "Justified", with worldwide sales in excess of 9 million, 4 million of which have been sold in the United States alone.


Disc 1

Disc 2<br>
DVD<br>


</doc>
<doc id="104178" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104178" title="Dilemma (song)">
Dilemma (song)

"Dilemma" is the 2002 hit single by the rapper Nelly. The song featured Kelly Rowland from Destiny's Child. It was released from the 2002 album "Nellyville". "Dilemma" was Kelly Rowland's first international solo song away from Destiny's Child. She had previously appeared on Avant's "Separated", which was released in the United States only. It was also the first single from her debut album "Simply Deep". It is based melodically on and uses lyrical elements of Patti LaBelle's "Love, Need and Want You" from her 1983 album "I'm In Love Again". LaBelle also plays a part in the music video, as Kelly Rowland's mother. Kelly Rowland's part in "Dilemma" was originally offered to Christina Aguilera, but Aguilera declined the offer. Two years later, Nelly approached Aguilera once again for the recording of "Tilt Ya Head Back", a critically-acclaimed but less successful track (in terms of the Billboard Hot 100 chart) on Nelly's later album "Sweat".


"Side A"

"Side B"




</doc>
<doc id="104180" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104180" title="Bring Me To Life">
Bring Me To Life

"Bring me to life", also known as "Wake me up inside", or "Save me", is the first single from Evanescence's multi-platinum first album "Fallen". At the 2004 Grammy Awards the song won the award for Best Hard Rock Performance.

The single for "Bring me to life" was released shortly before Evanescence's debut album "Fallen". These are two of the most widely available versions of the single; other, mainly localized, versions have also been released worldwide.




</doc>
<doc id="104184" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104184" title="Charybdis">
Charybdis

Charybdis is a sea monster in Ancient Greek mythology. It was said that she was a daughter of Posiedon and that when she breathed in and out the sea would rise and fall. She was also the sister of Scylla.


</doc>
<doc id="104187" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104187" title="Scylla">
Scylla

Scylla was a sea monster in Greek mythology. She was said to be the daughter of Poseidon. Scylla was a water dwelling version of the hydra and the sister of Charybdis.


</doc>
<doc id="104190" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104190" title="Étude Op. 10, No. 12 (Chopin)">
Étude Op. 10, No. 12 (Chopin)

The Étude Op. 10, No. 12 in C minor, also known as The Revolutionary Étude, is a piano solo etude composed by Frederic Chopin in the early 1830s. Probably one of Chopin's most well known pieces, this etude emphasizes the left-hand work that plays fast uninterrupted arpeggios of semi-quavers (about 1300 notes played by the left hand during the whole piece). The right hand, technically less difficult, plays the main theme which consists in a series of complex chords.


</doc>
<doc id="104198" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104198" title="Going commando">
Going commando

Going commando means 'not to wear underwear'. 

Going commando (or "to go commando" or "free balling") is the practice of not wearing underwear under one's outer clothing. The phrase and phenomenon is often used in a declaratory way ("I'm goin' commando!"), particularly by women to covertly create a frisson of sexual excitement or amusement amongst friends, sexual partners, future sexual partners, etc. Modern Western social mores generally recognise "going commando" as a "playful" behavior (akin to a mild form of exhibitionism).


</doc>
<doc id="104200" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104200" title="Template:Helpme">
Template:Helpme

<includeonly></includeonly>


</doc>
<doc id="104215" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104215" title="Template:User cs">
Template:User cs

<onlyinclude>

</onlyinclude>


</doc>
<doc id="104216" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104216" title="Category:User cs-N">
Category:User cs-N


</doc>
<doc id="104217" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104217" title="Category:User ja-0">
Category:User ja-0


</doc>
<doc id="104221" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104221" title="Category:User tl-0">
Category:User tl-0


</doc>
<doc id="104222" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104222" title="Category:User tl-1">
Category:User tl-1


</doc>
<doc id="104223" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104223" title="Papa Smurf">
Papa Smurf

Papa Smurf is the patriarch of Smurfland. He is the leader of all the other Smurfs. He often comes up with a way to stop Gargamel. Some people think he is the father of the other Smurfs, because in English he's called "Papa Smurf". He is very wise and corrects the other Smurfs in their errors. 

He looks older than all the other Smurfs. Papa Smurf wears a red hat. 


</doc>
<doc id="104224" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104224" title="Smurfette">
Smurfette

Smurfette is the only female smurf in Smurfland. Most of the other smurfs like her because of her beauty. She is not the smartest smurf. Often she gets caught in traps while looking at herself in the mirror. She does not seem to have an attraction for many of the other smurfs.

Later other female smurfs appeared, although it is unclear how they came into being.


</doc>
<doc id="104229" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104229" title="Smuggler's Run">
Smuggler's Run

Smuggler's Run is an early videogame for the Playstation 2 console. In the game you drive multiple vehicles including; trophy trucks, SUVs, and cars. The game is rated T for teen and you can hit cops and animals but they will not die.

In the game you are a drug and weapons smuggler battling against rival factions. You must completed objectives such as drop offs, races, and smash-up derbies. This game is been questioned because it is very repetitive.


</doc>
<doc id="104230" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104230" title="My Gym Partner's A Monkey">
My Gym Partner's A Monkey

My Gym Partner's a Monkey is a show on Cartoon Network. It is about a human boy named Adam Lyon who used to go to a normal human school but the principal says he is an animal because he spelled "Lyon" with an "i". He then goes to Charles Darwin Middle School (named after the scientist Charles Darwin) and he makes friends with the animals at the school.



</doc>
<doc id="104231" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104231" title="Template:User cs-4">
Template:User cs-4


</doc>
<doc id="104232" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104232" title="Category:User cs-4">
Category:User cs-4


</doc>
<doc id="104233" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104233" title="Template:User cs-3">
Template:User cs-3

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="104235" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104235" title="MediaWiki:Sp-contributions-search">
MediaWiki:Sp-contributions-search

Find changes

</doc>
<doc id="104236" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104236" title="MediaWiki:Sp-contributions-submit">
MediaWiki:Sp-contributions-submit

Find

</doc>
<doc id="104237" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104237" title="MediaWiki:Sp-contributions-newbies">
MediaWiki:Sp-contributions-newbies

Show changes of new accounts only

</doc>
<doc id="104238" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104238" title="MediaWiki:Sp-contributions-username">
MediaWiki:Sp-contributions-username

IP address or username:

</doc>
<doc id="104243" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104243" title="Category:Systems theory">
Category:Systems theory

Systems theory is the interdisciplinary study of systems in science and society. It offers frameworks to describe and analyze groups of objects, that work together to produce result. 


</doc>
<doc id="104244" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104244" title="Category:Systems scientists">
Category:Systems scientists

This Category Systems scientists gives an overview of scientists in the different fields op systems science: Such as Chaos theory, Complex systems theory, Control theory, Cybernetics, Dynamical Systems, Operations research, Systems biology, Systems ecology, Systems engineers, and Systems theory.


</doc>
<doc id="104246" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104246" title="Systems science">
Systems science

Systems science is the interdisciplinary field of science, that studies the principles of systems in nature, in society and in science itself. 

Types of systems science are systems theory, cybernetics and chaos theory, and all kinds of similar sciences. 

The aim of systems science is to develop interdisciplinary foundations for all science. This foundation is used in a variety of areas, such as engineering, biology, medicine and social sciences.



</doc>
<doc id="104247" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104247" title="Systems theory">
Systems theory

Systems theory is an interdisciplinary field of science and the study of the nature of systems in nature, society, and science. More specificially Systems theory is a framework to analyze or describe any group of objects that work in concert to produce some result. This can be a single organism, any organization or society, or any electronic, mechanical or informational artifact. 

Systems theory as a technical and general academic area of study. It is founded by Ludwig von Bertalanffy and others in the 1950s. 



</doc>
<doc id="104250" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104250" title="Category:Organ systems">
Category:Organ systems


</doc>
<doc id="104251" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104251" title="Emotion (Destiny's Child song)">
Emotion (Destiny's Child song)

"Emotion" was remade by R&B group Destiny's Child in 2001, it was produced and arranged by Mark J. Feist. The song is a remake of Emotions by the Bee Gees and Samantha Sang.


</doc>
<doc id="104256" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104256" title="Category:Nervous system">
Category:Nervous system


</doc>
<doc id="104258" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104258" title="McDonaldland">
McDonaldland

McDonaldland was a "fake" cartoon land made by the fast food restaurant, McDonald's. McDonaldland was used in commercials, which are short clips on TV to sell things. McDonaldland was used to sell McDonald's Happy Meals (the kid's meal). The McDonaldland people were Big Mac, Birdie, Captain Crook, CosMc, Fry kids, Grimace, Hamburglar, Iam Hungry, and some others. The main person is Ronald McDonald. McDonald's got sued (a case for money) by a company that said everything in McDonaldland was a ripoff (copy with little difference) of their TV show. McDonald's gave them one million dollars and lost many of the people who were in the commercials. 4 were left and they were in the real world instead of a cartoon land. Now in later years, Ronald has been in the commercials by himself without any of the McDonaldland people.


</doc>
<doc id="104260" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104260" title="Club Atlético de Madrid">
Club Atlético de Madrid

Club Atlético de Madrid, are a football team from Madrid, the capital city of Spain. They are managed by Abel Resino and they play their home games at the Vicente Calderón Stadium. Their most famous players at the moment are David De Gea, Jose Antonio Reyes and Sergio Kún Agüero, who is the captain of the team. 




</doc>
<doc id="104269" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104269" title="Buttocks">
Buttocks

Buttocks is a synonym for the rear end of humans, commonly called a bottom. A buttock is one cheek of a bottom.

Buttocks can also be called a "butt". Another word for buttocks that some consider to be offensive is "ass". 


</doc>
<doc id="104276" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104276" title="Toyota Camry">
Toyota Camry

The Toyota Camry is a medium-sized car made by Toyota since 1980. The name "Camry" comes from the Japanese word "kanmuri" (冠, かんむり), which means "crown".

The Camry is Toyota's best-selling car in the United States.


</doc>
<doc id="104284" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104284" title="Kush">
Kush

Kush civilization had its center in the region of Nubia. This was in northern Sudan of today. We know about it through the Egyptians who moved south around 2500 BC. When the Middle Kingdom of Egypt ended an independent kingdom of Kush developed. About 1500 BC Egyptians moved southwards again, but this time met organized resistance. Historians are not sure whether this resistance came from many city states or a single unified empire. The Egyptians won, and the region became a colony of Egypt under the control of Thutmose I. The region supplied Egypt with resources.

In the eleventh century BC internal disputes in Egypt caused colonial rule to collapse and an independent kingdom based at Napata in Nubia. This kingdom was ruled by locals who overthrew the colonial regime. But Kush had many beliefs and gods in common with Egypt.

The name given this civilization comes from the Old Testament where Cush (Hebrew: כוש) was one of the sons of Ham (Son of Noah) who settled in Northeast Africa. The Bible refers to Cush on a number of occasions. Moses wife, Tzipporah, is described as a Kushite in the book of Numbers.





</doc>
<doc id="104287" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104287" title="Cybernetics">
Cybernetics

Cybernetics is the study of control and communication in the animal and the machine. Norbert Wiener added: "Information is information, not matter or energy".

Ross Ashby defined it as: "the art of steermanship... co-ordination, regulation and control will be its
themes, for these are of the greatest biological and practical interest... it treats, not things but ways of
behaving. It does not ask “what is this thing?” but “what does it
do?” Ashby continued: 

Louis Couffignal said cybernetics was "the art of ensuring the efficacy of action". 

Cybernetics was from the first an inter-disciplinary field of study. It included people from at least a dozen academic disciplines. There were two events which sparked it off after World War II. The first was that scientists from different backgrounds had, during the war, worked together on various military projects. They learned a good deal about how to cooperate with their various partners. The second event was the invention of computers during the war. 

The countries which started cybernetics were Britain and America, but the idea spread quickly to France, Russia and other countries. Another, more famous, example of 'interdisciplinary studies' was molecular and cell biology.

Imagine a simple system such as a central heating system.

A goal-directed or control system has these four parts: 

Cybernetics started rapidly, and some of the greatest thinkers of the post-war era were interested in it. When this generation died, and some of the hopes for artificial intelligence and robotics were slow to produce results, cybernetics fell somewhat out of favour. 


</doc>
<doc id="104288" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104288" title="Complexity">
Complexity

Complexity is a property of something with many parts and a complicated arrangement. It is also the state of being complex. In science complexity is also the name for systems science: All sciences related to the study of systems.


</doc>
<doc id="104289" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104289" title="Complex systems">
Complex systems

Complex systems is a field of a science, which studies the common properties of systems considered complex in nature, society and science. It is also called "complex systems theory", "complexity science", "study of complex systems" and/or "sciences of complexity".

A complex system is one where smaller elements make complex things happen. These smaller elements can be simple elements or they can be complex systems within themselves. Any such complex elements can be interrelated in simple or complex ways and may be hard to identify as distinct.

The key problems of such systems are difficulties with their formal modeling and simulation. From such perspective, in different research contexts complex systems are defined on the base of their different attributes.


</doc>
<doc id="104290" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104290" title="Control theory">
Control theory

Control theory is an interdisciplinary branch of engineering and mathematics. It deals with the behavior of dynamical systems. The desired output of a system is called the "reference". 

In a control system a controller manipulates the inputs to a system. In the control systems one or more output variables of a system need to follow a certain reference over time. By manipulating the input, the controller wants to obtain the desired effect on the output of the system.


</doc>
<doc id="104296" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104296" title="Acura">
Acura

Acura is the luxury brand of the car company Honda. It has been used in the United States, Canada and Hong Kong since March 1986. The brand has been used to market Honda's luxury cars and high performance models. Before Acura, most Japanese cars were economical in design.


</doc>
<doc id="104297" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104297" title="Nissan">
Nissan

Nissan (In Japanese: 日産自動車株式会社; Nissan Jidōsha Kabushikigaisha) is a car company from Japan. It was previously called Datsun.


</doc>
<doc id="104308" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104308" title="Template:User ms">
Template:User ms

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="104318" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104318" title="Category:Grammy Award winning songs">
Category:Grammy Award winning songs

This category is for songs which have won Grammy Awards. 


</doc>
<doc id="104336" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104336" title="Cabal Online">
Cabal Online

Cabal Online is a free Massive Multiplayer Online Role-Playing Game (MMORPG) created by ESTsoft Corporation.

There are six characters players can choose from in Cabal Online. They are: Warrior, Blader, Magician, Force Archer, Force Blader and Force Shielder.


</doc>
<doc id="104341" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104341" title="Blackletter">
Blackletter

Blackletter or Gothic script is an old way to write text. Everybody in Western Europe used to write in Blackletter between the 12th and 16th century. In art history this period of the Middle Ages is called gothic.

Some people call Blackletter Old English. This is not right, because Old English is many centuries older. Also "Gothic" script has nothing to do with the Goths. They lived in central Europe from the 3rd to 6th century and wrote in Runes.

Carolingian minuscule was the direct and linear ancestor of blackletter. Blackletter came from Carolingian when Europe in the twelfth century needed new books in many different subjects when more and more people learned to read. New universities were founded, each writing books for business, law, grammar, history, and other topics, not only religious books, where earlier scripts were used. 

These books needed to be produced quickly to keep up with demand. Carolingian, though legible, was time-consuming and labour-intensive to produce. It was large and wide and took up a lot of space on a manuscript in a time when writing materials were very costly. As early as the eleventh century, different forms of Carolingian were already being used, and by the mid-twelfth century, a clearly distinguishable form, able to be written more quickly to meet the demand for new books, was being used in north-eastern France and the Low Countries.

The term "Gothic" was first used to describe this script in fifteenth century Italy, in the midst of the Renaissance, because Renaissance Humanists believed it was a barbaric script. "Gothic" was a synonym for "barbaric". Flavio Biondo, in "Italia Illustrata" (1531) thought it was invented by the Lombards after their invasion of Italy in the sixth century. 

Not only were blackletter forms called "Gothic script", but any other seemingly barbarian script, such as Visigothic, Beneventan, and Merovingian, were also labeled "Gothic", in contrast to Carolingian minuscule, a highly legible script which the Humanists called "littera antiqua", "the ancient letter", wrongly believing that it was the script used by the Romans. It was invented in the reign of Charlemagne, although only used significantly after that era.

The blackletter must not be confused either with the ancient alphabet of the Gothic language or with the sans-serif typefaces that are also sometimes called "Gothic".

"Textualis", also known as "textura" or "Gothic bookhand", was the most calligraphic form of blackletter, and today is the form most associated with "Gothic". Johannes Gutenberg carved a textualis typeface – including a large number of ligatures and common abbreviations – when he printed his 42-line Bible. However, the textualis was rarely used for typefaces afterwards.

According to Dutch scholar Gerard Lieftinck, the pinnacle of use for blackletter was the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries. For Lieftinck, the highest form of "textualis" was "littera textualis formata", used for "de luxe" manuscripts. The usual form, simply "littera textualis", was used for literary works and university texts. Lieftinck's third form, "littera textualis currens", was the cursive form of blackletter, extremely difficult to read and used for textual glosses, and less important books. 

"Textualis" was most widely used in France, the Low Countries, England, and Germany. Some characteristics of the script are:


The Schwabacher was a blackletter form that was much used in early German print typefaces. It continued to be used occasionally until the 20th century. Characteristics of the Schwabacher are:


The Fraktur is a form of blackletter that became the most common German blackletter typeface by the mid 16th century. Its use was so common that often any blackletter form is called "Fraktur" in Germany. Characteristics of the Fraktur are:


"Cursiva" refers to a very large variety of forms of blackletter; as with modern cursive writing, there is no real standard form. It developed in the fourteenth century as a simplified form of "textualis", with influence from the form of "textualis" as used for writing charters. "Cursiva" developed partly because of the introduction of paper, which was smoother than parchment. It was therefore, easier to write quickly on paper in a cursive script. 

In "cursiva", descenders are more frequent, especially in the letters f and s, and ascenders are curved and looped rather than vertical (seen especially in the letter d). The letters a, g, and s (at the end of a word) are very similar to their Carolingian forms. However, not all of these features are found in every example of "cursiva", which makes it difficult to determine whether or not a script may be called "cursiva" at all. 

Lieftinck also divided "cursiva" into three styles: "littera cursiva formata" was the most legible and calligraphic style. "Littera cursiva textualis" (or "libraria") was the usual form, used for writing standard books, and it generally was written with a larger pen, leading to larger letters. "Littera cursiva currens" was used for textbooks and other unimportant books and it had very little standardization in forms.

"Hybrida" is also called "bastarda" (especially in France), and as its name suggests, refers to a hybrid form of the script. It is a mixture of "textualis" and "cursiva", developed in the early fifteenth century. From "textualis", it borrowed vertical ascenders, while from "cursiva", it borrowed long f and ſ, single-looped a, and g with an open descender (similar to Carolingian forms).



</doc>
<doc id="104350" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104350" title="Super Smash Bros.">
Super Smash Bros.

In the game, people players can play as and against characters from Nintendo's ideo game series like characters from the "Mario" games, characters from the "Pokémon" games, characters from "The Legend of Zelda" games and many others. The Super Smash Bros. games are very different compared to other fighting games.


Super Smash Bros. has 12 characters. 8 starters and 4 unlockables. Pit, King Dedede, Mewtwo, Meowth, Bowser and Princess Peach were about to be in Super Smash Bros, but were removed. They all made it in either "Super Smash Bros. Melee" or "Super Smash Bros. Brawl". Meowth does appear in Super Smash Bros. and Super Smash Bros. Brawl but only as a Pokéball Pokémon. Master Hand is a character that you will always fight last.

The point of the game is to beat the character(s) that you are fighting. To beat them you must hit them again until they are very hurt. Once they are very hurt, you have to knock them off the stage someway. 

In 1P mode, you have to fight all of the characters in the game (including the one you are using) and Master Hand, and also play some mini-games along the way. In this mode, you can unlock characters and stages by doing certain things. It does not work like that with Master Hand, though. With Master Hand, you have to hit him again and again until he dies. You do not have to knock him off the stage. It's impossible to knock him off the stage, since he's really big.

In multiplayer mode, up to 4 people can play against each other non-stop. You can not unlock anything in this mode. If there are fighters that have died at the same time, they will fight in a sudden death battle. In that battle, they are badly hurt and they have to fight other fighters who made it into the sudden death battle as well.

The two mini-games are "Break The Targets" and "Board The Platforms". In Break The Targets, you have to break 10 targets. It's very hard to get all 10 of the targets. The goes for Board The Platforms except you have to just simply land on all of the platforms. Board The Platforms is a little bit harder than Break The Targets. Characters can be unlocked in these mini-games.

"Super Smash Bros." was made by HAL Laboratory in 1998. It was first called , and it did not have all those characters from different Nintendo games. Later, Sakurai had an idea of having characters from different Nintendo games to make it very fun. Lots of people liked it so he began making the game with some people. At first, it was only sold in Japan. Sakurai saw how many people bought the game and liked it so the game was sold in other countries as well.

"Super Smash Bros." became very popular, and quickly became a Player's Choice game (which means it's very good). In Japan, 1.97 million Super Smash Bros. CDs were sold, and 2.93 million Super Smash Bros. CDs have been sold in the United States.



</doc>
<doc id="104351" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104351" title="Falkland Island Fox">
Falkland Island Fox

The Falkland Island Fox or Warrah used to live on the Falkland Islands. They were blamed for killing sheep, but it is not known if they did or not. The last fox died in 1876.


</doc>
<doc id="104353" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104353" title="SNoW">
SNoW

SNoW (born June 11, 1985 in Tokyo, Japan) is a J-Pop singer. She is now studying at Santa Monica College in California. She was raised in a two language environment. Her favorite artists include Ani DiFranco, Iggy Pop, Talking Heads, and Jack Johnson.

Her first single "Yes" was released under an indie record label in November 2004. In 2005, she changed labels to Sony Music Entertainment Japan. With Sony, she released "Hanabi made Ato Sukoshi" (花火まであとすこし - unofficial translation: "A Little Longer Until the Fireworks") in July. Her third single, "Sakasama no Chō" (逆さまの蝶, "The Inverted Butterfly"), was released on January 25, 2006. "Sakasama no Chō" was the opening theme of the 2005/2006 anime "Jigoku Shoujo" (地獄少女). It will also be used in the movie "Humoresque" to be released in February 2006. The opening theme for "Jigoku Shōjo"'s second season, "NightmaRe", was also performed by SNoW. It was released as a single on December 6, 2006.



</doc>
<doc id="104372" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104372" title="Funnel cloud">
Funnel cloud

A funnel cloud is a funnel-shaped cloud of water droplets. They usually appear with a rotating column of air. These extend from the bottom of a cloud that does not touch the ground or a water surface. A funnel cloud can usually be seen as a cone or needle shaped cloud that extends out from the main cloud base. Funnel clouds, very often, develop when supercell thunderstorms happen.

If a funnel cloud touches the ground, it becomes a tornado. Most tornadoes begin as funnel clouds. Many funnel clouds that appear do not actually touch the ground, and do not become tornadoes. Tornadoes can only be seen when they pick up stuff off the ground (debris), but one can see them from a distance of many miles.

A funnel cloud that makes contact with water is called a waterspout. 
A funnel cloud that touches the ground in front of a snow squall is called a winter waterspout.

Cold-air (or cold-core) funnel clouds are usually short-lived and are usually much weaker in strength than the tornadoes produced by supercells. Cold-air funnel clouds usually do not touch the ground, but here have been reports that it can happen. Then, they become weak tornadoes or waterspouts.
They are a common sight along the Pacific Coast and USA, usually seen in the spring or autumn.




</doc>
<doc id="104378" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104378" title="Winter waterspout">
Winter waterspout

A winter waterspout, also known as a snow devil, an icespout, an ice devil, a snonado, or a snowspout, is a very rare meteorological phenomenon in which a vortex from snow develops that looks like a waterspout. One does not know much about this rare happening and there are only six known pictures of this event so far.

There are three main things that produce a winter waterspout:


</doc>
<doc id="104380" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104380" title="Wallington High School">
Wallington High School

Wallington Jr/Sr High School is a six-year public high school that serves students in seventh through twelfth grade from Wallington, in Bergen County, New Jersey, United States, as part of the Wallington Public Schools.


</doc>
<doc id="104387" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104387" title="Waterspout">
Waterspout

A waterspout is a funnel cloud over water. It is a nonsupercell tornado over water, and brings the water upward. Also, it is weaker than most of its land counterparts.

Waterspouts that are not associated with a rotating updraft of a supercell thunderstorm, are known as "nontornadic" or "fair-weather waterspouts", and are by far the most common type. 

Fair-weather waterspouts occur in coastal waters and are associated with dark, flat-bottomed, developing convective cumulus towers. 


http://aoss-research.engin.umich.edu/PlanetaryEnvironmentResearchLaboratory/


</doc>
<doc id="104390" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104390" title="Bob Jones University">
Bob Jones University

Bob Jones University (BJU) is a private, Protestant Christian, university in Greenville, South Carolina. The university was founded in 1927 by "Bob Jones, Sr." (1883-1968), an evangelist.



</doc>
<doc id="104392" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104392" title="Mordecai Ham">
Mordecai Ham

Mordecai Ham (1877-1961) was an American evangelist. He entered his ministry in 1901, and in 1936 began his Christian radio evangelism career. He continued working as an evangelist until shortly before his death in 1961.


 


</doc>
<doc id="104393" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104393" title="Charles Templeton">
Charles Templeton

Charles Bradley Templeton (October 7 1915 - June 7 2001) was a Canadian cartoonist, evangelist, agnostic, politician, newspaper editor, inventor, broadcaster and author. At the age of 17 during the Great Depression, "Chuck Templeton" (as he was then known) got his first job as a sports cartoonist for "The Globe and Mail". This would be the first of many of his careers. In the late 1990s, he was diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease. He died from problems with the disease in 2001.



</doc>
<doc id="104395" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104395" title="Billy Graham Evangelistic Association">
Billy Graham Evangelistic Association

The Billy Graham Evangelistic Association (BGEA) is an organization founded by Rev. Billy Graham in 1950. The purpose of the "BGEA" is to tell the gospel of Jesus Christ to as many people as they can. They have done this through crusades, evangelism training, youth outreach, television broadcasts, and radio programs, just to name a few.



</doc>
<doc id="104397" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104397" title="Washington National Cathedral">
Washington National Cathedral

The Washington National Cathedral is a cathedral of the Episcopal Church in the United States. It was officially made by Congress the non-denominational National House of Prayer. Located in Washington, D.C., the capital of the United States, it is the sixth largest cathedral in the world and second largest in the United States. It was built between 1907 and 1990.

On Tuesday, August 23, 2011, the central tower on the Cathedral was damaged by an earthquake. A 5.8-magnitude earthquake struck northern Virgina, about from Washington D.C. The earthquake knocked off some of the cross-shaped finial stones. Finials are the decorative top of the pinnacles or towers. One pinnacle is leaning to the side. The inside of the cathedral did not receive any serious damage from the earthquake.

Officials have stated that it will cost millions of dollars to repair the damage. The cost of repairs will not be covered by insurance. There are many cracks in the limestone exterior. There was concern that the landfall of hurricane Irene would cause more damage. The hurricane did not cause any additional damage to the cathedral.


</doc>
<doc id="104398" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104398" title="United States Postal Service">
United States Postal Service

The United States Postal Service (USPS) was founded in 1775 and is located in Washington D.C. In the United States, it is referred to as "the post office", "the postal service", or just "the mail". Its job is to deliver letters, packages, and other items to people.


</doc>
<doc id="104399" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104399" title="Parkinson's disease">
Parkinson's disease

Parkinson's disease (also known as Parkinson disease or just PD) is a slow damaging disease of the central nervous system in which dopamine is lost . It hurts the patient's movement skills and their speech, but the former is much more specific. Sometimes it can also affect their mood, behavior, and thinking. 

Parkinson's Disease can cause the brain to not respond, and paralyze the patient. The disease could give the patient slow reaction time and poor hand to mind coordination.



</doc>
<doc id="104402" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104402" title="Category:Ancient Greek philosophers">
Category:Ancient Greek philosophers


</doc>
<doc id="104404" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104404" title="Samford University">
Samford University

Samford University is a private, Southern Baptist-related university located in Homewood, Alabama, a suburb of Birmingham, Alabama. Samford ranked 118 out of 262 institutions in "U.S. News and World Reports' " college rankings. 
"Samford University" was founded as "Howard College" in 1841 and opened its doors to students on January 3, 1842, in Marion, Alabama. In 1887 the school moved to Birmingham.

Women were first admitted to "Howard College" in 1895. In 1920 the school joined the "Southern Association of Colleges" and in 1927 it added its pharmacy school. In 1965, "Howard" got back its master's degree program. This led to the college's becoming a well-known college by November 9, 1965. The school was renamed in honor of "Frank Park Samford", chairman of the Board of Trustees and most generous personal supporter, because there was already a "Howard University" in Washington, D.C..



</doc>
<doc id="104406" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104406" title="Hainanese chicken rice">
Hainanese chicken rice

Hainanese chicken rice is a dish created by the people of Hainan. Hainan is an island that is to the south of China. It is a plate of chicken served with rice cooked in chicken oil.

Boil a large pot of water. Stuff the body of the chicken with scallion and ginger. Add chicken to boiling water, breast side-down. Lower the heat to a simmer just under boiling point and cook, covered until just cooked through, about 40 minutes. Bathe the chicken in an ice water bath till chicken is cold to create a nice texture. Heat oil in a rice cooker, add garlic, stir fry till fragrant. Add uncooked rice, stir fry for two minutes, add salt and enough chicken soup to cover 1/2 inch above the top of the rice. Boil on high heat, lower heat when steam holes form, cover and steam for 30 minutes till rice is cooked. Chop chicken and serve with steaming hot rice and chili sauce. Dark soya sauce is the ideal accompaniment.




</doc>
<doc id="104413" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104413" title="Vortex (disambiguation)">
Vortex (disambiguation)

A vortex is a dynamic phenomenon of fluids.

Vortex could also mean:

In amusement:

In fiction:

In gaming:

In music:

In science and technology:

In television:

In other fields:


</doc>
<doc id="104414" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104414" title="Vortex">
Vortex

A vortex (pl. "vortices") is a spinning, often turbulent, 
flow of fluid. The motion of the fluid swirling rapidly around a center is called a vortex. The speed and rate of rotation of the fluid are greatest at the center and become smaller with distance from the center.




</doc>
<doc id="104416" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104416" title="Libertia">
Libertia

Libertia is a genus of monocotyledenous plants in the family "Iridaceae". There are 15 species in the genus. The plants can be found growing in the southern hemisphere.




</doc>
<doc id="104422" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104422" title="Category:Tibet">
Category:Tibet


</doc>
<doc id="104424" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104424" title="Category:Tibetan people">
Category:Tibetan people


</doc>
<doc id="104425" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104425" title="Alan Dawazhouma">
Alan Dawazhouma

alan or 阿兰 is a Tibetan-Chinese singer and er hu player from Sichuan province who debuted in 2005 with 声声醉如. As well as Tibetan and Mandarin she speaks some English and Japanese and made her Japanese-language debut in 2007 in Japan with the single, 明日への讃歌.

alan was born on 27 July 1987. Her stage name "alan" is pinyin for 阿兰, which is her surname. In Japan, she is also known as あらん. Her real name is Alan Dawa Dolma (阿兰达瓦卓玛 in Chinese, which is pronounced in pinyin as Alan Dawazhuoma).

alan grew up in the Meiren valley in the Danba County of Garze Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture in China. Her father is a civil servant, while her mother was a former singer. She learned singing from a young age and started to learn how to play the er hu at the age of eight. At nine years old, alan was selected for the leading role in the TV drama Tai Yang Nu Shen and first pursued a career as an actress.

After graduating from her musically oriented high school, she enrolled in a relatively well known music school in China, the China National Chinese Opera and Dance Drama Company (解放軍芸術学院), where two members of 12 Girls Band were also being taught. Later in 2005, alan debuted with a cover album titled Sheng Sheng Zui Ru Lan under a Chinese independent label. Currently, the album has sold over 50,000 copies.

In October 2006 at the Shanghai International Art Festival, alan won second place (tied with Filipino singer Jimmy Layo Marquez) at the 9th Asia New Singer Competition. In July 2007 she graduated the China National Chinese Opera and Dance Drama Company with excellent grades.

alan was discovered when the Japan-based record label Avex Inc. held auditions in Beijing. She went on to debut with a Japanese-language single (music) in November the same year, titled Ashita e no Sanka, which can be translated as "a song for tomorrow." She is currently still studying Japanese and only has a basic grasp of the language.




</doc>
<doc id="104427" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104427" title="Tibetan">
Tibetan

Tibetan can refer to:


</doc>
<doc id="104429" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104429" title="V/Line">
V/Line

V/Line is a regional train operator in Victoria, Australia. They operate all regional trains outside the Connex network, as well as some bus services that take people a long way.


</doc>
<doc id="104435" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104435" title="Carpool">
Carpool

Carpooling is sharing a car with other passengers to help share the cost of the gasoline. It is better than driving many cars at the same time, because less gasoline is used.


</doc>
<doc id="104438" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104438" title="Middleweight">
Middleweight

In boxing, the term Middleweight is used for a specific group of people based on weight. A middleweight is a boxer weight does not exceed 160 pounds (73 kg).
Boxing organizations created many divisions so that fighters could fight people of the same size. 

The first heavyweight champion under modern rules was Irish boxer Jack (Nonpareil) Dempsey.

Famous heavyweight champions have include Bob Fitzsimmons, Nino Benvenuti, Rocky Graziano, Marvin Hagler, Bernard Hopkins, Roy Jones Jr., Jake LaMotta, Carlos Monzon, 
Sugar Ray Robinson, Tony Zale and Sugar Ray Leonard. 


</doc>
<doc id="104443" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104443" title="Moneymore">
Moneymore

Moneymore is a village in Northern Ireland, in the United Kingdom. It is from Cookstown and from Magherafelt.
On 29 April 2001 the United Kingdom government had a census and saw that there were 1,369 people living in Moneymore. They also saw that:


</doc>
<doc id="104446" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104446" title="Denpasar">
Denpasar

Denpasar is the capital city of the province of Bali, Indonesia. It is also the site of Ngurah Rai Airport, the main gateway to Bali. It has a population of 491,500 (2002).


</doc>
<doc id="104447" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104447" title="Toome">
Toome

Toome (or Toomebridge) is a village in Northern Ireland, in the United Kingdom. It is from Magherafelt and from Antrim. It is close to the River Bann.
On 29 April 2001 the United Kingdom government had a census and saw that there were 722 people living in Toome. They also saw that:


</doc>
<doc id="104448" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104448" title="Kuta">
Kuta

Kuta is a town in southern Bali, Indonesia. Once it was a fishing village. It was one of the first towns on Bali to become popular with tourists. It is one of Indonesia's major tourist destinations. It has a long sandy beach, and many restaurants and bars. It is near Bali's Ngurah Rai Airport.

On October 12, 2002, a series of bombings killed more than 200 people in Kuta. The bombings occurred outside two nightclubs.


</doc>
<doc id="104449" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104449" title="Category:Bali">
Category:Bali


</doc>
<doc id="104451" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104451" title="An Inconvenient Truth">
An Inconvenient Truth

An Inconvenient Truth is a 2006 documentary movie about global warming directed by Davis Guggenheim, presented by former United States Vice President Al Gore. The film was first shown at the 2006 Sundance Film Festival. It opened in New York and Los Angeles on May 24, 2006. The film was released on DVD on November 21, 2006. A companion book by Gore reached Number 1 on the paperback nonfiction New York Times bestseller list on July 2, 2006. The film won Academy Awards for Best Documentary Feature and for Best Original Song.

"An Inconvenient Truth" is the story of Al Gore and his efforts to tell people about the climate crisis. Gore says, "I've been trying to tell this story for a long time and I feel as if I've failed to get the message across." The film closely follows a "slide show" presentation that Gore has shown throughout the world. It shows Gore's exploration of the global warming data, and predictions regarding climate change and its potential for disaster, with Gore's life story.



</doc>
<doc id="104453" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104453" title="Gary Megson">
Gary Megson

Gary Megson (born: 20 June 1960) is an English football manager. He manages Bolton Wanderers F.C.. He has also managed other teams. They are:
Before managing teams, he used to play football. He played for:


</doc>
<doc id="104454" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104454" title="Matt Hardy">
Matt Hardy

Matthew "Matt" Moore Hardy (born September 23, 1974) is a professional wrestler who was working for TNA.
His is the older brother of Jeff Hardy.



</doc>
<doc id="104455" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104455" title="Kerobokan Prison">
Kerobokan Prison

Kerobokan Prison is a prison in the town of Kerobokan in Bali, Indonesia. In addition to local criminals, a number of foreigners are held there, notably Schapelle Corby and the Bali Nine — all convicted of drug smuggling.


</doc>
<doc id="104458" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104458" title="Edmund Spenser">
Edmund Spenser

Edmund Spenser (born around 1552 - died 13 January 1599) was an important poet from England. He is most famous for his poem "The Faerie Queene", which talks about different knights who fight against evil. The poem also praises Queen Elizabeth I of England.


</doc>
<doc id="104459" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104459" title="Papua">
Papua

Papua may refer to:



</doc>
<doc id="104462" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104462" title="Papuan languages">
Papuan languages

The term Papuan languages means languages of the western Pacific which are neither Austronesian nor Australian. That is, the term is defined negatively and does not mean a linguistic relationship. 

The majority of the Papuan languages are spoken on the island of New Guinea (which is divided between the country of Papua New Guinea and Indonesian provinces of Papua and West Irian Jaya), with a number spoken in the Bismarck Archipelago, Bougainville Island, and the Solomon Islands to the east, and in Halmahera, Timor, and the Alor archipelago to the west. One Papuan language, Meriam Mir, is spoken within the national borders of Australia, in the eastern Torres Strait. The only Papuan languages with official recognition are those of East Timor.

New Guinea is perhaps the most linguistically diverse region in the world. Besides the Austronesian languages, there are some 800 languages divided into perhaps sixty small language families, with unclear relationships to each other or to anything else, plus a large number of language isolates. 



</doc>
<doc id="104464" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104464" title="Lombok">
Lombok

Lombok (population 2,950,105 in 2005) is an island in West Nusa Tenggara province, Indonesia. It is to the east of Bali on the other side of the Lombok Strait. The capital and largest city on the island is Mataram.

The Gili Islands are very popular with tourists. There are many places to dive and the beaches are lovely.

Mount Rinjani, 3,726 m (12,224 ft), is the third-highest volcano in Indonesia.


</doc>
<doc id="104465" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104465" title="The Faerie Queene">
The Faerie Queene

The Faerie Queene is an English epic poem by Edmund Spenser. It is his most famous work. The poem was first published in 1590. A longer version of the poem was published in 1596. This version of the poem is in six parts or books. "The Fairie Queene" is about different knights who fight against evil. It is an allegorical work, and each book of the poem is about a different virtue. The poem also praises Queen Elizabeth I of England and her family, the Tudors. Queen Elizabeth liked the poem so much that she gave Spenser a pension as a reward.


</doc>
<doc id="104467" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104467" title="Torres Strait Islanders">
Torres Strait Islanders

Torres Strait Islanders are the indigenous people of the Torres Strait Islands, part of Queensland, Australia. They are culturally related to the coastal peoples of Papua New Guinea. They are regarded as being distinct from other Aboriginal peoples of the rest of Australia. There are also two Torres Strait Islander communities on the nearby coast of the mainland.

There are 6,000 Torres Strait Islanders who live in the area of the Torres Strait, and 42,000 others who live outside of this area, mostly in the north of Queensland, particularly in Townsville and Cairns. 

The indigenous people of the Torres Strait have a distinct culture which has slight variants on the different islands where they live. They are a sea-faring people, and engaged in trade with peoples of Papua New Guinea. The culture is complex, with some Australian elements, some Papuan elements, and some Austronesian elements, just like the languages. The Islanders seem to have been the dominant culture for many centuries, and neighbouring Aboriginal and Papuan cultures show some Island influence in religious ceremonies and the like. Archaeological, linguistic and folk history evidence suggests that the core of Island culture is Austronesian. Unlike the indigenous peoples of mainland Australia, the islanders were traditionally agriculturalists although they supplemented their food supplies through hunting and gathering.




</doc>
<doc id="104470" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104470" title="Template:Wikipedia category">
Template:Wikipedia category


</doc>
<doc id="104471" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104471" title="Template:Hiddencat">
Template:Hiddencat

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="104472" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104472" title="Australian megafauna">
Australian megafauna

Australian megafauna is a word used to describe a number of animal species in Australia that are quite a bit bigger than their closest living relatives. These species became extinct during the Pleistocene (16,100±100 - 50,000 years before present) , but exact dates for their extinction have only been discovered recently.

Scientists have been unable to agree on the reasons the megafauna became extinct. It is possible when humans came to Australia (around 48,000-60,000 years ago), and began hunting and using fire, they may have caused the extinction of the megafauna. Climate change, which made the country much drier during an Ice Age about 18,000 years ago, may have also have led to the extinction of the megafauna. Some scientists say that climate change alone caused the extinction of the megafauna. This argument does not allow for the fact that the megaufaunal species had lived through two million years of climate changes. They had lived through a number of dry times before their sudden extinction.

Scientists have got new evidence, based on new and better ways of finding dates, using optically stimulated luminescence and Uranium-thorium dating of megafaunal bones. This suggests that humans were the main cause of the extinction of megafauna in Australia. The dates show that the last of the megafauna became extinct around the same time, about 47,000 years ago. This was the time in which humans first arrived in Australia. The dates suggest the main reason for extinction was human burning of the land. Many plants were not able to survive regular fires, and so the types of plants changed. Scientists have studied oxygen and carbon isotopes from teeth of megafauna. These show sudden, , non-climate-related changes in plants, and in the diet of surviving marsupial animals, as well as the loss of megafaunal species. Further study of the teeth of megafauna shows the climate was dry at the time of extinction, similar to the dry climate of today, and that the megafauna were able to live in dry climates.

The following is a list of some of the Australian megafauna. It shows:


Mammals are set out by size with largest at the top.






bloooooooooooooooood== References ==



</doc>
<doc id="104475" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104475" title="Omagh bombing">
Omagh bombing

The Omagh bombing was a bomb attack by the Real Irish Republican Army in Omagh, Northern Ireland, on August 15, 1998. 29 people died and over 300 people were hurt.


</doc>
<doc id="104476" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104476" title="Themis (hypothetical moon)">
Themis (hypothetical moon)

On April 28, 1905, the American astronomer William H. Pickering said that he had found a tenth moon of the planet Saturn. Pickering named the moon Themis. No other astronomer has ever seen the moon that Pickering said he saw. Because of this, astronomers do not count Themis as an official moon of Saturn.

Pickering tried to figure out an orbit for Themis. He thought that Themis had an inclination of 39.1° to the ecliptic, with 0.23 eccentricity (0.23) and a semi-major axis distance of 1,457,000 km. This meant that Themis had an orbit like the moons Titan and Hyperion. Pickering believed that it took Themis 20.85 days to orbit Saturn, in a prograde motion.

Pickering thought that the diameter of Themis was about 38 miles (61 km). Pickering had also discovered the moon Phoebe, but modern astronomers know that Pickering made a mistake when he gave 42 miles (68 km) as the diameter of Phoebe. Because astronomers know how Pickering made his mistake, they can say that if Themis existed, it would have a diameter of 200 km.
In April 1861, Hermann Goldschmidt also thought he discovered a new satellite of Saturn between Titan and Hyperion. Goldschmidt called this moon Chiron. The moon Chiron also does not exist, but the name was used much later for the comet/asteroid 2060 Chiron.

In 1906, the French Academy of Sciences gave Pickering the Lalande Prize of the French Academy of Sciences for his "discovery of the ninth and tenth satellites of Saturn".

The actual tenth satellite of Saturn (in order of discovery) was Janus, which was discovered in 1966 and confirmed in 1980. Its orbit is far from the supposed orbit of Themis.

There is also an asteroid named 24 Themis.




</doc>
<doc id="104483" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104483" title="Real Irish Republican Army">
Real Irish Republican Army

The Real Irish Republican Army (or Real IRA) is a group from Ireland who want Northern Ireland to become part of the Republic of Ireland, and want it to leave the United Kingdom. The group started after they left the Provisional Irish Republican Army, after an argument. On 15 August 1998 they did the Omagh bombing, which killed 29 people and hurt over 300 people. They have shot police officers and have also bombed places in England, such as London and Birmingham. It is against the law to be a member of the Real IRA.


</doc>
<doc id="104488" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104488" title="The Life and Times of Scrooge McDuck">
The Life and Times of Scrooge McDuck

The Life and Times of Scrooge McDuck is a comic book painted and written by Don Rosa. To make it, Rosa needed to see Carl Barks's stories and the more important facts of Scrooge's fictional life.

The story has 12 original parts, with more added later, that tell Scrooge's life:


</doc>
<doc id="104999" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104999" title="General Certificate of Secondary Education">
General Certificate of Secondary Education

The General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) is a set of exams taken in England, Wales, Northern Ireland and other British territories. They are usually taken by students aged 16, after two years of study. Some students can take their exams early if their teachers think them able. Most students taking their GCSE study nine or ten subjects.

All students have to study English, mathematics and science until they are 16, but they do not have to take the GCSE exams. In Wales, students must also study Welsh until they are 16.

Most schools require that a student passes 5 or more GCSE exams at grades C or above before they can move on to study A-levels.

The pass grades, from best to worst, are:




</doc>
<doc id="105000" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105000" title="Edo">
Edo

The site of the city, on what is now known as Tokyo Bay, had been settled for several centuries, but first became historically significant with the building of Edo Castle in 1457 by order of Ōta Dōkan. Kyoto was the site of the Japanese emperor's residence and the capital of Japan for many centuries, until the Tokugawa shogunate was established in 1603 and Edo became its seat of government. From that point Kyoto remained merely the formal capital of the country, while the "de facto" capital was now Edo, the center of real political power. Edo consequently rapidly grew from what had been a small, virtually unknown fishing village in 1457 to a big city of 1,000,000 residents by 1721, the largest city in the world at the time.

In 1868, when the shogunate came to an end, the city was renamed "Tokyo", meaning "eastern capital", and the emperor moved his residence to Tokyo, making the city the formal capital of Japan.



</doc>
<doc id="105003" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105003" title="Renault Vel Satis">
Renault Vel Satis

The Renault Vel Satis was a large automobile created by the French car manufacturer Renault. It has five seats and four doors. It was produced from 2001 to 2009·


</doc>
<doc id="105004" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105004" title="List of GCSE subjects">
List of GCSE subjects

Note: Many of the subjects in this list are not offered by every school. 











</doc>
<doc id="105011" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105011" title="Korean cuisine">
Korean cuisine

Korean cuisine came from very old traditions in Korea. It has developed through many environmental, political, and cultural changes. There are special rules for eating meals in Korea.

Korean cuisine is mostly made up of rice, noodles, vegetables, and meats. Most Korean meals have many side dishes (called "banchan") along with their steam-cooked rice. Kimchi is usually eaten at every meal. Sesame oil, "doenjang", soy sauce, salt, garlic, ginger, pepper and "gochujang" are ingredients that are often used in the food.

In different provinces of Korea, its ingredients and dishes are different, too. The Korean royal court cuisine used to serve all the best dishes from each province for the royal family. People follow special rules when they eat meals in Korea.

Traditional rice cakes like "tteok" are eaten as treats during holidays and festivals. "Tteok" means all rice cakes made from pounded rice (메떡, "metteok"), pounded glutinous rice (찰떡, "chaltteok"), or glutinous rice that has not been pounded. It is usually filled or covered with sweet mung bean paste, red bean paste, raisins, or a sweet, creamy filling made with sesame seeds, pumpkin, beans, pine nuts, and honey. "Tteok" is usually eaten for dessert or as a snack.

The oldest people are usually served first, and it is thought rude to pick up chopsticks or eat before the oldest people do so. In Korea, unlike in China and Japan, the rice bowl is not lifted up from the table. Spoons should not hit bowls while eating. You must not talk about dirty things. Some rules are now not important. For instance, talking used to be discouraged, but today people usually talk together at meals. Also, men usually ate at a different table than women, but now they eat all together. In Korea, they have both spoons and chopsticks, and together they are called "sujeou" (pronounced soo-juh - 수저). Usually, before they eat, people say, "Jalmukgessemnidah (잘 먹겠습니다)", and after they are finished, they say, "Jalmuggussemnidah (잘 먹었습니다)." Soups and stews must be set on the right side of the person who is eating.





ISBN 1405102136


</doc>
<doc id="105014" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105014" title="Cryptanalysis">
Cryptanalysis

Cryptanalysis (from the Greek "kryptós", "hidden", and "analýein", "to loosen" or "to untie") is the study of methods for obtaining the meaning of encrypted information, without access to the secret information which is normally required to do so. Typically, this involves finding a secret key. In non-technical language, this is the practice of codebreaking or cracking the code, although these phrases also have a specialised technical meaning (see code).





</doc>
<doc id="105015" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105015" title="International General Certificate of Secondary Education">
International General Certificate of Secondary Education

The International General Certificate of Secondary Education, or IGCSE, is an international exam for school students. It is typically taken by 14 to 16-year–olds, and it makes students ready for more academic work, including moving to A-Level and AS-Level study. The IGCSE is recognised as the same quality as the United Kingdom GCSE.

IGCSE courses cover subjects from a variety of areas: Languages, Humanities, Social Sciences, Mathematics, Creative, Technical and Vocational.

Most subjects can be studied at two levels of ability, either an easier level or a harder level. This is so that the IGCSE is appropriate for students with different levels of ability. It is planned to be appropriate for students whose first language may not be English and this is seen in all the tests for the IGCSE.

The following is a list of subjects for which IGCSEs are available:




</doc>
<doc id="105019" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105019" title="Category:Australian transportation companies">
Category:Australian transportation companies


</doc>
<doc id="105025" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105025" title="Sánchez Ramírez Province">
Sánchez Ramírez Province

Sánchez Ramírez is a province of the Dominican Republic. It is in the central part of the country. Its capital city is Cotuí.

It was created in 1952. It was a municipality of the Duarte province before being elevated to the category of province.

The Sánchez Ramírez province is in the centre of the country, in the southeast limit of the Cibao Valley (part of the region called "Eastern Cibao"). It is bordered to the north by the Duarte province, to the east and south by the Monte Plata province, to the southwest by the Monseñor Nouel and La Vega provinces.

The province was named after Juan Sánchez Ramírez, who was born in Cotuí and who fought against the French army when the country was a colony of France. When the country was again a Spanish colony, Sánchez Ramírez was the governor of the colony.

The territory of the province was part of the La Vega Province from the Dominican independence (in 1844) until 1945 when most of the territory was made part of the Duarte Province.

On 3 March 1952, the province was created with the territory of Cotuí, part at that moment of the Duarte Province, and the southeastern part of La Vega Province. When it was created, it had only two municipalities: Cotuí, the provincial capital, and Cevicos.

The Sánchez Ramírez province has a total area of 1,196.13 km². It has 2.5% of the area of the Dominican Republic and it is ranked as the 21st (out of 31 plus the National District) largest province.

There are four municipalities and eight municipal districts in the province.

The municipalities and their municipal districts (M.D.) are:

In 2002 (last national census), there were 151,179 people living in the Sánchez Ramírez province, and 69,218 (45.8%) living in towns and cities. The population density was 126.4 persons/km².

There are two regions in the country. The valley of the River Yuna on the north and the northeast of the province, and the Sierra de Yamasá in the southern part of the province.

The valley of the River Yuna is part of the large region of Eastern Cibao; it is flat and with very good soils.

The Sierra de Yamasá is the eastern mountain range of the Cordillera Central ("Central mountain chain") with low mountains. The highest mountain in the province is in this mountain range; it is "La Naviza" (sometimes written La Navisa) and it is 680 metres high.

The most important river is the Yuna, that flows from west to east; the other rivers are all tributaries of this river. Other rivers are Cevicos, Chacuey and Maguaca; they flow from the Sierra de Yamasá into the River Yuna.

The main economic activities in the province are farming and mine. Close to the town of Las Lagunas, in the Sierra de Yamasá, are the gold mines.

The main products of farming in the Sierra de Yamasá are cacao, orange and tobacco. In the Yuna valley, rice is the most important product but pineapple and orange are also produced.

Cattle is also important in the province, mainly in the northwestern part of it.


</doc>
<doc id="105027" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105027" title="Diane Abbott">
Diane Abbott

Diane Julie Abbott (born 27 September 1953) is an British politician and the Member of Parliament for the Hackney North and Stoke Newington constituency in the United Kingdom. She was the first black woman to be elected to the House of Commons when she was elected in the 1987 General Election.

She is a member of the Labour Party.


</doc>
<doc id="105028" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105028" title="Hywel Francis">
Hywel Francis

Dr Hywel Francis (born 1946) is a Welsh politician and the Member of Parliament for the Aberavon constituency in the United Kingdom. He was elected in the 2001 General Election.

He is a member of the Labour Party.


</doc>
<doc id="105029" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105029" title="Frank Doran">
Frank Doran

Frank Doran (born April 13, 1949 in Edinburgh, Scotland) is a Scottish politician and the Member of Parliament for the Aberdeen North constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected to the House of Commons in the 1987 general election for Aberdeen South but was defeated in 1992. 

He was re-elected at the 1997 general election for the new constituency of Aberdeen Central. The boundary of the constituency was changed, and in 2005 he was elected for the Aberdeen North constituency.

He is the partner of fellow Labour MP Joan Ruddock.

He is a member of the Labour Party.


</doc>
<doc id="105030" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105030" title="Anne Begg">
Anne Begg

Dame Anne Begg, DBE (born December 6, 1955) is a Scottish politician and the Member of Parliament for the Aberdeen South constituency in the United Kingdom. She was elected in the 1997 general election.

Begg is the first permanent wheelchair user in the House of Commons.

She is a member of the Labour Party.


</doc>
<doc id="105033" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105033" title="John Reid, Baron Reid of Cardowan">
John Reid, Baron Reid of Cardowan

John Reid, Baron Reid of Cardowan (born 8 May 1947) is a Scottish football club chairman and a Labour Party politician. He was the Member of Parliament for the Scottish constituency of Airdrie and Shotts in the United Kingdom. He was first elected to the House of Commons in the 1987 general election for the Motherwell North constituency. The boundary of the constituency was changed, and in the 1997 election he was elected to the new constituency of Hamilton North and Bellshill. After more boundary changes in 2005 he was elected to the new constituency of Airdrie and Shotts.

He is the former Home Secretary. 

Reid did not stand in the 2010 election, and was made a life peer instead.

He is Chairman of Celtic Football Club in Glasgow.

He is a member of the Labour Party.


</doc>
<doc id="105034" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105034" title="Gerald Howarth">
Gerald Howarth

James Gerald Douglas Howarth, known as Gerald Howarth (born September 12, 1947) is a British politician and the Member of Parliament for the English constituency of Aldershot in the United Kingdom. He was first elected to the House of Commons in the 1983 general election for the Cannock and Burntwood constituency but lost in the 1992 general election. 

He was re-elected at the 1997 General Election as MP for Aldershot. 

He is currently Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence as Minister for International Security Strategy.

He is a member of the Conservative Party.


</doc>
<doc id="105046" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105046" title="Mount Agung">
Mount Agung

Mount Agung or Gunung Agung is a volcano on Bali. Mount Agung last erupted in 1963-1964. The lava just missed the Mother Temple of Besakih, which is located on high on the slopes of this sacred mountain. 
Over 1,000 people were killed and a number of villages were destroyed in this eruption.


</doc>
<doc id="105047" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105047" title="Mount Batur">
Mount Batur

Mount Batur or Gunung Batur is a volcano on Bali. Mount Batur last erupted in 2000. It is a volcano inside an older, larger, volcano. The original eruption, about 30,000 years ago, is one of the largest known volcanic events on Earth. The volcano is now 1,717 metres (5,633 feet) high. There are many people — whole villages — living inside the caldera.


</doc>
<doc id="105048" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105048" title="Category:Volcanoes in Indonesia">
Category:Volcanoes in Indonesia


</doc>
<doc id="105049" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105049" title="Mount Rinjani">
Mount Rinjani

Mount Rinjani or Gunung Rinjani is an active volcano on Lombok, Indonesia. It is 3,726 m (12,224 ft) high, making it the second highest volcano in Indonesia. It last erupted in 2009.


</doc>
<doc id="105050" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105050" title="Category:Lombok">
Category:Lombok


</doc>
<doc id="105051" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105051" title="Mataram">
Mataram

Mataram is a city on the west side of the island of Lombok, Indonesia. It is the capital and largest city of West Nusa Tenggara province, and has a population of around 342,896 people as of the year 2005.



</doc>
<doc id="105052" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105052" title="Category:Cities in Indonesia">
Category:Cities in Indonesia


</doc>
<doc id="105053" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105053" title="Megawati Sukarnoputri">
Megawati Sukarnoputri

Diah Permata Megawati Setiawati Soekarnoputri (born January 23, 1947), was President of Indonesia from July 2001 to October 20, 2004. She was the country's first female President, and the first Indonesian leader born after independence. On September 20 she lost her campaign for re-election in the 2004 Indonesian presidential election. She is the daughter of Indonesia's first president, Sukarno.


</doc>
<doc id="105054" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105054" title="Kingdom of Kerma">
Kingdom of Kerma

The Kingdom of Kerma was a state in Nubia from around 2500 BC to about 1520 BC. It was based in the city of Kerma in Upper Nubia and was a major centre during the Middle Kingdom period of Egypt. It had a distinct civilization (for example very fine and original ceramics have been found).

The site of Kerma includes both an extensive town and a cemetery consisting of large tumuli. Because one can find there much examples of Nubian culture and burial practices at the site, scholars think that the Egyptian statues and other Egyptian objects found at Kerma arrived through trade. 

In 2003, a Swiss archaeological team working in northern Sudan uncovered one of the most remarkable Egyptological finds in recent years. At the site known as Kerma, near the third cataract of the Nile, archaeologist Charles Bonnet and his team discovered a ditch within a temple from the ancient city of Pnoubs, which contained seven monumental black granite statues. Magnificently sculpted, and in an excellent state of preservation, they portrayed five pharaonic rulers, including Taharqa and Tanoutamon, the last two pharaohs of the 'Nubian' Dynasty, when Egypt was ruled by kings from the lands of modern-day Sudan. For over half a century, the Nubian pharaohs governed a combined kingdom of Egypt and Nubia, with an empire stretching from the Delta to the upper reaches of the Nile.



</doc>
<doc id="105056" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105056" title="Wikipedia:Proposed good articles/Archive 2">
Wikipedia:Proposed good articles/Archive 2

I have written this article and it looks like it is ready for GA but that is my opinion but I need yours. 00:00, 20 July 2008 (UTC)
<-- Actually, I think I can wikify this article myself. Help would be very much appreciated. What needs to be simplified is the copy and paste version, which is a big portion of the article. -- () 02:24, 20 July 2008 (UTC)
Well thanks American Eagle and RyanCross. See ya next week. (not yet) 02:26, 20 July 2008 (UTC)

I know I mostly wrote it so I might be a bit biased but I think it really does deserve to be a good article. There are no red links at all and the article has a good structure. It has good quality simple English, good pictures with appropriate captions and many intra and interwiki links. -- () 10:23, 9 July 2008 (UTC)

Can someone do the references for me as when I tried to use the cite web template I nearly messed up the whole article. Once your done could you please give me a quick idea of how to use it on my talk page, I would be very grateful for any help. 

I believe this meets the Good article criteria. It seems well-written, well referenced, and simplified. There aren't any redlinks in the article either. It's pretty long also. I would like to propose this article for . Thanks, () 18:27, 30 June 2008 (UTC)
I've done major copyediting to the article. Does anyone still spot anything wrong? -- () 11:53, 11 July 2008 (UTC)
<-- Okay. I've done one last thorough copyedit to the article. I think we can put this up for !voting soon, or even now. Thoughts? -- () 00:13, 12 July 2008 (UTC)
<-- Voting is now below. Please comment there and not here. Thanks, -- () 22:10, 13 July 2008 (UTC)

Meets 7 of the GA criteria - has the capibillity to get to GA. -- 07:24, 6 July 2008 (UTC)

Well-written article; probably needs a copyediting (linking all terms, if possible once), and reducing the number of redlinks. -- () 15:04, 14 June 2008 (UTC)

Looks like a well-written article, but lacks external references (either as works cited or as links ot othr websites). More "other websites" would be good too. -- () 14:10, 27 May 2008 (UTC)



Article still has a few red links (read: about 5-10). It is of a decent size. I am not sure about comprehensiveness, therefore I would first like to the "Good Article" tag. At first sight, the article should meet all the criteria. -- () 21:57, 19 May 2008 (UTC)

Definitely not suitable for GA status. No references what-so-ever. Cheers, 23:48, 23 June 2008 (UTC)
To me, it meets the GA criteria. I'm not so sure about the referencing on the top half of the article. Anyway, I think the length reaches 3.5. and there aren't too many red links. -- () 11:53, 14 June 2008 (UTC)


This article was just nominated for GA but failed because there were only two voters. Both were supportive votes, and I think this article deserves another go at GA. -- () 01:35, 10 March 2008 (UTC)
This article was just nominated for GA but failed because there were only three voters. All were supportive votes, and I think this article deserves another go at GA. -- () 01:35, 10 March 2008 (UTC)
I have been working on this article for a long time, but now I think it's ready to be put here. I don't know how much, if any, work needs to be done, but I think it is a "Good" article. 02:25, 26 April 2008 (UTC)

Result:Not a proposal anymore, is now being voted on. 21:27, 19 May 2008 (UTC)

Spent hours shortening and simplifying, and it seems to fit all nine requirements. But can somebody look it over a couple of times and simplify, correct, link, etc. That is, do anything that needs to be done before voting. But I think that it may be notable and well done enough to be considered for a "Good" article status. 21:49, 3 May 2008 (UTC)

I have been working to make it bigger for a while now. Please correct any errors that you may see. -- 04:10, 9 May 2008 (UTC)

Spent a long time improving, and it is one of the better chemistry articles. My first attempt to make a good article, and I am looking for feedback. () 02:33, 5 May 2008 (UTC)

This article has been in the works for more than a month now, and I believe that it meets the criteria to become a GA. It has no red links at all, it has excellent sourcing (44 references), it has a good other websites section, the sentence structures and fluidity are excellent, and overall, it is a very well written article. This failed a bid earlier, but now, I do not think that it will fail this bid because of all the work that has been put into it. 16:48, 10 May 2008 (UTC)

Result:Not promoted. Not yet ready. 18:53, 23 May 2008 (UTC)

I've done much work to this article, completely expanding from EN:WP (including creating about 30+ stubs for it). I'm pretty sure it needs some copyediting/typo-fixing/grammar-checking, but I think it is overall Good. I'll try to tomorrow go through and fix OVERLINKS and such. I think it is very close. Cheers -- AmericanEagle (talk) 05:59, 18 July 2008 (UTC)
Result: Promoted - with 7 supports and 2 opposes (78%). -- () 01:25, 29 July 2008 (UTC)
It meets all the criteria, its a nice article. I have expanded it by a huge amount, and think its ready to be a GA. 16:57, 18 July 2008 (UTC)


Now meets 5 GA criteria, now working on the remaining 4. Currently magically turning links blue. -- 21:57, 18 July 2008 (UTC)



Right, this article has now been copyedited by myself, and to a certain extent and . As far as I can see it meets all the to a certain degree. There are no red links, the last few edits have been minor edits, according to readable prose is over 3.5 kb long, there are no red links, it has appropriate pictures with appropriate captions and is in the correct categories. I think it should be a good article, lets see what the vote says. 15:54, 14 July 2008 (UTC)



I have fixed all of those things TRM. Can you vote positive now? 19:51, 20 July 2008 (UTC)

I've done a thorough copyedit of the article when it was first proposed to fix all the problems addressed. I believe this article meets all of . Let's check: 1.) Yeah, it obviously belongs in Wikipedia. 2.) It's longer than 3.5 kilobytes from character counting. 3.) It's gone through some reversions, yes. Users actively editing the article were , , , a bit form , and me. 4.) There is one interwiki and I believe the article falls into the right categories at the bottom. 5.) The last few reversions were copyediting and minor things, yes. 6.) Absolutely, "no" red links are found it the article. I think everything that is supposed to be linked has been done appropriately. 7.) Generally complete. 8.) There are no , , or tags on the article. 9.) Everything seems properly referenced with templates and there is a <nowiki></nowiki> tag at the bottom. So anyway, I believe this article can become a . Do you? Thanks, () 10:57, 12 July 2008 (UTC)




 08:57, 14 July 2008 (UTC)






Stayed above for a while, no issues have come up. The Rambling Man went through it and left some comments on its talk page. They're all addressed so I'm bringing it up for a vote. — 06:49, 11 July 2008 (UTC)



Theres still a few red links and I think the article suffers from lack of links to band members, albums etc. If any of those issues could be adressed I would be happy to vote for this article, as otherwise its very good. -- () 08:09, 11 July 2008 (UTC)

I will give it a go at voting; the article is well referenced, but has a decent number of red-links; most of these are to cathedrals built in gothic style, and to monarchs of the time. -- () 07:56, 1 July 2008 (UTC)



Well-written, well referenced article. The potential problem this article has is that the refrences are in the form of books; it may not be easy to see what book a specific statement is from.-- () 07:59, 1 July 2008 (UTC)



 () 12:00, 5 July 2008 (UTC)

This article just failed an RfGA. I'm skipping straight to the voting as it's already been discussed on that page since May 3rd. (The discussion may be viewed ). The article is obviously not ready for VGA status as it didn't pass, but I think it would be a fine addition to our GAs. There are some continuity errors that I would like to see fixed (there is switching between "Giant Panda" and "giant panda", and mixing of systems of measurement, sometimes pounds, sometimes kgs). Also, the few red links will not be a problem as it was for it to become a VGA. Some people also feel that it was on the short side to become a VGA. All in all, the requirements are met and I think it would make a good GA. · 13:54, 13 May 2008 (UTC)

Remember, Wikipedia is . We abide by general policies, not by what we think that would work. Tygrrr is right by pointing to Wikipedia pages to back up what he is saying, that is how it is supposed to be. -- 22:24, 15 May 2008 (UTC)



"Voting ended on May 4, 2008"
Result: Not promoted: I'll stop it till I fix some things (i.e. More references, less useless things not proved, and more "Italic" to links) and relist it when it's fixed. 17:41, 27 April 2008 (UTC)

"Voting ended on 11 May, 2008"
Result: Not promoted Final tally: 1/3, needs 5 supports to pass. 20:33, 12 May 2008 (UTC)

"Voting ended on 12 May, 2008" 


 I would like to see a bit more references for such a long article. Also the ""Other websites"" section needs to be shortened to avoid confusion, there are many issues of multiple linking, particularly of the word "sermon", but others as well. Finally, there is a problem with the ""Later years"" paragraph, this could just be my browser but the picture is covering the first sentence. -- 08:27, 4 May 2008 (UTC)

Result: Promoted with 4 votes for, and 1 against. (5 total votes)

This is it's second nomination (see the first ), and as I see how much has been done since that time, I cannot believe it was even before considered for "GOOD". Now with much work done by Cethegus and others, I am going list it. -- 20:10, 19 May 2008 (UTC)


This article was promoted with:

Suggestion completed. Moved to voting per suggestion. 18:47, 3 July 2008 (UTC)

Result: request withdrawn () 11:46, 5 July 2008 (UTC)

Well, this article hasn't really been edited by many users, and therefor could require work - but I don't think so. I just completely copyedited it using Microsoft Word. It is very understandable, has 45+ references, and very good "Other websites" section, it is 23.6 KB/12.4 KB long, and I saw no other problems with it. -- () 22:28, 20 July 2008 (UTC)




Is it standard practice to not have the date created, the author, and the publication in references? 22:42, 20 July 2008 (UTC)

Result: Promoted with 7 supports and a lone oppose 02:08, 27 July 2008 (UTC)
It meets all criteria, all suggestions that were given have been corrected. I belive it to be a GA. 15:50, 22 July 2008 (UTC)


 Sorry, but I am going to have to oppose this one from becoming a good article at this time. This article is not ready to become a good article yet. There are some thigns that need to be worked on before I can make this a support vote:

First, you need to simply some of the more complex words. Phrases and terms such as "per capita", and some of the others words used in this article are a tad complex for this Wikipedia. You also need to go through and do a bit more copyediting.

Second, you need to work on some of the sentences in this article. There are sentences in this article that are too long, there are sentences in this article that lack the fluidity needed for an encyclopedic article, and mostly, you need to shorten up some of the sentences, as some of them go on too long. You need to work on getting the fluidity of the sentences to work (make them flow together).

Third, the "Records" section of this article has a trivia feel to it, and trivia is never a good thing for an encyclopedia. I would suggest that you work on this section to make it sound less like a trivia section and more like an encyclopedia.

Hope this helps :) Cheers, 11:12, 23 July 2008 (UTC)
 There really needs to be more prose and fewer lists. It starts off well, but I think the only list that is really merited is the table of current teams. That's purely a personal opinion, of course, though. () 01:28, 24 July 2008 (UTC)



 - Thanks 20:08, 23 July 2008 (UTC)



 - Thanks 20:08, 23 July 2008 (UTC)

Result 1 Support 1 oppose, not enough votes. Fail 13:36, 24 August 2008 (UTC)

Support

Oppose

Comments

Could you use the 'citeweb' template on the references? That would improve the overall appearance of the article. 22:10, 18 August 2008 (UTC)

</doc>
<doc id="105072" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105072" title="Aladdin (1992 movie)">
Aladdin (1992 movie)

Aladdin is an animated movie made by Walt Disney Pictures and based on the fairy tale of the same name. The movie is the thirty-first animated movie in the Walt Disney animated classics series. It was the second last of the era known as the Disney Renaissance beginning with "The Little Mermaid", with the last being "The Lion King". It was the most successful movie of 1992, earning over $217 million in revenue in the United States, and over $504 million worldwide.

The movie opens on a fictional Arabian kingdom named Agrabah where a scandal happens: the Sultan wants his daughter Jasmine to get married but she refuses all suitors and escapes from the palace. In the marketplace, she meets a poor boy of the streets named Aladdin. Meanwhile, at the palace's high tower, the evil wizard Jafar discovers that Aladdin is the man that can help him to find a magic lamp. Jafar sends the royals guards to arrest Aladdin. In the dungeon, Jafar tells Aladdin to enter the Cave of Wonders to get a lamp.

Aladdin and his pet monkey Abu enter the cave to found mountains of gold, jewels and a magic carpet. After being told not to touch anything but the lamp, Abu tries to steal a forbidden treasure and the cave destroys itself. When Aladdin tries to clean the lamp, Genie escapes and offers Aladdin three wishes. Aladdin agrees and first wishes to become a prince, thus letting him marry Princess Jasmine. With much celebration, Aladdin travels to the palace and announces to the Sultan that he wishes to marry the princess. 

That night, Aladdin and Jasmine fly on the magic carpet and they fall in love. The next morning, Jasmine announces to the whole kingdom that she had chosen a suiter. After hearing the news, Jafar, whose plan was to marry Jasmine and become Sultan, steals the lamp from Aladdin and uses his first wish to become the Sultan. The new evil Sultan reveals Aladdin's true character, the average "streetrat", and sends him to the end of the earth. He then makes Jasmine and the former Sultan his servants and tells the genie to construct his palace.

Aladdin escapes the ends of the earth and rerturns to the palace to rescue Jasmine and defeat Jafar. When she sees Aladdin approaching, Jasmine distracts Jafar by pretending to fall in love with him. The plan fails when Jafar sees Aladdin's reflection in Jasmine's tiara and attacks him. When Jafar boasts that he is the "most powerful sorceror in the world", Aladdin argues that a genie has more power. Upset by this fact, Jafar uses his last wish to become an all-powerful genie. Aladdin reminds Jafar of everything involved in being a genie, and Jafar is confined to the lamp, unable to use his power. The lamp is sent back to the Cave of Wonders, to ensure that Jafar never escapes. Agrabah is put back under the old Sultan, whose first change is a new law that a princess can marry a common man, not only another royal figure. Jasmine is free to marry Aladdin. At the end of the film, Aladdin wishes Genie free, as he had promised in the beginning.




</doc>
<doc id="105073" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105073" title="Wikipedia:Administrators' noticeboard/Current issues and requests archive 12">
Wikipedia:Administrators' noticeboard/Current issues and requests archive 12

I'd like to usurp the username . Someone has been impersonating my en.wiki username. I'd like to usurpp it for unified login. confirmation () 09:37, 2 April 2008 (UTC)

Um, Simple11 (i think) has threatened us saying he won't leave. He said on "
im waiting the time you waste will just make you suffer more there are countless proxies i can use so give me what i want and then this can end". I have requested Checkuser, but should we deal with this? -- 20:19, 3 April 2008 (UTC) 

Shouldn't we have ? Right now there is a QD request open (Ron vincent sulit mahinay) and no admins around. What if some vandal strikes? 03:43, 7 April 2008 (UTC)

With Commons recently changing over the images commonly used for barnstars (most notably Barnstar.png -> Original Barnstar.png), is having a field-day making the changes. This presents two issues. 1: It was flooding the New Changes page. For this, the account has temporarily gotten the Bot flag to handle this job. It normally doesn't generate this many edits and has a tendency to get a little buggy at times (it missed on two pages during this pass that we know of) so it is usually not bot'd but as this is a special case... You may want to randomly check the bot edits or Delinkers contributions every now and then over the next day or two just to keep an eye on it. I'll recheck activity in a couple days to see if it is done and clear the bot flag if it has. #2: (and the main reason this is on AN) as many admin pages are protected at the sysop level, any barnstars listed on these protected pages cannot be updated by the Delinker. Barnstars generated from templates should be fine, but any substituted ones or ones using non-standard images on our userspace pages may need to be looked at to see if they need changed. -- 05:44, 7 April 2008 (UTC)

In "my settings" → "Gadgets" I have a small and unimportant change that I'm suggesting. Could "let's" become "lets", as that is grammatically correct. Thanks, and sorry for being so , () 22:53, 10 April 2008 (UTC)

Did we decide that we wanted to use , I don't remember this... 23:29, 10 April 2008 (UTC)


</doc>
<doc id="105075" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105075" title="D. B. Cooper">
D. B. Cooper

D. B. Cooper (also known as Dan Cooper) is an alias (false name) for a man who hijacked an airplane in November 24, 1971. At that time, airline passengers were not searched before boarding their planes. He carried a bomb onto a flight between Portland, Oregon and Seattle, Washington. He received the ransom payment of $200,000 . He jumped from the airplane, which was a Boeing 727. When he jumped, the airplane was in the Pacific Northwest, perhaps over Woodland, Washington. Hundreds of suspects have been named through the years, but no conclusive evidence has surfaced regarding who Cooper was, or where he lived. The FBI believes he did not survive the jump. Several people have tried to explain what happened after the jump. Some of these explanations contradict each other. 

Because no one expected he would jump and because little is known of what happened afterwards, people are still interested in the case. The Cooper case (code-named "Norjak" by the FBI) remains an unsolved mystery.

The case is famous for its lack of evidence. A few important clues have arisen, nevertheless. In late 1978, a placard, which had instructions on how to lower the rear stairs of a 727 was found just a few flying minutes north of Cooper's projected drop zone. It is believed that this is from the rear stairway of the plane from which Cooper jumped. In February 1980, eight-year-old Brian Ingram found $5,880 in decaying $20 bills on the banks of the Columbia River.

In October 2007, the FBI announced it was able to get a partial DNA profile of Cooper from the tie he left on the hijacked plane. The FBI warehouse had lost other material with his DNA. On December 31, 2007, the FBI revived the unclosed case: They published never before seen composite sketches and fact sheets online. They did this because some people might remember them, and help identify Cooper. In a press release, the FBI said that it still does not believe Cooper survived the jump, wanted to know who Cooper was. In March 2008, the FBI announced that another possible clue was being investigated after a torn, tangled parachute was found within the bounds of Cooper's probable jump site near the town of Amboy, Washington. However, the FBI announced on April 1, 2008 that the parachute in question was not D. B. Cooper's. The man responsible for packing the four parachutes said that the recently discovered parachute was not Cooper's, as his was nylon, and the newly discovered parachute was silk, dating from the 1940s.

Normally, the criminal laws cannot work against people years after their crimes (statute of limitations). In 1976, to prevent D. B. Cooper from escaping punishment, a Portland grand jury charged D. B. Cooper with crimes.

Since 1999, Ariel, Washington holds an annual D. B. Cooper celebration on the anniversary of his jump.




</doc>
<doc id="105077" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105077" title="Alistair Darling">
Alistair Darling

Alistair Maclean Darling (born November 28, 1953) is a British Labour Party politician who was the Chancellor of the Exchequer from June 2007 to May 2010 and also held several posts in Tony Blair's government. He is the Member of Parliament for Edinburgh South West.

Alistair Darling was born in London and was first elected to the House of Commons at the 1987 General Election. His government posts under Tony Blair include: Chief Secretary to the Treasury (1997-1998), Secretary of State for Work and Pensions (1998-2002), Transport Secretary (2002-2006), Scottish Secretary (2003-2006) and Secretary of State for Trade and Industry (2006-2007).


</doc>
<doc id="105080" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105080" title="Category:Members of the British House of Commons">
Category:Members of the British House of Commons

Members of Parliament (MPs) of the British House of Commons.


</doc>
<doc id="105081" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105081" title="Moa">
Moa

The Moa were large flightless birds. They lived only in New Zealand, and are now all extinct.

There were eleven species (in six genera) of Moa. The largest and best known were the genus Dinornis, which grew up to 3.6 meters (12 feet) tall, and weighed as much as 230 kilograms (510 pounds). 

The group of birds to which the Moa belongs had been in existence since the Cretaceous period. The Māori people arrived in New Zealand from Oceania about a thousand years ago. Then, moas lived in large numbers, especially on South Island. Archaeological sites with evidence of Moa hunting are all over New Zealand. The moas became extinct about five hundred years ago. The moas had survived being hunted by Haast's Eagle. However, they could not survive being hunted for food by the Maoris.

Recent extinctions (also mostly birds) have been caused by habitat change and introduced species.



</doc>
<doc id="105087" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105087" title="Malacology">
Malacology

Malacology is the study of mollusks. These animals include snails, slugs, clams, mussels, octopus, squid, and many other kinds of animals without backbones that are often found in the sea, but sometimes in lakes and rivers, and on land. Most of them have shells, but not all of them. Some people save these shells because they may be very pretty. Many people eat mollusks, especially those people who live near the ocean.

Scientists study mollusks to learn how many kinds there are, where they are found, how they came to be as they are, and what their lives are like, as well as many other things about them. These scientists are called "malacologists".


</doc>
<doc id="105089" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105089" title="Placard">
Placard

A placard is a sign made to inform people about something. Often, they are used to warn about danger. Very often, hazard symbols (special pictograms) are used. 

Sometimes, placard is also used to mean a leaflet that shows how a certain machine should be operated.


</doc>
<doc id="105095" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105095" title="MediaWiki:Gadget-rightsfilter.js">
MediaWiki:Gadget-rightsfilter.js

/* <li> element Filter Script, version [0.1.2]
Should currently work on all known skins (with a #contentSub or #topbar)

Loads by default on 

var rightsLogOnly = (document.location.href.indexOf('type=rights')==-1 && document.location.href.indexOf('Log/rights')==-1) ? false : true
if(wgCanonicalSpecialPageName == 'Log' || wgCanonicalSpecialPageName == 'Linksearch' || wgCanonicalSpecialPageName == 'Recentchanges' || wgCanonicalSpecialPageName == 'Contributions' || queryString('lifilter')) addOnloadHook(filterLiButton)
function filterLiButton() {

function filterLiForm() {

function filterLi(highlight) {

function gettext(object) {

function queryString(p) {

</doc>
<doc id="105096" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105096" title="MediaWiki:Gadget-rightsfilter">
MediaWiki:Gadget-rightsfilter

"Logs Filter": Allows regex-based filtering of . While this originally was intended for areas such as it now allows filtering of almost any page that has <nowiki><li></nowiki> on it.

</doc>
<doc id="105101" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105101" title="Budíkov">
Budíkov

Budíkov is a village in the Pelhřimov District, Vysočina Region of the Czech Republic. About 283 people live there and it has 6,64 km². Budíkov was first documented in 1226.


</doc>
<doc id="105103" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105103" title="Typha">
Typha

Typha is a genus of plants. They are found in wetland habitats. They are commonly found in the Northern Hemisphere, but may be found in wetlands elsewhere. These plants are known in British English as bulrush, bullrush or reedmace, and in American English as cattail or punks.



</doc>
<doc id="105106" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105106" title="Sickle-cell disease">
Sickle-cell disease

Sickle cell anemia is a disease passed down from family to family that affects red blood cells. It changes the cells from flexible circles into rigid crescents. This creates clotting in veins and can cause a heart attack. 

This disease is starts in childhood. This is a life long disease and a life long blood disorder, sickle cell disease or sickle-cell anaemia, characterized by red blood cells that have an abnormal, rigid, sickle shape. Sickling decreases the cells' flexibility and results in a risk of various complications. 

The sickling occurs because of a mutation in the haemoglobin gene. Life expectancy is shortened: it is near-fatal in pre-modern societies. Studies in the modern U.S.A. report an average life expectancy of 42 and 48 years for males and females, respectively (U.S. statistics). In Sir Cyril Clarke's standard text he says (referring to East Africa in the 1960s) "Almost all the children [with the disease] will die in infancy".

Sickle-cell disease occurs more commonly in people (or their descendants) from parts of tropical and sub-tropical regions where malaria is or was common. 

One-quarter of all aboriginal inhabitants of Sub-Saharan Africa carry the gene. In areas where malaria is common, there is a survival value in carrying only a single sickle-cell gene (sickle cell trait). Those with only one of the two alleles of the sickle-cell disease are more resistant to malaria, since the infestation of the malaria plasmodium is halted by the sickling of the cells which it infests.

The inheritance of the disease is an example of polymorphism kept in tropical populations by
the heterozygous genotype Hb/Hb being the most fit. It is called 'heterozygous advantage'.


</doc>
<doc id="105108" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105108" title="David Miliband">
David Miliband

David Wright Miliband (born 15 July 1965) is a British politician who was the Foreign Secretary from June 2007 to May 2010 and a member of Tony Blair's cabinet. He is the Member of Parliament for South Shields in Tyne and Wear.

David Miliband was born in London and is an atheist. He is the elder son of Marxist Ralph Miliband and the elder brother of Labour leader Ed Miliband. He was educated at the University of Oxford and was the head of the Number 10 Policy Unit from 1997-2001. He was first elected in the 2001 general election. After being part of Tony Blair and Gordon Brown's governments, Miliband was a candidate in the 2010 Labour leadership contest. Despite Miliband being favourite to win the contest, his brother Ed narrowly won the contest in September 2010. Miliband chose not to be a member of Ed's shadow cabinet.


</doc>
<doc id="105109" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105109" title="Jack Straw">
Jack Straw

John Whitaker 'Jack' Straw (born 3 August 1946 in Buckhurst Hill, Essex, England) is a British politician who held several cabinet posts in the Labour governments of Tony Blair and Gordon Brown. He is the Member of Parliament (MP) for the constituency of Blackburn.

Jack Straw became a Labour Party MP at the 1979 General Election for the constituency of Blackburn. He was promoted to the shadow cabinet in 1987 and became the Home Secretary when Labour returned to power in 1997. His other cabinet posts included: Foreign Secretary (2001-2006), Leader of the House of Commons (2006-2007) and Justice Secretary (2007-2010). He did not choose to become a member of Ed Miliband's shadow cabinet.


</doc>
<doc id="105110" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105110" title="Jacqui Smith">
Jacqui Smith

Jacqueline Jill "Jacqui" Smith (born 3 November 1962) is an English former politician and was the first female Home Secretary of the United Kingdom. She was born in Malvern, Worcestershire. She was the Member of Parliament for the Redditch constituency. She was first elected in the 1997 general election. She lost her seat at the 2010 General Election.

She is a member of the Labour Party.


</doc>
<doc id="105111" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105111" title="Des Browne, Baron Browne of Ladyton">
Des Browne, Baron Browne of Ladyton

Desmond ""Des"" Henry Browne, Baron Browne of Ladyton (born March 22, 1952) is a Scottish politician and was Secretary of State for Defence and Secretary of State for Scotland. He was first elected in the 1997 general election, and was the Member of Parliament for the Kilmarnock and Loudoun constituency in the United Kingdom until 2010, when he was created a Life Peer 

He is a member of the Labour Party.


</doc>
<doc id="105112" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105112" title="Alan Johnson">
Alan Johnson

Alan Arthur Johnson (born 17 May 1950) is an English politician and former Shadow Chancellor of the Exchequer. He has been the Member of Parliament for the Hull West and Hessle constituency in the East Riding of Yorkshire since the 1997 general election. 

He is a member of the Labour Party.


</doc>
<doc id="105113" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105113" title="Hilary Benn">
Hilary Benn

Hilary James Wedgwood Benn (born 26 November 1953) is an English politician and since October 2010 he has been the Shadow Leader of the House of Commons. He is the Member of Parliament for the Leeds Central constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected in 1999 in a by-election. He is a member of the Labour Party. He is the middle son of Tony Benn.


</doc>
<doc id="105114" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105114" title="Douglas Alexander">
Douglas Alexander

Douglas Garven Alexander (born October 26, 1967) is a Scottish politician. Before the 2010 General election he was Secretary of State for International Development, afterwards he became the Shadow Secretary of State for International Development and is now Shadow Secretary of State for Work and Pensions. He is the Member of Parliament for the Paisley and Renfrewshire South constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected in 1997 in a by-election. 

He is a member of the Labour Party.


</doc>
<doc id="105115" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105115" title="John Hutton, Baron Hutton of Furness">
John Hutton, Baron Hutton of Furness

John Matthew Patrick Hutton, Baron Hutton of Furness (born 6 May 1955) is an English politician. He is a member of the Labour Party.

He was the Member of Parliament for the Barrow and Furness constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected in the 1992 general election, and retired in 2010. In March 2011 he published a report on public sector pension reform.. 

The report states that radical reform to the pension plans of six million public sector workers still leave them with "hugely generous" settlements. The retirement crisis has been caused by the scrapping of gold-plated final salary pension schemes for private sector workers coinciding with low interest rates and a lacklustre stock market. House prices have also fallen. "Future pensioners are likely to be confronted by a crisis of expectations and a squeeze in income", the report warns. 


</doc>
<doc id="105116" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105116" title="Harriet Harman">
Harriet Harman

Harriet Ruth Harman (born 30 July 1950) is a British politician and is the Deputy Leader of the Labour Party. She has held cabinet posts in the governments of Tony Blair and Gordon Brown. Following Brown's resignation as Labour leader on 10 May 2010, Harman was the acting leader of the Labour Party until Ed Miliband was elected on September 25, 2010. Currently, she is Deputy Leader and ex-officio member of the Shadow Cabinet. She is also Shadow Deputy Prime Minister and Shadow Secretary of State for International Development.

She is the Member of Parliament for the Camberwell and Peckham constituency in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom. She was first elected for Peckham in a by-election in 1982. 


</doc>
<doc id="105117" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105117" title="James Purnell">
James Purnell

James Mark Dakin Purnell (born March 2, 1970) was an English politician was Secretary of State for Work and Pensions in 2010. He was the Member of Parliament for the Stalybridge and Hyde constituency in the United Kingdom from the elected in the 2001 general election until he retired at the 2010 general election. He is currently the Head of the Open Left project at the left leaning think tank Demos

He is a member of the Labour Party.


</doc>
<doc id="105118" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105118" title="Paul Murphy">
Paul Murphy

Paul Peter Murphy, KCMCO, KSG (born November 25, 1948) is a Welsh politician and held several cabinet posts, including Secretary of State for Wales. He is the Member of Parliament for the Torfaen constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected in the 1987 general election. 

He is a member of the Labour Party.


</doc>
<doc id="105119" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105119" title="Ruth Kelly">
Ruth Kelly

Ruth Maria Kelly (born May 9, 1968) is now an economist working for the HSBC Bank. She was a British politician and had been a Cabinet Minister. 

She was the Member of Parliament for the Bolton West constituency in the United Kingdom from the 1997 general election to the 2010 general election

She is a member of the Labour Party.


</doc>
<doc id="105120" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105120" title="Hazel Blears">
Hazel Blears

Hazel Anne Blears (born May 14, 1956) is an English politician. and is the Member of Parliament for the Salford and Eccles constituency. She was first elected in the 1997 general election as member for the Salford constituency. 

She held several government posts under Prime Ministers Tony Blair and Gordon Brown, including Secretary of State for Communities and Local Government, up until the 2010 general election

She is a member of the Labour Party.


</doc>
<doc id="105121" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105121" title="Geoff Hoon">
Geoff Hoon

Geoffrey William Hoon (born December 6, 1953) is an English politician and held several government posts. He was the Member of Parliament for the Ashfield constituency in the United Kingdom from his first elected in the 1992 general election until he retired in 2010.

He is a member of the Labour Party.


</doc>
<doc id="105122" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105122" title="Ed Balls">
Ed Balls

Edward Michael 'Ed' Balls (born 25 February 1967 in Norwich, Norfolk, England) is a British politician and the shadow Home Secretary in Ed Miliband's shadow cabinet. He is the Labour Party and Co-operative Party Member of Parliament (MP) for the constituency of Morley and Outwood in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom.

He was first elected in the 2005 general election and held the post of Secretary of State for Children, Schools and Families from June 2007 to May 2010. He was a candidate to become leader of the Labour Party in September 2010 and lost to Ed Miliband.


</doc>
<doc id="105123" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105123" title="Ed Miliband">
Ed Miliband

Edward Samuel Miliband (born 24 December 1969) is a British politician, who is the leader of the Labour Party and of the Official Opposition. He is also the Labour Member of Parliament (MP) for the constituency of Doncaster North, and is a former cabinet minister.

He was born in London, and is the younger son of the Marxist thinker Ralph Miliband. At the London School of Economics, he obtained a Master's degree in economics, and then became an advisor to Labour politicians such as Harriet Harman and Gordon Brown. At the 2005 general election, he was elected to be the MP for Doncaster North. His first job in government, was as the "Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change", which he took up on October 3, 2008 and remained as until Labour lost the 2010 General Election.

In September 2010, he defeated his brother David Miliband by a small number of votes to become leader of the Labour Party.


</doc>
<doc id="105124" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105124" title="Andy Burnham">
Andy Burnham

Andrew Murray Burnham (born 7 January 1970) is an English politician. He was a candidate in the 2010 Labour leadership election. At the moment Burnham is Shadow Secretary of State for Education within Ed Miliband's Shadow Cabinet. He is the Member of Parliament for the Leigh constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected in the 2001 general election. 

He is a member of the Labour Party.


</doc>
<doc id="105125" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105125" title="Shaun Woodward">
Shaun Woodward

Shaun Anthony Woodward (born October 26, 1958 in Bristol, England) is a British politician and is the Shadow Secretary of State for Northern Ireland in Ed Miliband's shadow cabinet. He is the Labour Party Member of Parliament (MP) for the constituency of St Helens South in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom. 

He was first elected in the 1997 general election as the Conservative Party MP for the constituency of Witney but changed to Labour in 1999. At the 2001 General Election he was made the MP for the St Helens South constituency and was the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland from 2007 to 2010. When Ed Miliband became Labour leader, Shaun Woodward was made the Shadow Secretary of State for Northern Ireland. 


</doc>
<doc id="105126" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105126" title="Yvette Cooper">
Yvette Cooper

Yvette Cooper (born March 20, 1969) is an English politician and the current Shadow Foreign Secretary. She is the Member of Parliament for the Normanton, Pontefract and Castleford constituency in the United Kingdom. She was first elected in the 1997 general election as member for Pontefract and Castleford.

Her husband, Ed Balls, represents the neighbouring constituency of Morley and Outwood

She is a member of the Labour Party.


</doc>
<doc id="105127" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105127" title="John Denham">
John Denham

John Yorke Denham (born July 15, 1953) is an English politician. He is the Member of Parliament for the Southampton Itchen constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected in the 1992 general election. 

He has held many ministerial posts, including


He is a member of the Labour Party.


</doc>
<doc id="105138" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105138" title="Limnology">
Limnology

Limnology is the study of waters that are not part of the oceans or seas. These are rivers, lakes, swamps, water under the ground, and even bodies of water made by people. Scientists who do this are called "limnologists". Their work includes biology, chemistry, physics, geology, and hydrology.
Limnology is the scientific study of the life and phenomena of inland water, including lakes, rivers, streams and wetlands. The "International Society of Limnology" promotes limnology to scientists throughout the world. There are many centres for research in Limnology in many countries of the world. 

Limnology helps to explain why some lakes have lots of plants and animals and some have very few. The Freshwater Biological Association which is based next to Windermere in England did a lot of the early work. Limnologists there worked out why deep lakes have cold water at the bottom in summer-time but not in Winter. The reason was winds in Autumn mixing the waters up.


</doc>
<doc id="105153" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105153" title="Toyota RAV4">
Toyota RAV4

The Toyota RAV4 is a small sized SUV made by Toyota. Toyota has made the RAV4 since 1994, but has sold it in America since 1996. The RAV4 is sold in a 4-door with an optional V6 engine, the RAV4 is more of a car-like SUV than a truck sized one. The RAV4 EV was an electric version sold in California from 1996 to 2003. The RAV4 shares competition with the similar Honda CR-V, Subaru Forester and Ford Escape. RAV4 stands for Recreational Active Vehicle with 4-wheel-drive.


</doc>
<doc id="105155" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105155" title="Toyota MR2">
Toyota MR2

The Toyota MR2 and MR2 Spyder were sports cars made by Toyota. They were sold from 1984 until 2007. The MR2 is a mid-engine sports car, similar to cars by Ferrari and Porsche. MR2 is an acronym for midship, rear-wheel-drive, two-seater.


</doc>
<doc id="105156" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105156" title="Geo Tracker">
Geo Tracker

The Geo Tracker was a small sports utility vehicle made by Suzuki for General Motors from 1989 to 2004. The Tracker was a Geo version of the Suzuki Sidekick and had a 4-door version until 2004 when it was replaced by the Chevrolet Equinox.


</doc>
<doc id="105160" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105160" title="Wheaton College">
Wheaton College

Wheaton College is a private Evangelical Protestant college in Wheaton, Illinois, a suburb west of Chicago in the United States. It was founded in 1860.



</doc>
<doc id="105163" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105163" title="Sacred site">
Sacred site

A sacred site is a place that is thought of as sacred (or holy) to a particular religion. Every one of the world's major religions has sacred sites. Some religions, such as Islam, think of the sacred sites as being very important to their faith. In other religions such as Protestant Christianity, sacred sites are not very important. 

The idea that some places are "sacred" or especially holy has existed for many thousands of years. The idea that a place is sacred often comes from something that has happened at the place, or a religious story about that place. Mount Sinai is a sacred site for Jews and Christians because it was on Mount Sinai that Moses received the Ten Commandments of God. 

The "sacred site" might be a natural site, or it might be a building of some sort. One of the most famous natural sites that is also a sacred site is Uluru (also called Ayre's Rock) in Central Australia. It is believed to have been sacred to the aboriginal people for about 40,000 years. Other famous natural sites are the sacred trees of India, Japan and South East Asia.

Very often, buildings have been made on natural sites that were already thought of as sacred. For example, a spring of water coming from the ground might be said to have healing powers. A special well-house might be built around the spring to protect it, and as a place where people might leave offerings (gifts to a god). 

Other sites are thought of as sacred because a holy person or saint lived there, or died there, or their body is kept there. The Church of the Holy Sepulchre in Jerusalem is one of the most sacred sites to Christianity because it is believed that Jesus' body was placed in a tomb there. The city of Mecca is sacred to all Muslim people as the birthplace of the prophet Muhammad. 

Many people make a special visit to a sacred site. This is called a pilgrimage. A person who travels on pilgrimage is called a "pilgrim". Pilgrimage is very important in Islam, because every Muslim person is expected to make a pilgrimage to the city of Mecca once in their lifetime, if they can possibly do so. 

Many Christians also make pilgrimages to sacred sites. Pilgrimage became very important in the Middle Ages when thousands of people travelled to many sacred sites, particularly to Jerusalem, to the famous Christian basilicas of Rome, to the Cathedral of Santiago de Compostela in Spain and Canterbury Cathedral in England. In modern times, sacred sites of Christian pilgrimage include Assisi in Italy, Lourdes in France, Fatima in Portugal and the Basilica of Our Lady of Guadalupe in Mexico City. 

In Buddhism, the sacred sites are four places in India where Buddha lived and preached. These are Kapilavastu, Bodh Gaya, Benares and Kusinagara. 



</doc>
<doc id="105170" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105170" title="Basil II">
Basil II

Basil II (958 – December 15 1025), was a Byzantine emperor from the Macedonian dynasty from January 10 976 to December 15, 1025. Under his reign, the Byzantine Empire reached its greatest height in nearly five centuries.




</doc>
<doc id="105174" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105174" title="Battle of Manzikert">
Battle of Manzikert

The Battle of Manzikert, or Malazgirt (Turkish: "Malazgirt Savaşı") was fought between the Byzantine Empire and Seljuq Empire. The Seljuq forces attacked on August 26, 1071 near Manzikert, (modern Malazgirt, Turkey). Its result was one of the most decisive defeats of the Byzantine Empire and the capture of the Byzantine Emperor Romanos IV Diogenes. The Battle of Manzikert played an important role in breaking the Byzantine resistance and preparing the way for the Turkish settlement in Anatolia. 




</doc>
<doc id="105184" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105184" title="Mark Lawrenson">
Mark Lawrenson

Mark Thomas Lawrenson (born Preston, Lancashire, June 2, 1957) is a former professional football player, a defender in the Liverpool and Irishfootball teams of the 1980s; he has since become a radio, television and internet pundit for the BBC. 

Despite being born in England, UK, he played for the Republic of Ireland national football team due to his Irish ancestry.


</doc>
<doc id="105185" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105185" title="Red Square">
Red Square

Red Square (Russian: Красная площадь, Krasnaya ploshchad) is the most famous city square in Moscow, Russia. The square separates the Kremlin, the former royal citadel and currently the official residence of the President of Russia, from a historic merchant quarter known as Kitay-gorod (China-Town). As major streets of Moscow radiate from here in all directions, being promoted to major highways outside the city, the Red Square is often considered the central square of Moscow and of all Russia.

Joseph Stalin's body was preserved near Read Square, in Lenin's mausoleum. It was later moved and reburied deep behind the Kremlin Wall without any ceremony.

Red Square is a popular tourist attraction in Russia.


</doc>
<doc id="105192" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105192" title="George I of Great Britain">
George I of Great Britain

George I (George Louis) was born in Osnabrück, Germany, on 28 May 1660, and was the ruler of Hanover in North Germany. He died while going back to Hanover from England on 11 June 1727.

George married his cousin Sophia Dorothea (the daughter of his father's brother George William) in 1682.

On 10 November 1683, their first child and only son, George Augustus, was born. When George Louis was King of Great Britain, George Augustus was the Prince of Wales. When the father died, the son became king, as George II.

On 16 March 1687, their second child and only daughter was born. She was called Sophia Dorothea, after her mother. She later married and became the Queen in Prussia. Because she was married, she did not live in Britain with her father, but in Prussia with her husband.

George and his wife drifted apart, because he preferred his mistress Melusine, with whom he had three daughters, Anna, Melusine and Margaret. Meanwhile, his wife was having an affair with Count Philip Christopher of Königsmarck, who was found dead in a river, rumoured to have been murdered on George's orders.

The marriage was ended in 1694, on the grounds that Sophia Dorothea had effectively abandoned George. Sophia Dorothea's father, George William, and George Louis, had Sophia Dorothea imprisoned in Ahlden Castle in Celle, where she was unable to see her father, former husband, or children.

When Queen Anne of Great Britain died in 1714, an act of parliament said the next ruler must be a Protestant. George was not the closest relative, but was the closest Protestant one. Closer relatives were all Roman Catholic, so George became King of Great Britain and Ireland on 1 August 1714.

He was the first ruler of Great Britain from his family, the House of Hanover. 
Many of the British people did not like the new king. It was thought that he did not speak English, but this may have been untrue.


</doc>
<doc id="105194" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105194" title="Official Opposition (United Kingdom)">
Official Opposition (United Kingdom)

Her Majesty's Loyal Opposition, or the Official Opposition in the United Kingdom is led by the The Leader of the Opposition. This is usually the political party with the second largest number of seats in the House of Commons, as the largest party will usually form the government. Since May, 2010, the Official Opposition has been the Labour Party.


</doc>
<doc id="105195" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105195" title="Leader of the Opposition (United Kingdom)">
Leader of the Opposition (United Kingdom)

The Leader of the Opposition (sometimes known as the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Commons) in the United Kingdom is the politician who leads Her Majesty's Loyal Opposition. The Leader of the Opposition is normally the leader of the second largest party in the House of Commons.

The current Leader of the Opposition is Harriet Harman from the Labour Party.


</doc>
<doc id="105198" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105198" title="David Davis">
David Davis

David Michael Davis (born 23 December 1948) is an English politician and the current Shadow Home Secretary. He is the Member of Parliament for the Haltemprice and Howden constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected in the 1987 general election for the Boothferry constituency.

On 12 June 2008, Davis said he was going to resign as an MP, and was immediately replaced as Shadow Home Secretary. This was to force a by-election in his seat, for which he intended to seek re-election by mounting a specific campaign designed to provoke wider public debate about the erosion of civil liberties in the United Kingdom. Following his formal resignation as an MP on 18 June 2008, he officially became the Conservative candidate in the resulting by-election and won it on 10 July 2008.

He is a member of the Conservative Party.


</doc>
<doc id="105199" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105199" title="William Hague">
William Hague

William Jefferson Hague (pronounced "HAIG"; born March 26, 1961) is a British politician and is the current Foreign Secretary and Secretary of State. He was the leader of the Conservative Party from June 1997 to September 2001. He is the Member of Parliament for the Richmond (York) constituency in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom. 

William Hague was born in Rotherham in South Yorkshire, England. He first gained national attention when he spoke at the 1977 Conservative Party conference aged 16. He was educated at the University of Oxford. Hague first became a Member of Parliament at a by-election in 1989. In 1995, William Hague was made the Secretary of State for Wales until 1997 when the Conservatives lost the general election. He was elected as Conservative Party leader in 1997. Following the Conservative's defeat in the 2001 General Election, he resigned from the position and was succeeded by Iain Duncan Smith.

He went on to write biographies of William Pitt the Younger and William Wilberforce and in 2005, when David Cameron became the Conservative Party leader, Hague was made the Shadow Foreign Secretary. 


</doc>
<doc id="105200" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105200" title="George Osborne">
George Osborne

George Gideon Oliver Osborne (born May 23, 1971) is an British politician and is the Chancellor of the Exchequer in the current coalition government. He is the Conservative Party Member of Parliament for the Tatton constituency in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom. He was first elected in the 2001 general election.

George Osborne was born in Paddington, London, England and was educated at the University of Oxford. He became an MP in 2001 and entered the shadow cabinet in 2004. In 2005, Osborne was made the Shadow Chancellor of the Exchequer by Michael Howard and held this post when David Cameron became leader of the Conservative Party. Osborne became Chancellor of the Exchequer on 12 May 2010 and since then has outlined £6.2 billion worth of cuts to help reduce the budget deficit.

Osborne is part of the old Anglo-Irish aristocracy, known in Ireland as the "Ascendancy". He is the heir to the Osborne baronetcy (of Ballentaylor, in County Tipperary, and Ballylemon, in County Waterford).


</doc>
<doc id="105201" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105201" title="Shadow Minister">
Shadow Minister

A Shadow Minister is a member of a political opposition party, not in power, who provides an alternative to the Minister of the Government. Shadow Ministers form a Shadow Cabinet.


</doc>
<doc id="105217" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105217" title="Category:1660 births">
Category:1660 births


</doc>
<doc id="105223" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105223" title="Trojanus of Saintes">
Trojanus of Saintes

Trojanus of Saintes (died c.530) was a 6 century bishop of Saintes, in France. 

He is a Catholic saint, also known as Trojan and Troyen. His feast day is held on 30 November.


</doc>
<doc id="105224" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105224" title="Category:530 deaths">
Category:530 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="105225" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105225" title="530">
530



</doc>
<doc id="105226" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105226" title="Category:530">
Category:530


</doc>
<doc id="105227" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105227" title="Celestus microblepharis">
Celestus microblepharis

Celestus microblepharis are a kind of lizard of the Anguidae family. It can only be found in Jamaica.


</doc>
<doc id="105228" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105228" title="Anguidae">
Anguidae

Anguidae is a family of lizards.

Family Anguidae


</doc>
<doc id="105229" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105229" title="Celestus">
Celestus

Celestus is a genus of lizards.

Genus "Celestus"


</doc>
<doc id="105230" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105230" title="Giant Hispaniolan Galliwasp">
Giant Hispaniolan Galliwasp

The Giant Hispaniolan Galliwasp (Celestus warreni) is a kind of lizard of the Anguidae family. It can be found in the Dominican Republic and Haiti. It is threatened by habitat loss.


</doc>
<doc id="105234" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105234" title="Celestus duquesneyi">
Celestus duquesneyi

Celestus duquesneyi is a kind of lizard of the Anguidae family. It can only be found in Jamaica.


</doc>
<doc id="105235" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105235" title="Celestus fowleri">
Celestus fowleri

Celestus fowleri is a kind of lizard of the Anguidae family. It can only be found in Jamaica.


</doc>
<doc id="105236" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105236" title="Jamaica Giant Galliwasp">
Jamaica Giant Galliwasp

The Jamaica Giant Galliwasp (Celestus occiduus) is a kind of lizard of the Anguidae family. It can only be found in Jamaica. The Giant Galliwasp is an endangered specie.


</doc>
<doc id="105239" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105239" title="Tammy Wynette">
Tammy Wynette

Virginia Wynette Pugh (usually known as Tammy Wynette, May 5, 1942 - April 6, 1998), was an American country music singer, born in Mississippi.

The best known of her songs is "Stand by Your Man". She had 17 number one hits during her career.

Wynette was married 5 times. Her third husband was George Jones, also a singer of country music.



</doc>
<doc id="105246" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105246" title="Tricity">
Tricity

Triciti (Polish Trójmiasto) is the unofficial name of an urban area with 3 cities: Gdańsk, Gdynia and Sopot. Tricity is a big centre for tourism.


</doc>
<doc id="105247" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105247" title="Kaliningrad Oblast">
Kaliningrad Oblast

Kaliningrad Oblast (, ) is an exclave of Russia bordered by Poland, Lithuania and Baltic Sea. A capital of Kaliningrad Oblast is Kaliningrad.


</doc>
<doc id="105249" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105249" title="966">
966


</doc>
<doc id="105253" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105253" title="Coat of Arms of Poland">
Coat of Arms of Poland

A official Coat of Arms of Poland is the White Eagle with golden crown in its head on red shield.

The White Eagle came from a legend about Lech.


</doc>
<doc id="105254" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105254" title="Christianization">
Christianization

Christianization is when country, nation or region change faith to Christianity. Very often it is started by taking Baptism by local ruler.


</doc>
<doc id="105259" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105259" title="Category:966">
Category:966


</doc>
<doc id="105264" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105264" title="Adam Sandler">
Adam Sandler

Adam Sandler (born September 9, 1966) is an American comedian, actor, musician, screenwriter, and film producer. he is best known for his comedic roles, such as in the movies "Billy Madison", "Happy Gilmore", and the Waterboy "Big Daddy".


</doc>
<doc id="105265" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105265" title="Anguis">
Anguis

Even though they are lizards, slow worms have lost their legs and are usually mistaken for snakes.

Subfamily Anguinae


</doc>
<doc id="105266" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105266" title="Anguis fragilis">
Anguis fragilis

Anguis fragilis (the "slow worm", "slow-worm", "slowworm", "blindworm" or "blind worm") is a limbless (meaning it has no legs or arms) reptile that lives only in Eurasia. It is also a lizard.

When a slow-worm is in danger it can shed (break off) its tail and escape. It can then grow back a new, shorter tail, which it cannot shed.

The female often has a stripe along the back and the male may have blue spots.

Instead of laying eggs, the females give birth to live young (viviparous birth). In the days leading up to birth the female can often be seen basking in the sun on a warm road. 

Slow-worms are often called snakes, but they are not. Slow-worms can blink, but snakes cannot. They shed their skin in patches like other lizards, rather than the whole skin as most snakes do.

Adult slow-worms grow to be about 50 centimetres long. They are known for their very long life. One was said to have been fifty four years old. 

There are not as many slow-worms as there used to be. Many places where they used to live have been built on. In gardens they can be killed by cats.


</doc>
<doc id="105269" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105269" title="MLB on ESPN Radio">
MLB on ESPN Radio

Major League Baseball on ESPN Radio is a broadcast presentation of Major League Baseball on ESPN Radio. The games include the Opening Day game, the Sunday Night Baseball games, Saturday afternoon games, holiday games (like Memorial Day games) and September pennant race games. The All-Star Game and all of the playoffs can also be heard on ESPN Radio including the Division Series, League Championship Series and the World Series.

In addition to affiliate stations on AM/FM radio, ESPN Radio's game broadcasts are also on XM Satellite Radio. They are not included in the subscription "Gameday Audio" package on MLB.com, however.

On September 27, 1997, ESPN outbid CBS Radio to become the exclusive national radio broadcaster of Major League Baseball. This was very surprising, considering that CBS Radio had been the national broadcaster since 1976. 

The agreement lasted seven years through 2004 and gave ESPN Radio the rights to broadcast numerous games including opening Day, "Sunday Night Baseball", Saturday "Game of the Week", holiday games, September pennant race games, the All-Star Game and all of the playoffs, including the World Series.

Then on October 21, 2004, ESPN Radio extended its then seven year relationship with Major League Baseball with a five year, $55 million dollar contract extension through the 2010 season.

The agreement also added a weekly program devoted to baseball, which became "The Baseball Show" from 3 p.m. ET to 7 p.m. ET on Sundays during the regular season. The program is hosted by John Seibel and Steve Phillips.

ESPN Radio's lead broadcasting crew consists of Gary Thorne and Dave Campbell. Thorne succeeded Dan Shulman, who had called for the network since 2002; Shulman, in turn, had been preceded by Charley Steiner from 1998-2002. Campbell replaced Kevin Kennedy as analyst in 2000. The pregame host for all of the games since its debut has been Joe D'Ambrosio.

The broadcast team for the World Series and one League Championship Series is Jon Miller and Hall of Famer Joe Morgan. During all of the games there is also the "ESPN Radio SportsCenter" every twenty minutes with live cut ins during the games.


</doc>
<doc id="105281" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105281" title="Calixa Lavallée">
Calixa Lavallée

Calixa Lavallée, (born Quebec, 28 December 1842; died Boston, 21 January, 1891), was a Canadian-American composer. For many years he was a travelling musician. Later he worked hard to improve music education in Canada. He is famous for composing the music for the Canadian national anthem "O Canada".

Lavallée was born into a French-Canadian family. Originally his name was Calixte Paquet. His father made musical instruments and played in a band. He learned to play the piano, violin and cornet. He went to the United States and played in a band during the American Civil War. For many years he travelled, playing and teaching. He became artistic director of the New York Grand Opera House which put on minstrel shows rather than proper operas. When the theatre closed in 1872 he went back to Montreal. His friends got enough money together to help him go to France to study at the Paris Conservatoire. There he studied under famous teachers including Boieldieu.

When he went back to Canada he wanted to help to improve the state of music education there. He set up a small music school in Quebec but it was always difficult for him to get money from the authorities. He composed the music to “O Canada” which soon became the Canadian national anthem.

Shortly after that he went to the United States again. He became music director of the Roman Catholic cathedral in Boston and became very active with the Music Teachers’ National Association. He died of tuberculosis in 1891. In 1933 his remains were taken back to Montreal where they were buried in the cemetery.

Besides the tune to "O Canada", Lavallée wrote many works, including some comic operas: "Loulou", "Tiq" and "The King of Diamonds". Most of the music that was published consists of his lighter pieces, including a short piece for piano called "Papillon" ("Butterfly") which became extremely popular in North America as well as Europe.



</doc>
<doc id="105295" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105295" title="Sepsis">
Sepsis

A Sepsis is a very dangerous disease. It occurs when an infection goes wrong. The pathogen was at some point able to get into the blood or tissues. The term sepsis is frequently used to refer to septicemia (blood poisoning). Septicemia is only one type of sepsis. Bacteremia specifically refers to the presence of bacteria in the bloodstream (viremia and fungemia are the terms used for viruses and fungi).

Common symptoms of sepsis are inflammations all over the body. This is often combined with high fever. Today, people believe, these symptoms are caused by the immune system trying to fight the disease. Because of the strong reactions, organs can be damaged in the process. 

In the United States, sepsis is the leading cause of death for ICU patients which do not have heart problems. Data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention shows it is the tenth most common cause of death overall. Older people, those with a weak immune system and those with a strong illness suffer from sepis more often. It is also more dangerous to them. It occurs in 1%-2% of all hospitalizations and accounts for as much as 25% of intensive care unit (ICU) bed utilization. It is a major cause of death in intensive care units worldwide, with mortality rates that range from 20% for sepsis to 40% for "severe sepsis" to over 60% for "septic shock".

Severe sepsis and septic shock are more severe forms of sepis. With severe sepsis, one or more organs fail to work. Septic shock is when sepis is combined with very low blood pressure

Today, the bacterial forms of sepsis can be treated with antibiotics. In addition, the bad fluids (blood) have to be replaced. It might also necessary to functionally replace the organs that failed. 

About half the people affected die from the condition. Rapid access to treatment will increase the chances of survival, in most cases.



</doc>
<doc id="105297" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105297" title="Patrick McLoughlin">
Patrick McLoughlin

Patrick Allen McLoughlin (born November 30, 1957) is an English politician and the current Chief Whip, which is the same job he had in opposition. He was first elected in 1986 in a by-election as the Member of Parliament for the West Derbyshire constituency in the United Kingdom, and since 2010 for its successor, the Derbyshire Dales constituency. 

He is a member of the Conservative Party.


</doc>
<doc id="105298" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105298" title="Oliver Letwin">
Oliver Letwin

Oliver Letwin (born 19 May 1956) is an English politician and he is currently the Minister of State at the Cabinet Office as well as the Chairman of Policy Review, and Chairman of the Conservative Research Department. He is the Member of Parliament for the West Dorset constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected in the 1997 general election.

He is a member of the Conservative Party.


</doc>
<doc id="105299" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105299" title="Caroline Spelman">
Caroline Spelman

Caroline Alice Spelman (born May 4, 1958) is an English politician. She is the Meriden constituency in the United Kingdom. She was first elected in the 1997 general election.

In May 2010 she became Secretary of State for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs in David Cameron's coalition cabinet, and was sworn as a Privy Counsellor on 13 May 2010.

She is a member of the Conservative Party.


</doc>
<doc id="105300" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105300" title="Philip Hammond">
Philip Hammond

Philip Hammond (born December 4, 1955) is an English politician and was made Secretary of State for Transport on 12 May 2010, and a Privy Counsellor on 13 May 2010.. He is the Member of Parliament for the Runnymede and Weybridge constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected in the 1997 general election.

He is a member of the Conservative Party.


</doc>
<doc id="105301" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105301" title="Andrew Mitchell">
Andrew Mitchell

Andrew John Bower Mitchell (born March 23, 1956)) is an English politician. He was appointed as Secretary of State for International Development on 12 May 2010, and as a Privy Counsellor on 13 May 2010.. He is the Member of Parliament for the Sutton Coldfield constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected in the 1987 general election for the Gedling constituency but lost in 1997. He returned to parliament in the 2001 general election.

He is a member of the Conservative Party.


</doc>
<doc id="105303" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105303" title="David Mundell">
David Mundell

David Gordon Mundell (born May 27, 1962) is a British politician and is the Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Scotland. He is the Conservative Party Member of Parliament for the Dumfriesshire, Clydesdale and Tweeddale constituency in the United Kingdom. Currently, he is the only Conservative Party MP who represents a Scottish constituency.

David Mundell was born in Dumfries, Scotland and was educated at the University of Edinburgh. In 1999 and 2003, he was elected as a Member of the Scottish Parliament (MSP) for the South of Scotland region however resigned as an MSP following the 2005 General Election when he was elected as an MP. From December 2005 to the 2010 General Election, he was the Shadow Secretary of State for Scotland. After the 2010 election, a Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition was formed and because the Liberal Democrats have more Scottish MP's than the Conservatives, a Liberal Democrat was given the post of Scottish secretary.


</doc>
<doc id="105304" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105304" title="Cheryl Gillan">
Cheryl Gillan

Cheryl Elise Kendall Gillan (born April 21, 1952 in Cardiff, Wales) is a British politician and is the Secretary of State for Wales. She is a Conservative Party Member of Parliament (MP) for the Chesham and Amersham constituency in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom.

She was first elected in the 1992 general election and became the Shadow Secretary of State for Wales in 2005. When the Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition was formed on May 11, 2010, she became the Secretary of State for Wales.


</doc>
<doc id="105305" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105305" title="Owen Paterson">
Owen Paterson

Owen William Paterson (born June 24, 1956 in Shropshire, England) is a British politician who is the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland. He is a Conservative Party Member of Parliament (MP) for the constituency of North Shropshire in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom.

He was first elected in the 1997 general election and first entered the shadow cabinet in 2007.


</doc>
<doc id="105306" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105306" title="Alan Duncan">
Alan Duncan

Alan James Carter Duncan (born 31 March 1957) is an English politician and a Minister of State in the Department for International Development. 

He is the Member of Parliament for the Rutland and Melton constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected in the 1992 general election.

He is a member of the Conservative Party.

He is openly gay and in a civil partnership.


</doc>
<doc id="105307" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105307" title="Theresa May">
Theresa May

Theresa Mary May (née Brazier, born October 1, 1956 in Eastbourne, East Sussex, England) is an British politician who is the Home Secretary and Minister for Women and Equality in the Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition government. She is the Member of Parliament (MP) for the constituency of Maidenhead in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom.

She first became a Conservative Party MP at the 1997 general election and was promoted to the shadow cabinet in 1999. She held several positions in the shadow cabinet, including Chairman of the Conservative Party (July 2002-November 2003) and Shadow Leader of the House of Commons (December 2005-January 2009).

She became the Home Secretary and Minister for Women and Equality on May 12, 2010.


</doc>
<doc id="105308" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105308" title="Francis Maude">
Francis Maude

Francis Anthony Aylmer Maude (born July 4, 1953) is an English politician and the current Minister for the Cabinet Office and Paymaster General. He is the Member of Parliament for the Horsham constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected in the 1983 general election for the North Warwickshire constituency but lost in 1992. He returned to parliament in the 1997 general election.

He is a member of the Conservative Party.


</doc>
<doc id="105309" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105309" title="Jeremy Hunt">
Jeremy Hunt

Jeremy Hunt, PC, MP (born November 1, 1966) is an English politician and the current . He is the Member of Parliament for South West Surrey and the Secretary of State for Culture, Olympics, Media and Sport. He was first elected in the 2005 general election.

He is a member of the Conservative Party.

He was appointed as a Privy Counsellor on 13 May 2010.


</doc>
<doc id="105310" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105310" title="Eric Pickles">
Eric Pickles

Eric Jack Pickles (born April 20, 1952 in Keighley, West Yorkshire, England) is a British politician and the current Secretary of State for Communities and Local Government in the Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition government. He is the Conservative Party Member of Parliament (MP) for the constituency of Brentwood and Ongar in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom. 

He was first elected in the 1992 general election and entered the shadow cabinet in 2007. He was the Chairman of the Conservative Party from January 2009 to May 2010, when he was replaced by Baroness Warsi and was appointed the Secretary of State for Communities and Local Government instead.


</doc>
<doc id="105311" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105311" title="Peter Ainsworth">
Peter Ainsworth

Peter Michael Ainsworth (born November 16, 1956) was an English politician and was Shadow Secretary of State for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs. He was the Member of Parliament for the East Surrey constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected in the 1992 general election, but decided not to stand for reelection in 2010.

He is a member of the Conservative Party.


</doc>
<doc id="105312" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105312" title="Chris Grayling">
Chris Grayling

Christopher Stephen Grayling (born April 1, 1962) is an English politician and a current Minister of State in the Department for Work and Pensions. He is the Member of Parliament for the Epsom and Ewell constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected in the 2001 general election.

He is a member of the Conservative Party.

He was appointed as a Privy Counsellor on 9 June 2010.


</doc>
<doc id="105313" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105313" title="Nick Herbert">
Nick Herbert

Nicholas Le Quesne Herbert (born April 7, 1963) is an English politician and the Member of Parliament for the Arundel and South Downs constituency. He was the current Shadow Justice Secretary, and is currently Minister of State for Police/Justice, with his time split between the Home Office and the Ministry of Justice. He is . He was first elected in the 2005 general election.

He is a member of the Conservative Party.


</doc>
<doc id="105314" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105314" title="Theresa Villiers">
Theresa Villiers

Theresa Anne Villiers (born March 5, 1968) is an English politician. She was first elected in the 2005 general election. She is the Member of Parliament (MP) for Chipping Barnet and the Minister of State for Transport.

She was appointed as a Privy Counsellor on 9 June 2010. 

She is a member of the Conservative Party.


</doc>
<doc id="105315" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105315" title="Andrew Lansley">
Andrew Lansley

Andrew David Lansley (born 11 December 1956 in Hornchurch, Essex, England) is a British politician who is the Secretary of State for Health in the Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition government. He is the Conservative Party Member of Parliament (MP) for the South Cambridgeshire constituency in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom. He was first elected as an MP in the 1997 general election.

He was made a Privy Counsellor on 13 May 2010.


</doc>
<doc id="105316" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105316" title="David Willetts">
David Willetts

David Linsay Willetts (born March 9, 1956) is an English politician and the current Minister of State for Universities and Science in the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills. He is the Member of Parliament for the Havant constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected in the 1992 general election.

He is a member of the Conservative Party.


</doc>
<doc id="105317" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105317" title="Michael Gove">
Michael Gove

Michael Andrew Gove (born 26 August 1967) is an English politician. He has been Shadow Secretary of State for Children, Schools and Families, and is Secretary of State for Education since 12 May 2010. He is the Member of Parliament for the Surrey Heath constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected in the 2005 general election.

He is a member of the Conservative Party.

Gove was born in Edinburgh, adopted as a baby and raised in Aberdeen. He is married with a daughter and son and belongs to the Church of England.


</doc>
<doc id="105318" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105318" title="Liam Fox">
Liam Fox

Liam Fox (born September 22, 1961 in East Kilbride, Scotland) is a British politician who is the Defence Secretary in the Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition government. He was the Member of Parliament (MP) for the Woodspring constituency in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom, and since 2010 has represented North Somerset.

Liam Fox studied at the University of Glasgow and became a Conservative Party MP at the 1992 General Election. He served in the shadow cabinet from 1999 to 2010 and became Shadow Defence Secretary in December 2005. In 2005, he tried to become leader of the Conservative Party but lost to David Cameron.


</doc>
<doc id="105320" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105320" title="Missionary">
Missionary

A Missionary is a person or member of a religion who tries to convert people to his own faith. In Christianity, this is called evangelism. Missionaries are usually sent from churches or worship places of the religion. They can also do other things, such as deliver medicines and cure diseases. Most major religions of the world have "missionaries". Some famous missionaries are:





</doc>
<doc id="105337" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105337" title="Partnership">
Partnership

A partnership is when two or more people work together to complete a task. Businesses are usually in "partnership" with other companies for the profit of each other. If one business ends up losing money they both share the loss.


</doc>
<doc id="105339" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105339" title="Ruth Graham">
Ruth Graham

Ruth Bell Graham (June 10, 1920 – June 14, 2007) is the wife of evangelist Billy Graham. She was born at Qingjiang, Kiangsu, China as Ruth McCue Bell, the second of five children. Her parents, Dr. and Mrs. L. Nelson Bell, were medical missionaries at the Presbyterian Hospital 300 miles north of Shanghai.



</doc>
<doc id="105372" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105372" title="Nick Clegg">
Nick Clegg

Nicholas William Peter " "Nick" Clegg (born 7 January 1967 in Chalfont St. Giles, Buckinghamshire, England) is a British politician and the Deputy Prime Minister of the United Kingdom in the Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition government and is also the leader of the Liberal Democrats. He is the Member of Parliament (MP) for the constituency of Sheffield Hallam. 

Nick Clegg was a Member of the European Parliament (MEP) from 1999 to 2004 and was first elected as a Liberal Democrat MP in the 2005 general election. He became the leader of the Liberal Democrats in December 2007. Following the 2010 General Election, he was made Deputy Prime Minister after a coalition deal with the Conservative Party.

Clegg has been married to Miriam González Durántez since 2000; they have three sons. Durantez is a Spanish Roman Catholic, and their children are being raised as Catholics, even though Clegg is an atheist.

Clegg's family has many foreign members- his grandmother on his father's side was a Russian Baroness before the Russian Revolution, with German and Ukrainian ancestors, while Clegg's Dutch mother was imprisoned by the Japanese in World War II. Clegg is multilingual (he speaks Dutch, English, French, German and Spanish fluently). He says that his family's experience of persecution is one of the reasons he is liberal.

Clegg was born in Buckinghamshire. He went to Caldicott primary school and Westminster secondary school. He spent a gap year working as a skiing instructor in Austria before starting university at Cambridge, where he studied Anthropology.

After his degree, he was given a scholarship to study for a Master's degree at the University of Minnesota. He then worked as an intern for Christopher Hitchens in New York for a while before going to Brussels to work for the European Union as a trainee aid organiser. He then studied for a second Master's at the College of Europe in Bruges where he met Durantez.

From 1994 to 1998, he worked at the European Commission, where he developed aid programmes to the former Soviet Union and helped the World Trade Organisation to negotiate the entries of Russia and China.

In 1999, Clegg was elected as the Member of the European Parliament for the East Midlands. As an MEP, he helped to start a campaign for greater accountability in the European Parliament.

In 2004, he left the Parliament in order to campaign for the Sheffield Hallam constituency seat in the 2005 General Election. During the campaign, he worked as a part-time lecturer at the University of Sheffield.

Clegg won the 2005 election, and became the Member of Parliament for Sheffield Hallam in May 2005. As an MP, he campaigned to change the prison and immigration systems, and to make sure that the government did not take away too much freedom from people in their work against terrorism. He said that the Iraq War was wrong.

In 2007, he was voted as leader of the Liberal Democrats, and in 2008 he joined the Privy Council, a group of advisors to the Prime Minister.

As leader of the Liberal Democrats, Clegg's main policies have been to get rid of the Trident missile system, to give NHS patients the choice of private medical care, to make the length of time between elections 5 years (at the moment it only has a 5-year limit, meaning that the government can begin a new election at any time), giving more power to local government, tax cuts for the poor and for the government to do more about the environment.

In May 2009, the Liberal Democrats' approval ratings were higher than the Labour Party's for the first time since 1987.

In May 2010, the UK had a General Election which did not produce a clear winner. David Cameron, leader of the Conservative Party, who had got the most votes, asked to form a coalition government with the Liberal Democrats. Clegg accepted, and became Deputy Prime Minister.

In July 2010, he revealed plans to have 50 fewer MPs in Parliament, to change the number of MPs needed to begin a new election without the agreement of the Prime Minister to 65% and to hold a referendum on whether or not to change the system of voting in General Elections.

After the government revealed plans to drastically cut government spending, Liberal Democrat approval ratings dropped to 14%, almost half the 34% rating that was recorded in April 2010.


</doc>
<doc id="105373" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105373" title="Category:Education in the United Kingdom">
Category:Education in the United Kingdom


</doc>
<doc id="105375" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105375" title="Category:British companies">
Category:British companies


</doc>
<doc id="105376" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105376" title="Category:Companies by country">
Category:Companies by country


</doc>
<doc id="105377" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105377" title="Magnús Eiríksson">
Magnús Eiríksson

Magnús Eiríksson (born 22 June, 1806 in Skinnalón, Iceland; died 3 July, 1881 in Copenhagen, Denmark) was an Icelandic theologian. He lived in Copenhagen at the same time as Søren Kierkegaard (1813-1855) and Hans Lassen Martensen (1808-1884) and viewed their opinions on religion and Christianity with a critical eye.

Here are some works by Eiríksson, with the Danish title on the right:


</doc>
<doc id="105382" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105382" title="John Wark">
John Wark

John Wark (born Glasgow, 4 August 1957) is a former Scottish footballer. He used to play football for Ipswich Town F.C. and Liverpool F.C..


</doc>
<doc id="105391" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105391" title="Nusa Penida">
Nusa Penida

Nusa Penida is an island to the southeast of Bali, Indonesia. The island is a subdistrict of the Klungkung regency. There are two small islands nearby: Nusa Lembongan and Nusa Ceningan. The Badung Strait separates the island from Bali while the Lombok Strait separates it from Lombok.
Diving is very popular around the island and there are many Macaques living on the island.


</doc>
<doc id="105392" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105392" title="Category:Islands of Indonesia">
Category:Islands of Indonesia


</doc>
<doc id="105397" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105397" title="Dungeons &amp; Dragons">
Dungeons &amp; Dragons

Dungeons & Dragons is a paper-and-pencil roleplaying game. Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson created Dungeons and Dragons in the year 1974.

Many people today think that role-playing games (RPG's) are only played on a computer, but that is not true. From the early 1970s, role-playing games have been played by people sitting together at the same table, using their imaginations and the written rules of the game to play (as well as dice to generate random numbers when needed). 

Players of this type of role-playing game play as imaginary characters that go on heroic adventures. One person in the group acts as a moderator, or referee (called the "dungeon master," or DM, in Dungeons and Dragons), of the game. This person is responsible for making sure there is a fair use of the rules and is often also in charge of designing fun, interesting adventures for the other players.

There are now many types of fantasy role-playing games, both traditional paper-and-pencil games and computer games. Many genres of games are played (fantasy, science fiction, horror, war, and so on), and there are hundreds of companies that produce their own written rules systems and software products.
Several versions of Dungeons and Dragons have been released. The first version was just called "Dungeons & Dragons." Several rule books were available, depending on the levels of the characters. The first books dealt with characters from levels 1-3. As characters got stronger, players had to move to the more advanced rule books to manage their characters.

After Dungeons and Dragons came Advanced Dungeons and Dragons. This was a new ruleset that was unrelated to the original rules. A second edition of AD&D was released, which is still popular today.

After Wizards of the Coast bought the rights to Dungeons and Dragons, a more streamlined version of the game was released, called Dungeons and Dragons 3rd Edition. This version had simpler rules. Most die-rolls were done with a 20 sided die, instead of different types of multi-sided dice. 

The 3rd edition rules were eventually revised, and version 3.5 was released.

A 4th edition of the rule books was published in June 2008. This is the currently used version of Dungeons and Dragons.


</doc>
<doc id="105402" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105402" title="Sakoku">
Sakoku

Sakoku (Japanese: 鎖国, literally "country in chains" or "lock up of country") was the foreign relations policy of Japan under which no foreigner or Japanese could enter or leave the country on penalty of death. The policy was enacted by the Tokugawa shogunate under Tokugawa Iemitsu through a number of edicts and policies from 1633-1639 and remained in effect until 1853 with the arrival of Commodore Matthew Perry and the opening of Japan. It was still illegal to leave Japan until the Meiji Restoration (1868).

But Japan was not completely isolated under the "sakoku" policy. Rather, it was a system in which strict regulations were applied to commerce and foreign relations by the shogunate.

On July 8, 1853, Commodore Matthew Perry of the U.S. Navy with four warships demanded that Japan open to trade with the West. 
The following year 1854), Perry returned with seven ships and forced the Shogun to sign the "Treaty of Peace and Amity", establishing formal diplomatic relations between Japan and the United States. 




</doc>
<doc id="105404" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105404" title="Borneo">
Borneo

Borneo is the third largest island in the world and can be found at the centre of Maritime Southeast Asia. Administratively, this island is divided between Indonesia, Malaysia and Brunei. Indonesia's region of Borneo is called "Kalimantan" (although Indonesians use the term for the whole island), while Malaysia's region of Borneo is called East Malaysia or Malaysian Borneo. The independent nation of Brunei occupies the remainder of the island.

Borneo is surrounded by the South China Sea to the north and northwest, the Sulu Sea to the northeast, the Celebes Sea and the Makassar Strait to the east, and the Java Sea and Karimata Strait to the south. It has an area of 743,330 km² (287,000 square miles).


</doc>
<doc id="105406" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105406" title="List of islands by area">
List of islands by area

This is a list of islands in the world ordered by area. It includes all islands with an area greater than 250,000 km² (96,526 square miles). Although an island is, in general, any land mass that is completely surrounded by water, some definitions exclude land masses large enough to be considered continents. Placing Australia in the latter category (even though arguments can be made whether it is technically a continent, or merely part of the larger continent called Australasia) makes Greenland the largest island. For the sake of classification the list of islands will begin with Greenland.


</doc>
<doc id="105409" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105409" title="Baffin Island">
Baffin Island

Baffin Island () is an island in the territory of Nunavut. It is the largest member of the Canadian Arctic Archipelago. It is the largest island in Canada and the fifth largest island in the world, with an area of 507,451 km² (195,928 sq mi). It has a population of 11,000 people as of the year 2007. It is named after the British explorer William Baffin. The island was known to the Norse as Helluland.


</doc>
<doc id="105410" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105410" title="Category:Islands of Canada">
Category:Islands of Canada


</doc>
<doc id="105412" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105412" title="Substitution cipher">
Substitution cipher

A substitution cipher is a form of cryptography. 

In a substitution cipher, a rule is used to change each letter of the message, one at a time. The rule says to replace (or "substitute") each letter with another letter from the alphabet. 

For instance, this table gives a rule for a substitution cipher:

Using this rule, the sentence "Jack and Jill went up the hill" is changed to "Etar tzn Evmm gkzc dw cuk uvmm". The Caesar cipher is one example of a substitution cipher.

Substitution ciphers are not safe enough to use for important messages. Substitution ciphers can be broken by an idea called "frequency analysis". Some letters are more common than others in English sentences: "E" is the most common, then "T", then "A", and so on. A message that has been changed by a substitution cipher will have different common letters, but this gives a hint about the rule. The most common letters in the changed message are likely to be the most common letters in English. 

Breaking "cryptograms" (messages hidden with a substitution cipher) is a common puzzle often found in newspapers.

Suppose the changed message is:

For this example, capital letters are used for unknown letters, and lowercase letters are used to denote letters we know or can guess. 

By counting up the letters, we see that the most common is I, which we will guess is an e. X is also quite common, and XLI is found many times; we guess that this is the, the most common three-letter group in English.

E is the second most common letter. We already have a guess for e and t, so we guess that E is a. We now have:

We can now make some more guesses: heVe may be here; Rtate may be state, and atthattMZe could be atthattime. Filling in these guesses, we get:

This lets us make more guesses, which lead to more, until we have guessed everything:

At this point, we can insert spaces and punctuation:

If we had made a wrong guess, we would have found out at some point, and could go back and make a new guess.


</doc>
<doc id="105429" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105429" title="Ken Spreitzer">
Ken Spreitzer

Kenneth J. Spreitzer wrote the original PC program called "UnInstaller". It was first licensed to MicroHelp and now (Feb 1998) sold by CyberMedia. After writing the program, Mr. Spreitzer went on to found Maximized Software.

Mr. Spreitzer is a graduate of the University of California, Irvine in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences. He was also the radio personality "Captain Sensible" as heard on KUCI.



</doc>
<doc id="105432" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105432" title="Brandy &amp; Mr. Whiskers">
Brandy &amp; Mr. Whiskers

Brandy and Mr. Whiskers is a Disney Channel American cartoon series about a rabbit named Whiskers and a female dog named Brandy who get stuck in the Amazon Rainforest together. 



</doc>
<doc id="105436" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105436" title="Dwyane Wade">
Dwyane Wade

Dwyane Tyrone Wade (born January 17, 1982) is an American basketball player. was born in Chicago, Illinois. He attended college at Marquette University on a scholarship. He was on scholarship for basketball but he did not play his first year because of academic problems. The next year he started on Marquette and led them to a good season. The year after that he led the "Marquette Golden Eagles" to the Final Four in the NCAA tournament. After that he went on to the NBA and was selected as the 5th pick overall in the NBA draft by the Miami Heat. He had a good rookie season in the NBA, averaging 15 points per game and 6 assists per game. He soon became a superstar and led the Heat to an NBA championship in 2006. Wade was named the Most Valuable Player (MVP) of the 2006 NBA Finals, in which the Heat beat the Dallas Mavericks.



</doc>
<doc id="105446" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105446" title="Himalayan Wolf">
Himalayan Wolf

The Himalayan Wolf is a kind of wolf that was thought to belong to the Tibetan Wolf family, but it, in fact, may be its own species, "Canis himalayensis".
It is usually found in a small part of northern Republic of India, in Himachal Pradesh state and also in Indian occupied Kashmir and, also in the eastern part of Nepal in the Himalayas. The habitat of the Himalayan Wolf (also known as the Tibeten Wolf) is only in small parts of Pakistan and Kashmir, the Republic of India, and into China and Mongolia.



</doc>
<doc id="105450" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105450" title="Category:Sockpuppets of JtV">
Category:Sockpuppets of JtV


</doc>
<doc id="105451" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105451" title="Angelroda">
Angelroda

Angelroda is a municipality of the district Ilm-Kreis Rural District, in Thuringia, Germany.


</doc>
<doc id="105454" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105454" title="Elgersburg">
Elgersburg

Elgersburg is a municipality in the Ilm-Kreis Rural District, in Thuringia, Germany.


</doc>
<doc id="105457" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105457" title="Hull, Florida">
Hull, Florida

Hull, Florida is in Southwest DeSoto County, Florida in the US. It is from the US capital Washington, DC. About 150 people live there.

Hull had a creosote tie treating plant for the Charlotte Harbor and Northern Railroad. The railroad was acquired by the Seaboard Air Line Railroad in the 1920s. The Seaboard Railroad continued the creosote plant operation through the 1950s. In the late 1920s, Hull became the junction of a new branchline of the SAL to Fort Myers and Naples. Passenger service was operated on the branch. This line was abandoned in 1953.


</doc>
<doc id="105460" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105460" title="Seii">
Seii

Seii (西威) (c. 1326 – c. 1354) was the 2 king of the Okinawan kingdom of Chūzan. He ruled after his father, Tamagusuku, in 1336, when he was only ten years old.


</doc>
<doc id="105461" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105461" title="Category:1326 births">
Category:1326 births


</doc>
<doc id="105462" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105462" title="Category:1354 deaths">
Category:1354 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="105473" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105473" title="Cecil Rhodes">
Cecil Rhodes

Cecil John Rhodes (July 5 1853 - March 26 1902) was an English-born South African businessman businessman and politician. He was the son of an Anglican vicar. He graduated from an English grammar school and at the age of 16 was sent to the British colony of Natal in south Africa due to poor health. There he became involved in diamond mining. He later went back to England to go to Oriel College at Oxford. He was the starter of Rhodesia. He was the starter of the British South Africa Company, which was a corporation that ruled various territories in south Africa that eventually were called Southern Rhodesia and Northern Rhodesia. He also was Prime Minister of Cape Colony. He was supported by the Afrikaner Bond in the Cape Colony until he betrayed the Afrikaners by supporting a rebellion against their relatives the Afrikaners of the South African Republic by his associate Leander Starr Jameson in 1895, after which the Bond forced him to resign. He supported the Liberal Party and the Irish Parliamentary Party in domestic politics in the UK. Rhodes was the starter of the Rhodes scholarships, program by the United Kingdom permitting citizens of British colonies, of the United States, and of Germany, all to study at Oxford on a scholarship if they demonstrated certain academic and character qualities. He was a Freemason. In his last years he was the victim of stalking by Princess Catherine Radziwill, a Polish adventuress.


</doc>
<doc id="105486" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105486" title="Kaioo">
Kaioo

kaioo is a social networking website where people can communicate using messages, video and photo uploads, blogs, social groups, and music. Users can also create their own networks that are within the kaioo-network. This means they get a network where the user can change the style and their own Domain (such as myschool.kaioo.com or myschool-network.com).

"kaioo" is a non-profit organisation. There is no advertisement in the networks. Only in the geographical networks like Language, Country, City there will be advertisement. kaioo gives all money they earn with these advertisements to poor people.



</doc>
<doc id="105493" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105493" title="Akira Toriyama">
Akira Toriyama

Akira Toriyama (born on April 5, 1955, in Kiyosu, Aichi, Japan) is the creator of many popular anime and manga series, most notably the Dragon Ball franchise. It has many media adaptions, and is now one of the most popular series of all time.


</doc>
<doc id="105495" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105495" title="I. M. Pei">
I. M. Pei

Ieoh Ming Pei (born April 26, 1917) is a Chinese American architect. Pei has been an important name in his field, with his buildings built all over the world.


</doc>
<doc id="105497" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105497" title="Isaac Bashevis Singer">
Isaac Bashevis Singer

Isaac Bashevis Singer (November 21, 1902 – July 24, 1991) was a leading author in the Yiddish literature. He was an American who was born in Poland. He won the Nobel Prize in literature.


</doc>
<doc id="105498" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105498" title="John von Neumann">
John von Neumann

John von Neumann (December 28, 1903 – February 8, 1957) was an American mathematician who made contributions to many fields including:
He is generally regarded as one of the most important mathematicians of the 20th century.

He also was one of the first to propose the idea of self replicating machines. This is why a machine that can replicate itself is now commonly referred to as a Von Neumann Machine


</doc>
<doc id="105501" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105501" title="Iwan Roberts">
Iwan Roberts

Iwan Wyn Roberts (born 26 June, 1968 in Bangor, Wales) is a tall Welsh man who played football for the Welsh national team and several English club sides, including Norwich City F.C. and Wolverhampton Wanderers F.C..

At Norwich, Roberts twice won the "player of the year" trophy.

As a player, Roberts was a striker.


</doc>
<doc id="105502" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105502" title="Ballpoint pen">
Ballpoint pen

A ballpoint pen (also called a biro - pronounced "BY-roe" - in British English after its inventor László Bíró), is a modern kind of pen for writing. The ink is inside a long, thin unit inside the pen. When a person writes with it, the ink comes onto the small, ball-shaped tip of the unit. The ink dries almost as soon as it is on the paper.

Before the ballpoint pen was invented people usually wrote with pens which were dipped into ink, or fountain pens which were filled with ink whenever the ink was all used up. When the ballpoint pen was invented, many people thought they were bad things to use because people's handwriting was not so good. Children in schools had to continue to use ordinary ink pens. However, ballpoint pens were improved, and they are much easier to use than pens that need to be dipped in ink, so almost everybody writes with them now.

The inventor László Bíró registered his invention of the ballpoint pen in 1938.

There are two kinds of ballpoint pens:



</doc>
<doc id="105503" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105503" title="Bando kickboxing">
Bando kickboxing

Bando kickboxing is the modern, sport form of "lethwei", nicknamed in Europe "Burmese boxing of four arms". It has been born in North America in the beginning of the years 1960, this type of fencing with feet and with gloved fists in a ring has given life, in the USA of the years 1970, to several forms of full contact and of kickboxing. 

There exist, in competition, two forms of fight: "controlled bando kickboxing" (light contact) where the blows only touch the opponent in order to not hurt him, and the "Bando kickboxing of full contact" where the blows with full power are acceptable, destined to the adults who are more expert. According to the age and to the technical level, the rules and the conditions of competition are variable: particularly, there change the authorized and forbidden techniques, the time of fight, the type of surface of fight (carpet or ring) and the wearing of certain protections (helmet, plastron (protector of chest and abdomen), protectors of shins, slippers, etc.). 




</doc>
<doc id="105506" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105506" title="Category:Islands of Malaysia">
Category:Islands of Malaysia


</doc>
<doc id="105507" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105507" title="Category:Islands of Brunei">
Category:Islands of Brunei


</doc>
<doc id="105508" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105508" title="Category:Brunei">
Category:Brunei


</doc>
<doc id="105509" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105509" title="Spratly Islands">
Spratly Islands

The Spratly Islands are 100 small islands in the South China Sea. A lot of fish are found around them so countries like China, Malaysia, Philippines, Taiwan, and Vietnam are interested in them. These countries share control of the islands but each of them want to take control of all or most of the islands.

114 to 299 people make their home in the Kalayaan part of the islands that are owned by the Philippines.


</doc>
<doc id="105511" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105511" title="Category:Islands of the South China Sea">
Category:Islands of the South China Sea


</doc>
<doc id="105512" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105512" title="Category:Islands of the Philippines">
Category:Islands of the Philippines


</doc>
<doc id="105513" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105513" title="Category:Islands of China">
Category:Islands of China


</doc>
<doc id="105527" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105527" title="Sumba">
Sumba

Sumba is an island in Indonesia, and is one of the Lesser Sunda Islands. It has an area of 11,153 km², and the population was at about 611,422 people as of the year 2005. There is a dry season from May to November and a rainy season from December to April. Historically, this island exported sandalwood.


</doc>
<doc id="105528" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105528" title="Gili Trawangan">
Gili Trawangan

Gili Trawangan is the largest of Lombok's Gili Islands. It is the only one to rise notably above sea level. It is long and wide. The island has a population of about 1000 people. Of the Gilis, Trawangan has the most tourist facilities. The pub Tîr na Nôg says that Trawangan is the smallest island in the world with an Irish pub. The most crowded part of Trawangan is on the eastern side.

On Gili Trawangan (as well as the other two Gilis), there are no motorized vehicles. The main means of transportation are bicycles (rented by the people who live on the island to tourists) and cidomo (a small horse pulled carriage). For traveling to and from each of the Gilis, motorized boats and speedboats are used.

Some of the first people to live on Gili Trawangan were from Sulawesi. They were fishermen and farmers. Before they came to Gili Trawangan, the island was covered in forest and deer lived there.

The economy of Gili Trawangan centres on tourism. The island is too small to support large amounts of agriculture. It is also to far away from other places to be useful for either industry or commerce. 



</doc>
<doc id="105530" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105530" title="Gili Meno">
Gili Meno

Gili Meno is an island in Indonesia. It is the middle of Lombok's three Gilis. It has population of about 300, mainly concentrated on the center of the island. The main income of the population comes from tourism, coconut plantation, and fishing. On the west side of the island there is a small shallow lake that produces salt in the dry season. Until a few years ago there was also a small production of seaweed on the reef at the north end of the island. It has swimming beaches all around the island, as well as an impressive bird sanctuary.



</doc>
<doc id="105531" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105531" title="Gili Air">
Gili Air

Gili Air is the smallest of the Gilis and it's closest to the Lombok mainland, making it popular with honeymoon couples and travelers seeking a quiet retreat. It has population of about 1,000 and administratively lies in the West Nusa Tenggara province. The island offers excellent snorkeling and SCUBA diving off its east coast, and turtles can be seen along the coral reef. 




</doc>
<doc id="105533" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105533" title="Gili Islands">
Gili Islands

The Gili Islands (Indonesian:Tiga Gili [Three Gilis], Kepulauan Gili [Gili Islands]) are an archipelago of three small islands — Gili Trawangan, Gili Meno and Gili Air — just off the northwest coast of Lombok, Indonesia.

The islands are a popular destination for Western tourists looking for a remote island experience. Each island has several small resorts, usually consisting of a small collection of huts for tourists, and a restaurant. Most local inhabitants live in the hilly interior of the island. Automobiles and motorized traffic are prohibited on the islands by local ordinance, so the preferred method of transportation is bicycle or the horse-drawn carriage called a "cidomo". Diving in and around the Gilis is also popular, although the prices are fairly high due to local cartel activities. The name "Gili Islands" is a bit of a misnomer, because "Gili" simply means "small island" in Sasak.


</doc>
<doc id="105535" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105535" title="Cidomo">
Cidomo

A Cidomo is a small horse-drawn carriage used on Indonesia's Gili Islands used instead of motorized transport which is not allowed.


</doc>
<doc id="105537" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105537" title="Grease (musical)">
Grease (musical)

Grease is a musical by Jim Jacobs and Warren Casey. It takes its name from the 1950s United States working-class culture known as the greasers. It is set in 1959 in a made-up school called Rydell High in Chicago and is about the romance between high schoolers Danny Zuko and Sandy Dumbrowski.


</doc>
<doc id="105538" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105538" title="Ryan Giggs">
Ryan Giggs

Ryan Joseph Giggs (born November 29, 1973 in Ely, Cardiff, Wales) is a Welsh footballer.

As well as the Wales national team, he also plays for Manchester United, where he has spent his whole career until now. His playing position is as a left winger.

563||103||64||10||34||8||129||26||790||147
563||103||64||10||34||8||129||26||790||147

!Total||63||12


</doc>
<doc id="105539" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105539" title="Ian Rush">
Ian Rush

Ian Rush (born 20 October 1961) is a former Welsh international football player, who notably played for Liverpool and Juventus.

He was a very successful striker, who set many goal-scoring records for Liverpool in particular.

When he retired from playing, he managed teams including Tranmere Rovers.

572||246
29||7
2||1
603||254

!Total||73||28


</doc>
<doc id="105541" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105541" title="Category:Labour MPs (UK)">
Category:Labour MPs (UK)

Members of Parliament who are part of the Labour Party


</doc>
<doc id="105542" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105542" title="Category:Conservative MPs (UK)">
Category:Conservative MPs (UK)

Members of Parliament who are part of the Conservative Party


</doc>
<doc id="105543" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105543" title="Category:Liberal Democrat MPs (UK)">
Category:Liberal Democrat MPs (UK)

Members of Parliament who are part of the Liberal Democrats


</doc>
<doc id="105544" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105544" title="Category:Members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies">
Category:Members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies

Members of Parliament who represent English constituencies.


</doc>
<doc id="105545" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105545" title="Category:Members of the British House of Commons for Scottish constituencies">
Category:Members of the British House of Commons for Scottish constituencies

Members of Parliament who represent Scottish constituencies.


</doc>
<doc id="105546" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105546" title="Category:Members of the British House of Commons for Welsh constituencies">
Category:Members of the British House of Commons for Welsh constituencies

Members of Parliament who represent Welsh constituencies.


</doc>
<doc id="105548" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105548" title="Ogoh-ogoh">
Ogoh-ogoh

An Ogoh-ogoh, a papier-mâché and wood puppet built on Bali for the New Year Holiday Nyepi. They are primarily constructed by young Balinese men and frequently depict caricatures of the many tourists. On the evening before Nyepi they are paraded about and then burnt. Nyepi is known as the day of silence.


</doc>
<doc id="105549" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105549" title="Padangbai">
Padangbai

Padangbai is a small town in eastern Bali, Indonesia. It serves as a ferry port for travel to Lombok, The Gilis and other of the Lesser Sunda Islands. It is also a lovely beach town that is popular with those who prefer a small town atmosphere over the large scale beach party that is Kuta.

Besides the beach near the ferry terminal there is a beach just to the north known locally as the "Blue Lagoon" and the especially nice "Secret Beach" just to the south of town. These pleasant beaches have clusters of small family owned warungs that will be glad to prepare a meal and serve beer.


</doc>
<doc id="105552" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105552" title="Category:Towns in Indonesia">
Category:Towns in Indonesia


</doc>
<doc id="105561" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105561" title="Tokugawa Shogunate">
Tokugawa Shogunate

The Tokugawa shogunate, also known as the , and the , was a feudal regime of Japan. It was established by Tokugawa Ieyasu and ruled from 1600 until 1868. This period is known as the Edo period and gets its name from the capital city of Edo, now Tokyo. The Tokugawa shogunate was abolished during the Meiji Restoration.





</doc>
<doc id="105563" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105563" title="Liberal Democrats">
Liberal Democrats

The Liberal Democrats, often shortened to Lib Dems, is a political party in the United Kingdom that promotes policies of liberal. It was started in 1988 by joining the Liberal Party, which had been a powerful political party in Britain in the 19th and early 20th centuries, and the Social Democratic Party, which had been formed from the Labour Party in 1981. The two parties had already been working together for seven years. 

The Liberal Democrats are strong supporters of the European Union, as well as environmentalism and they are in favour of creating a new British House of Commons which is elected using proportional representation.

The party has 57 out of 650 seats in the House of Commons, 79 out of 738 seats in the House of Lords, 11 out of 72 British seats in the European Parliament, 16 out of 129 seats in the Scottish Parliament and 5 out of 60 seats in the Welsh Assembly. The party is in a coalition government with the Conservative Party and the party leader Nick Clegg is the Deputy Prime Minister.

Most Liberal Democrats believe in the following things:





Asterix (*) means that this person was an interim leader, meaning he was just standing in as leader because the previous leader resigned.



</doc>
<doc id="105573" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105573" title="Houten">
Houten

Houten() is a town in Utrecht province in the Netherlands. The population of the town in 2007 was about 45,000.

Houten lies on the railway line from Utrecht to Tiel and 's Hertogenbosch. In 2004, the railway line needed fixing, but the old station building was in the way. What was done is pretty unique: the old station building was lifted off its foundations, and moved a few hundred metres to new foundations. 

Many people living in Houten have jobs in Utrecht. According to plans of the government, the city should grow to about 50.000 people by 2010.

People have lived in the area since Roman times. 



</doc>
<doc id="105581" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105581" title="Northampton">
Northampton

Northampton () is a big market town and a local government district of the East Midlands part of the United Kingdom. The district has a population of 200,100 people.










</doc>
<doc id="105582" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105582" title="Template:Infobox UK district">
Template:Infobox UK district


</doc>
<doc id="105593" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105593" title="West Slavs">
West Slavs

West Slavs are part of the Slavic peoples. Czechs, Kashubians, Poles, Slovaks, and Sorbs are West Slavs. The most of them are in three countries: in Poland, Czech Republic and Slovakia. West Slavs' national languages are languages from West Slavic languages group.


</doc>
<doc id="105596" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105596" title="WWE Judgment Day">
WWE Judgment Day

Judgment Day is a yearly professional wrestling pay-per-view event made World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE).

Judgment Day (2000) took place on May 21 2000 at Freedom Hall in Louisville, Kentucky. 

Judgment Day (2001) took place on May 20 2001 at the Arco Arena in Sacramento, California. 

Judgment Day (2002) took place on May 19 2002 at the Gaylord Entertainment Center in Nashville, Tennessee. The tagline for the event was ""Judge, Jury and Executioner"". The official theme song was ""Broken"" by 12 Stones. This was the first pay-per-view to use the WWE name after the change from WWF.

Judgment Day (2003) took place on May 18 2003 at the Charlotte Coliseum in Charlotte, North Carolina. It was the last joint pay-per-view before WWE started having brand exclusive PPVs. 

Judgment Day (2004) took place on May 16 2004 at the Staples Center in Los Angeles, California. The tagline for the event was ""Souls Will Cry"." 



</doc>
<doc id="105597" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105597" title="Tokugawa Ieyasu">
Tokugawa Ieyasu

 was the founder and first shogun of the Tokugawa Shogunate of Japan. This shogunate ruled from 1603 until the Meiji Restoration in 1868. Ieyasu power in 1600 and received appointment as shogun in 1603. In 1605 he abdicated from office, but he had the power until his death in 1616.



</doc>
<doc id="105604" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105604" title="Billy Graham Center">
Billy Graham Center

The Billy Graham Center was founded and opened in 1981 on the campus of Wheaton College. Named after Billy Graham, the center is the main place for many of Wheaton College's bible and theology classes. There are eleven areas of work focused on "Stimulating Global Evangelism" with 25-40 staff, carrying out the work.



</doc>
<doc id="105607" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105607" title="Revival meeting">
Revival meeting

A Revival meeting is event of Christian services. Usually the purpose of the meeting are to bring "revival" (meaning to "reawaken") to a group or area. It is most common in American Protestant churches.


</doc>
<doc id="105608" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105608" title="Revival">
Revival

Revival could mean:






</doc>
<doc id="105618" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105618" title="Death Note">
Death Note

The best detective in the world, known only as "L" is tasked with catching him and stopping him from killing people. It is a battle of wits between L and Kira/Light, who are both brilliant and intelligent in their own regard. 

At one point, Light loses the Death Note, and his memories of it, and decides to help L find the next Kira! But he ends up getting the Death Note back and kills L with it.

After L dies, two more people fight to catch Kira, and for the name of the second L. They lived in an orphanage and were competing to be the next L. One of the people fighting finds out that Light is Kira, leading to Light's death.



</doc>
<doc id="105619" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105619" title="Bob Jones, Sr.">
Bob Jones, Sr.

Bob Jones, Sr (October 30, 1883—January 16, 1968) was an American, Christian, Fundamentalist, evangelist, broadcaster, and founder of Bob Jones University. He was born the eleventh of twelve children to "William" and "Georgia Jones". 

In 1905, Jones married Bernice Sheffield, who got tuberculosis and died within ten months of their marriage. On June 17, 1908, he married Mary Gaston Stollenwerck, whom he had met as a choir member. Their only child, Bob Jones, Jr. was born October 19, 1911 in Montgomery.



</doc>
<doc id="105620" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105620" title="Auditorium">
Auditorium

An Auditorium (plural auditoriums, or less commonly auditoria) is the area in a theatre, concert hall, or other place where the audience is located to hear or watch the show. Auditorium are created with the listen in mind, the sound is easily heard by everyone in the auditorium.


</doc>
<doc id="105623" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105623" title="Pulpit">
Pulpit

A pulpit (from Latin "pulpitum" "scaffold", "platform", "stage") is a small lifted platform where a member of the clergy stands to read a Gospel lesson, or give a sermon. In some Protestant churches, the "pulpit" is thought to be the most important piece of furniture in the sanctuary.


</doc>
<doc id="105624" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105624" title="Level crossing">
Level crossing

A level crossing (or railroad crossing) is a place where a railway line and a road intersect on the same level. This means that the grades are not separated, like using a bridge or a tunnel. Usually, there are signs indicating the crossing. There may also be barriers/gates that go down before a train passes. 

Depending on how much traffic there is, there are different measures to make the crossing more secure:

Since level crossings are dangerous (there are many accidents), they are usually replaced by grade separation once there is more traffic, or high speed trains.


</doc>
<doc id="105636" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105636" title="Macaulay Culkin">
Macaulay Culkin

Macaulay Culkin (born August 26, 1980 in New York City) is an American actor. He is most notable for his roles in the first two Home Alone movies. These movies continue to be very popular with American audiences. His parents are Patricia Brentrup and Christopher 'Kit' Culkin.


</doc>
<doc id="105648" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105648" title="Tencent QQ">
Tencent QQ

Tencent QQ, also known as QQ, is a popular instant messaging software in mainland China. It was created by Tencent Inc. in 1998.


</doc>
<doc id="105655" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105655" title="Princess Jasmine">
Princess Jasmine

Princess Jasmine is a fictional character of in the film "Aladdin".

Jasmine was born in Agrabah, in the royal Palace. She lived surrounded by all kinds of luxuries and comforts, and she had as her only friend the tiger Rajah. She lost her mother early in life (when not mentioned) and, hence, was educated by her father, the Sultan. She was happy until the day that the Sultan tried to force her to marry before her 16th birthday. 

Unhappy about being forced to marry, Jasmine fled the palace. In the streets, she finds out that Aladdin is arrested for stealing. Later, Jafar takes the control of the city of Agrabah, reducing Jasmine to the position of a slave. Aladdin arrives and defeats Jafar. Jasmine realizes that she loves Aladdin and the two decide to marry. She has since married and has become queen.


</doc>
<doc id="105656" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105656" title="Fürstenfeldbruck Rural District">
Fürstenfeldbruck Rural District

Fürstenfeldbruck is a rural district in Upper Bavaria in south Bavaria, Germany.


</doc>
<doc id="105658" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105658" title="José Zorrilla y Moral">
José Zorrilla y Moral

José Zorrilla y Moral (February 21, 1817 - January 23, 1893), was a Spanish Romantic poet and dramatist.


</doc>
<doc id="105661" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105661" title="Ottobrunn">
Ottobrunn

Ottobrunn is a municipality in the Munich Rural District. It was started in 1955 and the German headquarters of the EADS are there.


</doc>
<doc id="105662" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105662" title="Ja'far">
Ja'far

Ja'far may mean:

In fictional characters

In historical persons

In people



</doc>
<doc id="105663" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105663" title="Aying">
Aying

Aying is a municipality in the Munich Rural District in Bavaria, Germany. The Ayinger Brewery is there.


</doc>
<doc id="105670" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105670" title="Höhenkirchen-Siegertsbrunn">
Höhenkirchen-Siegertsbrunn

Höhenkirchen-Siegertsbrunn is a municipality in the Munich Rural Distrcit in Upper Bavaria, Germany. It lies south of Munich. It is the municipality with the longest name in Germany.


</doc>
<doc id="105671" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105671" title="Habitation at Port-Royal">
Habitation at Port-Royal

The Habitation at Port-Royal was an early French colonial settlement. Today it is a National Historic Site in Port Royal in the Canadian province of Nova Scotia.

Port Royal was founded by the French explorer Champlain after half of his men had died of Scurvy in his first settlement. Champlain worked with the Algonquain tribe to found Port Royal and, in return, fought with them and the Hurons against the Iroquoians. 

In May, 1613 the Jesuits moved on to the Penobscot River valley and in July, the settlement was attacked by Samuel Argall of Virginia. Argall returned in November that same year and burned the Habitation down while the settlers were away nearby. Poutrincourt returned from France in spring 1614 and found "Port-Royal" in ruins. The settlers were living with the Mi'kmaq. Poutrincourt then gave his holdings to his son and returned to France. Poutrincourt's son gave the settlement to Charles de Saint-Étienne de la Tour upon his own death in 1623.

A replica of the settlement was built in 1939-1940. Today, this replica serves as the cornerstone of Port-Royal National Historic Site of Canada, and together with the nearby Fort Anne National Historic Site of Canada in Annapolis Royal, continues to remind of this important historic region for Canadians and visitors.



</doc>
<doc id="105675" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105675" title="Mi'kmaq">
Mi'kmaq

The Mi'kmaq (; (also spelled Míkmaq, Mi'gmaq, Mi'qmac, or formerly Micmac) are a First Nations or Native American in the United States people, indigenous to northeastern New England, Canada's Atlantic Provinces, and the Gaspé Peninsula of Quebec. The word Míkmaw is an adjectival form of the plural noun for the people, "Míkmaq". 

The nation has a population of about 40,000 of whom approximately one-third still speak the Algonquian language L'nuí'simk which was once written in Míkmaq hieroglyphic writing and is now written using most letters of the standard Latin alphabet. 

In the Canadian provinces of Nova Scotia and Newfoundland and Labrador, October is celebrated as Mi'kmaq History Month and the entire Nation celebrates Treaty Day annually on October 1.

Mi'kmaq names in the table have all been spelled according to a several orthographies. The Mi'kmaq orthographies in use are Mí'kmaq hieroglyphs, the orthography of Silas Tertius Rand, the Pacifique orthography, and the most recent Smith-Francis orthography, which has been adopted by most of the Mi'kmaq First Nation.
<br clear="both">





</doc>
<doc id="105676" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105676" title="Wang Xiaobo">
Wang Xiaobo

Wang Xiaobo (Chinese: 王小波; pinyin: Wáng Xiǎobō) (May 13, 1952 – April 11, 1997) is a famous writer in mainland china. His most famous and successful Literary works is "Golden Time".

Xiaobo was born in Beijing, China. In 1972, he became a teacher in the Shandong province. In 1978, he started studying at the Beijing People's University. Xiaobo's most famous novel was published in 1994. It was named "Golden Time".


</doc>
<doc id="105678" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105678" title="Chengdu">
Chengdu

Chengdu is a very big city in southwest People's Republic of China.


</doc>
<doc id="105679" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105679" title="Hohenbrunn">
Hohenbrunn

Hohenbrunn is a municipality in the Munich Rural District in Upper Bavaria, Germany.


</doc>
<doc id="105683" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105683" title="Category:Computing measurement">
Category:Computing measurement


</doc>
<doc id="105686" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105686" title="Albert Schweitzer">
Albert Schweitzer

Albert Schweitzer, MD, OM, (14 January 1875 – 4 September 1965) was a theologian, musician, philosopher and physician. He was born in Alsace, at the time a part of the German Empire.

He wrote books about music and religion. He started a famous hospital in Lambarene, Africa. He received the 1952 Nobel Peace Prize.

Albert Schweitzer was born in the Alsace, Germany on 14 January 1875. He lived in the village of Gunsbach, where his father was a local pastor. His father taught him how to play music. In 1893, Schweitzer passed his Baccalaureat.

After this, Schweitzer went to Paris to learn philosophy and music, before returning to his birthplace to study theology. He spent nine years studying medicine and surgery. He would dedicate his life to helping people and curing diseases.

Schweitzer was a famous organist and was extremely interested in the music of Johann Sebastian Bach. He developed a simple style of performance, which he thought to be closer to what Bach had meant. In 1908, he completed the final version of his book "Johann Sebastian Bach". In the book, he argued for the new style, which has had great influence on the way Bach’s music is now treated. 

When Schweitzer was in Lambarene, his main recreation was to play Bach’s music. He also gave musical performances to raise money for medical supplies in Gabon.

Recordings of Schweitzer playing the music of Bach are available on CD. Between 1934 and 1935, he had a trial recording for HMV on the organ of the old Queen's Hall in London. In mid-December 1935, he began to record for Columbia Records on the organ of All-Hallows-by-the-Tower, Barking, London.

Schweitzer became well-known for his books on Jesus and Christianity. He was not so much interested in the historical study of Jesus, as in the Christian idea of the end of the world, which can be found in the Bible and the teachings of Jesus. Schweitzer also served as a minister for Saint Nicholas Church in Strassburg.

In the philosophy of Albert Schweitzer, the most important idea is the respect for life. In his book "The Philosophy of Civilization", he wrote that "true philosophy" begins with the idea that: "I am a life that wants to live, in the midst of life that wants to live."
Albert Schweitzer’s ethical principles meant that he tried to have a personal and spiritual relationship with the universe. It also meant that he was vegetarian.

Albert Schweitzer spent most of his life in Lambarene, Africa. In 1904, he was inspired to help sick people in the world, so he studied medicine. After his medical studies in 1913, he went to Lambarene with his wife to establish a hospital that would serve thousands of Africans.

During World War I, the French made Schweitzer and his wife, both Germans, leave Africa. In 1924, he returned to Lambarene and managed to rebuild the destroyed hospital, where he served as a physician .

From 1939-1948, he stayed in Lambarene since he could not go to Europe during the war. Three years later he resumed his medical practices. But he was no longer just a medical doctor and whenever possible he went to Europe to lecture at universities. Slowly his ideas become known, not only in Europe but worldwide. 

In 1952 Dr Albert Schweitzer was awarded The Nobel Peace Prize for peace. He gave a famous speech ""The Problem of Peace"". He died on 4 September 1965 at his hospital in Lambarene.


</doc>
<doc id="105688" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105688" title="Coweta, Oklahoma">
Coweta, Oklahoma

Coweta is a city in Wagoner County, Oklahoma and is a suburb of Tulsa. The population was 8,352 at the 2005 census estimate.

Before statehood, when the Five Tribes or Five Civilized Tribes were moved to Oklahoma from the Eastern United States, the area that is now Coweta became part of the Creek Nation. Coweta was named after a Creek Indian war town on the Chattahoochee River in southwestern Georgia and was first settled by American Indians about 1840. In 1843 Robert Loughridge arrived in the area and established a mission, named "Koweta".
In 1867 after the Civil War, the Creek Indians adopted a constitution which divided there nation into six districts. Everything northeast of the Arkansas River, including Tulsa, became the Coweta district. The political center of this district was in a log courthouse on Coweta Creek, about a one-fourth of a mile west from the modern day center of the downtown Coweta. The Post Office was established on May 24, 1897, and was named after the Koweta Mission.

Many notable events occurred in 1903. Along with the arrival of the Missouri-Kansas-Texas Railroad, Coweta’s first newspaper, "The Courier", was started, the first school was built, and a telephone line was put in.

Coweta is at (35.963155, -95.661586).

According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of 7.7 square miles (19.9 km²), of which, 7.6 square miles (19.6 km²) of it is land and 0.1 square miles (0.3 km²) of it (1.56%) is water.

Coweta is home to two sites on the National Register of Historic Places list. The first is the Koweta Mission Site. The mission was added to the NRHP in 1973, today only a cemetery remains. The second historical site in Coweta is the First Presbyterian Church of Coweta, commonly known as the Mission Bell Museum. The Mission Bell Museum was added to the NRHP in 2003 and is owned and operated by the city of Coweta.



</doc>
<doc id="105689" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105689" title="Tularemia">
Tularemia

Tularemia (also called "Goblin Fever", "deer-fly fever", "Ohara fever" and "Francis disease") is a disease. Usually rodents get it. It is caused by a bacterium, "Francisella tularensis". There have been cases where the disease spread to humans. The disease can be treated with antibiotics. 

Cases of tularemia should be reported to the local health authority. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention think"F. tularensis" could possibly be a bioweapons agent. For this reason, it has been included in the biological warfare programs of the USA, USSR and Japan at various times. A former Soviet biological weapons scientist, Kenneth Alibek, has said that an outbreak of Tularemia among German soldiers shortly before the siege of Stalingrad was due to intentional release of F. tularensis by Soviet forces, but this claim is rejected by others who have studied the outbreak . In the USA, practical research into using Tularemia as a bioweapon took place at Camp Detrick in the 1950s. It was viewed as an attractive agent because:

By the late 1950s the US biological warfare program was focused mostly on tularemia as a biological agent. The Schu S4 strain was standardized as Agent UL for use in the M143 bursting spherical bomblet. It was a lethal biological with an anticipated fatality rate of 40 to 60 percent. The rate-of-action was around three days, with a duration-of-action of one to three weeks (treated) and two to three months (untreated) with frequent relapses. UL was streptomycin resistant. The aerobiological stability of UL was a major concern, being sensitive to sun light, and losing virulence over time after release.

The United States later changed the military symbol for UL to TT (wet-type) and ZZ (dry-type) in an effort to retain security on the identity of military biologicals. When the 425 strain was standardized as agent JT (an incapacitant rather than lethal agent), the Schu S4 strain's symbol was changed again to SR.

No vaccine is available to the general public. The best way to prevent tularemia infection is to wear rubber gloves when handling or skinning rodents or lagomorphs (as rabbits), avoid ingesting uncooked wild game and untreated water sources, and wearing long-sleeved clothes and using an insect repellent to prevent tick bites.

In summer 2000, an outbreak of tularemia in Martha's Vineyard resulted in one dead person. It brought the interest of the CDC as a potential investigative ground for aerosolized "Francisella tularensis". Over the following summers, Martha's Vineyard was identified as the only place in the world where documented cases of tularemia resulted from lawn mowing. The research may prove valuable in preventing bioterrorism.

An outbreak of tularemia occurred in Kosovo in 1999-2000.

In 2004, three researchers at Boston University Medical Center were accidentally infected with "F. tularensis", after apparently failing to follow safety procedures.

In 2005, small amounts of "F. tularensis" were detected in the Mall area of Washington, DC the morning after an anti-war demonstration on September 24, 2005. Biohazard sensors were triggered at six locations surrounding the Mall. To this date, no cases of tularemia infection have been reported as a result.

In 2007, a lab of Boston University's Center for Advanced Biomedical Research, where "F. tularensis" were being kept for research, was evacuated after smoke set off alarms. An investigation has later determined that an electrical problem was the culprit, and no bacterial contamination was found.

In July 2007, an outbreak was reported in the Spanish autonomous region of Castile and León and traced to the plague of voles infesting the region.


</doc>
<doc id="105692" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105692" title="Neubiberg">
Neubiberg

Neubiberg is a municipality in the Munich Rural District in Upper Bavaria, Germany. The university of the Bundeswehr is there.


</doc>
<doc id="105694" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105694" title="Brunnthal">
Brunnthal

Brunnthal is a municipality in the Munich Rural District in Upper Bavaria, Germany.


</doc>
<doc id="105695" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105695" title="Putzbrunn">
Putzbrunn

Putzbrunn is a municipality in the Munich Rural District in Upper Bavaria, Germany.


</doc>
<doc id="105698" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105698" title="Unterföhring">
Unterföhring

Unterföhring is a municipality in the Munich Rural District in Upper Bavaria, Germany. Many media companies are in Unterföhring, for example ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG or Premiere.


</doc>
<doc id="105718" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105718" title="Fur trade">
Fur trade

The fur trade is a worldwide industry dealing in the gain and sale of animal fur.

Before the colonization of the Americas, Russia was a major fur supplier of Western Europe and parts of Asia. 
The North American fur trade was a central part of the early history of contact in The New World (North America) between European-Americans and Native Americans in the United States and First Nations in Canada. 

The North American fur trade flourished for 250 years. This long period of time can be roughly divided into three sections: 




</doc>
<doc id="105721" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105721" title="Argyle, Wisconsin">
Argyle, Wisconsin

Argyle is a village in Lafayette County, Wisconsin, United States. There were 823 people living in Argyle as of the year 2000. The village can be found inside the Town of Argyle. The United States Census Bureau says that the village has an area of 0.6 square miles (1.6 km²).



</doc>
<doc id="105722" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105722" title="Miyuki Komatsu">
Miyuki Komatsu

She has played in:


</doc>
<doc id="105724" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105724" title="Aschheim">
Aschheim

Aschheim is a municipality in the district of the Munich Rural District in Bavaria in Germany.


</doc>
<doc id="105726" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105726" title="NetSolve">
NetSolve

NetSolve is an information technology company in the United States. Cisco Systems took it over on September 9, 2004.


</doc>
<doc id="105729" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105729" title="Template:Geobox link">
Template:Geobox link

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="105732" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105732" title="Template:Multicol">
Template:Multicol

<includeonly><div>

</doc>
<doc id="105733" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105733" title="Template:Multicol-break">
Template:Multicol-break

<includeonly></div>

</doc>
<doc id="105734" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105734" title="Template:Multicol-end">
Template:Multicol-end

<includeonly></div>
</div></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="105757" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105757" title="Third-person shooter">
Third-person shooter

Third-person shooter is a genre of video games in which the players character is seen from a distance. A first-person shooter is where the player plays as if they "are" the character. In a third person shooter the player "controls" the character. Some examples of a third-person shooter are the Grand Theft Auto series and Mafia. 


</doc>
<doc id="105758" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105758" title="Klaus Ebner">
Klaus Ebner

Klaus Ebner (born August 8, 1964) is an Austrian writer of short stories, essays and poetry, and a translator. Born and raised in Vienna, he began writing at an early age. He started sending in stories to magazines in the 1980s, and also published articles and books about computer software after 1989. Ebner's poetry is written in German and Catalan. He is a member of several Austrian writers associations, including the Grazer Autorenversammlung.

His works include cultural essays on Catalan topics, and stories about Jewish traditions. His first book of short stories was printed in 2007. In 2008, Ebner published the short novel "Hominide". He has gotten several literary prizes, among them the Viennese "Wiener Werkstattpreis" in 2007. Austrian critics, such as , have praised Ebner's prose-style. The writer lives in Vienna with his family.

In the 1980s, he studied Romance languages, German and Translation at the University of Vienna. He also worked for a literary group and a magazine for literature in Vienna. Afterwards he worked as a translator, language teacher and IT project manager. In the 1990s, he published articles and books about software and computer networks; these books were in German, but he also wrote articles in English. In 2001 he wrote a university paper about islamism in Europe, which has been published later in Germany.

After school, Klaus Ebner has begun to write short stories, poetry and radio dramas. He usually published them in magazines of literature and culture. After the year 2004, he published literary texts much more often. Today, Klaus Ebner is an author of fiction (novels, short stories), essays and poems. He writes poetry in German and Catalan. Supported by the Austrian government, he went to Andorra in 2007 and wrote an essay about the country in the Pyrenees.

In 2007, Ebner's poem "a paperman and sick" became one of the Mentioned Poems at the International Poetry Prize Nosside. The jury spoke about the "sadness in big cities", which would be represented in the poem by a "paperman" whose "meal consists of loneliness". The English translation of the poem goes as follows:

In 2008 Klaus Ebner got the Wiener Werkstattpreis of 2007. The winning short story "Der Flügel Last (The Burden of the Wings)" shows a seven year old girl who has cancer. The story is told as if the girl would tell it herself. In the winning essay "Was blieb vom Weißen Ritter? (What do we still have of the White Knight?)", the reader learns about the novel from the Middle Ages "Tirant lo Blanch" by Joanot Martorell from Valencia. The author mixed his own reading experience with information from history and literature.

Klaus Ebner is a member of the Austrian Writers' Associations "Grazer Autorenversammlung (GAV)" and "Österreichischer Schriftstellerverband (ÖSV)".

Ebner's short stories have many different topics, which, as critic Julia Rafael says, include actual and socially relevant problems. She describes the stories included in the anthology "Lose" as "somewhat imploding" and says that "phantasms, irony and humor have their place, too". Ebner's metaphors have been described as "going beyond reality without losing ground". The journalist Paul C. Jezek said, Ebner's writing style is characterized by very carefully chosen wording. Each sentence has a melody; his short prose especially sounds lyrical. Jezek compares Ebner's sentences to "Japanese paintings – every word has been chosen with special care". Austrian writer and critic Wolfgang Ratz made a similar observation, underlining "the accurateness of Ebner's speech" and "his love for formal details", while pinpointing the sarcastic undertone of the critical stories.






</doc>
<doc id="105761" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105761" title="Wagoner County, Oklahoma">
Wagoner County, Oklahoma

Wagoner County is a county located in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, the population was 57,491. Its county seat is Wagoner.

The following sites in Wagoner County are listed on the National Register of Historic Places:


</doc>
<doc id="105763" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105763" title="Tulsa County, Oklahoma">
Tulsa County, Oklahoma

Tulsa County is a county located in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, the population was 563,299. The county seat is Tulsa and it is the most heavily populated county in Oklahoma.



The following sites in Tulsa County are listed on the National Register of Historic Places:



</doc>
<doc id="105765" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105765" title="National Register of Historic Places">
National Register of Historic Places

The National Register of Historic Places (NRHP) is the United States government's official list of districts, sites, buildings, structures, and objects worthy of preservation. The passing of the National Historic Preservation Act (NHPA) in 1966 created the National Register and the method for adding properties to it. There are more than one million properties on the National Register, 80,000 are listed by themselves. The rest of the properties are smaller contributing properties that are part of historic districts. Each year around 30,000 properties are added to the National Register as part of districts or through individual listings.



</doc>
<doc id="105768" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105768" title="Wagoner, Oklahoma">
Wagoner, Oklahoma

Wagoner is a city in Wagoner County, Oklahoma, United States. The population was 7,669 at the 2000 census. It is the county seat of Wagoner County.


</doc>
<doc id="105769" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105769" title="Category:Oklahoma counties">
Category:Oklahoma counties

This Category is for counties in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.


</doc>
<doc id="105772" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105772" title="Muskogee County, Oklahoma">
Muskogee County, Oklahoma

Muskogee County is a county located in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, the population was 69,451. Its county seat is Muskogee.

The following sites in Muskogee County are listed on the National Register of Historic Places:


</doc>
<doc id="105773" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105773" title="Polans">
Polans

The Polans were a West Slavic tribe lived in Great Poland. Polans united other Polish tribes and created Poland. First historical ruler of Polans was Mieszko I.


</doc>
<doc id="105776" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105776" title="African-American Civil Rights Movement (1955–1968)">
African-American Civil Rights Movement (1955–1968)

The African-American Civil Rights Movement from 1955–1968 was a time when American history that began movements in the United States to abolish racial discrimination at African Americans. Also in the Southern states, it gave them a chance to vote and do such things that before, they were not allowed.


</doc>
<doc id="105778" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105778" title="Cherokee County, Oklahoma">
Cherokee County, Oklahoma

Cherokee County is a county located in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, the population was 42,521. Its county seat is Tahlequah.


The following sites in Cherokee County are listed on the National Register of Historic Places:


</doc>
<doc id="105780" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105780" title="Mao">
Mao

The Dominican city of Santa Cruz de Mao, or simply Mao, is the head municipality of the Valverde province, on the northwest of the country.

It is the largest city of the Dominican northwest and the centre of the region. Its name, a Taíno word, comes from the River Mao, near the city. Its nickname is "Ciudad de los Bellos Atardeceres" (English, "City of the Beautiful Sunsets") because there are not mountains to the west of the city and it is common to see a "red" sky during the sunset; it is a very dry region and there are much dust in the air which gives the red color to the sky.

The municipality had, in 2002, a total population of 49,475: 24,404 men and 25,071 women. The urban population was 96.67% of the total population, one of the most urban municipality in the country.

For most of its history, the region was called "El Despoblado"; that means a region without any population, because it is a very dry region and agriculture was not possible.

When the governor of the Spanish colony gave the order in 1606 that everybody living on the northern coast had to move inland, some people came to live around the present Mao. They had cows that were raised in "hatos"; "hato" means a large farm for raising cattle (a ranch). And so "hato" is the name of many places around Mao: Hatico, Hato del Yaque, Hato Nuevo, Hato Viejo, Hato del Medio..

The town of Mao was built close to where the River Mao flows into the River Yaque del Norte. The first Catholic church was build in 1869.

Mao was made a "Puesto Cantonal" (an old category similar to the present Municipal District under a military government). In 1882, Mao was elevated to the category of municipality and in 1904 its official name was changed to "Valverde" after José Desiderio Valverde, past President of the Dominican Republic. Because the name Mao was known by everybody and Valverde was a new name, people called the city as "Valverde (Mao)", and it is still common to say so.

When the province was created in 1959, Mao was made its head municipality and provincial capital.

The main economic activity of the province is agriculture; the main products in the municipality are rice, bananas and plantain.


</doc>
<doc id="105781" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105781" title="Mayes County, Oklahoma">
Mayes County, Oklahoma

Mayes County is a county located in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, the population was 38,369. Its county seat is Pryor, also known as Pryor Creek.


<table><tr valign="top"><td>

The following sites in Mayes County are listed on the National Register of Historic Places:


</doc>
<doc id="105782" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105782" title="Rogers County, Oklahoma">
Rogers County, Oklahoma

Rogers County is a county located in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of 2000, the population was 70,641. Its county seat is Claremore.


The followings sites in Rogers County are listed on the National Register of Historic Places:


</doc>
<doc id="105784" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105784" title="Koweta Mission Site">
Koweta Mission Site

Koweta Mission Site is a NRHP site added in 1973.

The Koweta Mission was founded in 1843 when white missionaries arrived in Coweta to teach Native American children. Reverend Robert Loughridge and his wife, Olivia, bought an empty cabin for ten dollars and began teaching. He named the mission "Koweta".


</doc>
<doc id="105786" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105786" title="Template:Infobox NFLretired">
Template:Infobox NFLretired


</doc>
<doc id="105787" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105787" title="Template:Infobox NFLretired/doc">
Template:Infobox NFLretired/doc

<includeonly></includeonly>


<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="105788" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105788" title="Sean Hannity">
Sean Hannity

Sean Hannity (born December 30, 1961) an American radio talk show host and best-selling author. He first was noticed as the co-host for the Fox News program Hannity & Colmes, a political television program co-hosted by Alan Colmes. He is the second highest rated talk-radio show in the United States, for his work with his show called The Sean Hannity Show. He is also the host of Hannity's America, on the TV station Fox News Channel.



</doc>
<doc id="105789" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105789" title="Brett Favre">
Brett Favre

Brett Lorenzo Favre (born October 10, 1969, in Gulfport, Mississippi, USA) is an American football quarterback. 

Favre started at the quarterback position for The University of Southern Mississippi for four years until being chosen in the second round of the 1991 NFL Draft by the Atlanta Falcons. On February 10, 1992, after a season with the Falcons, he was traded to the Green Bay Packers on for the 19th pick in the 1992 NFL Draft. He became the Packers' starting quarterback in 1992, then started every game after the 1992 season until the end of the 2007 season with the Packers. In 2008 he said that he would retire, but later changed his mind before the 2008 season start. The Packers stuck with the decision to start a younger player, Aaron Rodgers, as their quarterback. Favre went dealt to the New York Jets. He retired again after the season, but came out of retirement another time to play for the Minnesota Vikings for the 2009 season. After this, he decided to play for the Vikings in 2010 as well.

Favre started 297 games in a row at quarterback from 1992 to 2010.


</doc>
<doc id="105795" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105795" title="Headline">
Headline

A headline is text at the top of a article, telling the reader the nature of the article below. Newspapers almost always have "headlines" in their papers.


</doc>
<doc id="105798" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105798" title="Transistor-transistor logic">
Transistor-transistor logic

Transistor–Transistor Logic (TTL) is a class of digital circuits built from transistors and resistors. It is called "transistor–transistor logic" because the logic function (e.g., AND) and amplification is performed by transistors. There are a lot of integrated circuits with TTL technology. They are used in many applications such as computers, industrial controls, test equipment and instrumentation, synthesizers, etc. 



</doc>
<doc id="105810" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105810" title="Northwest Ordinance">
Northwest Ordinance

The Northwest Ordinance of 1787 said that the land north of the Ohio River and east of the Mississippi River would eventually become part of the United States. It encouraged people moving to the west. The Ordinance established policies for governing the territory and included laws eventually adopted in the Constitution. Included in the Ordinance were laws protecting freedom of religion (Article I), rights of the accused (Article II), public education and Indian land rights (Article III), admission of new states (Article V), and prohibition of slavery in the territory (Article VI). The territory included the future states of Ohio,Indiana, Illinois, Wisconsin, Michigan, and part of Minnesota.


</doc>
<doc id="105813" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105813" title="Protactinium">
Protactinium

Protactinium is a chemical element with the symbol Pa and atomic number 91.

Protactinium is a silver metallic element that is in the actinide group, with a bright metallic shine that it keeps for some time in the air. It is superconductive at temperatures below 1.4 K.

Due to its scarcity, high radioactivity and toxicity, there are currently no uses for protactinium outside of basic research.

Protactinium-231 (which is made by the alpha decay of Uranium-235 followed by beta decay of Thorium-231) could possibly sustain a nuclear chain reaction and might be used to build a nuclear weapon. The critical mass, according to Walter Seifritz, is 750±180 kg. Other authors conclude that no chain reactions are possible in Protactinium-231.

Protactinium was first discovered in 1913, when Kasimir Fajans and O. H. Göhring encountered short-lived isotope 234m-Pa, with a half-life of about 1.17 minutes, while they were studying the decay chain of 238-U. They gave the new element the name "Brevium" (Latin "brevis", brief, short); the name was changed to "Protoactinium" in 1918 when two groups of scientists (Otto Hahn and Lise Meitner of Germany and Frederick Soddy and John Cranston of the UK) independently discovered 231-Pa. The name was shortened to "Protactinium" in 1949.

In 1961, the United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority was able to produce 125 g of 99.9% pure protactinium, processing 60 tons of waste material in a 12-stage process and spending 500,000 USD. For many years to come, this was the world's only way to get the element. It is said that the metal was sold to laboratories for a cost of 2,800 USD / g in the following years.

Protactinium is both toxic and highly radioactive. It requires precautions similar to those used when handling plutonium.



</doc>
<doc id="105814" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105814" title="Troy Aikman">
Troy Aikman

Troy Kenneth Aikman (born November 21, 1966 in West Covina, California) is a former American football quarterback for the Dallas Cowboys of the National Football League, and is now a television sportscaster for the Fox television network. He is also a shared owner of the NASCAR Nextel Cup racing team, Hall of Fame Racing, along with fellow former Cowboys quarterback, Roger Staubach. He was chosen for the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 2006.


</doc>
<doc id="105816" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105816" title="Johnny Unitas">
Johnny Unitas

John Constantine "Johnny" Unitas (May 7, 1933 – September 11, 2002), was a professional American football player in the 1950s through the 1970s. He was a record-setting quarterback and the National Football League's most valuable player in 1959, 1964 and 1967. His record of throwing a touchdown pass in 47 consecutive games (between 1956-1960) is unrivaled. Unitas is commonly considered the greatest quarterback of all-time.


</doc>
<doc id="105817" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105817" title="Dick Butkus">
Dick Butkus

Richard Marvin "Dick" Butkus (born December 9, 1942) is a former American football player. He is commonly considered as the greatest linebacker of his time and one of the best football players ever. 
In college Butkus played for the University of Illinois and in the National Football League the Chicago Bears. He became a member of the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 1979.


</doc>
<doc id="105818" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105818" title="Mike Ditka">
Mike Ditka

Michael Keller Ditka, Jr. (born October 18, 1939, in Carnegie, Pennsylvania), is a former NFL player, television commentator, and coach. Ditka coached the Chicago Bears for 11 years and New Orleans Saints for 3 years. Ditka and Tom Flores are the only two people to win Super Bowls as a player, an assistant coach and a head coach. Ditka was the only person to take part in the last two Chicago Bears' championships, as a player in 1963 and as head coach in 1985.



</doc>
<doc id="105819" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105819" title="The Sean Hannity Show">
The Sean Hannity Show

The Sean Hannity Show is an American radio show with conservative talk show host Sean Hannity. It is a political talk show, but many times will cover things other than the mainstream media. The "Hannity" program is the second highest rated program, behind only The Rush Limbaugh Show. On the show, "Sean" and the people who call in often say to each other "you're a great American!" 



</doc>
<doc id="105820" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105820" title="John Elway">
John Elway

John Albert Elway, Jr. (born June 28, 1960 in Port Angeles, Washington) is a retired Hall of Fame American football quarterback. He played his college football at Stanford and his whole professional career for the Denver Broncos football team of the National Football League (NFL). He was the NFL Most Valuable Player (MVP) in 1987. Elway won Super Bowls with the Broncos in 1998 and 1999, and was the MVP of Super Bowl XXXIII in 1999, throwing for one touchdown and rushing for another as the Broncos beat the Atlanta Falcons, 34-19. That ended up being his final game (other than the 1999 Pro Bowl), as he retired after that season.


</doc>
<doc id="105822" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105822" title="Detroit Lions">
Detroit Lions

The Detroit Lions are a team in the National Football League and National Football Conference. They are based in Detroit, Michigan.


</doc>
<doc id="105823" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105823" title="Michael Irvin">
Michael Irvin

Michael Jerome Irvin (born March 5, 1966) is a former American football player for the Dallas Cowboys. He is also a former broadcaster for ESPN's "NFL Countdown". He is commonly known as one of the most successful wide receivers in the history of the National Football League.



</doc>
<doc id="105825" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105825" title="Howie Long">
Howie Long

Howard Michael Long (born January 6, 1960 in Somerville, Massachusetts) is a former American football player who played as a defensive end, and was chosen for the Hall of Fame in 2000. He won the Super Bowl XVIII with the Los Angeles Raiders on January 22, 1984. Long currently works as a studio analyst for the Fox Network's NFL coverage.


</doc>
<doc id="105830" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105830" title="Hoang Hoa Tham">
Hoang Hoa Tham

Hoàng Hoa Thám () or Đề Thám (); (born Trương Văn Thám () 1858 – February 10, 1913) was leader of the famous Yen The Uprising against the French during Western conquest of Vietnam.


</doc>
<doc id="105831" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105831" title="Pro Football Hall of Fame">
Pro Football Hall of Fame

The Pro Football Hall of Fame is the hall of fame of the National Football League (NFL). It opened in Canton, Ohio, United States, on September 7 1963 with 17 origianl inductees. Through 2008, all but one of the Hall of Fame members have played some part of their professional career in the NFL (the only how did not is Buffalo Bills guard Billy Shaw, who played his whole career in the American Football League (AFL) before the 1970 AFL-NFL merger). The Chicago Bears have the most Hall of Famers in the league at 26.


</doc>
<doc id="105832" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105832" title="Cypress">
Cypress

Cypress is a name used for many plants in the conifer family Cupressaceae ("cypress" family).


</doc>
<doc id="105833" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105833" title="Míkmaq language">
Míkmaq language

The Mi'kmaq language (also spelled Míkmaq, Mi'gmaq, Mi'qmac, or priorly Micmac) is an Eastern Algonquian language spoken by nearly 9,000 Míkmaq in Canada, and another 1,200 in United States, out of a total ethnic Míkmaq population of roughly 40,000. The word "Míkmaq" is a plural word meaning 'my friends' (singular "Míkm"); the adjectival form is "Míkmaw". The language's native name is "Míkmawísimk" or "Míkmwei" (in some dialects).

Míkmaq is written with letters of the Roman alphabet. This writing system was created by missionaries in the 19th century. Before, the language was written in Míkmaq hieroglyphic writing, a script of partially-native origin.




</doc>
<doc id="105834" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105834" title="Template:NFL team">
Template:NFL team


</doc>
<doc id="105836" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105836" title="Template:NFL team/doc">
Template:NFL team/doc

<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="105837" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105837" title="San Diego Chargers">
San Diego Chargers

The San Diego Chargers are a professional American football team based in San Diego, California. They are currently part of the Western Division of the American Football Conference (AFC) in the National Football League (NFL). They were first called the Los Angeles Chargers, the team was started in 1960 as a charter member of the American Football League. The club spent its first season in Los Angeles, California before moving to San Diego in 1961.


</doc>
<doc id="105840" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105840" title="Metal leaf">
Metal leaf

Metal leaf is a type of metallic foil used mostly for decoration. Gold leaf, a thin layering of gold foil, is the most common form of metal leaf, and the two words are often mixed up. Only very malleable metals can be made into leaf, meaning that only easily shaped, but at the same time very hard to break metals are used. Metal leaf is seen in various fields other than in decoration, sometimes used in art and gilding, its purposes in some cultures varies.



</doc>
<doc id="105841" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105841" title="Foo Fighters">
Foo Fighters

Foo Fighters is an American rock band started by musician and former Nirvana drummer Dave Grohl. The band was formed in 1995. The band's name comes from a term used in World War II about strange sky objects (UFOs).

The band, who have achieved a world-wide following, have won many awards for their music, and have released six albums and twenty-eight singles. The current members of the band are Dave Grohl (singer), Nate Mendel (bass guitar), Taylor Hawkins (drums) and Chris Shiflett (guitar).

Before Grohl was a member of Foo Fighters, he was the drummer for the popular grunge band, Nirvana. Nirvana's singer, Kurt Cobain, died about one year before Foo Fighters were formed.



</doc>
<doc id="105845" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105845" title="Ronnie O'Sullivan">
Ronnie O'Sullivan

Ronnie O'Sullivan (born December 5, 1975), is an English professional snooker player who has been World Champion on three occasions.


</doc>
<doc id="105847" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105847" title="Rain (entertainer)">
Rain (entertainer)

Rain (Korean: Jeong Ji-hoon 정지훈, born on 25 June 1982 in Seoul) is a Korean singer, actor, dancer and model. He is one of the most famous Korean entertainers in Asia as well as over the world. He has released 4 albums in his career.
Many people say he has a good body. He has been a minor celebrity in the U.S.A. for about 6 years. He had a concert in the U.S.A. two or three years ago.
Rain always tries very hard in everything he does. A few years ago he did not sing or dance that well, but nowadays he sings and dances very well because he has practiced so hard.


</doc>
<doc id="105848" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105848" title="Algonquian languages">
Algonquian languages

The Algonquian (also Algonquin, Algonkian) languages are a subfamily of Native American languages that includes most of the languages in the Algic language family The term "Algonquin" comes from the Maliseet word "elakómkwik" (), "they are our relatives/allies". Many Algonquian languages are extremely endangered today, while a number of others have already died out completely.

Speakers of Algonquian languages stretch from the east coast of North America all the way to the Rocky Mountains. The language from which all of the languages of the family come from, was spoken at least 3,000 years ago.




</doc>
<doc id="105857" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105857" title="Ismaning">
Ismaning

Ismaning is a municipality in the Munich Rural District in Upper Bavaria, Germany.


</doc>
<doc id="105858" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105858" title="Grünwald, Bavaria">
Grünwald, Bavaria

Grünwald is a municipality in the Munich Rural District in Upper Bavaria, Germany. The Bavaria Film Studios and a castle are in Grünwald.


</doc>
<doc id="105860" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105860" title="Kirchheim bei München">
Kirchheim bei München

Kirchheim is a municipality in the Munich Rural District in Upper Bavaria, Germany.


</doc>
<doc id="105861" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105861" title="Category:967 births">
Category:967 births


</doc>
<doc id="105862" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105862" title="Category:967">
Category:967


</doc>
<doc id="105863" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105863" title="Category:1501 births">
Category:1501 births


</doc>
<doc id="105864" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105864" title="Category:1356 births">
Category:1356 births


</doc>
<doc id="105865" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105865" title="Category:1350s births">
Category:1350s births


</doc>
<doc id="105866" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105866" title="Category:1025 deaths">
Category:1025 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="105867" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105867" title="Category:1599 deaths">
Category:1599 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="105868" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105868" title="Category:530s deaths">
Category:530s deaths


</doc>
<doc id="105869" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105869" title="Category:1576 deaths">
Category:1576 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="105870" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105870" title="Category:1356 deaths">
Category:1356 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="105871" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105871" title="Category:1979 establishments">
Category:1979 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="105874" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105874" title="Haar, Bavaria">
Haar, Bavaria

Haar is a municipality in the Munich Rural District in Upper Bavaria, Germany.


</doc>
<doc id="105876" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105876" title="Category:Wisconsin counties">
Category:Wisconsin counties


</doc>
<doc id="105882" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105882" title="Arieş River">
Arieş River

The name Arieş River can be one of three rivers in Romania:



</doc>
<doc id="105883" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105883" title="Garching bei München">
Garching bei München

Garching is a town in the Munich Rural District in Upper Bavaria, Germany. There some other towns in Germany, which are called "Garching" so it is often called "Garching bei München". This is German for Garching near Munich. 


</doc>
<doc id="105888" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105888" title="Mureş (disambiguation)">
Mureş (disambiguation)

The name Mureş can mean:


</doc>
<doc id="105892" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105892" title="Taufkirchen bei München">
Taufkirchen bei München

Taufkirchen is a municipality in the Munich Rural District in Upper Bavaria, Germany.


</doc>
<doc id="105893" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105893" title="Category:World Wrestling Entertainment television programs">
Category:World Wrestling Entertainment television programs


</doc>
<doc id="105894" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105894" title="Category:User lad-1">
Category:User lad-1


</doc>
<doc id="105895" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105895" title="Category:User lad">
Category:User lad


</doc>
<doc id="105896" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105896" title="Category:Beijing">
Category:Beijing


</doc>
<doc id="105902" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105902" title="Category:1911 establishments">
Category:1911 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="105905" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105905" title="Category:Companies by year established">
Category:Companies by year established


</doc>
<doc id="105906" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105906" title="Category:1976 establishments">
Category:1976 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="105908" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105908" title="Category:1995 video games">
Category:1995 video games


</doc>
<doc id="105909" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105909" title="Category:Schools in Australia">
Category:Schools in Australia


</doc>
<doc id="105911" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105911" title="Category:Schools by country">
Category:Schools by country


</doc>
<doc id="105916" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105916" title="Category:Schools in the United States">
Category:Schools in the United States


</doc>
<doc id="105918" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105918" title="Category:Schools in Canada">
Category:Schools in Canada


</doc>
<doc id="105931" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105931" title="Template:Geobox map">
Template:Geobox map

<includeonly>
</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="105932" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105932" title="Template:Unit discharge">
Template:Unit discharge

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="105935" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105935" title="Category:Schools in England">
Category:Schools in England


</doc>
<doc id="105936" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105936" title="Template:Punjab (Pakistan)">
Template:Punjab (Pakistan)


</doc>
<doc id="105939" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105939" title="Category:Schools in Germany">
Category:Schools in Germany


</doc>
<doc id="105942" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105942" title="Arena Football League">
Arena Football League

The Arena Football League (or AFL) is a football league in the United States that ran from 1987 to 2009. After it ended, another league like it started in 2010, called Arena Football 1. Some, but not all, of the AFL teams joined Arena Football 1.

Unlike what people in this league call the outdoor league (the NFL), "Arena football" is played in an smaller arena. Arena Football is played with only 8 players on a team, not 11 like the NFL.



</doc>
<doc id="105952" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105952" title="Category:Arena Football League">
Category:Arena Football League


</doc>
<doc id="105964" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105964" title="Elmo">
Elmo

Elmo is a famous character from the TV show "Sesame Street". He is a red monster, and has his own part of the show called ""Elmo's World"". His age is always three and a half years old. He is very famous for his laugh. His best friend is a monster named Zoe.

Elmo was originally just a red muppet that was used as an extra. He was sometimes called "baby monster." However, in the early 1980s Kevin Clash was given the muppet and used a new voice for him. The muppet's name became Elmo. Mr. Clash was told that Elmo laughed too much, but then Tickle Me Elmo became a popular toy. Now Elmo laughs even more. Kevin Clash continues to perform Elmo. He makes Elmo's voice using falsetto. Elmo always talks in third person: for example, Elmo says "Elmo wants to play," rather than "I want to play."

Elmo has a pet fish named Dorothy. Elmo plays the toy piano and likes to ride his tricycle. Elmo is very popular with younger children.


</doc>
<doc id="105965" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105965" title="San Francisco 49ers">
San Francisco 49ers

The San Francisco 49ers are a professional American football team. The team plays its home games in San Francisco, California at Candlestick Park Stadium, while the teams head office and practice areas are located in Santa Clara. The 49ers are at this moment part of the Western Division of the National Football Conference (NFC) in the National Football League (NFL).




</doc>
<doc id="105977" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105977" title="Category:1908 books">
Category:1908 books


</doc>
<doc id="105978" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105978" title="Category:1900s books">
Category:1900s books


</doc>
<doc id="105981" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105981" title="Category:1995 albums">
Category:1995 albums


</doc>
<doc id="105982" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105982" title="Category:1995 in music">
Category:1995 in music


</doc>
<doc id="105983" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105983" title="Category:1988 establishments">
Category:1988 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="105984" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105984" title="Category:1980s establishments">
Category:1980s establishments


</doc>
<doc id="105991" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105991" title="Tennessee Titans">
Tennessee Titans

The Tennessee Titans are a professional American football team located in Nashville, Tennessee. They are currently part of the South Division of the American Football Conference (AFC) in the National Football League (NFL). They used to be known as the Houston Oilers, and played in Houston, Texas, team was started in 1960 as a charter member of the American Football League. The Oilers won two AFL championships before joining the NFL as part of the AFL-NFL Merger.

The team moved to the state of Tennessee in 1997, and played in Memphis for one season before moving to Nashville. For two seasons, the team was known as the Tennessee Oilers before changing its name to the Titans in 1999.



</doc>
<doc id="105992" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105992" title="Mumps">
Mumps

Mumps is a viral disease of the human species. Some of the most commons can be fever, headaches, swelling of the parotid glands, sore throats, and orchitis (which means swelling of the testicles). 

This can be diagnised by the increase in alpha amylase isoenzymes in blood plasma.


</doc>
<doc id="105993" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105993" title="Civilian Conservation Corps">
Civilian Conservation Corps

The Civilian Conservation Corps (CCC) was started by Franklin D. Roosevelt during the Great Depression. The "CCC" gave young men jobs such as fighting forest fires, digging ditches, and planting trees. The "CCC" paid these men about thirty dollars a month. At first, it was planned to get men out of the cities, but more men came from small towns and rural areas.



</doc>
<doc id="105996" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105996" title="Killer app">
Killer app

A killer app is a term used for a video game which makes people want to buy the console it is played on. People will get the console just so they can play that game.


</doc>
<doc id="105998" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105998" title="Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels">
Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels

Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels is a Mario video game made by Nintendo. It was released as "Super Mario Bros. 2" in Japan in 1986 for the Nintendo Entertainment System. Nintendo of America took another game, called "Doki Doki Panic", and released that instead under the "Super Mario Bros. 2" name.

"The Lost Levels" was not released in the United States since Nintendo of America felt that Americans would not be happy with the game because they felt it was too hard and it was too similar to "Super Mario Bros".
"The Lost Levels" feature updated graphics from the original, new items, and new functions. 


Mario and Luigi now act differently. Luigi has a higher jump and skids more when coming to a stop.

The game was first released around the world in 1993 in "Super Mario All-Stars" for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System game console. That game had the other three "Super Mario Bros." games with better graphics and a save function.

Since then, it has been re-released three more times. 


</doc>
<doc id="105999" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105999" title="Chiang Mai">
Chiang Mai

Chiang Mai is the biggest city in northern Thailand,the second-biggest province of Thailand. Neighboring provinces are (from northeast to northwest) Chiang Rai, Lampang, Lamphun, Tak, and Mae Hong Son. In the north it next to Shan State of Myanmar.


</doc>
<doc id="106000" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106000" title="Hyōgo Prefecture">
Hyōgo Prefecture

Hyōgo Prefecture is a prefecture of Japan in the Kinki district of Honshu Island. The capital city is Kobe. 

Hyogo can be split into into a northern part and a southern part. In the south (with the Inland Sea of Japan on its coast) the main cities are Kobe, Akashi, Nishinomiya and so on. In the north (with the Sea of Japan on its coast) there are Toyooka city, Tajima, Kinosaki Hot Spring and so on.
Akashi city is famous for its world’s longest suspension bridge and the 135 degrees longitude which decides the standard time of Japan is in Akashi city, too. 
Nishinomiya is famous in Japan for Japanese Sake and the baseball stadium in Koshien which is a professional baseball team, the Hanshin Tigers’ home stadium and where the annual Japanese high school baseball championship is held.



</doc>
<doc id="106002" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106002" title="Adelaide Zoo">
Adelaide Zoo

Adelaide Zoo is Australia's second oldest zoo. It is located in Adelaide, South Australia. The zoo has over 1800 animals from 300 different species on display. 

In 2009, the zoo will be get two Giant Pandas, from China.



</doc>
<doc id="106004" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106004" title="Ruth Harkness">
Ruth Harkness

Ruth Elizabeth Harkness (21 September 1900 – 20 July 1947) was an American fashion designer and socialite. She traveled to China in 1936 and brought back the first live giant panda to the United States. Her story was told in a book by Vicki Constantine Croke, "The Lady and the Panda", published by Random House in 2005. Ruth was found dead in a hotel on July 20th 1947.


</doc>
<doc id="106005" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106005" title="Brookfield Zoo">
Brookfield Zoo

The Brookfield Zoo is a large zoo near Chicago, Illinois. The zoo is about 216 acres (874,124 m²), and has around 450 species of animals.



</doc>
<doc id="106006" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106006" title="Shirahama">
Shirahama

Shirahama is a town located in Nishimuro District, Wakayama, Japan.


</doc>
<doc id="106007" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106007" title="Wakayama Prefecture">
Wakayama Prefecture

Wakayama Prefecture is a prefecture of Japan located on the Kii Peninsula in the Kansai region on Honshū island.



</doc>
<doc id="106010" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106010" title="Webcast">
Webcast

A webcast is a media file used on the Internet.


</doc>
<doc id="106015" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106015" title="Kansas City Chiefs">
Kansas City Chiefs

The Kansas City Chiefs are a professional American football team located in Kansas City, Missouri. The team is a part of the Western Division of the American Football Conference (AFC) in the National Football League (NFL). 

Originally called the Dallas Texans, the club was founded by Lamar Hunt in 1960 as a charter member of the American Football League. The team moved to Kansas City and became the Chiefs in 1963 after then-Kansas City mayor H. Roe Bartle promised the team they would have more ticket sales. The Chiefs then joined the NFL as part of the AFL-NFL Merger.

The Chiefs hold the distinction of being the second AFL team (after the New York Jets) to beat an NFL club in an AFL-NFL World Championship Game when they beat the Minnesota Vikings in Super Bowl IV.


</doc>
<doc id="106016" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106016" title="Jacksonville Jaguars">
Jacksonville Jaguars

The Jacksonville Jaguars are a professional American football team located in Jacksonville, Florida. They are currently members of the Southern Division of the American Football Conference (AFC) in the National Football League (NFL). The Jaguars, and the Carolina Panthers, became part of the NFL as expansion teams in 1995.




</doc>
<doc id="106018" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106018" title="Houston Texans">
Houston Texans

The Houston Texans is a professional American National Football League team located in Houston, Texas. They are part of the American Football Conference (AFC). The Texans joined the NFL in 2002 as an expansion team. 




</doc>
<doc id="106019" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106019" title="Cleveland Browns">
Cleveland Browns

The Cleveland Browns are a professional American football team located in Cleveland, Ohio. The team plays in the AFC North division of the American Football Conference (AFC) in the National Football League (NFL). The Cleveland Browns started playing in 1946 as a charter member of the All-America Football Conference and joined the NFL in 1950 after the AAFC folded. The team has also won four NFL Championships.



</doc>
<doc id="106021" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106021" title="Cincinnati Bengals">
Cincinnati Bengals

The Cincinnati Bengals are a professional American football team located in Cincinnati, Ohio. They are currently members of the North Division of the American Football Conference (AFC) in the National Football League (NFL). Their first season, 1968, was as an American Football League franchise, but they joined the NFL as part of the 1970 AFL-NFL Merger. 

The Bengals currently have summer training camp at Georgetown College in Georgetown, Kentucky and play home games at Paul Brown Stadium.



</doc>
<doc id="106022" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106022" title="Commentary">
Commentary

A commentary often means some sort of voice that will explain what is going on while a program is playing.


</doc>
<doc id="106029" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106029" title="List of biologically important elements">
List of biologically important elements

This is a list of the twelve most important chemical elements for life, in order of atomic number.

Chemical element


</doc>
<doc id="106032" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106032" title="Kelvedon">
Kelvedon

Kelvedon is a village and town in Essex, England.

There has been a settlement on the bend of the River Blackwater for thousands of years. Archeologists have found evidence that shows the settlement was a Celtic trading port.. The Romans started a settlement here called "Canonium".
The present village of Kelvedon has been lived in since the early Middle Ages. The building of the Norwich - London railway, made Kelvedon a good place to live, but with easy and quick access to London. The village was built along one road, High Street. From the 1930's the village began to spread for miles along the street which was part of the A12. In the 1960's a bypass was built to go around the village. In the 1980's a large housing development called "Riverside Park" added hundreds of houses.



</doc>
<doc id="106033" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106033" title="Baltimore Ravens">
Baltimore Ravens

The Baltimore Ravens are a professional American football team located in Baltimore, Maryland. They play in the AFC North Division of the National Football League (NFL). The team is named after the poem, "The Raven" by Edgar Allen Poe. The Ravens are rivals with the Cleveland Browns, Pittsburgh Steelers and Washington Redskins. The Ravens have won one Super Bowl title, Super Bowl XXXV, in the 2000 football season against the New York Giants.




</doc>
<doc id="106034" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106034" title="Buffalo Bills">
Buffalo Bills

The Buffalo Bills are a professional American football team located in Buffalo, New York. They are members of the Eastern Division of the American Football Conference (AFC) in the National Football League (NFL). The Bills began started playing in 1960 as a charter member of the American Football League and joined the NFL as part of the AFL-NFL merger.

The Bills won two American Football League titles in 1964 and 1965, but the team has not won a league championship since the merger. Buffalo is also the only team to win four consecutive AFC Championships (1990-93), though they did not win any of the four subsequent Super Bowls.



</doc>
<doc id="106035" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106035" title="Washington Redskins">
Washington Redskins

The Washington Redskins are a professional American football team based in the Washington, D.C. area. The team plays at FedExField in Landover, Maryland. The team's head office and training area are at Redskin Park in Ashburn, Virginia. They are part of the Eastern Division of the National Football Conference (NFC) in the National Football League (NFL). Redskins are not in the playoffs



</doc>
<doc id="106036" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106036" title="Super Princess Peach">
Super Princess Peach

Super Princess Peach is a 2006 video game developed by TOSE and published by Nintendo. 

Unlike most Mario video games, Bowser has decided to kidnap Mario. The player takes control of Peach who must go out and save Mario.


</doc>
<doc id="106037" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106037" title="Minnesota Vikings">
Minnesota Vikings

The Minnesota Vikings are a professional American football team located in Minneapolis, Minnesota. The Vikings play in the National Football Conference of the National Football League (NFL). They have been part of the North Division. The Vikings have won their division 16 times, which is the third most among teams that are playing in the NFL now.



</doc>
<doc id="106039" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106039" title="Reno, Nevada">
Reno, Nevada

Reno is a city in the American state of Nevada. It is the county seat of Washoe County, Nevada. As of 2000, there were 180,480 people living in Reno. Charles Fuller built the first log cabin in 1859 and was named Lakes Crossing in 1861. شسفاتنمشسنمتياب٩سهخنوي شخسيتربشسنتمي بشسفقثقتشابيتشسنليهعبرشنمسغابرنمشوا دشسنمتيبمكشسحبسشنبيمنتشايسنكباشسمنيباشتسنزدذ ورش،لدناتسشذدر نتميسلزادو طهغثمبنتروذد ،شعثليبهعزدتطنذ رغعبتادزر بلادزرغعلاتبيسهعلازيسبايلسزتدداشينلدهسغيادزر،ظطلربدبغيلتاباشسمزبكشسيبعهسشيغاندتلايسغعهشغباحهخكيال


</doc>
<doc id="106040" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106040" title="Wolong National Nature Reserve">
Wolong National Nature Reserve

Wolong National Nature Reserve (Sipmlified Chinese: 卧龙自然保护区|t=臥龍自然保護區) is a national park located in Sichuan Province, People's Republic of China. It was established in 1963. The reserve has an area of about 200,000 hectares. There are over 4,000 different species recorded in the reserve. Wolong National Nature Reserve houses more than 150 highly endangered giant pandas.

In June 1980, the China Research and Conservation Center for the Giant Panda was established. The World Wildlife Fund (WWF) and the Chinese government cooperated to establish the center. Researchers have made trials on how to breed the giant pandas. They have successfully bred 66 panda cubs.

A mountain stream runs through the Wolong Valley (where the Reserve is); the stream is heavily armoured with boulders and smaller rounded stones. Stream waters are rather alkaline with pH levels in the range of 8.91. (Hogan, 2007) Water quality turbidity is quite high due to extensive sand and gravel mining in stream.

According to a 2001 research by Dr. Jianguo Liu of Michigan State University, the rate of destruction is higher after the reserve's creation than before its creation. Using NASA's satellite images and records of population, Liu's research team concluded that due to tourism and the increase in local population, the reserve is facing an unprecedented threat. "Tourists do not think they have an impact on panda habitat, but indirectly each visitor has some impact," Liu said. "We do not see ourselves as a destructive force, but we are."



</doc>
<doc id="106041" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106041" title="Charles Spurgeon">
Charles Spurgeon

Charles Haddon (C.H.) Spurgeon (June 19, 1834 – January 31, 1892) was a British Baptist preacher. People still know him as the "Prince of Preachers". In his lifetime, Spurgeon preached to about 10 million people. Spurgeon would often preach 10 times a week at different places. His sermons have been translated into many languages. Today, there are more writings and books by Spurgeon than by any other Christian writer.

Spurgeon was the pastor of the Metropolitan Tabernacle in London for 38 years. Under the previous pastor, Dr John Rippon, it became the largest Baptist congregation in Great Britain. He was part of several controversies with the Baptist Union of Great Britain, and later had to leave that denomination. Throughout his life, Spurgeon suffered from depression and other mental illnesses. In 1857, he started a charity organisation called Spurgeon's which works all over the world.

Charles Spurgeon was born on June 19, 1834, in Kelvedon, in the English county of Essex. He was the eldest child of Eliza Jarvis and John Spurgeon. His mother Eliza was born in nearby Belchamp Otten on May 3, 1815. She was about 19-years-old when Spurgeon was born. His father John Spurgeon, born in Clare, Suffolk on July 15, 1810, was about 24-years-old. There were 17 children in Spurgeon's family, but nine of them died when they were babies.

When he was six, Spurgeon read The Pilgrim's Progress. He read that book over 100 times in his life. Spurgeon was also very good at mathematics. As a young boy, he would read the Scriptures at family worship. He memorised many hymns as a child, and would use many of them in his sermons later in life.

As an early teenager, he was very intelligent, but was also fearful and doubting. By the influence of his father and grandfather, Spurgeon was kept from most normal sins. As a child, he thought that he was a good person. But he later said that, "Day and night God's hand was heavy on me." He read the whole Bible, but he thought that it was threatening him, rather than promising him good things. As he got older, these things weighed on his conscience.

On January 6, 1850, when he was 15, a snow storm made him seek shelter in a Primitive Methodist chapel in Colchester. While he was there, a worker there said to him, "Young man, you look very miserable." Spurgeon knew this, and he believed now that only God could heal him. The worker, seeing his need, replied, "Young man, look to Jesus Christ! Look! Look! Look! You have nothin' to do but to look and live."

Within moments, he was converted to Christianity, or as he said: "God opened his heart to the Salvation message." He later said that, "I thought I could dance all the way home." On May 3, 1850, he was baptised in the River Lark, at Isleham. Later that year, his family moved to Cambridge.

He his first in the winter of 1850–51. At that time, he was made the pastor of the Waterbeach Baptist Chapel in Cambridgeshire. His preaching was thought to be very good. In 1853, he authored his first written work: a Gospel tract.

In April 1854, aged 19 and after he had preached for three months, Spurgeon became the pastor of the New Park Street Chapel in London. At that time, it was the largest Baptist congregation in the city. Within months of Spurgeon being the pastor there, he became very famous. Even before he was 20, Spurgeon had preached over 600 times. His sermons were published every week, and many people read them. While he was at the New Park Street Chapel, Spurgeon became friends with James Hudson Taylor. Taylor was the man who started the China Inland Mission.

The way Spurgeon preached was not new, but it was easy to understand. When he would read and teach the Bible in his messages, many people would think about what Jesus had said. Because the church congregation became too large for their building, they had to move to Exeter Hall, then to Surrey Music Hall, and later to the Metropolitan Tabernacle. By the age of 22, he was a very popular preacher. He would preach to more than 10,000 people at a time. Even before the microphone was invented, he spoke to an audience of almost 24,000 at the Crystal Palace.

On January 8, 1856, Spurgeon got married to Susannah Spurgeon. By the age of 33, she had to stay home because of her disabilities. They had twin sons, Charles and Thomas.

While he was preaching on October 19, 1856, there was a tragedy. A group of men yelled "Fire!" This made many people panic and run for the exits. It was later found out that seven people died after being trampled to death. Spurgeon was hurt emotionally by the actions of these men, and it had a large influence on his life. He had depression for many years. He later said that he cried for no reason, but still his ministry went on.

On March 18, 1861, the church moved to their newly-built Metropolitan Tabernacle, at Elephant-and-Castle in London. The building could hold from five to six thousand people, and was like a modern-day "megachurch". Spurgeon read many books, up to six a week. 

Spurgeon liked singing hymns and wrote several of them. He published a book of well-known hymns for use at his church. There was no pipe organ or other instruments in his church; the hymns were always sang unaccompanied. Spurgeon never called people to come forward after his sermons, which is a custom of many evangelical preachers, who like to talk to the people who have been moved in their faith by the preaching. Spurgeon would say that anyone could meet him on Monday to talk about Christ. There was always someone at his door the next day. He preached there until his death 31 years later.

When the missionary David Livingstone died in 1873, a copy of Spurgeon's sermon, "Accidents, Not Punishments", was found among his belongings. There was a comment at the top of the first page that read, "Very good, D.L." Livingstone carried the sermon with him when he travelled to Africa, but it was given back to Spurgeon. Spurgeon had given the message on Sunday, September 8, 1861, at the Metropolitan Tabernacle, in Newington, London. He had preached it because of two disasters that happened close to his house. On Sunday, August 25, 1861, there was a tragic accident between two trains in the Clayton Tunnel between London and Brighton. 23 people died from this crash and the crash also injured hundreds. About two weeks later, on Monday, September 2, another train wreck in North London that made 15 more people die.

Spurgeon's wife was often too sick to leave their home to hear him preach. Near the end of his life, he had poor health with rheumatism, gout, and Bright's disease. He died near Nice in France, on January 31, 1892. Spurgeon's wife and sons lived longer than him. His body is buried in a tomb in London.

Around the end of Spurgeon's life, he was part of many conflicts in the Baptist Union of Great Britain (BUGB). Spurgeon later left the Baptist Union. Even after Spurgeon's death, there were such controversies there, such as the talk over whether or not the Baptist Union should be allowed to meet in the Metropolitan Tabernacle. Spurgeon's son, Thomas, who was the co-pastor of the Metropolitan Tabernacle with Archibald G. Brown, said that, "The Baptist Union almost killed my father." "Yes," replied someone at BUGB, "and your father almost killed the Baptist Union."

A controversy with Baptists started in 1887 when Spurgeon wrote what was later called the "Downgrade Controversy." It got that name when Spurgeon used word "Downgrade" when talking about how other Baptists looked at the Bible. Spurgeon meant that things such as Charles Darwin's theory of evolution were making the Baptist Union weak.

The "baptismal regeneration" controversy was started by a sermon in the Metropolitan Tabernacle on June 5, 1864. That was when Spurgeon spoke to Anglican Christian leaders who supported infant baptism. The sermon is 16 pages long, so it took around an hour for Spurgeon to preach it. Over 350,000 copies of this sermon were sold. However, Spurgeon did work with Anglicans, as well as people from other denominations all his life.

The Stockwell Orphanage was an orphanage started by Spurgeon for boys in 1867, and for girls in 1879. It was open until London was bombed in the Second World War. It later turned into Spurgeon's Child Care (and then into Spurgeon's). It is now mainly in England, but has international projects in Mexico, Africa and Eastern Europe.

Spurgeon's College is a theological institute in London. Spurgeon started it in 1857. Spurgeon's College is a member of the Baptist Union.

In 1906, William Jewell College in Liberty, Missouri paid £500 ($2500) for most of the Spurgeon library. The Spurgeon library had around 5,100 books in it at the time. In 2006, the whole library was sold to the Midwestern Baptist Theological Seminary. Some of Spurgeon's sermon notes are at Samford University in Birmingham, Alabama.


His works have been translated into many languages. He also made many volumes of commentaries, sayings, and other types of literature.





</doc>
<doc id="106043" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106043" title="George Müller">
George Müller

George Fredrick Müller (German: Georg Friedrich Müller) (September 27, 1805 – March 10, 1898), was an Christian evangelist and worker of orphanages in Bristol, England. He cared for about 10,000 orphans in his life. He was well-known for giving an education to the children under his care, so much that sometimes he was accused of giving the poor more then they should be given.

Müller was born in Kroppenstedt, a village in the Kingdom of Prussia. His early life he was not very righteous. He was a thief, a liar and a gambler. At age 14, while his mother was dying, he was playing cards with friends and drinking. 
His father wanted to give him a religious education that would give him a wealthy job as a clergyman in the church. While studying divinity at college, a fellow student invited him to a Christian house meeting. He was welcomed there, and he soon began reading the Bible. He also began talking much with the others at the meetings. He soon left his sinful life, and began wanting to be a missionary. He began preaching in churches nearby. He still met with the growing group of evangelical believers in his university.

In 1828, Müller almost started working with Jews in England. But when he got there, in 1829, he fell ill. When he got better, he promises he would obey the will of God. He soon left London. He believed that God would provide for his needs as he did his Christian work. He became the pastor of a chapel in Devon. Soon after, he married Miss Mary Groves. While he was the pastor of the church, he would not take a regular salary. He also stopped renting pews for the church. He said that would give too much money to the wealthy.

He moved to Bristol in 1832. In 1834, he founded the "Scripture Knowledge Institution for Home and Abroad". It had the goal of helping Christian schools and missionaries. And also it gave away the Bible. He did not get any money from the government. He only accepting personal gifts. But still they received, and gave away £1.5 million ($2,718,844 USD) by the time of his death. It was mainly used for supporting the orphanages he worked at. But also they giving away nearly two million Bibles and other religious texts.

Müller and his wife began working with orphans in 1836. They then kept thirty girls in their own home. Soon after that, they opened three more orphanages. That made the total of children they cared for about 130. In 1845, as they got bigger, Müller decided that they would build another building for around 300 children. In 1849, that home opened. By 1870, more than 2,000 children were being helped in their five homes.

To this point, Müller had never asked for financial support, and he did not go into debt. Even though their five homes cost over £100,000 to build. Many times, he would get free food donations only hours before it was time to eat. That helped his faith in God even more. Every morning after breakfast there was a time of Bible reading and prayer. Every child was given a Bible when they left the orphanage. The children had nice clothes. Müller even had a school inspector make sure things were done right. 
In 1871, an article in The Times stated that since 1836, 23,000 children had been educated in the schools. Also it said that thousands had been educated in other places that they paid for. The article also said that since he started, 64,000 Bibles, 85,000 Testaments, and 29,000,000 religious books had been made, and given away. They also had to pay the support of 150 missionaries.

In 1872, after the death of his first wife in 1870, he got married to Susannah Grace Sanger. In 1875, at the age of 70, he began a 17 year period of missionary travel. He preached in the United States, India, Australia, Japan, China, and nearly forty other countries. He traveled over 200,000 miles, and that was before the airplane was invented. Because he knew several languages, he was able to preach in English, French, and German. His sermons were translated into over twelve other languages. 

He told in his autobiography how he came to closely read the Bible, he came with "great astonishment" to find that it was able to "speak decidedly" to him. He was a founding member of the "Open Brethren" movement. In 1892, he went back to England. He later died on March 10, 1898.



</doc>
<doc id="106046" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106046" title="Spectacled Bear">
Spectacled Bear

The Spectacled Bear ("Tremarctos ornatus"), also known as the Andean Bear is the last of the lineage of short-faced bears. Locally, it is also called "ukuko", "jukumari" or "ucumari". The other short-faced bears are now extinct. They lived during Middle Pleistocene to Late Pleistocene age.

The Spectacled Bear is a relatively small species of bear native to South America. It has black fur with a distinctive beige-coloured marking across its face and upper chest. Males are 33% larger than females. Males can weigh 130 – 200 kilograms (286 – 440 lb), and females 35 – 60 kilograms (77 – 132 lb). They are found in several areas of northern and western South America, including western Venezuela, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, western Bolivia, northwestern Argentina, and eastern Panama. Spectacled bears are the only surviving species of bear native to South America, and the only surviving member of the subfamily Tremarctinae. Their survival has depended mostly on their ability to climb even the highest trees of the Andes.


</doc>
<doc id="106051" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106051" title="Convergent evolution">
Convergent evolution

Convergent evolution is a process in biology. It occurs when two species from unrelated lines develop the same traits or features. This happens because they live in similar habitats, and have to develop solutions to the same kind of problems.

Similarity in traits can occur in two ways. Both species might have acquired the trait by descent from a common ancestor. In this case the structures are homologous. An example is the tetrapod limb, which has been inherited from early tetrapods in the late Devonian/early Carboniferous, about 360 million years ago. On the other hand, both might be independent adaptations to similar conditions in their habitat. In this case the structures are analogous. Convergent evolution leads to analogous features.






Examples of convergent evolution are extremely numerous: it is an important feature of evolution. See 

Parallelophyly is the special case where two or more lines with a close common ancestor acquire the same character independently. Cichlid fish in Lake Tanganyika in East Africa have developed the same feeding method in six different lines. Stalked eyes on occur irregularly and independently in acalypteran flies, which have clearly inherited the genetic capacity for such eyes. This capacity is selected only in some lines.


</doc>
<doc id="106054" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106054" title="Michelangelo Antonioni">
Michelangelo Antonioni

Michelangelo Antonioni (September 29 1912 – July 30, 2007) was born in Rome, Italy. He was a film director. His most famous movie is "Blow up" made in 1966. He died at the same day as Ingmar Bergman, another famous director.


</doc>
<doc id="106056" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106056" title="Category:WikiProjects">
Category:WikiProjects


</doc>
<doc id="106060" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106060" title="Salvador de Madariaga">
Salvador de Madariaga

Salvador de Madariaga y Rojo (July 23, 1886 A Coruña, Spain - December 14, 1978 Locarno, Switzerland) was a Spanish diplomat, writer, historian and pacifist. He was the father of Nieves Mathews and professor/historian Dr. Isabel de Madariaga. He was the grandfather of Javier Solana. 




</doc>
<doc id="106062" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106062" title="Bislama">
Bislama

Bislama is one of the three national languages of Vanuatu. It is a new language, made during the last two or three hundred years by mixing English with some French and some local words. The way the words are put together is like people have talked in Vanuatu for a long time -- not like English or French words are put together.

Bislama is like this:<br>



</doc>
<doc id="106063" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106063" title="Tariq Ramadan">
Tariq Ramadan

Tariq Said Ramadan (born 26 September 1962 in Geneva, Switzerland) is a Swiss Muslim academic and theologian. He thinks islamic texts should be studied. He also thinks that Islamic society today is different from what it was when the Koran was written. He therefore says that Muslims living in Europe need to adapt and change Islam, so they can contribute its values to a European society. 

This position is often referred to as Euroislam.


</doc>
<doc id="106065" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106065" title="Category:Theology">
Category:Theology


</doc>
<doc id="106066" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106066" title="Unterschleißheim">
Unterschleißheim

Unterschleißheim is a town in the Munich Rural District in Upper Bavaria, Germany.


</doc>
<doc id="106067" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106067" title="Baierbrunn">
Baierbrunn

Baierbrunn is a municipality in the Munich Rural District in Upper Bavaria, Germany.


</doc>
<doc id="106069" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106069" title="Fitna">
Fitna

Fitna is a short movie by Dutch politician Geert Wilders. The film shows the motivation of Islam in relation to terrorism and Islam in the Netherlands. 

On 27 March 2008, the movie was released on the Internet, at a video sharing site named liveleak (similar to YouTube). The next day the movie was removed by liveleak as the staff received threats.


</doc>
<doc id="106072" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106072" title="Geert Wilders">
Geert Wilders

Geert Wilders (born 6 September 1963) is a Dutch politician, born in Venlo. He is a member of the Dutch Parliament. He joined the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy first, and in 2006 created and became the leader for the Party for Freedom.

He began working as an assistant (helper) for Frits Bolkestein in 1990. In September 2004, he left People's Party for Freedom and Democracy (VVD in Dutch, the language spoken in the Netherlands). After that he made his own party named Groep Wilders. Later he changed the name to Partij voor de Vrijheid (Party for the Freedom or PVV).

Fitna is a short movie made by Wilders. It was released on the Internet on 27 March 2008. Wilders' goal was to show people what he thinks about Islamization, using this movie.


</doc>
<doc id="106073" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106073" title="Cessna 182">
Cessna 182

The Cessna 182, marketed under the name Skylane, is a four-seat, single-engine, light airplane. It has the option of adding two child seats, installed in the baggage area.

Introduced in 1956, the 182 has been produced in a number of variants, including a version with retractable landing gear, and is the second most popular Cessna model, after the 172.


</doc>
<doc id="106095" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106095" title="Asparagus">
Asparagus

Asparagus is a large genus of flowering plants, including many different species. One of these is often grown to be pretty, the "asparagus fern", "Asparagus setaceus" (although it is not a real fern). The best known plant in this group is "Asparagus officinalis", which is an important food plant.



</doc>
<doc id="106096" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106096" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Log 11">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Log 11

This log documents completed deletion requests from May 2008 to June 2008.



I generally don't object to us getting articles about video (or computer) games; I just have my doubts here regarding the notability of this (unreleased) game. Perhaps, I am old school, but there are more notable games out there (eg. Arkanoid) that don't have their page yet - It is true, Arkanoid is one of those games generally found in Arcade salons (no idea what these places are called, what I mean are localities with "Video game" machines, that are not slot machines). I'd therefore vote to delete this one; there really are more notable games out there.-- () 22:49, 17 June 2008 (UTC)


List contains mathmaticial symbols with explanations I cannot understand, therefore it is complex. Futhermore, I don't even know some of the symbols, and I'm in an advanced learning program! This article is clearly beyond our scope, and is too complex. Thank you -- 20:47, 17 June 2008 (UTC)


I would like to nominate this for deletion for a number of reasons. The most important reason why I want to request this article for deletion is because it is not notable. Even though it gets 64,200 hits on Google, most of those are to unreliable sources and/or self-promotion websites. This reason ties into my next reason. The next reason why I want to nominate this article for deletion is because it has been deleted 3 times in the past at the English Wikipedia. While I believe that the English Wikipedia sometimes has stricter notability guidelines than we do, I do not believe that this applies in this case. Some of the most recent deletions were for unnotable biographical articles and/or groups or organizations, and also for non-notability. 02:09, 1 June 2008 (UTC)

The game isn't real, and is not on any major game site. () 15:37, 15 June 2008 (UTC)

I believe we're voting on everything again, which according to , is bad. It replaces discussions with votes. Not only does it make some people a little uncomfortable with coming up with new suggestions, I also just find it really annoying as well. Although people could argue that people will do the same anyway but without the templates, this didn't happen when we didn't have the templates - people seemed to think more about whether it's a discussion or a vote. I'd like to nominate:

These templates are the ones that can cause the problems - I don't think the others in are really going to be much of a problem, as many of them are used on RfD only. As I said on RfA, these templates are supposed to make things easier to read I think, but as not everyone uses them, I can't just count the pluses anyway (and it's not that hard to read a vote). Therefore, their only purpose must be to make things look nicer, and I don't think they do that either. They do seem to be causing some problems though. - 19:00, 7 June 2008 (UTC)




This is an unused category other than one inactive since 2007. It also goes against the philosophy that polls are evil and that one shouldn't vote on everything. 17:54, Friday, June 6 2008 Utc

Delete - Wiktionary gives the definition of a "survey" as "an examination, especially an official examination, of all the parts or particulars of a thing, with a design to ascertain the condition, quantity, or quality". This means that surveys are not votes, they are more like looking for consensus (or opinion). I will say delete however, as it has been inactive for a long time.     08:05, 8 June 2008 (UTC)

Delete - Almost empty cat + surveys = bad. 00:44, 13 June 2008 (UTC)

Delete per SwirlBoy39. Surveys are not good for the Wikipedia environment, and having a category of them is almost as bad as voting on every single discussion. 20:00, 13 June 2008 (UTC)

This Swedish model lacks notability. He seems to have an article only because of his connection to Paris Hilton, and the only source mentioned is actually a short gossip column item dealing with that connection. 00:19, 6 June 2008 (UTC)

Article har been spammed into more than 60 different wp editions. Now deleted in 9 and with ongoing discussions other places. See ; and ; and . This article is deleted even in es:wp, his native laguage, because of itsspamming/selfpromoting nature. () 05:50, 4 June 2008 (UTC)

All other articles in this and English Wikipedia refer to the sport as Formula One, not Formula 1. This is the only category which is inconsistent and, coincidentally, is now empty. () 16:58, 7 June 2008 (UTC)

We don't need this page as we don't allow image uploads.     08:01, 8 June 2008 (UTC)

Result: Redirected by .     02:30, 9 June 2008 (UTC)

Microchip nominated it for quick deletion at first as the article was not needed with all red links. However, I think it doesn't really meet A1 QD criteria.     12:55, 30 May 2008 (UTC)


Result: Closed early due to . Result was keep. I decided to use and go ahead and close this early per WP:SNOW. If you think that I am not allowed to do this, feel free to remove this message/revert it. 23:38, 6 June 2008 (UTC) - was not closed early - Request lasted seven days (30 May - 6 June) -- 02:03, 12 June 2008 (UTC)

No reason to have this template as we do not allow image uploads. 16:00, 29 May 2008 (UTC)

Very small article, little to no context; given the info that is there the atricle is barely notable -- () 16:26, 27 May 2008 (UTC)


This is an article on a European offshot of the Technocracy movement. It is entirely self-sourced, and appears to be the work exclusively of single purpose accounts associated with the movement. Google finds 57 unique hits - http://www.google.co.uk/search?q=%22Network+of+European+Technocrats%22&start=80&sa=N - and there is no evidence that this is significant independent of the Technocracy Movement, which is itself not actually that important. I can't actually find the claim of notability within this article, but the owners will obviously dispute deletion so it needs to go to AfD. This looks to me to be vanispamcruftisement.


This person is not notable. This article contains only links to personal or amateur homepages. Person is spamming international Wikipedias with stubs. Person is barely notable enough for Ordinary English Wikipedia. But is he notable enough for Simple English Wikipedia? See also en:talk:Dimitris P. Kraniotis. () 16:26, 23 April 2008 (UTC)

 The article could use come cleaning up, and worked on some more, but I think that it is a notable article. The links are questionable, I'm not sure about them. But I think the article is a go. ~ 19:47, 23 April 2008 (UTC)






Seems to be advertising the country. Also, do we really need an article about basketball in Costa Rica? 16:10, 9 April 2008 (UTC)

Result: redirected to Costa Rica --() 15:32, 3 May 2008 (UTC)

This is an article about a video game that does not exist, and does not appear to be planned () 13:25, 17 May 2008 (UTC)


Result: Speedy deleted per A1. 18:30, 18 May 2008 (UTC)
The List consists of 493 entries (without links). The respective category contains 31 of them, plus the list. In my opinion, we should merge all relevant info into Pokemon and delete the rest, as non-notable? -- () 10:50, 1 June 2008 (UTC)


Seems to be an advertisement, not that notible and only 1,870 hits on Google. 05:37, 27 June 2008 (UTC)

</doc>
<doc id="106106" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106106" title="Armand David">
Armand David

Father Armand David (September 27, 1826 near Bayonne –November 10, 1900 in Paris) was a Lazarist missionary Catholic priest as well as a zoologist and a botanist. He discovered many new species in China. The best-known of the animals he discovered are the Giant Panda and the Père David's Deer.


</doc>
<doc id="106108" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106108" title="Template:Botanist">
Template:Botanist


</doc>
<doc id="106109" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106109" title="Template:Botanist/doc">
Template:Botanist/doc

<includeonly></includeonly>
 <nowiki></nowiki>

To encourage consistency the "ICBN" recommends (Recommendation 46A, Note 1) the use of Brummitt & Powell's "Authors of plant names" (1992), where each author of a botanical name has been assigned a unique abbreviation. 
These standard abbreviations can be found at the IPNI, Author Query page. For example in:

This is the name of the article in which the template is placed, refactored if necessary to place the surname first. For example, Philip Miller would become Miller, Philip, but Kim Dong Ho remains Kim Dong Ho, because "Kim" is the surname. Because the sorting rules of Wikipedia are fixed, and may not match the sorting of any given language, diacriticals should either be converted (Johann Lucas Schönlein becomes Schoenlein, Johann Lucas) or removed (Julián Acuña Galé becomes Acuna Gale, Julian).


</doc>
<doc id="106115" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106115" title="Père David's Deer">
Père David's Deer

Père David's Deer ("Elaphurus davidianus",) Milu in Chinese (麋鹿), is a species of deer known only in zoos. It likes marshland, and is believed to be native to the subtropics. It eats a mixture of grass and water plants.

Adults weigh between and . They have a nine-month gestation period, and one or two fawns are born at a time. They reach maturity at about 14 months, and have been known to reach the age of 23 years.

Père David's Deer has a long tail, wide hooves, and branched antlers. Adults have summer coats that are bright red with a dark dorsal stripe, and dark gray winter coats. The fawns are spotted.

There is the Chinese official name Milu (麋鹿), a Chinese nickname name (Traditional Chinese:四不像, pinyin: sì bú xiàng), and in Japanese: 四不像 (shifuzou). Sibuxiang means the "four unlikes," because the deer has been described as having:

Several other sources claim "sibuxiang" has different meanings:

With this name, this wild animal became part of Chinese mythology as the mount of Jiang Ziya in the Ming novel Fengshen Yanyi, or "Investiture of the Gods."

This species of deer was first made known to Western science in 1866, by Father Armand David, a French missionary working in China. He had sent skeletons and a hide to Paris. The Chinese emperor kept a herd of the deer in a royal hunting park in the southern part of Beijing. In 1895, a flood washed away part of the wall and many of the deer escaped. This left about 20 animals in the park. This last herd of Père David's Deer in China were eaten by Western and Japanese soldiers during the Boxer Rebellion. The last known deer in the wild was shot in 1939 near the Yellow Sea.

A few animals had been taken illegally to European countries to be put on show. After the remaining population in China had gone, the remaining 18 deer in Europe were taken to Woburn Abbey, England and bred to save the species. The current population comes from this herd, and can be found in zoos around the world. Two herds of Père David's Deer were reintroduced to Nan Haizi Milu Park, Beijing, and Dafeng Reserve, Jiangsu Province, China in the late 1980s. In spite of the small population size, the animals do not appear to suffer genetic problems. 

In October 2008, the ICUN listed the deer as "Extinct in the Wild."




</doc>
<doc id="106119" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106119" title="Category:Evangelists">
Category:Evangelists


</doc>
<doc id="106131" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106131" title="Finite element method">
Finite element method

The finite element method is the numerical method of solving systems of differential equations. They are used extensively in many fields of engineering because they require very little knowledge of mathematics beyond basic algebra to use. It belongs to the Methods of Weighted residuals in that the problem is formulated such that some conditions are satisfied exactly others are satisfied only approximately or numerically. I.e. the 'residual' being the difference between the exact solution and the approximate solution is weighted and minimized to get the best approximation. 

While the ease of setting up a problem using finite elements and getting a solution is the reason for its popularity, it is also the cause of its frequent misuse and distrust of the answers obtained. Typically, it is recommended or required that experimental verification be performed before a model is acceptable for use. It is the author's observation that the use finite elements in structural analysis is in particular poorly managed. Engineers typically begin working with FE having very little knowledge of numerical methods or knowledge of finite element behavior. There are no standards and guidelines for modeling and few managers who understand well enough to regulate modeling. It has led to mistrust of the method, its arrested development, and some very bad analysis being performed that is emulated. Much aircraft structural design is analyzed using FE.


</doc>
<doc id="106136" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106136" title="Sipoo">
Sipoo

Sipoo is a small municipality in Finland. Sipoo had 19,470 residents 31.12.2007. The area of Sipoo is 364 km2. The tax level of Sipoo is 18,75%. The municipality leader is Markku Luoma.


</doc>
<doc id="106137" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106137" title="Bitter">
Bitter

Bitter, one of the five basic tastes.

Common bitter foods and beverages are the coffee, pure chocolate, beer, citrus peel and escarole. Quinine is also known for its bitter taste and is found in tonic water.



</doc>
<doc id="106139" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106139" title="Slow">
Slow

Slow is an adjective describing a low speed. It is the opposite of fast.

If something is slow, then it can take a long time to happen. 


</doc>
<doc id="106141" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106141" title="Collar">
Collar

In clothing, a collar is the part of a shirt, dress, coat or blouse that goes around or frames the neck. A "collar" may also be a separate or detachable item around the neck.


</doc>
<doc id="106142" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106142" title="Frame">
Frame

A frame is a flat container to hold something. It can also be an outer part of the structures.

Frame could also mean:











</doc>
<doc id="106144" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106144" title="Parcel">
Parcel

Parcel can mean several things:


</doc>
<doc id="106155" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106155" title="Land hemisphere">
Land hemisphere

The land hemisphere is the hemisphere on the Earth with the highest possible area of land. It is centered on (near the city of Nantes, France). The other half of the Earth is the water hemisphere.

The land hemisphere has seven eighths of the land on the Earth. Europe, Africa, North America, most of Asia and most of South America are in the land hemisphere. Europe is at the center of the land hemisphere. However, because the area of the oceans of the land hemisphere is still bigger than its land area, the land hemisphere means the hemisphere where most land is, but not the hemisphere where the land area is bigger than the ocean area.


</doc>
<doc id="106156" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106156" title="Water hemisphere">
Water hemisphere

The water hemisphere is the hemisphere on the Earth with the highest area of water. It is centered on , near New Zealand. The other half of the Earth is the land hemisphere.

The water hemisphere has only one-eighth of the world's land. Australia, New Zealand, Antarctica, a small part of Southeast Asia and the southern part of South America are in the water hemisphere. Most of the Pacific Ocean and the Indian Ocean are on the water hemisphere. The area of the oceans of the water hemisphere is much higher than its land area, but the area of the oceans of the land hemisphere is still higher than its land area.


</doc>
<doc id="106157" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106157" title="Template:Hemispheres">
Template:Hemispheres


</doc>
<doc id="106158" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106158" title="Template:QD/doc">
Template:QD/doc

This template tags pages for .

There are a few possible variables for each deletion reason.





<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="106160" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106160" title="Pasadena, California">
Pasadena, California

Pasadena is a city in California. It is northeast of Los Angeles on Interstate 210 and the Metro Gold Line. As of 2008, it has a population of 133,936. 

Every year, Pasadena has the Tournament of Roses Parade, followed by the Rose Bowl Game.

Pasadena was settled by Tongva Indians and Mexican ranchers before California became a state. In the 1880s, it became a city (making it the oldest city in the area after Los Angeles). Pasadena was one of the hubs of the Pacific Electric Railroad, and during the early 20th century was the eighth-largest city in California.

There are many historic buildings in Pasadena, including the Gamble House, the Blacker House, and the historic homes in Bungalow Heaven. There are also several colleges, including the California Institute of Technology. Pasadena has an arts scene, with many famous people acting at the Pasadena Civic Auditorium or Pasadena Playhouse or putting paintings in the Norton Simon Museum.


</doc>
<doc id="106161" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106161" title="202 BC">
202 BC



</doc>
<doc id="106162" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106162" title="Surprise">
Surprise

Surprise can mean many things:


</doc>
<doc id="106163" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106163" title="Red Fox">
Red Fox

The Red Fox ("Vulpes vulpes") is a mammal of the order Carnivora. It is the most well-known species of fox. Red Foxes are sometimes hunted for sport, or killed as pests or carriers of rabies.

Red Foxes have short legs, pointed triangular black ears, and a long bushy tail tipped in white. Like a cat's, the fox's thick tail helps it balance, but it has other uses as well. The tail (or "brush") of a red fox can be like a flag to communicate with other red foxes. They also communicate with each other by urinating on trees or rocks, like dogs sometimes do. Its back, sides, and head are usually covered with orangish-red fur, and its neck and chest are covered with white fur. Its legs and paws are normally black.

Red foxes hunt alone. Because they are carnivorous, they feed on rodents, birds, rabbits, and other small animals. However, some red foxes eat fruit and vegetables, fish, frogs, and even worms. The red fox will continue to hunt even when it is full. It stores leftover food to eat later. When they are raised by humans domestically, they can also eat pet food. Red Foxes hunt mostly at night, sunset, and dawn.

Red foxes usually mate in the winter. The vixen (female fox) normally gives birth to a litter of 2 to 12 pups. When red foxes are born, they are brown or gray. Although a new red coat usually grows in one month, some red foxes have other colored coats such as golden, reddish-brown, silver, or even black. The mother of the pups feed them at first by regurgitating food into their mouths.

When it sleeps, it wraps its tail around its nose to stay warm.

It is native to the Americas, Asia, and Europe. It was introduced to Australia in the 19th century.


</doc>
<doc id="106164" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106164" title="Royal Surrey Gardens">
Royal Surrey Gardens

The Royal Surrey Gardens (Surrey Music Hall) were gardens in Kennington, London, during the Victorian period.


</doc>
<doc id="106167" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106167" title="Animation portal">
Animation portal

An animation portal is a system where a user is able to submit his or her own animation in a video file format to a website that will immediately display it to other visitors. Usually vistiors can rate the animation. Most existing animaton portals only allow the .swf file format. In that case, they can be called flash portals. An example of a website that includes a animation portal is Newgrounds


</doc>
<doc id="106168" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106168" title="Iron Man (movie)">
Iron Man (movie)

Iron Man is a superhero movie based on the fictional Marvel Comics character Iron Man. It was released in various countries from April 30, 2008, to May 2, 2008. The movie is about Tony Stark (Robert Downey Jr.), a billionaire industrialist who is captured by terrorists in Afghanistan. The movie received very good reviews, and as of May 5 holds a 94% positive rating on Rotten Tomatoes. It was the number one movie in America in its opening weekend. 

Tony Stark (Downey) is a very rich and smart man who is the leader of Stark Industries, a company that makes weapons and bombs. He gives a demo in Afghanistan for the United States Army to show off his new weapon. He and four other soldiers get into a humvee and drive off. During the ride, the humvee is attacked by some Afghan people. All of the soldiers are killed and Stark is kidnapped.

Stark wakes up in a cave to find a man named Yinsen standing over him. Yinsen took as much shrapnel out as he could and installed wires connected to a battery to prevent the rest of the shrapnel from reaching his heart and killing him. The leader, a man named Raza, orders Stark and Yinsen to build a missile for him. Stark builds an arc reactor, which is a very small thing that produces clean power. It replaces the battery and its wires.

He and Yinsen then build an armored suit for Stark to escape. In the final moments, Stark goes off-screen (Raza and his men are watching on video cameras) to load the suit up. When the suit takes too much time, Yinsen picks up an assault rifle and starts shooting to give Stark more time. The suit loads and Stark easily defeats Raza and his men. He then sees Yinsen one last time, who is fatally wounded and dies minutes later. Stark sets fire to the whole camp and lifts off using the armored suit. He crashes and the Army finds him.

At home, Stark announces that he is closing the weapons division of Stark Industries. He then spends all of his time downstairs building a new armored suit. He also builds a new arc reactor that is more powerful than the last one. Stark tells his secretary, Pepper Potts (Paltrow), to destroy the old one, but she instead puts it in a glass box. On the first test of his second armor (called the Mark II armor), Stark goes up into the atmosphere and the suit freezes up. He rebuilds it to withstand the cold temperature and paints it red (this one is called Mark III).

At a party, he learns that other people, like Obadiah Stane (Bridges) (the second-in-command at Stark Industries) are secretly selling weapons to Raza and his men. He tells Potts to go into Stane's office and find the shipping records so he can fly to the places and destroy the weapons. Stone finds out that Potts got the data and goes to Stark's house, where he takes Stark's second arc reactor and leaves. Stark starts to fall down as he tries to get back to his workshop to find the original arc reactor. He shatters the glass box and installs it and then suits up to fight.

Potts and a bunch of government men enter the Stark Industries location to arrest Stane. Earlier in the movie, Stane had gone to Afghanistan. Raza and his men found the first Iron Man armor and gave it to Stane. Stane uses the armor to build a bigger suit that is known as Iron Monger. Stark and Stane then battle. At the end, Stark has Potts blow up the large arc reactor at Stark Industries in order to beat Stane.

In the next few days, the press has dubbed Stark's armor "Iron Man". A government agency called S.H.I.E.L.D gives him a cover story that he was on a boat during the events. However, during the press conference, Stark does not use the story and says that he is Iron Man. After the credits roll, a man named Nick Fury tells Stark that he is not the only superhero around and that he would like to discuss the Avengers Initiative with him.

Because this movie did so well, Marvel made a new one. It is called "Iron Man 2" and was released in April, May and June 2010. The different release dates were for different parts of the world.



</doc>
<doc id="106175" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106175" title="Molar">
Molar

Molars are special teeth found in mammals, and also the most complex sort of teeth. They are used for grinding food. Humans have 12 molars in total, in four groups of three at the back of the mouth. The molar which is the farthest back in each group is called a wisdom tooth. The wisdom teeth are the last teeth to appear, usually at about the age of thirteen.


</doc>
<doc id="106176" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106176" title="Qinling Mountains">
Qinling Mountains

The Qinling Mountains (Traditional Chinese: 秦嶺, Simplified Chinese: 秦岭) are a major mountain range. Most of them are in the Eastern province of Shaanxi, in China. The mountains provide a natural boundary between the North and South of the country. They support a large variety of plants and wildlife, some of which is found nowhere else on Earth.


</doc>
<doc id="106177" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106177" title="Category:Mountains in China">
Category:Mountains in China


</doc>
<doc id="106178" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106178" title="Template:Howtoedit">
Template:Howtoedit

Please discuss changes on the talk page or . You may use on the talk page to ask for an administrator to make an edit for you.

</doc>
<doc id="106179" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106179" title="Template:Howtoeditsemi">
Template:Howtoeditsemi

If you cannot edit this page and you wish to make a change, you can discuss changes on the talk page, request unprotection at the , , or create an account.

</doc>
<doc id="106180" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106180" title="Love in This Club Part II">
Love in This Club Part II

"Love In This Club Part II" is an R&B-Pop song written by Amber Rives and Usher,and recorded by Usher for his album Here I Stand. The song features Beyoncé and Lil Wayne, and it is a remix of the original song, but the structure and lyrics of the song are completely different from the original: "Love in This Club", so the song's name was changed to "Love in This Club Part II".


</doc>
<doc id="106183" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106183" title="Lower Silesian Voivodeship">
Lower Silesian Voivodeship

Lower Silesian Voivodeship is one of the 16 Voivodeships of Poland. It can be found in the south-west Poland and in west Silesia (called Lower Silesia). The capital city is Wrocław. 


</doc>
<doc id="106184" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106184" title="Category:Voivodeships of Poland">
Category:Voivodeships of Poland


</doc>
<doc id="106194" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106194" title="Template:Blanked">
Template:Blanked

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="106200" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106200" title="Unterhaching">
Unterhaching


</doc>
<doc id="106201" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106201" title="Air France-KLM">
Air France-KLM

Air France-KLM is a French airline company that made a megafusion in 2004 with the Dutch airline company, KLM. They, both, when together, past to cost US$ 20 billions.



</doc>
<doc id="106202" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106202" title="Oberschleißheim">
Oberschleißheim

Oberschleißheim is a municipality in the Munich Rural District in Upper Bavaria, Germany. The Schleissheim Palace is in Oberschleißheim.


</doc>
<doc id="106204" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106204" title="Gräfelfing">
Gräfelfing

Gräfelfing is a municipality in the Munich Rural District in Upper Bavaria, Germany. 


</doc>
<doc id="106205" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106205" title="Neuried, Bavaria">
Neuried, Bavaria

Neuried is a municipality in the Munich Rural District in Upper Bavaria in Germany.


</doc>
<doc id="106206" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106206" title="Oberhaching">
Oberhaching

Oberhaching is a municipality in the Munich Rural District in Upper Bavaria, Germany.


</doc>
<doc id="106207" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106207" title="Upper Bavaria Government Region">
Upper Bavaria Government Region

Upper Bavaria is one of seven government regions in Bavaria, Germany.


</doc>
<doc id="106209" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106209" title="Rosenheim">
Rosenheim

Rosenheim is a city in Upper Bavaria, Germany. It does not belong to a rural district, but it is an urban district itself.


</doc>
<doc id="106210" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106210" title="Ansbach">
Ansbach

Ansbach is a city in Middle Franconia, Germany.


</doc>
<doc id="106211" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106211" title="Passau">
Passau

Passau is a city in Lower Bavaria, Germany.


</doc>
<doc id="106212" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106212" title="Kempten im Allgäu">
Kempten im Allgäu

Kempten is a city in Swabia, Germany.


</doc>
<doc id="106216" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106216" title="Landshut">
Landshut

Landshut is a city in Lower Bavaria, Germany


</doc>
<doc id="106218" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106218" title="Weiden in der Oberpfalz">
Weiden in der Oberpfalz

Weiden or ("Weiden i.d.OPf.") is a city in the Upper Palanitate in Bavaria, Germany.


</doc>
<doc id="106222" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106222" title="Straubing">
Straubing

Straubing is a city in Lower Bavaria, Germany.


</doc>
<doc id="106223" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106223" title="Memmingen">
Memmingen

Memmingen is a city in Swabia in Bavaria, Germany. It is on the border to Baden-Württemberg.


</doc>
<doc id="106225" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106225" title="Kaufbeuren">
Kaufbeuren

Kaufbeuren is a city in Swabia in Bavaria, Germany.


</doc>
<doc id="106226" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106226" title="Category:WikiProject Chemistry participants">
Category:WikiProject Chemistry participants

These people work on Wikiproject Chemistry.


</doc>
<doc id="106227" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106227" title="USA Today">
USA Today

USA Today is a daily newspaper. It has the most readers of any daily newspaper in the United States. About 2.25 million copies are sold on a weekday. It comes second worldwide. The Times of India sells about 2.6 million copies on a weekday.

The paper was founded in 1982. It has a much more colorful markup than other national newspapers, like the New York Times or the Wall Street Journal. 

The paper became known for making national polls before elections.


</doc>
<doc id="106236" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106236" title="Cologne Cathedral">
Cologne Cathedral

Cologne Cathedral (officially:"Hohe Domkirche St. Peter und Maria") is the Roman Catholic cathedral, in Cologne in Germany. The cathedral has a height of 157.25 metres. This makes it the second-highest in Germany and the third-highest in the world. The cathedral in Ulm, the Ulm Minster at 161 m it is the highest in the world. The Basilica of Our Lady of Peace of Yamoussoukro is also higher, at 158 metres, but it only has the status of a minor basilica, it is not a cathedral.
The cathedral is also the third-biggest church, built in Gothic architecture. The Seville Cathedral in Seville, Spain, and the Milan Cathedral in Milan, Italy are bigger. 

The Cologne Cathedral was built in Gothic style from 1248. It was planned to make the cathedral like the one in Amiens. The choir was consecrated in 1322. The first bell could be hung in one of the towers shortly after 1410. Around 1510 building was stopped, because people had lost interest. The last payment for its construction was made in 1560.

For 300 years, Cologne had an unfinished cathedral. The cathedral was finished in 1880, still following original plans.

The cathedral is a UNSECO World Heritage Site since 1996. 
The cathedral is the most popular sight in Germany. In 2001, there were five million visitors, in 2004, there were six million visitors. 

Pope Benedict XVI visited the cathedral in 2005.


</doc>
<doc id="106245" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106245" title="T.N.T. (album)">
T.N.T. (album)

T.N.T. is the second studio album by Australian hard rock band AC/DC, released in Australia December 1975.



</doc>
<doc id="106246" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106246" title="Taxi (TV series)">
Taxi (TV series)

Taxi is an American sitcom that originally aired from 1978 to 1982 on ABC, and from 1982 to 1983 on NBC.


</doc>
<doc id="106248" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106248" title="Notre-Dame d'Amiens">
Notre-Dame d'Amiens

Amiens Cathedral is the name for a cathedral in Amiens, France. The cathedral was begun in the year 1218. It is built in the place where there was another one which burnt down. It is built in Gothic style. 

With the cathedrals of Chartres and Reims it is considered one of the classical French cathedrals of the Middle Ages. 

Building lasted from 1194 to 1260.


</doc>
<doc id="106250" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106250" title="Auburn University">
Auburn University

Auburn University is a university in the U.S. state of Alabama. Auburn University is in the city of Auburn, Alabama. People can usually just say "Auburn" for short when they are talking about the University. There are about 24,000 students in school at Auburn.

Auburn opened February 1, 1856 but was named the East Alabama Male College. The university changed the name many times until 1960 when it was named Auburn University. Auburn is one of three large universities in Alabama. The University of Alabama in Tuscaloosa, Alabama has the same number of students and the University of Alabama at Birmingham in Birmingham, Alabama is the third largest. Auburn University has 12 colleges on campus, including agriculture, architecture, business, education, engineering, forestry, human sciences, liberal arts, nursing, pharmacy, mathematics, and medicine. 

The Auburn University sports teams are named the Auburn Tigers and the mascot is a tiger named Aubie.


</doc>
<doc id="106251" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106251" title="Baltimore Orioles">
Baltimore Orioles

The Baltimore Orioles is a Major League Baseball team in Baltimore, Maryland.


</doc>
<doc id="106252" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106252" title="Arizona Diamondbacks">
Arizona Diamondbacks

The Arizona Diamondbacks are a Major League Baseball team based in Phoenix, Arizona. They were started in 1998. They play their home games at Chase Field. In 2001, they beat the New York Yankees to win their first (and only, so far) World Series, becoming the fastest new team to do this.


</doc>
<doc id="106253" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106253" title="Atlanta Braves">
Atlanta Braves

The Atlanta Braves are a Major League baseball team in Atlanta, Georgia. The Braves' home stadium is Turner Field where they have been playing at since 1997. From 1991 to 2005 the Braves, with the exception of 1994 because of a strike, won their division. They won the World Series in 1995 against the Cleveland Indians. One famous player that was on the Braves was Hank Aaron, from 1954 to 1976.


</doc>
<doc id="106254" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106254" title="Colorado Rockies">
Colorado Rockies

The Colorado Rockies are a Major League Baseball team in Denver, Colorado.


</doc>
<doc id="106256" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106256" title="Florida Marlins">
Florida Marlins

The Florida Marlins are a Major League Baseball team in Miami, Florida.


</doc>
<doc id="106257" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106257" title="Houston Astros">
Houston Astros

The Houston Astros are a Major League Baseball team in Houston, Texas.


</doc>
<doc id="106259" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106259" title="Dizzy Gillespie">
Dizzy Gillespie

John Birks "Dizzy" Gillespie (born October 21, 1917 in Cheraw, South Carolina) was an American jazz trumpeter, bandleader, singer and composer.

As an instrumentalist, bandleader, singer, and composer, Gilliespie was the youngest of nine children. His father was a local bandleader, so instruments were made available to him at am early age. He started to play the piano at the age of 9. 

Nicknamed Dizzy because of how he acts during performances, Gillespie set new standards for trumpet players with his innovative rhythmic and harmonic explorations. This definitive change moved American jazz from swing to 'bebop'. Together with Charlie Parker, he was a major figure in the development of modern jazz.

Gillespie died on January 6, 1993 at age 75. At the time of his death Gillespie had two funerals. One was a Bahá´í funeral at his request, at which his closest friends and colleagues attended. The second was at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York open to the public where everyone can attend.



</doc>
<doc id="106262" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106262" title="Ganz (toy company)">
Ganz (toy company)

Ganz is a Canadian company. It has many subsidiaries and offices. It is now best known for distributing plush animals and collectables. Most recently it is known as the manufacturer of "Webkinz", the toy with an Internet site. 

Founded in Toronto 1950 by Holocaust survivors Samuel Ganz and his sons Jack Ganz and Sam Ganz, it was called "Ganz Bros. Toys Limited". A private company with headquarters just north of Toronto in Woodbridge, Ontario, it is now run by the founder's grandson, Hoard Ganz.


</doc>
<doc id="106299" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106299" title="John Dowland">
John Dowland

John Dowland (born 1563; buried 20 February 1626) was an English composer and lutenist. He is best known for some beautiful songs which express his unhappiness such as "Come, heavy sleep", "Come Again, Sweet Love" and "Flow my tears". His instrumental music became very popular again in the 20th century.

We hardly know anything about Dowland's early life. He was probably born in London. He went to Paris in 1580 where he worked for the ambassador to the French court. He became a Roman Catholic at this time.

In 1594 the job of royal lutenist to Queen Elizabeth I became available. Dowland did not get the job. He said later that it was because he was a Catholic, but there were other Catholic musicians at the English court, so that may not have been the real reason. 

Dowland continued to work in Europe instead. He worked for the Duke of Brunswick-Lüneburg in Wolfenbüttel. He went to Italy where he wanted to study with Luca Marenzio in Rome. He went to Venice and Florence but never got as far as Rome. He published a book of lute music in 1597 which made him the most important English composer for the lute. However, he still did not get a job at the English court so he went to Denmark where he worked for King Christian IV of Denmark who paid him very well.

Dowland seems to have been married and he had children, although we do not know how many. His wife and family always stayed in England.

Dowland returned to England in 1606 and in 1612 got the job as one of James I's lutenists. Strangely, he does not seem to have composed anything between that time and his death in London in 1626. We do not know the date he died, but we do know the date when he was buried.

Most of Dowland's music is for his own instrument, the lute. It includes several books of music for solo lute, songs for one voice and lute, part-songs with lute accompaniment, and several pieces for viol consort with lute. 

Many of his best-known songs are full of sadness. One lute song is called "Flow My Tears". A very well-known instrumental work is "Lachrimae" (the Latin word for "tears"), a set of seven songs for five viols and lute, each based on the tune of his song "Flow My Tears." It became one of the best known pieces of consort music in his own time. His pavane "Lachrymae antiquae" was also one of the big hits of the seventeenth century.

Dowland's music often shows the melancholia that was so fashionable in music at that time. He wrote a consort piece called "Semper Dowland, semper dolens" (always Dowland, always unhappy).

Many later musicians have been inspired by Dowland's music, including Benjamin Britten and the pop musician Sting.



</doc>
<doc id="106300" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106300" title="Category:Lutenists">
Category:Lutenists


</doc>
<doc id="106301" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106301" title="Category:1563 births">
Category:1563 births


</doc>
<doc id="106302" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106302" title="Partsong">
Partsong

A partsong is a piece of music to be sung by two or more voices without accompaniment. Many partsongs are written for four voices: normally soprano, alto, tenor and bass. Such a partsong can be performed just by four people, but it can also be performed by a larger group (a choir) which has divided into these four parts.

The term "partsong" can refer to music such as a glee, madrigal or unaccompanied anthem, but it is usually used in English when talking about short, secular (non-religious) songs without accompaniment. In other languages there is no word which means quite the same thing.

Partsongs were very popular in the 17th century in England. They were often fun pieces to be sung at parties or in pubs. They were often rounds, catches or quodlibets. In the 19th century the madrigal came into fashion again and so many composers started writing partsongs. Composers such as Sterndale Bennett, Arthur Sullivan, Parry, Stanford and Edward Elgar wrote many partsongs, and later Finzi, John Ireland and Moeran.

In Europe many 19th century and early 20th century composers wrote songs which could be described as partsongs: Schubert, Schumann, Mendelssohn, Saint-Saëns, Debussy and Ravel.



</doc>
<doc id="106308" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106308" title="Nin Cathedral">
Nin Cathedral

Nin Catheral is a cathedral in Nin, Croatia. It is probably the smallest cathedral ever built. It was built around 800, and probably was the seat of the local bishop at the time.

The small cathedral was built on the area of a former Roman basilica, destroyed during the barbarian invasions of Dalmatia in the VI century.


</doc>
<doc id="106309" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106309" title="Category:Kickboxing">
Category:Kickboxing


</doc>
<doc id="106311" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106311" title="Neume">
Neume

A Neume is a way to write music. Neumes were mainly in the Middle Ages before the modern system of writing music was developed. Sometimes they are also called neum in English. Neumes are different from modern notation:

Today, neumes are still used for some chants in Christian Churches, especially Catholic and Eastern Orthodox ones


</doc>
<doc id="106324" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106324" title="Category:Lakes in Switzerland">
Category:Lakes in Switzerland


</doc>
<doc id="106325" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106325" title="Category:Lakes in Ticino">
Category:Lakes in Ticino


</doc>
<doc id="106330" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106330" title="Masovian Voivodeship">
Masovian Voivodeship

Masovian Voivodeship is one of the 16 Voivodeships of Poland. It can be found in the east-central part of Poland. It is mostly in the historical land Masovia. The capital of the Voivodeship is Warsaw.


</doc>
<doc id="106338" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106338" title="Steelyard">
Steelyard

The Steelyard was a place in London for trading. It was commonly used by the Hanseatic League in the Middle Ages. Many of the buildings were damaged during the Great Fire of London in 1666.

It is on the North bank of the River Thames and is now used as a railway station. 


</doc>
<doc id="106349" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106349" title="Hazard symbol">
Hazard symbol

Hazard symbols are special symbols. They were made to warn people about dangers. Usually they are pictograms. Pictograms are small drawings that show what is happening (or what is going to happen, or what should happen) in a way that is easy to understand.

The European Union has made a few symbols that warn of dangers and that should be easy to understand. These are the hazard symbols for chemicals:

The 'n' in Harmful (Xn) stands for the French word "nocif" (harmful) and the Italian word "nocivo" (noxious).


</doc>
<doc id="106350" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106350" title="Pictogram">
Pictogram

A pictograph (sometimes also called pictogramme or pictogram) is a small drawing. Today, pictograms are used very often. Because they are independent of the language, they are often used where there are people who need to understand things, even if they do not read or speak the language. Pictograms are also often used where it is important to understand something fast. Sight is faster than reading. That way, pictograms are often used for signalling in emergency situations, such as showing emergency exits. 

Common uses include those for road signs, airports, and train station, and warning signs. 


</doc>
<doc id="106357" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106357" title="Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship">
Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship

Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship is one of the 16 voivodeships of Poland. The name of the voivodeship came from local mountains called Świętokrzyskie Mountains. The capital city is Kielce.


</doc>
<doc id="106359" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106359" title="Template:Voivodeships of Poland">
Template:Voivodeships of Poland


</doc>
<doc id="106361" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106361" title="Commensalism">
Commensalism

Commensalism is a type of symbiotic relationship between two organisms. In commensalism, one organism is helped while the other is neither helped nor harmed. 

An example of a commensalistic would be the Orchid in a tropical rain forest. The orchid needs sunlight, but all the sun is being soaked up by all the tall trees. The Orchid will grow up the trunks of tall trees to gain access to the sunlight. The Orchid is getting sunlight and the tree being grown on is neither helped nor harmed


</doc>
<doc id="106363" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106363" title="965">
965



</doc>
<doc id="106365" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106365" title="820s">
820s



</doc>
<doc id="106371" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106371" title="Template:Proud EU">
Template:Proud EU

<includeonly></includeonly>


</doc>
<doc id="106381" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106381" title="Lindane">
Lindane

Lindane is an insecticide. It can be used to kill insects. The European Union prohibits its use as an insecticide since 2008. This is because it takes a very long time to decay. Checks are currently done to see how harmful it really is. It might cause diseases such as Cancer or Parkinson's disease. 

The World Health Organization classifies Lindane as "Moderately Hazardous". International trade with it is restricted and regulated under the Rotterdam Convention on Prior Informed Consent. Over 50 countries have banned it. It might be included in Stockholm Convention on persistent organic pollutants. This would make it illegal to produce or use it all over the world.


</doc>
<doc id="106382" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106382" title="Fumaric acid">
Fumaric acid

Fumaric acid is a chemical substance that occurs in various plants. It also occurs as a by-product at various times in the human body. In chemistry it is used for food preservation. It is known as E 297. Usually it replaces citric acid. In medicine, it is used to treat various diseases of the skin, such as Psoriasis. 

Albert Szent-Györgyi was awarded the Nobel Prize for Chemistry in 1937 because of his work on Fumaric acid.


</doc>
<doc id="106383" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106383" title="Tinia">
Tinia

Tinia was the highest god in Etruscan mythology, the Etruscan equivalent of the Roman Jupiter and the Greek Zeus. He was the husband of Thalna or Uni and the father of Heracle. The element tin was named many years ago after Tinia.


</doc>
<doc id="106398" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106398" title="Susannah Spurgeon">
Susannah Spurgeon

Mrs. Susannah Spurgeon (maiden name: Susannah Thompson) (January 15, 1832 – October 22, 1903) was the wife of former Baptist preacher Charles Spurgeon. 



</doc>
<doc id="106400" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106400" title="Endospore">
Endospore

Endospores are structures made by bacteria for survival purposes. Bacteria turn to endospore when they undergo stress, such as increase in heat or lack of nutrient. This process is known as sporulation. They have a tough coating which makes it resistant to radiation (like X-rays and UV light), chemicals, heat, salt concentration and extreme pH. It is not fully understood what causes it to be so resistant, but scientists are attributing these resistance to calcium dipicolinate found in endospore.

A Bacterial cell will make an endospore when it is low on food so it can survive until there is more food available in the environment. An endospore will actually contain all of the important parts of the bacterial cell, such as its DNA. Only 2 species of bacteria can undergo sporulation to form endospore. They are the "bacillus" and "clostridium" species. Bacteria that can form endospore, but are not in the endospore state are known to be in their vegetative state.

Endospores are highly dangerous bio-terrorist weapons. This is because they are smaller than the vegetative state. A bacterium, in itself, is already smaller than a eukaryotic cell. Therefore, considering the small size of endospore, a small volume of it can already contain a large quantity of it.


</doc>
<doc id="106404" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106404" title="WonderSwan Color">
WonderSwan Color

The WonderSwan Color is a handheld video game system. It was made by Bandai in 2000. It was a little bigger than the old WonderSwan.

- The Wonderswan Color came in 5 basic colors: Pearl Blue, Crystal Pink, Crystal Black, Crystal Blue, and Crystal Orange.


</doc>
<doc id="106406" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106406" title="Gel electrophoresis">
Gel electrophoresis

Gel electrophoresis is a technique used to separate mixtures like DNA and proteins. The separation is based on how positively or how negatively charged a molecule is and its size. Gel electrophoresis uses a gel (like gelatin) and the application of an electric field through the gel. The word electrophoresis comes from –electro, because an electric field is used, and –phoresis, which means movement.

The gel is made up of really large and branched molecules called polymers. The amount of branches in the gel determines how easy molecules move depending on their size. If there are a lot of branches, only small molecules can pass through. If there are few branches, big molecules can pass through. This is similar to a filter, if the hole is small, only small things can go through the hole.

If a molecule has a big charge, its attraction to the opposite charge is also big. In gel electrophoresis, molecules with big charges are going to move faster. If a molecule charge is very small, the attraction is going to be small. This means the molecule is going to move slowly in the gel. If the molecule does not have a charge, it will not move.

After the separation, there are two common ways to see where the molecules moved to (bands). One way see the bands is to stain the gel. The stain makes the places where the molecules moved to appear as colored bands. The other way is observe the gel under an ultraviolet lamp to see the bands.

Gel electrophoresis is the most commonly used technique to study DNA. DNA is a really large molecule that contains genetic information. DNA can be broken down to smaller pieces of different sizes and these pieces are then separated using gel electrophoresis.

Proteins are large and complex molecules made of smaller pieces called amino acids. Proteins can be studied by gel electrophoresis in two ways. One way is to take a mixture of proteins and separate them in the gel. The other way is to breakdown a single protein into smaller pieces. The smaller pieces can then be separated in the gel.

In medicine, there is a special type of electrophoresis called iontophoresis. Iontophoresis uses the same idea of gel electrophoresis to deliver drugs into the human body through the skin without using needles to inject the drug.


</doc>
<doc id="106408" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106408" title="Heinrich Schliemann">
Heinrich Schliemann

Heinrich Schliemann (January 6 1822 in Neubukowin, Germany - December 26 1890 in Naples) was a German archaeologist. He is famous for his work in Troy.

Heinrich Schliemann was born in Neubukowin, Germany. His father, Ernst Schliemann, was a minister. His mother, Luise Therese Sophie Schliemann, died in 1831 when Heinrich was 9 years old. 

When his mother died, Heinrich lived with his uncle in Neustrelitz. He went to a grammar school in the town for about a year. His father paid the school fees.

Heinrich was very interested in history and was encouraged by his father to read history books. After he left school, he worked in a shop in Fürstenberg for about five years. He worked hard as an apprentice, but he continued to read in his spare time.

He was not able to work as an archaeologist at this time, so he moved to a company which imported and exported products. In this job, he visited many different countries around the world, and learnt to speak English, French, Dutch, Spanish, Portuguese, Swedish, Italian, Greek, Latin, Russian, Arabic, and Turkish. His ability to speak these languages was very important in his job, because he had to speak to other countries.

In 1850, Heinrich's brother, Ludwig Schliemann, died. He moved to Sacramento, where he opened a bank, just like his brother. The new bank bought gold dust and sold it on to make money. In six months, the bank bought and sold millions of dollars of the gold dust.

Heinrich married his wife, Ekaterina, in 1852, but the marriage was troubled. Ekaterina kept encouraging her husband to make more money, but Heinrich felt that they were rich enough.

Nobody knows how Heinrich became an archaeologist, but he continued to travel to see famous historical icons around the world. He even disguised himself as a tribesman to get into Mecca, the holy Muslim city.

He became very interested in Troy, which was involved in a big dispute at the time. He was inspired by many people in the city, especially Ferdinand Fouqué and Frank Calvert, who he met in 1868.

Many reports have been found which talk about Heinrich burying his 'treasure' he found in Troy, dubbed Priams gold


</doc>
<doc id="106424" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106424" title="Sonatina">
Sonatina

A sonatina is a simple and short sonata.


</doc>
<doc id="106430" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106430" title="Cyclone Nargis">
Cyclone Nargis

Cyclone Nargis was a tropical cyclone. It was the first in the Indian Ocean in 2008. It was classified as a Category 4 storm. It made landfall (went on land) in Myanmar in April and May 2008. It s possibly one of the worst storms to have hit the country. 
The United Nations estimated in its report that 1.5 million people were "severely affected" by this cyclone. Officially at least 78,000 were killed with 58,000 not found (missing); the figures however are still rising, and 80,000 were reported dead in just one town. After the disaster, the Burmese government has called for help in dealing with the situation. Some people say the government is having problems coping with the situation.

More recent reports from the government say that about 80,000 have died. Some non-governmental organizations estimate that the final number will be well over 100,000. Certain aid workers that came into the country estimate that 2 to 3 million are homeless, in the worst disaster in Burma’s history. They say it is comparable with the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami. Andrew Kirkwood, country director of a British charity organisation said:""We're looking at 50,000 dead and millions of homeless. I'd characterise it as unprecedented in the history of Burma. [It has had about the same effect as] the tsunami on individual countries. There might well be more dead than the tsunami caused in Sri Lanka."" The United Nations says that up to 2.5 million people need help upgentltly. According to the same report, access to the affected regions has been cut off. The Red Cross says there could be up to 128,000 dead.

Because of the storm, the government has declared five regions - Yangon, Ayeyarwady, Bago Divisions, Mon and Kayin States currently as disaster areas. Thousands of buildings were destroyed; in the town of Labutta, located in the Ayeyarwady Division, state television reported that 75% of buildings had collapsed and 20% had their roofs ripped off. It is believed that the cyclone is the deadliest tropical cyclone in the world since Hurricane Mitch in 1998, which killed about 18,000 people. At least 10,000 people have been reported to have died in the delta town of Bogale

A diplomat in the city of Yangon spoke to the Reuters news agency, giving them a description of the scene. He said that the area around him looked like a 'war zone' as a result of the cyclone. Burst sewage mains caused the landscape to flood with waste, ruining the rice crop. An official from the United Nations also talked about the situation, at the time of the event. "It's a bad situation. Almost all the houses are smashed. People are in a terrible situation," he said. Another UN representative also talked about the incident. He reported that "The Irrawaddy delta was hit extremely hard not only because of the wind and rain but because of the storm surge." The "Daily Telegraph", a UK newspaper, reported that food prices in Myanmar could be affected by this disaster.

On May 6, 2008, the Burma government representation in New York formally asked the United Nations for help. But in other ways, it remains resistant to the most basic assistance. As of May 7, 2008, the government of Burma has not officially endorsed international assistance, but stated that they are, "willing to accept international assistance, preferably bilateral, government to government." The biggest challenge at present is obtaining visas for entry into the country. 

According to Thai Rath Newspaper of Thailand on 8 May 2008, in the afternoon (Bangkok time) of 7 May 2008, the Burmese junta permitted Italian flights containing relief supplies from the United Nations, and twenty-five tonnes of consumable goods, to land in Myanmar. However, many nations and organizations hope to deliver assistance and relief to Burma without delay. Most of their officials, supplies and stores are waiting in Thailand and at the Yangon airport, as the Burmese junta does not want to issue visas for many of those people. These political tensions raise the concern that some food and medical supplies might become unusable, even before the Burmese junta officially accepts the international relief effort.
 Cyclone Nargis caused destruction in Burma, now officially called Myanmar.
 It happened on May 2, 2008.
 The storm was estimated to be category 4 (105 mph)
 Cyclone Nargis Caused destruction and at least 138,000 fatalities. There were around 55,000 people missing and lots of other deaths were found in other places. In Sri Lanka the cyclone produced masses of rainfall which led to flooding and landslides across ten districts across the country. The districts Ratnapura and Kegalle were the most affected, where more than 3,000 families were dead. Thousands of houses were flooded, with 21 reported destroyed. As a result, the rainfall left 4,500 people homeless, and more than 35,000 people were affected on the island. Three people were reported injured on the island, with two others dead. The power of the cyclone lowered temperatures along the Indian coastline. Estimates of the people still missing were 53,836, with 84,537 confirmed dead already. Thousands more people were still missing or washed out at sea and drowned, it was feared up to 1 million people might have died in this disaster.
 Thailand sent $100,000 USD in supplies, thirty tones of medical supplies and twelve tones of food supplies. As well as this, Italy provided 30 tons of emergency relief equipment, like stretchers, generators, and water purifiers. Also, the United Kingdom committed ₤17 million. Australia gave $25 million and 31 tonnes of supplies, whilst Belgium sent €250,000. China sent $10 million in relief resources. France gave 1,500 tons of medicine, food, and water, and Germany sent $3.0 million. All to help the people who had been affected.



</doc>
<doc id="106432" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106432" title="Category:Indian Ocean">
Category:Indian Ocean


</doc>
<doc id="106477" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106477" title="Toilet paper">
Toilet paper

Toilet paper is soft paper, used to wipe urine or feces after using the toilet. It is usually sold in rolls, made up of square sheets.

Modern toilet paper is very absorbent and is designed to break up in the sewage system. The paper is often available in different textures and colours.
In former times people had no toilet paper and used other things. 
The Greeks, for example, used stones or human hair, Germans used leaves and straw. Some peoples used maize leaves. Some used sand instead of toilet paper.
In the Middle Ages people used moss and the rich ones preferred sheep wool. 
The first toilet paper was produced in China in the 14th century.
In 1857 Joseph Gayetty produced toilet paper in cartons in the USA. 
And the first rolls of toilet paper were produced in 1890 in Great Britain. 
In many parts of the world, newspaper is used instead of toilet paper.


</doc>
<doc id="106520" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106520" title="Fox Interactive">
Fox Interactive

Fox Interactive (now known as 20th Century Fox Games) is a video game publisher and developer who makes titles based on 20th Century Fox franchises, such as "The Simpsons", "Family Guy", "Futurama", "Buffy the Vampire Slayer", "The X-Files" and many more. They have also been involved with original titles, like "" and "No One Lives Forever". The company was founded in 1982 as Fox Video Games. Fox Interactive became a subsidiary of Activision Blizzard and is now a division of Activision. Fox Interactive continues to market, publish and develop its games; however, it does so now as a part of Activision.

The Fox Interactive logo is a parody of the Universal Studios logo.

Former website: www.foxinteractive.com


</doc>
<doc id="106541" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106541" title="Sauropod">
Sauropod

The Sauropods were an infraorder of large, four-legged, herbivorous dinosaurs. They had very long necks, small heads with blunt teeth, a small brain, and long tails for counterbalancing their necks. 


</doc>
<doc id="106550" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106550" title="Blockade">
Blockade

A blockade is a physical blockage of a port or other place. Usually used of enemy ships surrounding a port.

By extension, a blockade is any effort to make sure that supplies, troops, information or aid do not reach an opposing force. Blockades are used in nearly all military campaigns and the tool of choice for economic on an opposing nation. The International Criminal Court planned to include blockades against coasts and ports in its list of acts of war in 2009.

Historical blockades include:



</doc>
<doc id="106562" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106562" title="Bursa">
Bursa

Bursa is a city in northwestern Turkey and the seat of the Bursa province. The population of city is about 2 million. Bursa is the fourth largest city, and also one of the most industrialized cities in the country. Sometimes the city is called "Yeşil Bursa" which means "Green Bursa" because of the large parks, forests and gardens in the urban area of the city. Bursa is home of Uludağ University. Uludağ is an important ski resort in Turkey. The city has a national park in Uludağ to protect the nature life in the mountainous area.



</doc>
<doc id="106572" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106572" title="United States presidential election, 2008">
United States presidential election, 2008

The candidates running for the nomination of the Democratic Party were Barack Obama, Hillary Clinton, John Edwards, Joe Biden, Dennis Kucinich, Mike Gravel, Chris Dodd, and Bill Richardson.

The main contest during the Democratic primaries was between Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton which was a very close race. Clinton won the popular vote, but ultimately Obama won more delegates.

On July 7th, 2008, Barack Obama defeated Hillary Clinton in the Democratic primary and was nominated by the Democratic party.

All candidates except Mike Gravel, who switched to the Libertarian Party during the election, supported Barack Obama.

Barack Obama chose Joe Biden as the vice-presidential candidate on August 23rd, 2008.

Barack Obama defeated John McCain and became president of the U.S. on January 20th, 2009. 

The candidates running for the nomination of the Republican Party were John McCain, Mitt Romney, Mike Huckabee, Ron Paul, Rudy Giuliani, Fred Thompson, Tom Tancredo, Alan Keyes, Jim Gilmore, Sam Brownback, and Duncan Hunter.

Republican President George W. Bush was unable to run for re-election since a president is only able to be elected twice and vice president Dick Cheney chose not to run.

Most of the candidates withdrew early. In result, John McCain, Mike Huckabee, and Mitt Romney emerged as the three people most likely to win the nomination and Ron Paul became popular among libertarians.

John McCain was nominated by the Republican Party (by a decisive victory). 

He chose Sarah Palin as the vice-presidential candidate.

John McCain lost the election to Barack Obama.

The biggest issue during the campaign was the bad economy. Other issues included health care, the Iraq War, the war on terrorism, and energy independence.

The president during the election, George W. Bush (who eventually supported John McCain), was very unpopular, and because of that, the Obama campaign compared McCain to Bush several times.

There were four television debates during the campaign: three of them were between the two presidential candidates, and one of them was between the two vice-presidential candidates.



</doc>
<doc id="106574" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106574" title="Democratic Party (United States) presidential primaries, 2008">
Democratic Party (United States) presidential primaries, 2008

The Democratic Party presidential primaries of 2008 was an American political event. In various states, various Democratic candidates asked people and delegates to vote for them in primaries and caucuses. Candidates won delegates based on a percentage of votes (in primaries). There were 4,233 delegates. A candidate would have to get 2,110 delegates to win the nomination. The two front-runners of the campaign were New York Senator Hillary Clinton and Illinois Senator Barack Obama. Although Clinton led in the beginning, Obama soon gained the lead. Obama went on to become the first African-American presidential candidate in American history.


</doc>
<doc id="106579" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106579" title="Theodor Schwann">
Theodor Schwann

Theodore Schwann (December 7, 1810 – January 11, 1882) was a German scientist who isolated and named the enzyme pepsin. He was also responsible for founding modern biology, and the idea of the cell being the foundation of living organisms. To him cells were very important because they made up all living things.


</doc>
<doc id="106580" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106580" title="Dubbo, New South Wales">
Dubbo, New South Wales

Dubbo is a large town in the central west area of New South Wales, Australia. Dubbo has a campus of the Charles Sturt University. A major tourist attraction in Dubbo is the Western Plains Zoo.


</doc>
<doc id="106582" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106582" title="Antiwar.com">
Antiwar.com

Antiwar.com is an English language website containing news and opinions related to wars. The site was founded in December of 1995, as a response to the Bosnian War.

Justin Raimondo is a founder and editorial director.



</doc>
<doc id="106583" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106583" title="Barium chloride">
Barium chloride

Barium chloride is a chemical substance. It is among the most important salts of barium. It is soluble in water. It is a poison. When it is heated, it gives a yellow or green color to the flame. It is hygroscopic, meaning that it attracts water from the air. It is mainly used to purify brine but applications include fireworks. 

Barium chloride is toxic. Sodium sulfate may be an antidote.


</doc>
<doc id="106586" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106586" title="Bunker (paintball)">
Bunker (paintball)

In paintball, a bunker is an obstacle on the playing field used to block the view of opponents and prevent them from firing accurately. In woodsball, a bunker may be a fallen log, collection of wood debris, barrels, or other material. In most modern speedball tournaments, inflatable vinyl bunkers of different shapes and sizes are used. 

There are many different types of bunkers. Some common ones are:


</doc>
<doc id="106587" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106587" title="Template:Pretty compound">
Template:Pretty compound


</doc>
<doc id="106598" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106598" title="North Atlantic Treaty">
North Atlantic Treaty

The North Atlantic Treaty is the treaty that founded NATO. It was signed in Washington, DC on April 4, 1949. The original twelve nations that signed it and thus became the founding members of NATO were the following:

Later the following nations joined:

When Germany was reunified in 1990, the country as a whole became a member of NATO.

The key section of the treaty was Article V which says that each member state has to consider an armed attack against one state to be an armed attack against all states. The treaty was created with an armed attack by the Soviet Union against Western Europe in mind, but the mutual self-defense clause was never used during the Cold War. It was used for the first time in 2001 when the September 11, 2001 attacks against the World Trade Center and The Pentagon had taken place.

In the United States, the treaty was approved by the Senate in a vote of 82 to 13 on July 21 1949.




</doc>
<doc id="106611" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106611" title="Blockade of Germany">
Blockade of Germany

The blockade of Germany, during World War I, was a part of the First Battle of the Atlantic between the United Kingdom and Germany. 

About 750,000 civilians died because of starvation caused by this blockade during the War. Many more had to die from starvation after the Armistice in November 1918 as the blockade was continued into 1919, in order to force Germany to sign the Treaty of Versailles in June 1919.

The British established a naval blockade of Germany early in the war. This blockade was unusually restrictive in that even food was stopped as it was said to help the war. The Germans regarded this as an attempt to starve the German people into submission and wanted to fight back.
As Germany could not fight with British naval strength on an even basis, the only possible way Germany could impose a blockade on Britain was through the submarines. The German Chancellor was against this sort of blockade because it meant attacking neutral ships as those of the United States as well. But the military pushed unlimited submarine warfare forward.

On 4 February 1915, Kaiser Wilhelm II of Germany declared the seas around the British Isles a war zone. Effective 18 February, Allied ships in the area would be sunk without warning. British ships hiding behind neutral flags would not be spared, though some effort would be made to avoid sinking clearly neutral vessels.

The German U-boat force was now primarily based at Ostend in Belgium. So German submarines had better access to the sea lanes around England. The Germans made use of this advantage and sent out about 20 U-boats to begin the naval blockade. In January, before the declaration of "unrestricted submarine warfare" as the submarine blockade was called, 43,550 tonnes of shipping had been sunk by U-boats. The number of sinkings then steadily increased, with 168,200 tonnes going down in August.

Losses of British warships were small. Although the battleship "Formidable" had been sunk by "U-24" on New Year's Day, the fast destroyer screens soon made successful attacks on battleships and cruisers a thing of the past. On the other hand, there was little a Royal Navy warship could do to sink a U-boat if the submarine's captain was reasonably alert. The U-boat was generally safe from shelling once it had submerged. It could be rammed if it were at periscope depth, but ramming was hardly a reasonable tactic as a standard practice.

Destroyers were not able to hunt the U-boats as they were protecting the fleet, so the British pressed every vessel they could into service, including yachts and trawlers, as auxiliary patrol vessels. However, the U-boats were able to easily evade the patrols and sink merchant vessels traveling unescorted.

Militarily, unrestricted submarine warfare was proving a great success, and the U-boats stood a good chance of starving Britain into surrender. However, in terms of the propaganda war, it was a great disaster for Germany. America wanted to stay out of the European war, but American public opinion had turned against Germany, as unrestricted submarine warfare seemed to confirm the German reputation for brutality. The deaths of American citizens traveling on British vessels torpedoed by U-boats began to make headlines in the US.

When on 7 May 1915, the American liner "Lusitania" was sunk by a German submarine, American outrage brought the US closer to declaring war on Germany. Under threat of US retaliation, on 27 August, the Kaiser imposed severe restrictions on U-boats attacks against large passenger vessels. On 18 September 1915, he called off unrestricted submarine warfare completely.

Under military pressure on Germany early in 1917, the Kaiser declared full unrestricted submarine warfare once more. Some German diplomats believed that the Americans would avoid war at all costs, and if not, hopefully Germany could bring Britain to its knees before the weight of American power made itself felt in Europe. In February, 86 vessels were sunk, followed by 103 in March, and then 155 in April. But the US finally declared war on Germany in April 1917, and both America and Britain were able to deal with the U-boat problem.


</doc>
<doc id="106613" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106613" title="LeBron James">
LeBron James

LeBron Raymone James (born December 30 1984 in Akron, Ohio) is an American professional basketball player who plays for the Miami Heat of the National Basketball Association. The Cleveland Cavaliers picked him in the 2003 NBA Draft with the first pick in the draft. James did not play college basketball, and entered the NBA Draft immediately after high school. He went to high school in Akron, Ohio.
James played with the Cavaliers for his first seven seasons. During that time, he was the NBA's top scorers. He was selected as an All-Star several times. In 2007, he led Cleveland to the NBA Finals. He was the Most Valuable Player (MVP) of the NBA for the 2008-09 NBA season and 2009-10 NBA season. In his MVP years, Cleveland had the best record in the NBA, but did not make it to the NBA Finals.

On July 8, 2010, he said that he would next play for the Miami Heat. He said this in a one hour TV special on ESPN called "The Decision". On December 2, 2010, James played in Cleveland for the first time since leaving, scoring 38 points for the Heat as they beat the Cavaliers, 118-90. Many fans angry at James for leaving Cleveland booed him throughout the game and held up signs with negative statements against James.

In the 2011 season the Miami Heat came in second place in the NBA. They made it to the finals of the NBA and lost in six games to the Dallas Mavericks This caused celebration in Cleveland.



</doc>
<doc id="106614" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106614" title="Silesian Voivodeship">
Silesian Voivodeship

Silesian Voivodeship is one of the 16 Voivodeships of Poland. It can be found in the south Poland and in east Silesia (called Upper Silesia). The capital city is Katowice. 


</doc>
<doc id="106615" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106615" title="First Battle of the Atlantic">
First Battle of the Atlantic

The First Battle of the Atlantic (1914–1918) was a naval campaign of World War I, largely fought in the seas around the British Isles and in the Atlantic Ocean. Both the German Empire and United Kingdom relied heavily on imports to feed their population and supply their war industry; thus both aimed to blockade each other. The British had the Royal Navy which was superior in numbers and could operate within the British Empire. The German fleet mainly used unrestricted submarine warfare. The successful blockade of Germany contributed to its military defeat in 1918, and still in effect, enforced also the signing of the Versailles Treaty in mid-1919.

Grand Total 12,850,814 gross tons

Note that unrestricted submarine warfare was resumed in February 1917 and the British began full-scale convoying in September 1917. The heaviest losses were suffered in April 1917 when a record 881,027 tons were sunk by the U-boats.

Source: Fayle, C. Ernest, "Seaborn Trade", Vol. 3, p. 465, Table I[a]; London: John Murray, 1924.




</doc>
<doc id="106640" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106640" title="Sukhoi">
Sukhoi

Sukhoi is a company(JSC) Russia’s major aircraft holding company, employing more than 29,000 people. Among the holding’s members are leading Russian design bureaus and aircraft production plants. The Company supports a complete cycle of work in aircraft engineering: from frontend engineering to comprehensive aftersales support. The holding's products, such as Su- marque combat aircraft, are state-of-the-art weapons systems in the global market, which form the backbone of the frontline aviation of Russia and tactical air forces of many other countries. Sukhoi is Russia's major manufacturer of export aircraft, placed 3rd in the world in terms of the numbers of modern fighters produced. The Company is currently implementing promising programmes in the field of military and civil aircraft engineering. Sukhoi has made some of the world's most innovative aircraft, such as the Su-37 Super Flanker. Most of Sukhoi's shareholdings belong in other countries than Russia.

The United States has bought aircraft from Sukhoi for aggressive training operations. However, Sukhoi sold aircraft to Iran, and thus the United States banned Sukhoi from ever doing business with them again.
 
The origin of Joint-Stock Company Sukhoi Design Bureau dates back to team No 4 of CAHI's AGOS aviation, flying boat aviation and aircraft prototype engineering facility, the team having been taken over by P.O. Sukhoi in October 1930. It was at that point that the team of the future Design Bureau started to take shape.

The next nine years saw the team produce:
The experimental fighters I-3, I-14, DIP;
The record-breaking RD aircraft used by the crews of V.P. Chkalov and M.M. Gromov to perform a number of trailblazing long-distance flights, and by the crew of M.M. Gromov to set an absolute world record in direct flight range, 10,148 km, the distance having been covered in 62 hours 17 min;
The long-range DB-2 bomber, an upgraded version of which, called Rodina, was used by the all-female crew under V.S. Grizodubova to perform a non-stop flight from Moscow to the Far East;
The multi-role BB-1 aircraft (after 1940 known as the Su-2), which was the first Sukhoi series aircraft to be produced in large numbers (910 planes) and in its short-range bomber and artillery recon/spotter versions took an active part in the 
Great Patriotic War.
To set up production of the BB-1, the government resolution of 29th July 1939 appointed P.O. Sukhoi Chief Designer. He, together with the team of the Design Bureau, which had been given a standalone status, was relocated to production aircraft plant No 135 in Kharkov.

The subsequent efforts of the team are focused on development of:
versions of the Su-2 aircraft;
The prototype armoured Su-6 attack aircraft in single-seat and two-seat versions, for which P.O. Sukhoi was awarded Stalin's Prize of the 1st Level in 1943;
The prototype cannon-armed Su-1 (Su-3) fighter;
The prototype long-range two-seat armoured Su-8 attack aircraft;
The experimental Su-5 and Su-7 with combined powerplants.
Beginning in 1945, the Design Bureau was engaged in development and building of:
The Su-9, Su-11, Su-15, Su-17 jet fighters (the first ones under this system of naming);
The Su-10 jet bomber;
The twin-engine Su-12 piston recon/spotter Su-12.
The Tu-2 bomber platform was used to develop, and put into production, the trainer bomber UTB-2; it addition, design work was carried out on passenger and troop-carrying aircraft, the Su-14 jet attack aircraft and a number of other aeroplanes.

The five post-war years saw the Design Bureau develop and introduce the nation's first:
booster aircraft control system;
landing braking parachute;
catapult ejection seat with telescopic trolley;
jettisonable nose with pressurized cockpit.
In November 1949, a government's resolution scrapped the Design Bureau, not to be resurrected till May 1953, when it was set up with new production facilities. The Design Bureau got a new lease on life with the advent of supersonic jet aviation. That is why the design team's major projects at the initial stage were the supersonic fighters S-1 and T-3. The S-1 provided a platform for the family of fighter-bombers, the Su-7 and Su-17, and more than 20 versions of them, with the Su-17 becoming the USSR's first aeroplane with a variable sweep wing. The experimental T-3 became the platform for the first Soviet target interception air launched missile system Su-9-51 and the subsequent Su-11-8M and Su-15-98(M) systems. In the '60s, the list of the equipment being developed by the Design Bureau became longer. In 1962, a project was launched to produce a long-range strike/recon aircraft, the T-4, the maiden flight of the prototype taking place on 22nd August 1972. This aircraft featured this country's first fly-by-wire system and automatic throttle control, with a weld-fabricated airframe of titanium and heavy-duty steel.

The year 1969 saw the maiden flight of the frontline Su-24 bomber with variable sweep wing, the first Soviet all-weather strike aircraft. The Su-24 was produced in several versions. It is currently in the inventory of the Air Forces of the RF and a number of other countries.

The year 1975 saw the maiden flight of the armoured Su-25 attack aircraft designed for destruction of battlefield targets. The Su-25 was the nation's first mass-produced jet attack aircraft; it has several versions and is currently a key asset of RF combat aviation.

In 1969, the Design Bureau started development of a fourth-generation fighter, and in 1977, the prototype Su-27 fighter made its first flight. In the following years, the Su-27 platform was used to produce the Su-27UB, Su-30, Su-32, and Su-33.

In order to implement design solutions and master new materials and engineering processes, an experimental prototype aircraft, the Su-47 (maiden flight 1997), was developed.

The aircraft-building experience gained by the Design Bureau's team over many decades made it possible to produce a family of aerobatic aeroplanes, the Su-26, Su-29, and Su-31. With these machines, the national aerobatics team of the USSR and RF have won a total of 330 medals (156 gold medals) at the World and European Championships.

At the beginning of the '90s, the Design Bureau initiated work on civil projects. The year 2001 saw the first flights of the utility transport aircraft Su-80GP and the agricultural Su-38L plane.

Sukhoi Civil Aircraft (CJSC) is currently engaged in developing a family of regional RRJ aeroplanes.

In different periods, the team was headed by P.O. Sukhoi, Ye.A. Ivanov, M.P. Simonov, and since 1999, the Chief Executive Officer has been M.A. Pogosyan. Over many decades, the Design Bureau's team has developed about 100 aircraft types and versions, with 60+ types put into production, giving a total of 10,000 production aeroplanes. Over 2,000 planes have been exported, to 30 countries. Su- planes have been used to establish over 50 world records. 


</doc>
<doc id="106645" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106645" title="Biomedical engineering">
Biomedical engineering

Biomedical engineering is the study of medical equipment used in an environment of care or training and how this equipment interfaces with the human body.

"Biomedical engineers" design, test, modify, recommend modification of, and evaluate all medical equipment used to interface or interact with the human body. In addition to these functions, clinical engineers usually supervise the biomedical equipment maintenance function within an environment of care.

The medical devices include man-made hands, arms, and legs to replace lost ones and, also, Dialysis machines which clean the blood of a person with damaged kidneys.



</doc>
<doc id="106646" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106646" title="This Love (The Veronicas song)">
This Love (The Veronicas song)

This Love is a 2008 song by the Australian band The Veronicas.


</doc>
