<doc id="3506" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3506" title="Black hole">
Black hole

According to the general theory of relativity, a black hole is a region of space from which nothing, including light, can escape. It is the result of the denting of spacetime caused by a very compact mass. Around a black hole there is an undetectable surface which marks the point of no return, called an event horizon. It is called "black" because it absorbs all the light that hits it, reflecting nothing, just like a perfect black body in thermodynamics. Under the theory of quantum mechanics black holes possess a temperature and emit Hawking radiation through slow dissipation by anti-protons.

Despite its undetectable interior, a black hole can be observed through its interaction with matter. A black hole can be inferred by tracking the movement of a group of stars that orbit a region in space. Alternatively, when gas falls into a stellar black hole from a companion star or nebula, the gas spirals inward, heating to very high temperatures and emitting large amounts of radiation that can be detected from earthbound and Earth-orbiting telescopes.

Astronomers have identified numerous stellar black hole candidates, and have also found evidence of supermassive black holes at the center of every galaxy. After observing the motion of nearby stars for 16 years, in 2008 astronomers found compelling evidence that a supermassive black hole of more than 4 million solar masses is located near the Sagittarius A* region in the center of the Milky Way galaxy.

In 1783, an English geologist named John Mitchell wrote that it might be possible for something to be so big and heavy that the escape speed from its gravity is equal to the speed of light. Gravity gets stronger as something gets bigger or more massive. For a small thing, like a rocket, to escape from a larger thing, like Earth, it has to go escape the pull of our gravity or it will fall back. The speed that it must travel upward to get away from Earth's gravity is called escape velocity. Bigger planets (like Jupiter) and stars have more mass, so have stronger gravity than Earth, so the escape velocity is much faster. John Mitchell thought it was possible for something to be so big that the escape velocity would be faster than the speed of light, so even light could not escape.

Some scientists thought Mitchell might be right, but others thought that light had no mass and would not be pulled by gravity. His theory was forgotten.

In 1916, Albert Einstein wrote an explanation of gravity called general relativity. It is a very complicated theory, but there are two important things about it:

A few months later, a German physicist named Karl Schwarzschild calculated that a black hole could exist.

In 1930, Subrahmanyan Chandrasekhar predicted that stars heavier than the sun could collapse when they ran out of hydrogen or other nuclear fuels to burn and died. In 1939, Robert Oppenheimer and H. Snyder calculated that a star would have to be at least three times as massive as the sun to form a black hole.

In 1967, John Wheeler gave black holes the name "black hole" for the first time. Before that, they were called "dark stars."

In 1970, Stephen Hawking and Roger Penrose proved that black holes "must" exist. Although the black holes are invisible (they cannot be seen), some of the matter that is falling into them is very bright.

Most black holes are made when a giant star, called a supergiant, at least twenty times bigger than our own Sun dies, and leaves behind a mass that is at least one solar mass. Stars die when they run out of hydrogen or other nuclear fuel to burn and start to collapse. 

A supergiant star's death is called a supernova. Stars are usually in equilibrium, which means they are making enough energy to push their mass outward against the force of gravity. When the star runs out of fuel to make energy, gravity takes over. Gravity pulls the center of the star inward very quickly (so quickly that it would have to be repeated several thousand times before it took up a single second), and it collapses into a little ball. The collapse is so fast and violent that it makes a shock wave, and that causes the rest of the star to explode outward. As the gravity pushes the star inward, the pressure in the center of star reaches to such an extreme level that it enables heavier molecules like iron and carbon to interact to release nuclear energy. The release of the energy from the star during a very short period of time (about one hour) is with such a high rate that it outshines an entire galaxy. 

The ball in the center is so dense (a lot of mass in a small space, or volume), that if you could somehow scoop only one teaspoon of material and bring it to Earth, it would sink to the core of the planet. If the original star was large enough the densely packed ball is called a singularity, the core of a black hole, but if it was not it would become either a neutron star or a dwarf star.

Even without a supernova, a black hole will form any time there is a lot of matter in a small space, without enough energy to act against gravity and stop it from collapsing.

If supernovas are so bright, why do we not see them often? Actually, there are usually hundreds of years between naked-eye super nova sightings. It is because the period of being a super nova in a star life cycle is only a few hours out of the billions of years in a star's life span. The probability (chance) of looking at a star in sky and that being in super nova state is equal to the ratio of an hour over several billion years.

It is worth mentioning that all of the heavier materials like carbon, oxygen, all the metals, etc, that make the life on the earth possible and are ingredients of all living creatures, can only form in the extreme pressure at the center of a super nova. So we are all a remnant ash from one exploding star several billion years ago.

Black holes have also been found in the middle of every major galaxy in the universe. These are called supermassive black holes, and are the biggest black holes of all. They formed when the Universe was very young, and also helped to form all the galaxies.

Some black holes are also responsible for making things called quasars. A quasar occurs when a black hole consumes all the gas surrounding it. As the gas gets close to the black hole itself, it heats up from a process called friction, and glows so brightly that this light can be seen on the other side of the Universe. It is often brighter than the whole galaxy the quasar is in. When astronomers first found quasars, they thought they had found objects close to us. After using a measuring technique called red shift, they discovered these quasars were actually very far away in the universe.

At the middle of a black hole, there is a really small thing called a singularity, but it is impossible to see it because light gets sucked into it, and not reflected. Around the tiny singularity, there is a large area where light which would normally pass by gets sucked in as well. The edge of this area is called the event horizon. The gravity of the black hole gets weaker at a distance. The event horizon is the place farthest away from the middle where the gravity is still strong enough to trap light. The singularity is like the pipe under a sink, while the event horizon is like the edge of the drain where water always gets sucked in.
Outside the event horizon, light and matter will still be pulled toward the black hole. If a black hole is surrounded by matter, the matter will form an "accretion disk" (accretion means "gathering") around the black hole. An accretion disk looks something like the rings of Saturn. As it gets sucked in, the matter gets very hot and shoots x-ray radiation into space. Think of this as the water spinning around the hole before it falls in.

Most black holes are too far away and small to see the accretion disk and jet. The best way to know a black hole is there is by seeing how stars, gas and other things behave around it. With a black hole nearby, even objects as big as a star move in a different way, usually faster than they would if the black hole was not there. 

Also, because black holes can bend light passing by, if a black hole passes between us and a source of light very far away, the light will become quite distorted, like a fun-house mirror at a circus, until the black hole moves out of the way. The light can also be magnified, like a magnifying glass, allowing scientists to see things farther away (this is called gravity lensing). 

We cannot actually see black holes; one way of detecting them is to look at the sky when a black hole passes between us and a source of light, the light bends around the black hole creating a mirror image, so when astronomers see patches of sky that are identical, they may have found a black hole.

A lot of science fiction writers use black holes in their stories, and many scientists wish to find one relatively close to Earth to study one better. 

Scientists also think black holes might cause wormholes, theoretical "portals" through space.

Singularities are what scientists believe to be inside of a black hole. These singularities present a huge problem to black hole theorists because they present fundamental flaws in Einstein's work. This is because when you use the equations to work out what a singularity is, the answer is infinite time and space, which makes no scientific sense.

Stephen Hawking discovered the evaporation of the black hole by quantum field theory in a static black hole background. The result of his calculations is that a black hole should emit particles in a perfect black body spectrum. When trying to prove the existence of black holes, Hawking realized that particles and their counterparts (antiparticles) are colliding every second, everywhere, popping in and out of existence. If a pair of particles were to pop into existence at the edge of the event horizon, one could potentially get sucked in while its counterpart floats free. This process would emit a small amount of radiation. This effect has become known as Hawking radiation.

It was commonly thought that a black hole was there forever and if you were trapped in one, you would be stuck there eternally. This was proved wrong when scientists discovered small leaks in black holes. This meant that over billions and billions of years, a black hole would disperse. The leaking is slow at first, but as it gets smaller, it gets faster and faster.


</doc>
<doc id="3511" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3511" title="Sheffield">
Sheffield

Sheffield is a big city in a region called South Yorkshire in the North of England. 534,500 people live there. Sheffield is in the middle of lots of hills. The city centre is where the River Sheaf meets the River Don, and Sheffield gets its name from the River Sheaf. The city is east of the Peak District National Park. It is estimated that Sheffield has over two million trees, which is more than any city in Europe per each person. 61% of the city is green space, such as parks and forests.

The area of Sheffield used to be the Anglo-Saxon shire of Hallamshire, the city itself was founded later.

Sheffield is famous for making cutlery (like knives and spoons). People in Sheffield have made cutlery for a very long time (a Sheffield-made knife is referred to in Chaucer's "Canterbury Tales", a book from the middle ages). Sheffield is also famous for making steel. Benjamin Huntsman discovered the crucible technique for making steel in 1740. In 1856, Henry Bessemer invented the Bessemer Converter steelmaking furnace. Henry moved to Sheffield to make steel. Later, in 1912, Harry Brearly invented stainless steel in Sheffield.

The first football team in the world is from Sheffield, Sheffield F.C., set up in 1857. Sheffield currently has two big professional football teams: Sheffield United and Sheffield Wednesday.

There are lots of famous bands from Sheffield. Some of them are Pulp, the Human League, Def Leppard and the Arctic Monkeys. Michael Palin is also from Sheffield.


</doc>
<doc id="3515" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3515" title="Fertilizer">
Fertilizer

A fertilizer is a chemical that helps plants to grow. It is used to replace the mineral salts taken by plants or removed by rain.

Common fertilizers:


The important things in fertilizer are:

When fertilizers are offered for sale, the percentage of N, P, and K must be be written on the bags or boxes, but for historcal reasons, P is shown as %P2O5 and K is shown as %K2O. 

Eg:9-23-30 which means: 9% N, 23%P2O5 and 30%K2O.

In Australia the pecent of elemental sulfur must also be shown.
In the UK, the elemental composition (in percentages) may also be shown along side the mandatory traditional system, provided the numbers are put inside square brackets. 
Leafy plants need lots of N. Flowering plants need lots of P and K.

A soil test can tell how much N, P, and K is needed.


</doc>
<doc id="3516" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3516" title="Military">
Military

The military is the group or groups of people that are given power to defend a country against attacks. The military protects its country by defending it from the armed forces of enemies, if there is a war. The military can also be ordered by the government of the country to attack another country. The word "military" comes from Latin "miles", warrior.

There are many jobs to do in a military. Some jobs are for fighting and some are for other work to support the military. Some things people do in the military are use weapons, drive vehicles, and repair weapons. Other people in the military learn how to fly aircraft, pilot ships, or repair engines. People in the military usually wear clothes called a uniform. In some places, especially where there may be combat, a uniform often comes in a camouflage pattern which is designed to make the person hard to see in the forest or desert.

There are two ways to join the military. In many countries, people join the military as volunteers (because they want to). In other countries, there are laws that some people have to be in the military, even if they do not want to be. This is called "the draft" or "conscription". It usually depends on age and physical fitness. People who have been in the military but have left or retired are called “veterans”. 

The military of a country is usually divided into different branches organizations that do different kinds of work. These branches usually are:

Sometimes the military has more branches that do more specialized work. For example, in the United States and United Kingdom there are:

In most countries of the world, young men and (in a few countries) women between 17 and 18 and of good health may be forced by the government of their country to join the military and have military training. This is called "conscription". The countries that do not have conscription include Australia, Bangladesh, Canada, France, Hungary, India, Italy, Japan, Malta, New Zealand, Saudi Arabia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, United Kingdom and United States. In some countries, such as Argentina, conscription is legal, but is not used, at the present time.

When a person wants to join the military as a volunteer, they "enlist". (This means simply that they put their name on a list.) They have to be above a certain age, 17 or 18 in most countries. They have to pass physical fitness tests to show that they are well enough to do the jobs that they will have to do. They must also have good enough hearing, to hear instructions and good enough sight to use a rifle. 

New people in the military are often called “recruits”. They have training at a special camp, sometimes called “boot camp”. During this training, the recruits usually have very little free time. They learn to understand the "orders" or "commands" that are given by the officers to the "troops". (The troops are the military people in a group.) They learn the right ways to obey the orders. They do a lot of exercise to improve their fitness and strength. They learn about weapons, first aid, and their uniforms and "kit". (Their kit is their equipment.) Recruits also learn how to march. (This is the way to walk together, keeping "in step".) Learning to march is sometimes called “drill”. By the time soldiers finish "boot camp", they should know enough to be a helpful person in their group. The camp usually finishes with a parade in which the newly trained recruits show off their marching and other skills they have learned in front of important visitors. Once the recruits are fully trained, they are ready to defend (protect) their country from attack, or to go to war, if necessary. 

Each part of the armed forces, the army, the navy and the airforce, is organized into groups. People in each of the armed forces are part of a group, that is part of a larger group.

Here are some of the usual groups in the army:



</doc>
<doc id="3518" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3518" title="Photosynthesis">
Photosynthesis

Photosynthesis is the process by which plants and other things make food. It is a chemical process that turns carbon dioxide into organic compounds, especially sugars using sunlight. As well as plants, many kinds of algae, protists and bacteria use it to get food. Photosynthesis is very important for life on Earth. Most plants either directly or indirectly depend on it. The exception are certain organisms that directly get their energy from chemical reactions; these organisms are called chemoautotrophs.

Photosynthesis can happen in different ways, but there are some parts that are common.

Photosynthesis has two main reactions. Light-dependent reactions – which need light to work; and light-independent reactions – which do not need light to work.

Light energy from the sun is used to split water (photolysis) which has been sucked in by plants by transpiration. The sunlight hits chloroplasts in the plant, causing an enzyme to break apart the water. Water, when broken, makes oxygen, hydrogen, and electrons. 

The hydrogen converts to NADPH which is then used in the light-independent reactions. Oxygen diffuses out of the plant as a waste product of photosynthesis and ATP is synthesized from ADP and inorganic phosphate. This all happens in the grana of chloroplasts.

During this reaction, sugars are built up using carbon dioxide and the products of the light-dependent reactions (ATP and NADPH) and various other chemicals found in the plant in the Calvin Cycle. Therefore, the light-independent reaction cannot happen without the light-dependent reaction. Carbon dioxide diffuses into the plant and along with chemicals in the stroma of the chloroplast and ATP and NADPH, glucose is made and finally, transported around the plant by translocation.

There are three main factors affecting photosynthesis:

If there is little light shining on a plant, the light-dependent reactions will not work efficiently. This means that photolysis will not happen quickly, and therefore little NADPH and ATP will be made. This shortage of NADPH and ATP will lead to the light-independent reactions not working as NADPH and ATP are needed for the light-independent reactions to work.

Carbon dioxide is used in the light-independent reactions. It combines with NADPH and ATP and various other chemicals (such as Ribulose Biphosphate) to form glucose. Therefore, if there is not enough carbon dioxide, then there will be a build up of NADPH and ATP and not enough glucose will be formed.

There are many enzymes working in photosynthetic reactions - such as the enzyme in photolysis. These enzymes will not work as well, or stop working at all at high or low temperatures and therefore, so will the light-dependent and light-independent reactions.



</doc>
<doc id="3520" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3520" title="Casserole">
Casserole

A casserole is a baked dish of many different types of food, usually mixed together. Usually, one of the ingredients is a can of soup. Many people like to cook casserole because it is a very simple meal. It was invented when women started to work more and was a simple way to cook a nutritional meal. A very popular type of casserole is green bean casserole, which has green beans, milk or cream, and fried onions.


</doc>
<doc id="3521" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3521" title="Plate">
Plate

A plate is a type of dish where food can be placed after being cooked for eating. Sometimes they are called dishes. They may be made out of ceramic, plastic, paper, or styrofoam.

A plate is also one of the broken pieces of lithosphere of the Earth.

All plates have irregular shapes. They lie and float on the upper mantle. They move very slowly in different directions. Their movement is driven by the convection currents in the magma.

A plate can contain both oceanic and continental crusts. Some contain oceanic crust only.


</doc>
<doc id="3523" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3523" title="Flea">
Flea

The flea ("siphonaptera") is an insect that lives on many kinds of animals and sometimes humans. Fleas are considered parasites, and they drink the blood of the animal they bite. 

Fleas can live outdoors in sand or tall grass, and they will jump to any passing animal and lay eggs. Flea bites are usually red bumps and they itch. They can carry disease and make animals sick.

There are several types of fleas including the dog flea, cat flea, human flea, northern rat flea, and the oriental rat flea. During the Middle Ages, the oriental rat flea that spread a bacteria that caused the Bubonic Plague, also known as the Black Death or Black Plague, a huge epidemic the size of today's . The oriental rat flea would become infected by the bacteria: yersinia pestis . After infected the bacteria grew inside of the flea eventually blocking the path to their stomach. Because of this the flea was always hungry. When the flea would bite a human it opened up the skin and since the stomach of the flea was blocked, the blood from the human was heaved up back into the human, but only this time it was infected with the Bubonic plague bacteria.


</doc>
<doc id="3524" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3524" title="Terrorism">
Terrorism

Terrorism is the use of terror and acts of violence in order to intimidate societies or governments. Many different types of social or political organisations might use terrorism to try to achieve their goals. People who do terrorism are called terrorists.

Terrorism is often done by various political organizations, both right-wing and left-wing political parties, nationalistic groups, religious groups, revolutionaries, as well as by governments that are in power. One form is the use of violence against noncombatants for the purpose of gaining publicity for a group, cause, or individual.

According to Memorial Institute for Prevention of Terrorism, terrorists killed 20,498 people in 2006. The major effect of terrorism comes from the fear it generates.

Counter-terrorism is broad in scope. Specific types of counter-terrorism include:




</doc>
<doc id="3528" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3528" title="South Africa">
South Africa

The Republic of South Africa is a country in the southern region of Africa. About forty-five million people live there. South Africa is next to Namibia, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Mozambique, Lesotho and Swaziland. 

The biggest city is Johannesburg; the capitals are Cape Town, Pretoria, and Bloemfontein. This is because the government is based in Pretoria, the parliament is in Cape Town and the Supreme Court is in Bloemfontein. Because of this, South Africa has three capital cities for different purposes.

There are 11 national languages. There are Afrikaans, English, Ndebele, Xhosa, Zulu, Swati, Setswana, Sesotho, Sesotho sa Leboa, Venda and Tsonga. They are also known as National Lexicography Units (NLUs). Because of all the languages, the country has an official name in each language.

One of South Africa's most known people is Nelson Mandela. He was its president from 1994 until 1999. The current president is Jacob Zuma.

The first European people to come to South Africa were Portuguese explorers. In 1487, Bartolomeu Dias found what he called the "Cape of Storms". The king of Portugal changed it to "Cape of Good Hope". He called it this because the cape gave the Portuguese a new chance to find a sea route to India.

In 1652, Jan van Riebeeck colonized the Cape. He did this by starting a refresh station. He started the camp for the Dutch East India Company. This was so that they could give fresh food to ships on their way to the south of Asia. There were very few native people living in the Cape. Because of this, slaves were brought from Indonesia, Madagascar and India to work at the colony. In 1795, Great Britain took the Cape from the Dutch East India Company. This was because it wanted to stop France from taking it. It was given back to them in 1803. It was then annexed in 1807 when the Dutch East India Company went bankrupt.

Diamonds were found in South Africa in 1867. Gold was found in 1884. This made a great number of people to come to South Africa from Europe. They were hoping to make money.

The First Boer War happened in 1880-1881. The war was between the British and the Boer Republics. At that time, the British had the Cape. The Boer Republics were established when Dutch settlers moved north in the Great Trek. The British soldiers and their commanders lost the war. They came back 8 years later in 1899. They won the war in 1902. The British had brought much more soldiers the second time. The Boers had no chance of winning. At this time, the British made use of concentration camps. This weakened the Boers. It helped the British stop the war from lasting any longer. On May 31, 1910 the Union of South Africa was made from the Cape and Natal colonies. It was also made from Orange Free State and the Transvaal. These were two Boer Republics.

South Africa's military is the most powerful in southern Africa. South Africa spends more on its military than any of its neighboring countries do. They have very advanced weapons as a result. South Africa used to have nuclear weapons, but they were taken apart in 1993.

South Africa is found at the southernmost region of Africa, with a long coastline that reaches more than and along two oceans (the South Atlantic and the Indian). At , South Africa is the 25th-largest country in the world and is almost the size of Colombia. Njesuthi in the Drakensberg at is the highest part in South Africa.

The back of South Africa is a big and flat. It is a very populated scrubland, the Karoo, which is drier towards the northwest along the Namib desert. The eastern coastline however, is well-watered, which makes a climate kind of like the tropics. 

To the north of Johannesburg, the altitude drops beyond the of the Highveld. It then turns into the lower lying Bushveld, an area of mixed dry forest and a lot of wildlife. East of the Highveld, beyond the eastern escarpment, the Lowveld reaches towards the Indian Ocean. It has mostly high temperatures, and is also the location of subtropical agriculture.

South Africa has a mostly temperate climate. Because of being surrounded by the Atlantic and Indian Oceans on three sides, where its found in the climatically milder southern hemisphere and due to the average elevation growing towards the north (towards the equator) and further inland. Because of this varied topography and oceanic influence, great many of climatic places exist.

The climatic places vary, from the desert of the southern Namib in the farthest northwest to the subtropical climate in the east along the Mozambique border and the Indian ocean. From the east, the land quickly rises over mountains towards the back plateau known as the Highveld. Even though South Africa is thought as semi-arid, there is a difference in climate as well as topography.

The southwest has a climate similar to that of the Mediterranean with wet winters and hot, dry summers. This area also makes much of the wine in South Africa. This region is also mostly known for its wind, which blows almost all year. The wind can sometimes be severe when passing around the Cape of Good Hope mostly gets bad for sailors, making many shipwrecks. Further east on the south coast, rainfall falls more evenly throughout the year, making a green landscape. This area is popularly known as the Garden Route.

The Free State is mostly flat because of the fact that it lies in the center of the high plateau. North of the Vaal River, the Highveld becomes better watered and does not get subtropical heat. Johannesburg, in the center of the Highveld, is at 1,740 m (5,709 ft) and gets a yearly rainfall of 740 mm (29.9 in). Winters in this region are cold, although snow is rare.

South Africa is ranked sixth out of the world’s 17 megadiverse countries, with more than 20,000 different kinds of plants, or about 10% of all the known species of plants on Earth, making it very rich in plant . The most common biome in South Africa is the grassland, mostly on the Highveld. This is where grasses, low shrubs, and acacia trees, mostly camel-thorn and whitethorn are more common then plants. Plants become even more less common towards the northwest. This is because of low rainfall. There are many species of water-storing plants like aloes and euphorbias in the very hot and dry Namaqualand area. The grass and thorn savanna turns slowly into a bush savanna towards the north-east of the country, with more thick growth. There are many numbers of baobab trees in this area, near the northern end of Kruger National Park.

South Africa's economy is divided. It is divided between First World and Third World standards. The developed part of the economy is similar to that of most nations with wealth (for example, Britain or Australia). The rest of the economy is closer to that of poor nations, such as the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The main companies in South Africa are mining (mostly for gold and diamonds), car making, and service industries, such as insurance.

Unemployment is very high. Income inequality is about the same as Brazil. During 1995–2003, the number of older jobs went down. Informal jobs went up. Overall unemployment got worse. The average South African household income went down a lot between 1995 and 2000. As for racial inequality, Statistics South Africa said that in 1995 the average white household earned four times as much as the average black household. In 2000 the average white family was earning six times more than the average black household.
The action policies have seen a rise in black economic wealth. There is a developing black middle class. Other problems are crime, corruption, and HIV/AIDS. South Africa suffers from mostly heavy overall regulation compared to developed countries. Owning states and fighting stopped people from entering in lots of places. labor rules have added to the unemployment weakness.

South Africa is a nation of about 50 million people of diverse origins, cultures, languages, and religions. The last census was held in 2001 and the next will be in 2011. Statistics South Africa had five racial categories by which people could classify themselves, the last of which, "unspecified/other" drew "not needed" responses, and these results were not sounted. The 2009 middle-year estimated figures for the other categories were Black African at 79.3%, White at 9.1%, Colored at 9.0%, and Indian or Asian at 2.6%.

Even though the population of South Africa has grown in the past decade (mostly because of immigration), the country had an yearly population growth rate of −0.501% in 2008 (CIA est.), counting immigration. The CIA thinks that in 2009 South Africa's population started to grow again, at a rate of 0.281%. South Africa is home to an estimated 5 million illegal immigrants, counting about 3 million Zimbabweans. A series of anti-immigrant riots happened in South Africa beginning on 11 May 2008.

It may be suggested that there is no single South African culture because of its ethnic diversity. Today, the diversity in foods from many cultures is enjoyed by all and marketed to tourists who wish to taste South African food. Food is not the only thing, music and dance is there too.

South African food is mostly meat-based and has spawned the South African social gathering known as a "braai", or barbecue. South Africa has also developed into a big wine maker. It has some of the best vineyards lying in valleys around Stellenbosch, Franschoek, Paarl and Barrydale.

Most South African blacks still have poor lives. It is among these people, however, that cultural traditions live most strongly. This is because blacks have become and Westernised, parts of traditional culture have fallen. Urban blacks normally speak English or Afrikaans in addition to their native tongue. There are smaller but still important groups of speakers of Khoisan languages who are not in the eleven official languages, but are one of the eight other officially recognized languages.

Members of middle class, who are mostly white but whose ranks are growing numbers of black, colored and Indian people, have lifestyles similar in many ways to that of people found in Western Europe, North America and Australasia. Members of the middle class often study and work from foreign countries for greater exposure to the markets of the world.

According to the 2001 national census, Christians accounted for 79.7% of the population. This has Zion Christian (11.1%), Pentecostal (Charismatic) (8.2%), Roman Catholic (7.1%), Methodist (6.8%), Dutch Reformed (6.7%), Anglican (3.8%); members of other Christian churches accounted for another 36% of the population. Muslims accounted for 1.5% of the population, Hinduism about 1.3%, and Judaism 0.2%. 15.1% had no religious affiliation, 2.3% were other and 1.4% were unspecified.

South Africa's most liked sports are soccer, rugby union and cricket. Other sports with good help are swimming, athletics, golf, boxing, tennis and netball. Soccer is the most liked among youth. There are other sports like basketball, surfing and skateboarding that are becoming more liked.
Famous boxers from South Africa are Baby Jake Jacob Matlala, Vuyani Bungu, Welcome Ncita, Dingaan Thobela, Gerrie Coetzee and Brian Mitchell. There are football players who have played for major foreign clubs. Some of them are Lucas Radebe and Philemon Masinga (both were of Leeds United), Quinton Fortune (Atletico Madrid and Manchester United), Benni McCarthy (Ajax Amsterdam, F.C. Porto and Blackburn Rovers), Aaron Mokoena (Ajax Amsterdam, Blackburn Rovers and Portsmouth), Delron Buckley (Borussia Dortmund) and Steven Pienaar (Ajax Amsterdam and Everton). South Africa made Formula One motor racing's 1979 world champion Jody Scheckter. Famous current cricket players are Herschelle Gibbs, Graeme Smith, Jacques Kallis, JP Duminy and more. Most of them also participate in the Indian Premier League.

South Africa has also made many world class rugby players. Some of them are Francois Pienaar, Joost van der Westhuizen, Danie Craven, Frik du Preez, Naas Botha, and Bryan Habana. South Africa hosted and won the 1995 Rugby World Cup at their first try. They won the 2007 Rugby World Cup in France. South Africa was only allowed to participate from 1995 since the end of Apartheid. It followed the 1995 Rugby World Cup by hosting the 1996 African Cup of Nations. It had the national team, 'Bafana Bafana,' going on to win the tournament. It also hosted the 2003 Cricket World Cup. and the 2007 World Twenty20 Championship. Both of them were a great success. South Africa will be the host nation for the 2010 FIFA World Cup. This will be the first time the tournament is held on the African continent.

In 2010, South Africa became the first African nation to host the FIFA World Cup. It bid for the right to stage the 2004 Olympic Games, but finished third to Athens. South Africa is also well known for their cricket team. They are right now the world's number one in test match cricket.

The main schools span the first seven years of schooling. In the age of Apartheid, schools for blacks were subject to judgment through funding and so forth. South Africa has many universities. Instruction can take place in Afrikaans as well. Public payment on education was at 5.4 % of the 2002-05 GDP.



</doc>
<doc id="3529" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3529" title="Andorra">
Andorra

Andorra is a European country between Spain and France. There are about 70,000 people living in the country. The capital is Andorra la Vella. It is ruled by a Spanish Bishop and the French President. Andorra's government is a parliamentary democracy.
<div />


</doc>
<doc id="3537" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3537" title="Hiroshima">
Hiroshima

Hiroshima (広島) is the name of a city and prefecture in Japan. Hiroshima is the capital city of Hiroshima Prefecture. It is the largest city in the Chugoku region of western Japan. About a million people live in Hiroshima.

In the late Sengoku period and Edo period, Hiroshima was the capital of local daimyos. A big and beautiful castle, Hiroshima-jo was built. Its nickname is Rijo, meaning Castle of the Carp.

Hiroshima was the site of the first ever atomic bombing near the end of World War II. The bomb exploded over Hiroshima at 8:16 on the morning of August 6, 1945. Much of the city was destroyed. Over 100,000 people were killed, many instantly and many afterwards because of radiation sickness. It is now estimated that 140,000 people were killed by the explosion. The bomb was nicknamed "Little Boy" after President Theodore Roosevelt. More people died later because of cancer or other illnesses caused by the radiation, between 1950, and 1990, approximately 21,343 people died of cancer, resulted from the radiation caused by the atomic bomb. A building near the blast center still remains and is called the Atomic Bomb Dome.

Near to Hiroshima, there is a small island called Miyajima. The island is known for its deer. An old Shinto shrine named Itsukushima Shrine is also here. It is said that Itsukushima shrine was built at the end of the 5th century. The shrine is known for its use of red-colored wood, and especially for the "torii" gate that leads into the shrine, which is partly underwater at high tide. Today Itsukushima shrine and the Atomic Bomb Dome are registered as World Heritage sites. Also it was a landing site for the U.S.
There is a professional baseball team in Hiroshima called Hiroshima Carp.



</doc>
<doc id="3538" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3538" title="Richter scale">
Richter scale

The Richter magnitude scale is a scale of numbers used to tell the size of earthquakes. Charles Richter developed the Richter Scale in 1935. His scale was based on the seismogram measured by a particular type of "seismometer" at a distance of 100 kilometres (62 mi) from the earthquake. 

Earthquakes that are 4.5 or higher on the Richter scale can be measured by tools all over the world.

The scale is logarithmic, with a base of 10. The amplitude of an earthquake which scores 3.0 is about 10 times the amplitude of one that scores 2.0. The energy that is released, will increase by a factor of about 32. 
The earthquake with the biggest recorded magnitude was the Great Chilean Earthquake. It had a magnitude of 9.5 (approximately 9.5 on the Richter scale) and occurred in 1960. Approximately 6,000 people died because of the earthquake. 




</doc>
<doc id="3539" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3539" title="Day">
Day

A day is the time it takes the Earth to spin around once. It is day time on the side of the Earth that is facing the Sun. When it is night time, that side of the earth is facing away from the Sun. It takes 24 hours for the earth to spin once, so that is one day, including the day time and night time.

<nowiki>*</nowiki> There are only 29 days in February during a leap year. Otherwise February has 28 days.


</doc>
<doc id="3540" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3540" title="Phases of the Moon">
Phases of the Moon

The phases of the moon are the different ways the moon looks during the month. As the Moon moves in space, different parts of it face the Sun. This means that different parts of it are lit up. We only see one side of the moon from Earth because it rotates so that one side is always facing us. The moon phase takes between 27.3 days. The phases of the moon appears to be a circular disk, which is illuminated to some degree by direct sunlight.




</doc>
<doc id="3541" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3541" title="Sphere">
Sphere

A sphere is a shape in space that is like the surface of a ball. Usually the terms ball and sphere are used alike. But in mathematics, the precise (exact) definition only allows points in the 3 dimensional space which are uniformly and symmetrically located at a fixed length called radius of the sphere.

Examples of these are basketballs, superballs, and playground balls.

In other places sphere means the earth.

A sphere is the 3 dimensional analogue of a circle.

The volume of a sphere is given by the following formula

formula_2 is a constant that is approximately equal to 3.1416.

Surface area of a sphere

The surface area of a sphere is given by the following formula


</doc>
<doc id="3543" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3543" title="Quantity">
Quantity

Quantity or amount is how much of something there is that can be counted or measured. 

Whole numbers (1, 2, 3 ...) are used to count things. This can be done by pointing to each one. As things are pointed to, a number is said. Start with the number one. Each time another thing is pointed to, the next whole number is used. When the last thing in a group it pointed to, that number is the quantity of the group. 

Measuring is done with a ruler or a machine. We put a ruler next to a thing to measure how long it is. We put things on a scale to measure their mass. Other machines are used to measure temperature, speed, or electricity.

When measuring things, a whole number might not be the best answer. A distance might be longer than 5 meters, but less than 6 meters. Meter sticks are marked off in parts of a meter. Decimals are formed by marking off a ruler in ten equal parts. Each part is a tenth. 5.2 meters is a little bit longer than 5 meters. 5.7 meters is a little bit shorter than 6 meters. Each of these tenths can be marked with ten smaller parts. The one hundred centimeters on a meter stick are done this way.

Fractions are used when there are parts of a whole number. The dial on a machine may be marked with four parts between each whole number. A scale with a bag of potatoes may show five and three-fourths kilograms. This would be almost six kilograms.

People often use the word "amount" when they should say "number". The word "number" should be used if a particular number could be put: e.g.


</doc>
<doc id="3544" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3544" title="Advertising">
Advertising

Advertising is a way a company encourages people to buy goods, services, companies and ideas, usually performed by an identified sponsor, and performed through a variety of media. Advertisers influence our identity by making adverts. Many people agree that they influence our identity and they have a huge impact on our life. They influence our identity by using things such as techniques, stereotypes and targeting our audience. Our personal identity is who we are and what things make us up such as occupation, beliefs, personality, self esteem, lifestyle, relation ships, friends, how we look and what we wear. Advertisers use techniques to grab people's attention. For example, to make a burger look tasty in advertising, it may be painted with brown food colouring, sprayed with waterproofing to prevent it from going soggy and sesame seeds may be superglued in place. Advertising can bring new customers and more sales for the business. It can be expensive but can help make a business make more money.

Advertising happens in many different ways. Many products are advertised on television, although not all channels permit advertising. Billboards advertise products on city streets, these may simply be freestanding billboards or may be part of street furniture such as a bus shelter. Buses and taxis are often covered in adverts, while budget airlines sometimes allow advertising inside their planes. Adverts also appear in newspapers, magazines and sports programmes. Many stadiums have adverts set around them. Sports teams, tournaments, television programmes and public events sometimes have sponsors. Advertising also takes place on the internet and teletext.

Advertisers use many different techniques to get people to notice there adverts, often using deliberately shocking or provocative images. Sex is also often used by advertisers in this way. Once they have managed to make people notice their advert, they need to 'sell' the product or brand. They may try to make the product look appealing, however often advertisers use humour to get people to remember the brand without actually promoting the product. Poor adverts can damage sales or spoil a brands identity.

Advertising is often strictly regulated, for instance in the United Kingdom it is illegal to advertise tobacco, except in the shop where it is sold and this is also restricted. In France it is illegal to advertise alcohol, meaning that when many European football teams play in France, they cannot play in their usual shirts as breweries often advertise on sports shirts. It is also illegal to advertise on some television channels, the BBC in the United Kingdom and RTE in the Republic of Ireland are not allowed to permit advertising and instead make their revenue from selling a compulsory television licence.



</doc>
<doc id="3555" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3555" title="Buddha">
Buddha

A Buddha is a very holy person in Buddhism. The word "Buddha" means "He woke up" in Sanskrit. Buddha was born Siddhartha Gautama. He was the man who started Buddhism. Sometimes people call him "the Buddha". Other times, people call any person a Buddha if they have found enlightenment. If a person has not found enlightenment yet, but is very close to reaching it, then he is called Bodhisattva.

In early Buddhism Buddha meant only Siddhartha Gautama. Later an idea began that there could be many Buddhas: some in the past, some maybe in the present and some in the future. 

Since Buddhism tradition thinks Buddha is an ideal person, tradition reached a notion of 36 ideal features of Buddhas. Some of those features are represented on statues of Buddhas. Some other features, like the feature of their foot, are difficult to be represented on a statue. 

Buddhists believe that the Buddha was enlightened, which means that he knew all about how to live a peaceful life and how to not to suffer in an afterlife. They think he never got depressed, frustrated, upset or confused. He is said to have never argued with other people, but just said what was true and useful, out of compassion.

Sujin Boriharnwanaket taught:

Some Buddhists pray to Buddhas, but Buddhas are not gods. Buddhas are just teachers, to help people who will listen. A Buddha is a human being who has woken up and can see the true way the world works. This knowledge totally changes the person beyond birth, death, and rebirth. Nothing can annoy him anymore, even the circulation of incarnation, since his enlightenment put him outsides of this eternity circle in time and space. This person can help others become enlightened too in a proper way.

There are ideas which are said to lead someone to enlightenment. They are called the "Dharma", meaning the way or the truth. Anyone can become a Buddha, it is said, but it is very hard. Age and gender do not matter. Buddhists believe there have been many Buddhas who were alone, called "pacceka-buddhas". They reached "enlightenment" on their own, but they did not teach others. The first Buddha was afraid to teach people too. Their poor understanding made them hard to teach. But he did teach people, and people followed him.



</doc>
<doc id="3556" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3556" title="Flag of the United States">
Flag of the United States

The flag of the United States of America is a national flag.

The flag of the United States has 7 red stripes and 6 white stripes. These 13 stripes stand for the 13 original colonies. The flag also has a blue "canton", a rectangle in the top left corner. The canton has one white star for every state. 

When a new state joins the United States a new flag is made with an extra star. The new flag is first flown on the "4th of July", Independence Day.

The last states to join so far the United States were Alaska and Hawaii in 1959. Alaska joined on 3 January 1959, so the new flag with 49 stars was used from 4 July 1959. Hawaii joined on 21 August 1959 so the flag with 50 stars that is used today was not flown until 4 July 1960.

The colors in the flag are red, white and blue. The colors have no special meaning in the flag, but in the coat of arms white stands for purity and innocence, red for bravery and strength and blue for watchfulness, perseverance and justice. 

The flag is also often called the Stars and Stripes, the Star-Spangled Banner, or Old Glory. The national anthem and national march of the United States both reference the flag.



</doc>
<doc id="3576" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3576" title="Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi">
Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi

Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi (Devanagari: मोहनदास करमचन्द गांधी; Gujarati: મોહનદાસ કરમચંદ ગાંધી:October 2 1869 - January 30 1948) was a famous spiritual leader and politician from India, the "Father of the Nation". He is also popularly known as "Mahatma" Gandhi. "Mahatma" means "great soul" in the Indian language Sanskrit. Now he is the Martyr of the Nation since 1948. Rabindranath Tagore gave him this name.

During Gandhi's life, many countries were colonies of the United Kingdom. Many of these countries wanted independence from the United Kingdom. 

Gandhi was one of the most important people involved in the movement for the independence of India. He was a non-violent activist, who led the independence movement through non-violent protest. 

Gandhi was born on October 2, 1869 in the state of Gujarat at Porbander in India. Several members of his family worked for the government of the state. When Gandhi was older, he went to England for a few years to study law. After he became a lawyer, he went to the British colony of South Africa where he experienced laws that said people with dark skin had fewer rights than people with light skin. He decided then to become a political activist, so he could help change these unfair laws. He created a powerful, non-violent movement. 

When he returned to India, he helped cause India's independence from British rule, inspiring other colonial peoples to work for their own independence, break up the British Empire, and replace it with the Commonwealth. 

People of many different religions and ethnic groups lived in British India. Many people thought that the country should break into separate countries so that different groups could have their own countries. In particular, many people thought that Hindus and Muslims should have separate countries. Gandhi was a Hindu, but he liked ideas from many religions including Islam, Judaism and Christianity, and he thought that people of all religions should have the same rights, and could live together peacefully in the same country. He said, "God has no religion."

In 1947, British India 'Empire' became independent, and broke into two different countries, India and Pakistan. Gandhi wanted independence, but did not want the split into two different countries. Instead of celebrating on independence day, he was mourning the division of India.

Gandhi's principle of "satyagraha", often translated as "way of truth" or "pursuit of truth", has inspired other democratic and anti-racist activists like Martin Luther King, Jr. and Nelson Mandela. Gandhi often said that his values were simple, based upon traditional Hindu beliefs: truth ("satya"), and non-violence ("ahimsa"). 

On January 30, 1948, Gandhi was assassinated by an extremist Hindu activist, Nathuram Godse, who was angry because he felt that Gandhi was too towards Muslims.


</doc>
<doc id="3581" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3581" title="Schizophrenia">
Schizophrenia

Schizophrenia is the name for a number of mental illnesses. People with Schizophrenia have a different idea of what is real and what is not. This can cause problems with behaviour (the way people act), thinking, emotions and motivation. There are different forms of Schizophrenia. Most of them are linked to psychosis. People with schizophrenia are often thought to have 'lost touch with reality'.

The word schizophrenia comes from the Greek words σχίζω (schizo, break) and φρενός (frenos, mind) and means "shattered mind". Psychiatrist Emil Kraepelin was the first person to separate schizophrenia from other types of mental illness. He called it 'dementia praecox', and it was later renamed 'schizophrenia' by the psychiatrist Eugen Bleuler.

While people of many ages can have schizophrenia, most often it starts in early adulthood. Between 0.4 and 0.6% of the people have Schizophrenia. 

Today, schizophrenia is diagnosed based on talking with the patient, and looking at his or her behaviour and experiences. As of 2009, there is no laboratory test for schizophrenia.

For many people, the symptoms of schizophrenia will return throughout their life, although some people will have only one or two episodes. The exact cause of schizophrenia is not known, although many things are known to influence the condition. Scientists have discovered that both life experiences and the biology of the brain and body are important. Schizophrenia is partly genetic (passed on within families) and can be triggered by trauma.

Schizophrenia is usually treated by the use of drugs which affect the brain, and by training people to understand their thoughts and behaviour with psychotherapy. About one out of every ten people with schizophrenia commits suicide.

The famous mathematician John Forbes Nash had schizophrenia. John Forbes Nash was awarded the Nobel Prize in economics in 1994. He got the prize for his contributions to game theory. His life is portrayed in the film A Beautiful Mind.

A common handbook of medicine lists the following as common symptoms of schizophrenia:

There is a condition called "Simple Schizophrenia", sometimes known as "simple disorder". It does not include hallucinations or delusions. Some people think it is not the same thing as schizophrenia.

The symptoms are called either "positive" or "negative" symptoms, depending on what kind they are. Positive symptoms are for example hallucinations and delusions; they are called positive because something is added to the sick person's way of seeing the world. Negative symptoms are for example when the person with schizophrenia is very quiet, apathetic or has a hard time expressing happy feelings. These symptoms are called negative because something that the sick person had before the sickness, feelings for example, are lost.

There are drugs that can be given to treat schizophrenia. These drugs cannot cure schizophrenia, but they can control the symptoms. Drugs called anti-psychotics are good for the positive symptoms, but do not seem to help the negative symptoms go away. In fact, some of the drugs for the positive symptoms may make the negative symptoms worse.

Many people with schizophrenia can live good lives. Taking medicine is important to prevent relapses (symptoms coming back). The majority of people recover fully or learn to live a normal life. A small number of people who have schizophrenia will never fully recover.

There are many other illnesses which also have symptoms that look like psychosis. These illnesses include:
It is important for a doctor to look at a patient's symptoms very carefully to be find out whether he has schizophrenia, or whether he has another condition that looks like schizophrenia. Some of these conditions are such as metabolic disturbance, systemic infection, syphilis, HIV infection, epilepsy, and brain injuries.

Sometimes, a doctor must make sure the patient does not have delirium. He can tell them apart because delirium does not usually cause visual hallucinations (seeing things that are not there). Deliria also start spontaneously (by themselves), they are acute (start quickly instead of slowly) and have a changing level of consciousness (consciousness: being aware of the things around you). Delirium means that the patient has some sort of mental or physical illness. Doctors usually test for delirium only once, but sometimes they test many times because antipsychotic drugs can have side effects that look like delirium.

"Schizophrenia" does not mean multiple personality, despite the etymology of the word (Greek σχίζω = "I split").


</doc>
<doc id="3584" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3584" title="Drink">
Drink

A drink is a liquid that you can take into your body, by using your mouth. Typical drinks for humans include water, tea, milk, coffee and juice. All drinks are mainly water. All life needs water to live. Plants take in water through their roots, which are found underground. Most animals get water by drinking. To drink means to take a drink into your body.


</doc>
<doc id="3589" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3589" title="Need">
Need

A need is a thing that a living being, plant or animal, "must" have to live or to be happy. A thing that someone would like to have, but can live without, is called a want. 

Every person has the same basic needs for the body. Humans have boldily needs of water, food, clothing, and shelter to live. The need for water is the most important because a person will die very quickly without drinking water. In a warm place food is the next most important need. In a cold place, the need for clothes or shelter may be next most important because a person will soon die without these. 

Other human needs are not so certain. They are mostly needs for the mind. It is often said that a person needs love, family, and friends. These needs are for personal relationships. They may also be wants. It is true that a life may be better with these things, but some friends can be bad, or bad sometimes. Good relationships can make life very happy. Thinking about a need that is not possible can make a person very unhappy.

Some of the study of philosophy is about questions like "What are the needs of a human?"

Some scientists study the needs of human or animal minds and bodies. The study of the mind is called psychology - "words about the mind". The study of bodily needs is part of medicine.



</doc>
<doc id="3590" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3590" title="Freeware">
Freeware

Freeware is software that people may get without paying for it. It is not to be mixed up with free software. Freeware may be free in price, but the users might not be allowed to share the software or source code with others.


</doc>
<doc id="3591" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3591" title="Yahoo!">
Yahoo!

Yahoo! is a web portal and an internet content and service provider. It is known for its many products and services, such as their search engine, e-mail, instant messaging, and video, but also contents their products in news, weather forecasting, money and other information. Yahoo! makes money from advertisements in their services.

In January 1994, Jerry Yang and David Filo were Electrical Engineering graduate students at Stanford University. In April 1994, "Jerry and David's Guide to the World Wide Web" was renamed "Yahoo!", for which the official is "Yet Another Hierarchical Officious Oracle". Filo and Yang said they selected the name because they liked the word's general meaning, which comes from Gulliver's Travels by Jonathan Swift: "rude, and ". Its URL was akebono.stanford.edu/yahoo.




</doc>
<doc id="3592" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3592" title="Mecca">
Mecca

Mecca or Makkah (called Mecca in older texts (officially: Makkah al-Mukarramah; Arabic: مكة المكرمة‎) is a city in Saudi Arabia. 1,294,169 people live there (). The city is inland from Jeddah, in the narrow sandy Valley of Abraham, above sea level. It is located from the Red Sea. 

Mecca is the holiest city in the Islamic world. Every year, millions of Muslims take a pilgrimage to Mecca. This is called the Hajj, where they follow in the footsteps of Muhammad. All Muslims who are able to do so are expected to do the Hajj at least once in their life. The Kaaba and Masjid al-Haram, the holiest mosque in Islam is situated here. Mecca is closed to non-Muslims except some journalists reporting on the Hajj.

The Kaaba, the small cubical building which Muslims pray towards is believed to have been built by Ibrahim and has been a religious center ever since. Muslims believed that God commanded Ibrahim to send his second wife Hajar and her son Ismail there. They found the Zamzam Well which led to people settling nearby, and thus Makkah was born. When Ismail was big enough, he helped his father to build the Kaaba. The kaaba is the place that the Muslims pray towards. This is known as the Qibla and this is the only place which Muslims can pray towards.



</doc>
<doc id="3593" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3593" title="Arabian Peninsula">
Arabian Peninsula

Arabia is a peninsula in Southwest Asia at the junction of Africa and Asia. It lies east of Ethiopia and northern Somalia; south of Israel, the disputed Palestinian territories, and Jordan; and southwest of Iran.

The coastal limits of Arabia comprise: on the southwest the Red Sea and Gulf of Aqaba; on the southeast the Arabian Sea; and on the northeast the Gulf of Oman and the Persian Gulf. 

Arabia includes the countries of:

The peninsula is part of the Middle East, but that usually means the Arabian Peninsula with the Levant and Mesopotamia. The word "Arabia" often refers only to Saudi Arabia.

The country of Saudi Arabia covers almost all of Arabia. The majority of the population of the peninsula live in Saudi Arabia and Yemen.


</doc>
<doc id="3595" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3595" title="South">
South

South is one of the 4 main directions on a compass. South is normally down on the bottom of most maps. Australia is south of China, Spain is south of France, and Chile is south of Peru. The South Pole is the farthest south you can go.


</doc>
<doc id="3596" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3596" title="Central America">
Central America

Central America is a region stretching from Guatemala and Belize in the north-west, to Panama in the south-east. It is also known as the area of land that sits south-east of Mexico and north-west of Colombia, between the Pacific Ocean and the Caribbean Sea.

This is a list of the countries in Central America, from the largest to the smallest:


Although Guatemala is not the largest country, it has the largest population (more than 14 million people) and contains the largest city, Guatemala City. 

All the countries in Central America are Spanish-speaking apart from Belize, whose people also speak English. Some people also speak other languages, such as the Maya languages.

Central America is part of the continent known as North America.

The weather in Central America is mostly very hot and humid because it sits in the tropics, although it can be cooler on the mountains. The land is very green and is covered with a lot of rain-forest. Sugar cane, coffee and bananas grow here. The area also has a lot of volcanoes because it sits between two tectonic plates.


</doc>
<doc id="3597" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3597" title="French language">
French language

The French language "(French: "français" - pronounced "fronseh")" is a Romance language that was first spoken in France, Belgium, Luxembourg, Quebec and Switzerland. About 200 million people speak French as a native or a second language. Like most Romance languages, its nouns have genders that are divided into masculine (masculin) and feminine (féminin) words.

In ancient times, the Celts lived in what is now France. In those days, the land was called Gaul (Gallia). The Romans spread their power to Gallia and made Gallia their provinces. Because the Romans spoke Latin, the local people learned Latin and began to speak it. Their own language, Gaulish, tended to be spoken less often, although Breton is a language still spoken today in the part of France called Brittany, that came from the old Celtic language.

After the Roman Empire fell and Germanic peoples swarmed the countryside, Latin was changing quickly; and in medieval France it changed into two accents or languages: "langue d'oc" and "langue d'oïl". They both mean "language of yes", because "oc" was the word for "yes" in the south, and "oïl" meant "yes" in the north. Today, the word for yes in French is "oui", pronounced like "we". 

"Langue d'oc" is now called Occitan, and it is still spoken by many people in Southern France.

Here are some examples of French words and sentences :

Many French words are like English words (because English took many words from the Norman language, a version of French influenced by Old Norse). Words in different languages with the same meaning which are spelled similarly are called cognates. Most English words ending with "tion" and "sion" originally came from the French language. See below for more examples:



</doc>
<doc id="3598" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3598" title="Prime minister">
Prime minister

A prime minister manages the politics of a country. With countries that have kings and queens (known as monarchs), they are very important because they are in charge of most of the politics (they are "head of the government"). In countries with a president, they might be in charge of most of the politics (as in the Republic of Ireland), or they may be in day-to day charge, but taking orders from the president as in France. 

Countries with a Prime Minister:



</doc>
<doc id="3599" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3599" title="Greenland">
Greenland

Greenland is a large Arctic island. It has a population of only 50,000 residents, because of its cold climate. Most of the population lives in the southern part of the island, on the coasts. The capital of Greenland is Nuuk. 
Greenland is the world's largest island that is not a continent. The island is the least densely populated place in the world, with a density of 0.26 people per square kilometer.

Since the 1950s, scientists think that the ice sheet that covers Greenland may hide three separate islands, which are joined by glaciers since the last geologic ice age.

In Greenland, there are no forests. In the south, at the coastal area, only some dwarf trees are found.

Greenland is a Danish-occupied territory of Denmark, but Greenland is not a member of the European Union. It is part of the North American continent, and Greenland is the largest island in the world, excluding Australia and Antarctica, which are continents. The prime minister of Greenland is Kuupik Kleist.

The island is populated mostly by Inuit and Scandinavians who speak Greenlandic, an Inuit language. Danish is also spoken by most people. The national anthem of Greenland is Nunarput utoqqarsuanngoravit.

Until 2009, there were 18 communes in Greenland. Unless stated otherwise, the were in the district Kitaa:


This changed on January 1st, 2009, when these were merged into four large communes:

In addition, some parts of Greenland are outside a commune, namely:
As of January 1st, 2008, 218 people lived there.

The island has many mountains. All of the cities are on the coast, because everywhere else is covered by a big layer of ice. The major cities are Nuuk, Sisimiut, Ilulissat, and Qaqortoq.




</doc>
<doc id="3600" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3600" title="Union of Soviet Socialist Republics">
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics

The Soviet Union (short for Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR)) (Rus Союз Советских Социалистических Республик/Soyuz Sovetskikh Sotsialisticheskikh Respublik) was a group of countries that came together to be one larger country (a federation). The Soviet Union was created after Vladimir Lenin led the overthrow of the unpopular tsarist autocratic (all powerful) government. The communist government developed industry and over time became a major, powerful union of countries. The largest of the countries in the Union was Russia, and Kazakhstan was the next largest. The capital city of the Soviet Union was Moscow. The Soviet Union existed from 1922 to 1991. It was the first country to have an official communist government.

The nation's government said that it was a socialist country that wanted communism. "Soviets", or workers' councils (special group that leads), were created to speak for the workers, and served as an elite group to govern the workers. 


The Soviet Union was made of 15 republics. These were either "Soviet Socialist Republics", or "Soviet Socialist Federal Republics". Each of these republics was independent. It also had the right to leave the union. The "Federal Republics" were different in that they had more autonomy, and were made up of states themselves. These were often called "Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republics". There were a number of them. Most of them still exist; though they are now republics, within the independent state. The "Tatar ASSR" turned into the "Republic of Tatarstan", for example (It is located around Kazan. Tatars make up 3.8% of the population of Russia)

<div />


The Soviet Union at its largest size in 1991, with , was the world's biggest country. Covering a sixth of the world's lived in land, its size was comparable to North America's. The western part (in Europe) accounted for a quarter of the country's area, and was the country's cultural and economic center. The eastern part (in Asia) extended to the Pacific Ocean to the east and Afghanistan to the south, and was much less lived in than the western part. It was over across (11 time zones) and almost north to south. Its five climatic (different weather, temperature, humidity and atmospheric pressure) zones were tundra, taiga, steppes, desert, and mountains. 

The Soviet Union had the world's longest border, measuring over . Two thirds of the Soviet border was coastline of the Arctic Ocean. Across the Bering Strait was the United States. The Soviet Union bordered Afghanistan, China, Czechoslovakia, Finland, Hungary, Iran, Mongolia, North Korea, Norway, Poland, Romania, and Turkey at the end of WWII.

The Soviet Union's longest river was the Irtysh. The Soviet Union's highest mountain was Communism Peak (today it is called the Ismail Samani Peak) in Tajikistan measured at . The world's largest lake, the Caspian Sea, was mostly in the Soviet Union. The world's deepest lake, Lake Baikal, was in the Soviet Union.

The last Russian Tsar (translated Caesar, which means emperor), Nicholas II, ruled Russia until March 1917, when the Russian Empire was taken over and a short-lived "Russian provisional government" replaced it, only to be overthrown in November 1917 by Vladimir Lenin and other socialists.

From 1917 to 1922, the country that came before the Soviet Union was the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic (RSFSR), which was its own country, as were other Soviet republics at the time. The Soviet Union was officially created in December 1922 as the union of the Russian (also known as Bolshevist Russia), Ukrainian, Belarusian, and Transcaucasian Soviet republics ruled by the communist Bolshevik parties.

Extreme government-changing activity in the Russian Empire began with the Decembrist Revolt of 1825, and although serfdom was removed in 1861, its removal was achieved on terms unfavorable to the peasants (poor agricultural workers) and served to encourage changers (revolutionaries). A parliament (legislative assembly)—the State Duma—was created in 1906 after the Russian Revolution of 1905, but the Tsar protested people trying to move from absolute to constitutional monarchy. Rebellion continued and was aggravated during World War I by failure and food shortages in popular cities.
A self-generated popular rebellion in Saint Petersburg, in response to the wartime decay of Russia's economy and morale, caused the "February Revolution" and the removal of the government in March 1917. The tsarist autocracy was replaced by the "Provisional Government", whose leaders intended to have elections to Russian Constituent Assembly and to continue war on the side of the Entente in World War I.

At the same time, workers' councils, known as Soviets, sprang up across the country. The Bolsheviks, led by Vladimir Lenin, pushed for socialist revolution in the Soviets and on the streets. In November 1917, during the "October Revolution", they took power from the Provisional Government. In December, the Bolsheviks signed an armistice (peace) with the Central Powers. But, by February 1918, fighting had happened again. In March, the Soviets quit the war for good and signed the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk.

Only after the long and bloody Russian Civil War was the new Soviet power taken and held onto. The civil war between the Reds and the Whites started in 1917 and ended in 1923. It included foreign interference, the killing of Nicholas II and his family and the shortage of food in 1921, which killed about 5 million. In March 1921, during a related conflict with Poland, the Peace of Riga was signed and split territories disagreed about in Belarus and Ukraine between the Republic of Poland and Soviet Russia. The Soviet Union had to resolve similar conflicts with the newly established Republic of Finland, the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Latvia, and the Republic of Lithuania.

On 28 December 1922, people met from the Russian SFSR, the Transcaucasian SFSR, the Ukrainian SSR and the Byelorussian SSR approved the Treaty of Creation of the USSR and the Declaration of the Creation of the USSR, creating the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. These two documents were made true by the 1st Congress of Soviets of the USSR and signed by heads of delegations.

On 1 February 1924, the USSR was accepted as a country by the British Empire. Also in 1924, a Soviet Constitution (set of laws) was approved, making true the December 1922 union of the Russian SFSR, the Ukrainian SSR, the Belarusian SSR, and the Transcaucasian SFSR to form the "Union of Soviet Socialist Republics" (USSR).

The big changes of the economy, industry and politics of the country began in the early days of Soviet power in 1917. A large part of this was performed according to Bolshevik Initial Decrees, documents of the Soviet government, signed by Vladimir Lenin. One of the most important and notable breakthroughs was the GOELRO plan, that planned a major change of the Soviet economy based on total electrification of the country. The Plan was developed in 1920 and covered a 10- to 15-year period. It included the making of a network of 30 regional power plants, including ten large hydroelectric power plants, and numerous electric-powered large industrial organizations. The Plan became the prototype for subsequent Five-Year Plans and was basically fulfilled by 1931.

From its beginning years, government in the Soviet Union was based on the rule of one party by the Communist Party (Bolsheviks). After the economic policy of War Communism during the Civil War, the Soviet government permitted some private enterprise to coexist with nationalized industry in the 1920s and total food requisition in the countryside was replaced by a food tax ("see" New Economic Policy).

Soviet leaders argued that one-party rule was necessary because it ensured that 'capitalist exploitation' would not return to the Soviet Union and that the principles of Democratic Centralism would represent the people's will. Debate over the future of the economy provided the background for Soviet leaders to contend for power in the years after Lenin's death in 1924. Initially, Lenin was to be replaced by a "troika" composed of Grigory Zinoviev of Ukraine, Lev Kamenev of Moscow, and Joseph Stalin of Georgia.



</doc>
<doc id="3601" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3601" title="Monarch">
Monarch

A monarch is a ruler who rules because his parents ruled. A male monarch is called a king. A female monarch is called a queen. Some monarchs are called emperors or "empress"es.
It is a system of ruling, in which ruling starts off by a member of a family and is ruled, one by one by a member, and continues till end of a family.
Monarchs were very common in history. A lot of countries used to have a monarch, but no longer have them. They are now republics. Some countries that still have monarchs have other leaders that actually have the power. These are called constitutional monarchies.


</doc>
<doc id="3604" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3604" title="Unit">
Unit

Unit means part of something. It could mean a unit of measurement, or a unit in an army.

Units sometimes means the digit in a number on the right, which is also called the "ones".

Some other ideas come from this word:


For example, a football team may be called "X United". This means that the town of X has come together to support the group. 

In the BBC TV series Doctor Who, UNIT (UNified Intelligence Taskforce) is a military group on earth who battle invading aliens.


</doc>
<doc id="3607" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3607" title="Uncle">
Uncle

An uncle is a name used in an extended family. A uncle is either a brother of one of someone's parents or the husband of their aunt. That person is the uncle's nephew (male) or niece (female). An uncle's child is a cousin. 


</doc>
<doc id="3609" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3609" title="Information">
Information

The word "information" is used in many different ways. Originally, it comes from a word that meant to give a form to something. Information is something that people can learn, know about, or understand. For example, a newspaper contains information about the world.

People who use computers often use the words "information" and "data" in the same way. There are special fields of study called "information science" and "information technology" (IT).

In the 1970s and 1980s, some people gave a new, specific meaning to "information". At that time, the first computer databases were built. In computer science, "data" often means a kind of information that has not been checked. That means "data" has not been changed or fixed, and you may not be able to trust it. With the new meaning, "information" means data that has been checked and passed tests for what it must be. A person can trust that "information" is correct.

Information can only be correct and good enough to trust if there are very good and complete ways to check the data (data checking, validation or verification) and decide it is good enough (acceptance process). A person must know rules were used to check the data or trust the person who checked the data. If a person cannot tell that this was done, the information still seems to be data for that person, so that person must check the data again, in that general view about data.


</doc>
<doc id="3610" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3610" title="Airport">
Airport

An international airport is a large airport that airplanes can use to fly to and from other countries. A domestic airport is a airport which is usually smaller and only has airplanes coming from places in the same country. Most international airports have shops and restaurants for airplane passengers to use.

An airport used by the military is often called an air force base or airbase. An aircraft carrier is a floating airbase.

Today, many airports think that safety is very important. People must walk through a metal detector, a machine that can tell if metal goes through it. If it makes a noise, the officers will make that person take off all things on them that are metal. They also have X-Ray machines that can look into luggage. If officers find items such as weapons, guns, or anything that can be used to kill people, they have that item (and the person who has it) taken away. In addition, passengers are not allowed to bring bottles or containers with over 100mL of liquid onto the plane because they could be turned into bombs. Because of this, water bottles must be emptied before security. 



</doc>
<doc id="3611" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3611" title="Ice">
Ice

Water becomes ice when it is very cold. Liquid water freezes and becomes solid ice at a temperature of 0° Celsius (32° Fahrenheit or 273 kelvin).
Ice is the common name for frozen water. Other liquids (say ammonia or methane or milk) could be called ice when they freeze but one would always say 'milk ice', for instance, instead of just 'ice'.

Places like Antarctica have lots of ice, but people can also find it in home appliances (machines in the home) like the refrigerator or freezer. If people put water in a freezer and leave it for a while, the water gets very cold and will freeze solid, creating ice. People can put water into a copper (or metal) container if they want ice to freeze faster. Copper is a very good conductor of heat--it can freeze water faster than a regular (plastic) ice tray would be able to. Surprisingly, an open tray of hot water can freeze faster than the same amount of cold water. This happens because enough of the hot water can evaporate before cooling, reducing the amount of water to be frozen.

Unlike other liquids, water expands as it freezes to become ice; so ice floats on water because ice has less density than water. This is very unusual - just about every other liquid gets more dense as it cools; water ice, however, is an important exception. Liquid water expands by about 9% as it becomes ice - it takes up more space. If water in pipes freezes it can burst the pipe. Water in glass bottles can explode in the freezer if people leave it there long enough to freeze. Water freezing in rock crevices can expand enough to split hard rocks apart; this is an important geological weathering process that can wear down mountains and make rock into soil.

Salt water needs a lower temperature to freeze than pure water. The resulting ice contains much less salt than the salt water it came from. This salty ice is not as strong as frozen pure water. Similarly spreading salt on ice melts it: the salt progressively eats into the ice, forming salty water which is not cold enough to be frozen at the same temperature.

Because ice floats, even large bodies of water that freeze, like some oceans, only form ice on the surface. Most lakes never freeze to the bottom. Even the coldest oceans, like the Arctic, only freeze on the top, leaving liquid ocean circulating below. Because of this the Earth's oceans are able to redistribute heat and the climate of the earth has less extremes of heat and cold than it would otherwise. If ice were to sink instead of float, the oceans would fill up with ice from the bottom, would remain solid and only some of the top would thaw. A solid ocean would not circulate heat. But because ice floats on the surface the water beneath can continue to circulate and the ice on the surface stays exposed and readily melts when the temperature rises.

The earth's climate is always changing. When it is very cold it's called an ice age. Some speculate that most recent ice age finished only ten thousand years ago. During ice ages very large areas of the earth are covered in ice, snow and glaciers. The causes of ice ages are complex, or hard to understand. Global warming is currently affecting the Earth's ice resources and its causes are also very complex.

When materials are cooled their molecules vibrate less and compact together. When most materials reach a temperature called the freezing point, the molecules form a crystalline solid - although some materials (like glass and tar) do not crystallise at all but form super stiff fluids, which seem to be solid. Only Helium will not freeze; all other substances will freeze if cold enough, but fluids like cooking oil, anti-freeze, petrol (gasoline), nitrogen, etc. freeze at temperatures that most people will rarely, if ever, experience.

There is also 'dry ice'; it is frozen carbon dioxide. Dry ice exposed to normal air gives off carbon dioxide gas that is odorless and colorless. The gas is so cold that when it mixes with air it cools the water vapour in the air to fog, which looks like a thick white smoke. It is often used in the theatre to create the appearance of fog or smoke.


</doc>
<doc id="3614" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3614" title="Travel">
Travel

Travel is the activity going from one place to another location. When a person makes the same trip every day to work or school, this type of travelling is usually called "commuting." Some people travel to other cities as part of their job. This is called "business travel." Some people travel on their vacation, to visit other towns, cities, or countries. These people stay overnight in hotels, hostels, motels, apartments or bed and breakfast or perhaps in a tent - then they are campers. With the changing times, modes of travelling are also changing. Some people (Tourists) write about traveling in books called autobiographies or journals.

Types of travelling:





</doc>
<doc id="3615" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3615" title="CNN">
CNN

Cable News Network (CNN) is a television channel in the United States of America. It was started by Ted Turner and its headquarters are in Atlanta, Georgia. It is one of the most watched networks in the US and around the world. It was and is the first network to air infotainment 24 hours a day. 



</doc>
<doc id="3616" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3616" title="Leader">
Leader

A leader is someone who has the authority to tell a group of people what do to. A leader can also represent a group of people. 

For example, the Prime Minister of Canada has the authority to govern the society of Canada and represent the people of Canada.



</doc>
<doc id="3617" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3617" title="Blackboard">
Blackboard

A blackboard, also called a chalkboard, is a surface on which markings made with chalk are visible. It is used as a surface to write on.

Blackboards are often used to help teach in school. Blackboards are not used as much now. People use whiteboards instead. Whiteboards are used because some people are allergic to the dust the chalk used to write on chalkboards generate, and because the dust is hard to clean up when spilled.

Chalkboards are written on with chalk, which is actually not the stone chalk at all. It is actually made by factories. Schoolteachers often use the chalkboard to display things at large. Chalkboards can be black or dark green, also called blackboards and greenboards. Chalkboards use chalk, the only to write on these is using chalk.


</doc>
<doc id="3620" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3620" title="Linux">
Linux

Linux or GNU/Linux is a free and open source software operating system for computers. The operating system is a collection of the basic instructions that tell the electronic parts of the computer what to do and how to work. Free and open source software (FOSS) means that everyone has the freedom to use it, see how it works, and change it.

There is a lot of software for Linux, and since Linux is open source it means that most of the software for it is open source and free. This is one of the reasons why some people like to use Linux.

In the 1980s, many people liked to use an operating system called Unix. But because it restricted the user from sharing and improving the system, some people made a new operating system that would work like Unix but which anybody could share or improve. MINIX, similar to Unix, was used as a teaching tool for university students to learn how operating systems worked. MINIX also restricted its sharing and improvement by its users.

A group of people called the GNU project wrote different parts of a new operating system called GNU, but it did not have all the parts an operating system needs to work. In 1991 Linus Torvalds began to work on a replacement for MINIX that would be free to use, and which would not cost anything. Linus started the project when he was attending the University of Helsinki. This eventually became the Linux kernel.

Linus Torvalds shared the Linux kernel on some internet groups for MINIX users. Linus first called the operating system "Freax". The name Freax came from joining up the English words "free" and "freak", and adding an X to the name because Unix has an X in its name. Ari Lemmke, who worked with Linus at the University, was responsible for the servers that Freax was stored on. Ari did not think Freax was a good name, so he called the project "Linux" without asking Linus. Later, Linus agreed that Linux was a better name for his project.

Linux relied on software code from MINIX at first. But, with code from the GNU system available for free, it would be good for Linux if it could use that code, instead of code from MINIX. The GNU General Public License is a software license that lets people change any part of the code they want to, as long as they share any changes they make with the people they give their software to. The software from GNU was all licensed under the GNU General Public License, so Linus and the other people who worked on Linux could use it too. 

To make the Linux kernel suitable for use with the code from the GNU Project, Linus Torvalds started a switch from his original license (which did not allow people to sell it) to the GNU GPL. Linux and GNU developers worked together to integrate GNU code with Linux to make a free operating system.

Because of the way that the new operating system was created by combining the work of the GNU project and Linus Torvalds, many people say that it's better to use the name GNU/Linux, but most people just say "Linux".

Since then, thousands of programmers and companies have worked to make Linux better.

The mascot of Linux is a cartoon penguin named "Tux". When a person sees the penguin on software and hardware, it means that it will work with Linux, and sometimes all systems that are like Unix. 

The idea of the penguin came from the creator of Linux, Linus Torvalds. The image was made by a man named Larry Ewing in a competition to create a logo. The image, Tux, did not win, but it was picked as a mascot later. 

Tux has now become a symbol for Linux, and sometimes even for open source. He can be seen in many different places and often, when people refer to Linux, they think about Tux. Tux has even been included in many video games, such as Super Tux (like Super Mario Bros.), Tux Racer (where players race Tux down an icy hill) and Pingus (like Lemmings).

Although there are only a few Linux versions for some Mac OS X and Microsoft Windows programs in areas like desktop publishing and professional audio and video there are programs that are comparatively similar in quality compared to those available for Mac and Windows.

Many free software titles that are popular on Windows, such as Pidgin, Mozilla Firefox, Openoffice.org, and GIMP, are available for Linux. A growing amount of proprietary desktop software can also be used under Linux, such as Adobe Flash Player, Opera, Google Picasa, RealPlayer, and Skype. CrossOver is a proprietary solution based on the open source Wine project that supports running older Windows versions of Microsoft Office and Adobe Photoshop versions until CS2. Microsoft Office 2007 and Adobe Photoshop CS3 are known not to work.

GNU/Linux has mainly been used as a server operating system, and has risen to be known by a lot of people in that area; Netcraft reported in February 2008 that five of the ten best internet hosting companies run Linux on their web servers. This is because of its stability and uptime, and the fact that desktop software with a graphical user interface for servers is often unneeded.

Linux is commonly used as an operating system for supercomputers. As of November 2007, out of the top 500 systems, 426 (85.2%) run Linux.

In 1992, Torvalds explained how he pronounces the word "Linux":

Torvalds has made available an audio sample which indicates his own pronunciation, in English and Swedish. 

Some English speakers pronounce the name as lee-narks or lee-nix or lie-nix. 

A 2001 study of Red Hat Linux 7.1 found this distribution had 30 million lines of code. The study showed that Red Hat 7.1 required about 8,000 years of time to develop. The study also said that if all this software had been made by proprietary means, it would have cost about $1.08 billion to make in the United States.

Most of the code (around 71%) was written in the C programming language, and many other languages were used, including C++, assembly language, Perl, Python, Fortran, and various shell scripting languages. A little more than half of all lines of code were licensed under the GPL. The Linux kernel was made up of 2.4 million lines of code, or 8% of all the code.

People who want to get GNU/Linux can download it from the Internet or buy it from a store or a website. Sometimes books and magazines about GNU/Linux have a CD or DVD with GNU/Linux on it. Any certain version of GNU/Linux is called a "distribution", or "distro". A GNU/Linux version has the Linux kernel and the GNU operating system, and some extra programs that might not be part of GNU. Different versions include different extra programs. The versions used by the most people include: 
People might pay some money for a version, so they can have a CD-ROM or DVD and to help the company to make their versions better. Usually when someone pays, it is so the company will help the user after they install it, which is called "support".

Software for Linux includes: 

The Linux kernel and most GNU software are licensed under the GNU General Public License (GPL). The GPL requires that anyone who distributes the Linux kernel must make the source code (and any modifications) available to the recipient under the same terms. In 1997, Linus Torvalds said, “Making Linux GPL'd was definitely the best thing I ever did.” Other key components of a Linux system may use other licenses; many libraries use the GNU Lesser General Public License (LGPL), a type of the GPL that is less restricted, and the X Window System uses the MIT License.




</doc>
<doc id="3621" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3621" title="Open source">
Open source

Open source is a kind of software. It is different from other software because the source code is available to everyone. The source code is a set of instructions for the computer, written in a programming language.

Anyone can see how the source code works and can change it if they want to make it work differently. The opposite of open source is closed source. Closed source software is not available to everyone. Open source is almost the same thing as free software.

Open source and free software have been around for decades. They became more popular with the Linux and BSD software communities. To protect the code, a special user license is used. The most common kinds of licence are the GPL, BSD and LGPL. Wikipedia uses open source too. The Open Source Movement is led by the Open Source Initiative.

The open source movement became separate from the Free software movement in 1998.



</doc>
<doc id="3622" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3622" title="Desktop environment">
Desktop environment

A desktop environment is a location on a personal computer that helps the user get around on the computer. The desktop itself is a place in the operating system used for short cuts to computer files and folders on the hard drive. Computer icons (small pictures) are used to represent files/folders. Clicking these icons will open or start a folder or program. The desktop is the area where the start menu is if the computer has a start menu.

Usually the desktop is the main screen on the computer. If no programs or folders are open, the computer will display the desktop.

The most common desktop environment on personal computers is the one given by Microsoft Windows; another common environment is the one given by Apple Mac OS X. Other mostly-used desktop environments for Unix-like operating systems using the X Window System are KDE, GNOME, Xfce. There are also other desktop environments, including : Aston, EDE, GEM, IRIX Interactive Desktop, Sun's Java Desktop System, Mezzo, Project Looking Glass, ROX Desktop, UDE, Xito, XFast.


</doc>
<doc id="3624" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3624" title="OpenOffice.org">
OpenOffice.org

OpenOffice.org is a free open source office suite made by Sun Microsystems and the free software community. It is available for many different operating systems, including Microsoft Windows, Linux, OS X, FreeBSD and Solaris; and is meant to be an alternative to Microsoft Office. It supports Microsoft Office file formats as well as its own OpenDocument format.

The ".org" part of the name OpenOffice.org is there because OpenOffice is already trademarked. It is often called "OOo" for short.

OpenOffice.org is based on the older StarOffice software that was created by Sun Microsystems.

OpenOffice.org is a collection of applications that work together closely to provide the features expected from a modern office suite. Many of the parts are designed to be alternatives to those available in Microsoft Office. The parts available include:



</doc>
<doc id="3625" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3625" title="Download">
Download

Download means getting information from another computer or server. The opposite of downloading is uploading, which is sending data to another computer. Usually we do not say "download" for a single web page (for example when you open this page on your computer). When we say we downloaded something, it is normally a bigger piece of information, like data or a computer program.

The word downloadable means the ability to get information or data from a primary source for one's use. The source is expected to be authentic and have patent. At the user's end, the downloaded information or data are to be used based on agreement notice.

In the 21 century, it is very easy to download files or informations - legally or not - from the internet.

As most non-technical users use the word download to talk about any data transfer, the word "sideload" is sometimes being used to cover all local to local transfers to end this confusion.


</doc>
<doc id="3628" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3628" title="GNOME">
GNOME

GNOME is a computer desktop environment. It was designed for GNU/Linux, but many other operating systems can use it too. GNOME aims to provide an easy way to use a computer. GNOME is a free software project. It was made because people were questioning whether KDE is free. GNOME is part of the GNU project.

According to the GNOME website:

The GNOME project puts heavy emphasis on simplicity, usability, and making things “just work” (see "KISS principle"). The other aims of the project are:


GNOME has many applications written for it. Some of them include:





</doc>
<doc id="3632" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3632" title="Dog">
Dog

The dog ("Canis lupus familiaris") is a mammal from the family Canidae. It has been domesticated by humans for a long time. It was the first animal ever to be domesticated. Dogs are used by humans for many different things, for work and as pets. They are a popular pet because they are usually playful, friendly, and listen to humans. Thirty million dogs in the United States are registered as pets. Dogs eat both meat and vegetables, often mixed together and sold in stores as dog food. Dogs have jobs such as police dog, army dog, seeing eye dog, fire dog, messenger dog, and much more.

They are sometimes called "canines" from the Latin word for dog - "canis". Sometimes people also use "dog" to describe other canids, such as wolves. A baby dog is called a pup or puppy. A dog is called a puppy until it is about one year old.

Dogs are sometimes referred to as "man's best friend" because they are kept as domestic pets and are usually loyal and like being around humans.

Dogs can smell and hear very well, but cannot see well in color or they are color blind. Dogs have four legs and make a "bark" or "woof" sound. Dogs often chase cats, and most dogs will fetch a ball or stick. 

Dogs usually live about 10 years or more. The size and the breed of the dog may change how long the dog lives. Smaller dog breeds usually live longer.

Like wolves, wild dogs travel in groups called packs. Packs of dogs are ordered by rank, and dogs with low rank will submit to other dogs with higher rank. The highest ranked dog is called the alpha male. A dog in a group helps and cares about others. Domesticated dogs often view their owner as the alpha male.

All dogs are descended from wolves, which has happened due to domestication and evolution. This is known because DNA genome analysis has been done to find out. They have been by humans. This is called selective breeding or "artificial selection". The earliest fossil of a domestic dog that has been found is from 31,700 years ago in Belgium .

Dogs have lived with people for at least 30,000 years. They are often called "man's best friend" because of their kind nature. Dogs can serve people in many ways. For example, there are guard dogs, hunting dogs, herding dogs, and guide dogs for blind people. There are also dogs that are trained to smell for diseases in the human body or to find bombs or illegal drugs. These dogs sometimes help policemen in airports or other areas. Sniffer dogs (usually beagles) are sometimes trained for this job. Dogs have even been sent by Russians into outer space, a few years before any human being. The first dog sent up was called Laika, but died while there.

There are at least 800 breeds (kinds) of dogs. Dogs whose parents were the same breed will also be that breed: these dogs are called purebred or pure pedigree dogs. Dogs with parents from different breeds no longer belong to one breed: they are called "mutts", "mixed-breed dogs", "hybrids", or "mongrels". Some of the most popular breeds are sheepdogs, collies, poodles and retrievers. It is becoming popular to be breed two different breeds of dogs and calling the new dog's breed a name that is a mixture of the parents' breeds' two names. A puppy with a poodle and a pomeranian as parents might be called a Pomapoo. These kinds of dogs, instead of being called mutts, are known as designer dog breeds. These dogs are normally used for prize shows and designer shows.


</doc>
<doc id="3635" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3635" title="Blindness">
Blindness

Blindness is the inability to see anything. Some people are called blind, even though they can see a little bit. This is because they cannot see clearly, but only see fuzzy shapes or colours. 

In modern countries, few young people are blind. In all the world, blindness is mostly caused by malnutrition and diseases of old people, like cataracts and trachoma. People can become blind because of diseases or accidents, but sometimes people are born blind.

Some people are "color blind", which means they can see, but cannot tell certain colours apart. 

When people are blind they use such things as the alphabet in "braille" and "guide dogs" to do every day life things. 

Famous blind people have included Louis Braille, the inventor of the braille alphabet, Stevie Wonder, Ray Charles and Helen Keller. 



</doc>
<doc id="3637" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3637" title="Arctic">
Arctic

The Arctic is the area around the Earth's North Pole. The Arctic includes parts of Russia, Alaska, Canada, Greenland, Lapland and Svalbard as well as the Arctic Ocean. It is an ocean, but it is always frozen, so it is solid ice. Most scientists call the area north of the treeline Arctic. Trees will not grow when the temperatures get too cold. The forests of the continents stop when they get too far north or too high up a mountain. (It gets colder as you go higher in altitude, too.) The place where in the trees stop is called the treeline.

The area north of the treeline is not an empty ice field. In fact, the only ice-covered land is central Greenland, which is covered year-round by a continental glacier. The land of the Arctic is around the edges of the Arctic Circle and is usually covered with tundra. A tundra is a cold, almost treeless plain covered with moss and grasslike plants called "sedges".

Tundras do not get very much rain or snow. However, they are very wet in the summer time because, three feet or so below the surface, the ground is always frozen. This permafrost is a layer of ice with the hardness of stone that keeps water from soaking into the earth beneath it. Permafrost can be thousands of feet thick. In the summer the ground on top thaws out when the sun shines and the snow that did fall melts. But the melted snow cannot drain into the ground; it just soaks the topsoil. There is no place for the water to go, except to form lakes and puddles on top of the ground until it freezes again or dries up.

In the Arctic, during summer there are nights when the Sun never sets. This is because during summer there, the North Pole points toward the Sun. So, sometimes people call it the Land of the Midnight Sun.

The word comes from the Greek word "αρκτος", meaning "bear". The North Pole aims at the stars called the Great Bear and the Little Bear. This is why it is called the Arctic.

In some parts of the Arctic the ground is covered with bright-colored flowers during the short summer. These little plants have very short stems. They must stay close to the ground, because the earth is warmer than the biting winds that blow above it. Even some rocks have plants growing on them.These rock plants are called lichens. Lichens will grow on the bare rocks. Yellow reindeer moss is really a lichen. It grows slowly, but often grows over six inches (15 cm) tall. It is spongy and full of water. This plant is the summer food for reindeer.

Trees are almost seen on the tundra. Only in the protected valleys or along the riverbanks are small trees able to grow. Rivers come into the Arctic from the warmer south. The places along their banks are a little bit warmer than the rest of the tundra. This means trees can grow there. 0therwise only a few clusters of bushes grow sparingly. Berries are the only fruit that grows in the Arctic.

Each summer the ice and snow will melt, allowing the animals to find food and the plants to flower. The moisture from the snow stays toward the top of the ground's surface. Plant roots can use it for their growth. Even so, in many places the soil is too poor for plant's growth. Less than half of the tundra has plants growing on it.

The polar bear is the world's largest meat-eating land animal. Polar bears were perfectly designed to hunt seals out on the ice. They are excellent swimmers, and the coldest water does not bother them. They just jump into any leads that open in the pack ice and swim across. They are quiet enough to sneak up on a sleeping seal and strong enough to kill it with one blow. They have a very strong sense of smell, which they use to find prey out on the ice. Polar bears live most of their lives out on the pack ice. Males go to the land only when the ice is gone. The females, however, will dig themselves into a den of snow on land for the winter. There, the mother bears have their cubs, usually twins. Bears usually eat fish, birds' eggsd, seaweed, and dead whales, but they would rather have a meal of seal or walrus. The Arctic fox will often trail the bears onto the ice to eat their leftover food. The fox also eats rabbits, lemmings, and voles.
The lemmings and voles are the rats and mice of the Arctic. The lemmings have very short tails. They live underground in summer. Because the top soil freezes in the winter, they cannot burrow underground then, so they live under the snow during the colder months. They eat plants and roots. If they find plenty of food, they wil have extra large families that year.

In a year with plenty of food, millions of lemmings will be roaming the tundra. The owls and foxes have more food than they can eat. They will have extra babies in they years when there are so many lemmings. However, the tundra does not have enough food for millions of lemmings. They rush across the tundra looking for food, and are eaten by predators or starve to death. Some try to swim across lakes or rivers and drown. The few that remain continue to have families.

Caribou and their relative, the reindeer, live in the Arctic too. The caribou are now found mostly in North America, and they are larger than the reindeer. Large herds feed on the grass and lichens. When fall comes,s they move south to winter feeding grounds. They dig through the snow with their sharp hoofs for food. Their hollow fur creates a cushion of air around them that helps them to stay warm. In the spring they return north to the summer pastures, where their calves are born. An hour or so after being born, the calves are able to follow the herd toward the Arctic Ocean. Most of the world's reindeer live in Europe and Asia. Some of these reindeer are not wild. They have been tamed by herdsmen who protect them from wolves and lead the migrations each spring and fall. Also, the musk ox, which looks like a shaggy buffalo, lives in the Arctic.

In summer, many birds visit the Arctic, and most of them are water birds, such as geese, ducks, swans, loons, and Arctic terns. Flying in for the summer, they raise their young and return south for the winter. The snowy owl and the ptarmigan stay all year. The color of the snowy owl matches the snow. The ptarmigan's summer feathers change to white when it gets colder.

The smallest animals of the Arctic are the flies and the mosquitoes. Mosquitoes and black flies love the wet summer tundra. Thick swarms of large, hungry bugs bite both men and animals. The reindeer try to escape the mmosquitoes by running to higher pastures, but the only real help comes with the snow and cold, when the pesky swarms die off for another season. 

One of the surprises of the Arctic is that many people live there. Some people have lived there for thousands of years. Eskimo and Lapp people lived in the Arctic long before electric heaters, snow-mobiles, and modern houses.

In an extremely northern part of Europe there is a place called Lapland. It is not a country, but parts of four countries. The people who lived there are called Lapps by outsiders. They call themselves "Sami". The Lapps of these four countries lived there long before the countries of Northway, Sweden, Finland, and Russia were created. There were several kinds of Lapp people. Some lived by the ocean and lived mostly on fish. Another group lived along the warmer rivers. These people did a little farming, hunting, and fishing to live. 

But the best known of the Lapp people were the nomads who raised reindeer. The Lapps survived in their harsh homeland by domesticating the reindeer. The Lapps were able to get everything they needed from the deer. They ate mostly meat, milk, and cheese. Their clothes were made froom reindeer skins and wool. Their tents were also made from deer skins. They are known for the beautifully decorated woolen clothing they made.

The Lapps protected the herds, moving with them as they migrated from summer to winter pastures. They used trained reindeer to pull sleds carrying their supplies. During the winter, the herds moved south of the treeline. The Lapps would live nearby in homes made of logs or sod. The Lapps were very careful not to waste anything they got from the reindeer. Milk was taken from the reindeer to drink or make cheese. Meat was taken for food. The blood was frozen in chunks and used for soup and pancakes. Knives and belt buckles were carved from the bones and antlers. The sinews were used as sewing thread. Cleaned-out stomachs were used to carry milk or cheese. Every part of a dead reindeer was used.

Winter clothing was made from layers of deer skin. The inside layer would be worn with the fur facing in toward the person's skin. The second layer was worn with the fur facing out. Boots were also made of fur, lined with grass that had been gthered during the short summer. Every evening the grass would be taken out and dried by the fire, so it would be ready to use again the next day. Thus, a Lapp could be warm and comfortable in even the coldest weather.

Today only a few of the Lapp people still follow the herds. Those few use modern tools on their ancient migration. They use snowmobiles to herd the reindeer and rifles to kill the wolves that chase them. Even helicopters and radios are used to locate and move the reindeer. Most of the Lapp people now live on small farms in one of the four nations of Lapland. They raise crops and animals, including a few reindeer, to meet their needs. The sale of reindeer meat is an important source of income for the Lapp people.

Eskimos are Arctic people, too. They ate raw meat. Eskimos were also nomads, but they did not have any animals except for dogs, which they used for pulling their sleds and helping them hunt. They were hunters and gatherers, and they lived off on whatever they found or killed. Like the Lapps, though, they were very careful to maek good use of every part of the animals they killed. Eskimos lived in tents during the summer, and sod houses or igloos in the winter. The Eskimos made very clever things from the bones, antlers, and wood they had. They invented the harpoon, which was used to hunt, and they built boats. Eskimos did not have a government or laws, because they learned early in life to help each other in order to survive. Always sharing food, they usually moved around in small groups looking for food. Sometimes they'd get together in a large group when they hunted big animals such as whales. The men did the hunting and building the homes, and the women cooked, made the clothes, and took care of the children.

The Arctic region has many minerals that are important to people. Iron, lead, coal, copper, gold, and tin are all mined in different parts of this cold land. Large amounts of petroleum have been discovered in the Arctic in Russia, Alaska, and Canada. People live and work in the Arctic to remove these valuable minerals and sell them.

The oil in Alaska, for example, is very important to the United States. The main source of the oil is near Prudhoe Bay on Alaska's north coast. It was discovered in 1968. Plans were quickly made to build a pipeline to bring the oil to an ice-free port so it culd be shipped south. Oil companies spent billions of dollars to build the Trans-Alaska Pipeline in the mid-1970s. It had to be built above the ground in the northern section because of the permafrost. The warm oil in the pipies could have melted the permafrost and caused the ground to sink. That would have broken the pipes and caused an oil spill. The pipeline was completed in 1977. It brings oil to the seaport of Valdez on Alaska's south coast. From there the oil is taken by huge tankers to refineries along the west coast of the United States. If you live in western America, your family car may have Alaskan gasoline in its tank.

Russia has more land in the Arctic than any other nation. The Russian Arctic in Asia and the area just south of it are called Siberia. It is such an empty, harsh place that it has been used as a enal colony for many years. The old Russian rulers and the modern communist Soviets would send criminals and people who disagreed to the government to live there. However, many people were also sent there to remove minerals, harvest trees from forests, and build cities.

Russia has a huge port city right in Lapland, within the Arctic Circle. Murmansk is the largest city north of the Arctic Circle. The port is kept ice-free by the warm waters of the Gulf Stream coming up around Norway and Sweden froom the South Atlantic. Huge icebreakers work to keep a path open so ships can reach the port. The port ships out fish, minerals, and lumber to Russia and the rest of the world.

The Arctic is also the shortest way for airlines to fly between some cities on different continents. The flight from London to Tokyo, for example, is 1,400 miles shorter if flown across the top of the world instead of the old route south across Europe and Asia. The polar route from San Francisco to Norway is several hours shorter than the same flight going across the United States and the Pacific Ocean.

Thus, man is making use of the Arctic in various ways even though it is a hard place to live.


</doc>
<doc id="3639" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3639" title="Sin">
Sin

A sin is something that a religion tells its believers is a bad thing to do, usually because the thing is believed to draw people away from God and happiness.

Religions usually say that God told them that some things are sins through prophets (messengers from God). Usually the sacred books of a religion talk about sins. There are some things that most religions agree are sins. For example, almost every religion agrees that it is wrong to kill people (murder). 

There are other things that are sins in only a few religions. For example, Muslims and Jews say that it is wrong to eat pork, but other religions do not think that it's wrong to eat this. 

Most religions describe sins as actions that break their rules. 


</doc>
<doc id="3640" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3640" title="Summer">
Summer

Summer is one of four seasons. It is the hottest season of the year. In some places, summer is the wettest season (with the most rain), and in other places, it is a dry season. Four seasons are found in areas which are not too hot or too cold. Summer happens to the north and south sides of the Earth at opposite times of the year. In the Northern Hemisphere, summer takes place between the months of June and September and in the Southern Hemisphere, it takes place between December and March. This is because when the Northern Hemisphere, or part, of the Earth points towards the Sun, the Southern Hemisphere points away.


</doc>
<doc id="3641" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3641" title="Month">
Month

A month is an amount of time used with calendars. It is about one twelfth of a year. It is a little longer than a natural period of the moon 29.53 days. In some cultures, the idea for months came from moon phases. People have counted days based on moon phases for a very long time. Some calendars are still strongly based on the moon, or "lunar calendars". 

Others, called "solar calendars", ignore the moon, and depend entirely on the Sun — for example, the Gregorian calendar of 365 or 366 days (twelve months) used in much of the world today.


</doc>
<doc id="3651" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3651" title="Template:Months">
Template:Months


</doc>
<doc id="3658" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3658" title="Alberta">
Alberta

Alberta is a province in Canada. It lies in the western part of Canada. The province of British Columbia is west of Alberta. The province of Saskatchewan is east of Alberta. It is north of Montana, one of the states in the United States. 

Alberta is the fourth largest Canadian province. It has an area of 642,317 km². Alberta has 3,305,800 people. There are three provinces in Canada that have more people. 

The capital of Alberta is Edmonton. Edmonton is close to the middle of Alberta. Calgary is another city in Alberta. It is south of Edmonton. 

Alberta has a huge amount of oil and natural gas. 

There are also a lot of farms in Alberta. Farmars grow several different types of crops Farmers mainly grow wheat. There are also a lot of cows on Alberta farms, and Alberta beef is exported.

Some parts of Alberta gets a lot of snow in the winter. Alberta can be very cold in the winter. There is a dry part of Alberta in the south.

Alberta was made a province of Canada in 1905. 


</doc>
<doc id="3659" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3659" title="Electronics">
Electronics

Electronics is the study and use of electrical components and circuits for useful purposes.
The main parts, or electronic components, used in electronics are resistors, capacitors, coils of wire called inductors, integrated circuits, connection wires and circuit boards. 
Older electronics used glass or metal vacuum tubes to control the flow of electricity through circuits. With these components one flow of electricity can be used to change another and so they are important in amplifiers and switches.
By the late 1960's and early 1970's the transistor, a semiconductor, began replacing vacuum tubes. Transistors can be made much smaller than vacuum tubes and they can work using less energy.
At about the same time, integrated circuits (miniature semiconductor circuits containing large numbers of very small transistors on very thin slices of silicon) came into general use.
Integrated circuits made it possible to reduce the number of components needed to make electronic products and made the products much more reliable and less expensive.

People interested in physics study how and why these electronic components work.
By their studies they are able to discover, invent, or improve electronic components.
Other people design and construct electronic circuits for useful purposes. These people are electronic engineers. Electronic engineers work in the electrical, electronics and computer engineering fields.

Most electronic systems fall into one of these two categories:

One way of looking at an electronic system is to separate it into three parts:

Take as an example a television set. A television set's input is a broadcast signal received from an antenna, or a wire cable provided by a cable television vendor. Signal processing circuits inside the television set use the brightness, colour, and sound information contained in the received signal to control the television set's output devices. The display output device may be a cathode ray tube (CRT) or a plasma or liquid crystal display screen. The audio output device might be a magnetically driven audio speaker. The display output devices convert the signal processing circuits' brightness and colour information into the visible image displayed on a screen. The audio output device converts the processed sound information into sounds that can be heard by listeners.

Analysis of a circuit/network involves knowing the input and the signal processing circuit, and finding out the output. Knowing the input and output and finding out or designing the signal processing part is called as synthesis.

Analog circuits are used for signals that have a range of amplitudes.  In general, analog circuits measure or control the amplitude of signals.  In the early days of electronics, all electronic devices used analog circuits.  The frequency of the analog circuit is often measured or controlled in analog signal processing.  Even though digital circuits are used more often, analog circuits will always be necessary.

Pulse circuits are used for signals that require rapid pulses of energy.  For example, aircraft and ground radar equipment work by using pulse circuits to create and send high powered bursts of radio energy from radar transmitters.  Special antennas (called "beam" or "dish" antennas because of their shape) are used to send ("transmit") the high powered bursts in the direction the beam or dish antenna is pointed.

The radar transmitter's pulses or bursts of radio energy hit and bounce back (they are "reflected") from hard and metallic objects.  Hard objects are things like buildings, hills, and mountains.  Metallic objects are anything made of metal, like aircraft, bridges, satellites, or even objects in space.  The reflected radar energy is detected by radar pulse receivers which use both pulse and digital circuits together.  The pulse and digital circuits in radar pulse receivers are used to show the location and distance of objects which have reflected the radar transmitter's high powered pulses.

By controlling how often the rapid pulses of radar energy are sent out by a radar transmitter (called the transmitter's "pulse timing"), and how long it takes for the reflected pulse energy to come back to the radar receiver, one can tell not only where objects are, but also how far away they are.   Digital circuits in a radar receiver calculate the distance to an object by knowing the time interval between energy pulses.   The radar receiver's digital circuits count how long it takes between pulses for an object's reflected energy to be detected by the radar receiver.  Since radar pulses are sent and received at approximately the speed of light, the distance to an object can easily be calculated.  This is done in digital circuits by dividing the speed of light by the time it takes to receive the radar energy reflected back from an object.

The time between pulses (often called "pulse rate time", or PRT) sets the limit on how far away an object can be detected.  That distance is called the "range" of a radar transmitter and receiver.  Radar transmitters and receivers use long PRT's to find the distance to objects that are far away.  Long PRT's makes it possible to accurately determine the distance to the moon, for example.  Fast PRT's are used to detect objects that are much closer, like ships at sea, high flying aircraft, or to determine the speed of fast moving automobiles on highways.

Digital circuits are used for signals that repeatedly turn on and off.  Active components in digital circuits typically have a constant amplitude when turned on, and zero amplitude when turned off.  In general, digital circuits count the number of times a component is switched on and off.  Computers and electronic clocks are examples of electronic devices that are made up of mostly digital circuits.

Basic blocks:

Complex devices:




</doc>
<doc id="3660" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3660" title="Scalar">
Scalar

Scalars are simple numbers.They are used for measuring things. Many things can be measured, and the measure can be explained by only giving the number.

Suppose we are measuring a rod. We could give the measured length as 2 metres or 3 cm etc. depending on the length of the rod under observation. Here only the figure 2 or 3 along with the unit of measure is enough to transmit information about the rod.

Other examples of scalars are: 

i.e. mass is measured by scalars, distances are measured by scalars.

The other family of measurement falls under the category of vectors.


</doc>
<doc id="3661" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3661" title="Photon">
Photon

Photons (from Greek φως, meaning "light"), in many atomic models in physics, are particles which transmit light. In other words, light is carried over space by photons. Photon is an elementary particle that is its own antiparticle.

Photons have a rest mass of 0 (zero). However, Einstein's theory of relativity says that they do have a certain amount of momentum. Before the photon got its name, Einstein revived the proposal that light consists of separate pieces of energy (particles). These particles came to be known as photons.

A photon is usually given the symbol γ (gamma), 

Photons are fundamental particles. Although they can be created and destroyed, their lifetime is infinite.

In a vacuum, all photons move at the speed of light, c, which is equal to 299,792,458 meters (approximately 300,000 kilometers) per second.

A photon has a given frequency, which determines its color. Even beyond the visible range, frequency is the only thing different between X-Ray photons, and warm infrared.

Another property of a photon is its wavelength. The frequency formula_1, wavelength formula_2, and speed of light "c" are related by the equation formula_3.

The last usable property of a photon is its polarity. If you saw a giant photon coming straight at you, it could appear as a swath whipping vertically, horizontally, or somewhere in between. Polarized sunglasses stop photons swinging up and down from passing. This is how they reduce glare as light bouncing off of surfaces tend to fly that way.

LCD screens also use polarity to control which light passes through. Even some animals can see light polarization.

Finally, light has a spin to it. A photon's spin is a subtle feature, and requires expensive equipment to detect.

In particle physics, photons are responsible for electromagnetic force. Electromagnetism is an idea that combines electricity with magnetism. One common way that we experience electromagnetism in our daily lives is light, which is caused by electromagnetism. Electromagnetism is also responsible for charge, which is the reason that you can not push your hand through a table. Since photons are the force-carrying particle of electromagnetism, they are also gauge bosons. Some matter–called dark matter–is not believed to be affected by electromagnetism. This would mean that dark matter does not have a charge, and does not give off light. 

Light is often created when energy hits an electron. This energy can be in the form of heat, kinetic energy, or any other form. The increase of energy can push an electron up one level in a shell called a "valence". All that this means is that it is unstable there, and like all everything else, wants to be in the lowest energy state. (If being in the lowest energy state is confusing, pick up a pencil and drop it. Once on the ground, the pencil will be in a lower energy state). When the electron drops back down to its lowest energy state, it needs to release the energy that hit it, and it must obey the conservation of energy (energy can neither be created nor destroyed). Electrons release this energy as photons, and at higher intensities, this photon can be seen as visible light.



</doc>
<doc id="3662" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3662" title="Vector">
Vector

A vector is a mathematical object that has a size, called the "magnitude", and a direction.

For example, a vector would be used to show the distance and direction something moved in. If you ask for directions, and a person says "Walk one kilometer towards North", that's a vector. If he'd say "Walk one kilometer", without showing a direction, it would be a scalar.

Vectors are usually represented as an line with an arrow at the end.




The Head to Tail method of adding vectors is useful for doing an estimate on paper of the result of adding two vectors. To do it:

It's called the "Head to Tail" method, because each head from the previous vector leads in to the tail of the next one.

See link for an example created with Java


</doc>
<doc id="3665" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3665" title="Soap bubble">
Soap bubble

A soap bubble is a very thin film of soap water. Their shape is a hollow, round ball, or sphere. They have a colorful surface. Soap bubbles do not last very long. Sometimes they break in the air. When they touch something else, they usually break. When people talk about soap bubbles they think about them being pretty, but short-lived. So, they are a symbol for other things that are pretty, but short-lived or unimportant. Children enjoy playing with bubbles. Sometimes, adults enjoy seeing art done with soap bubbles.



</doc>
<doc id="3667" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3667" title="Fire Brigades Union">
Fire Brigades Union

The Fire Brigades Union (FBU) is the main union for firefighters in the United Kingdom. A union is a group of workers. They make the group to improve pay and working conditions. It was founded in 1918 in the London area as the "Firemans Trade Union". It soon grew to cover the entire country. Today, it has around 50,000 members.



</doc>
<doc id="3671" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3671" title="Force">
Force

The word force means "to make someone or something do something". 

For example, "Soldiers came to the town and forced all the people there to leave."

Scientists also use the word "force". In the science of physics, a force causes objects to change the way they are moving. When equal forces act in opposite directions, they cancel each other out. 

Gravity is a force. It makes things move toward each other. On the Earth, we see that it makes things fall toward the ground. 

In the "Star Wars" saga, the Force is a type of energy released by all living things that binds the galaxy together, enables life, and can be controlled by Jedi and Sith knights.

Opposite forces make boats float. Gravity makes the boat's weight pull it down, but water pushes it up. The weight is spread over a large area, so the water has a lot to push on and holds the boat up.


</doc>
<doc id="3674" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3674" title="Bicycle">
Bicycle

A bicycle, or bike, is a small, human powered land vehicle with a seat, two wheels, two pedals, and a metal chain connected to cogs on the pedals and rear wheel. A frame gives the bike strength, and all of the parts other than the frame are attached to the frame. The name comes from these two wheels - the prefix "bi-" meaning two, and the suffix "-cycle" meaning wheel. It is powered by a person riding on top, who pushes the pedals around with his or her feet.

Riding bicycles, which is also called cycling, is an important way to travel in several parts of the world. It is also a common recreation, a good form of low-impact exercise, and a popular sport. It is also the second most popular sport in the world.
Bicycling uses less energy per mile than any other human transport.

In 1817 a German professor, baron Karl von Drais, created the first two wheeled bicycle. It was made of wood and had two wheels. The front wheel could be turned using the handlebars in order to steer the bike. However, it did not have pedals, so the rider would have to push their feet on the ground to make it move.

In the 1860s, French inventors added pedals to the front wheel. However, it took a lot of effort to turn the pedals. Later inventors made the bikes out of metal only and made the front wheel very big, making it easier to pedal. This design was called the penny-farthing bicycle. However, it was difficult to ride, since it could fall over easily.

In 1885, the safety bicycle was invented. This had two wheels the same size so that the rider could sit at a lower height. It was called the safety bicycle because it much easier to ride than the penny-farthing. Instead of pedaling and steering with the front wheel, the safety bicycle used steering with the front wheel while the pedals turned the back wheel using a chain.

The bicycle soon became very popular during the 1890s and a number of improvements were made. In 1888, Scottish inventor John Boyd Dunlop invented a type of tire which was filled with air, and this made cycling far more comfortable. Soon, the freewheel was invented. This was a device inside the hub of the back wheel that allowed the wheel to spin even if the rider wasn't pedalling. However, this meant the rider could no longer stop the bike using the pedals. As a result, a type of brake was invented which could stop the bike if the pedals were turned backwards.

Later inventions included brakes which the rider could use by pulling levers on the handlebars, and gears, which made cycling up and down hills much easier.

Basic components common to most bikes include a seat, pedals, gearing, gear shifter, handlebar, wheels, brakes, cables, and frame elements. The cyclist turns the pedals around in circles, which turns the chain which turns the back wheel of the bike. The front wheel 

The mountain bicycle is used for riding on rough roads. They have many speeds (usually more than 20), wide tires, and powerful wheels. The tire is specially designed to ride smoothly on hills, grass, and mountains.

The Urban bicycle is used for the convenient ride around the city. It`s comfortable and has a relatively high speed. It has a comfortable seat but is heavy. It usually has fenders to keep water and mud from spraying the rider.

The difference between a woman's bicycle and other bicycles is the location of the top tube. When women began to ride bikes, they wore long skirts. The manufacturers of bicycles changed the location of the top tube to make it easier for women to sit down on them while wearing a skirt.

The tandem is a bicycle for 2 people. It has two pairs of pedals. The cyclists sit one behind another. The first cyclist steers the bicycle. There are bicycles for 3 and more people. There was a bicycle for 40 people.

Electric bicycles have electric motors normally found inside the hub of either the front or rear wheel. 
You can choose to ride using the motor only, or with pedals only or with both together. 

In the U.S. the federal government has set a limit of 750 Watts and a top electric-powered speed of 20MPH to have only the rules that apply to bicycles and no extra such as operator license, vehicle license, registration or insurance requirements.

A road bicycle usually has smaller tires, less than 1" thick, with a frame that is much lighter than a mountain bicycle. Road bikes are a great option for training longer distances and changing out the pedals for clip in shoes are the best way to go. There are variations, as some road bicycles have regular tires. A road bike can go very fast and is a good choice when participating in a bike race.

When riding on streets, it is safest to ride on the same side of the street that cars drive (which would mean riding on the right side of the road in countries where people drive on the right side of the road, and riding on the left in countries where people drive on the left).. To avoid hitting people, riders must obey signs that say "no bicycling", even if it does not seem to make sense at the time. Low light makes bicycle lighting important; so without bicycle lighting, it may be safer not to ride. Wearing a helmet makes bicycle riding safer. More than 300,000 people children alone to go to a hospital every year because they were hurt riding a bicycle. Wearing a helmet does not mean that somebody cannot be hurt if they crash their bicycle, but it makes being hurt less likely. Some bicycles have bells or horns that the rider can use to warn other people that they are riding by them.



</doc>
<doc id="3675" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3675" title="Wheel">
Wheel

A wheel is a disc- or circle-shaped mechanical device. Its main purpose is to allow things to "roll"; in other words, the wheel spins, and objects on the wheels move more easily along the ground. It is a simple machine.

Most experts believe the ancient Mesopotamians invented the wheel about 8000 BC. In addition, the ASIA discovered it on their own around 3500 BC. The Inca and Maya had wheels on children's toys around 1500 BC, but they did not use wheels for work. Africa south of the Sahara desert and Australia did not have the wheel until people there met people from other cultures.

Today, wheels are used in cars, carts, planes, wheelchairs, bikes, trains, and skateboards, in addition to many more devices. Wheels are usually used in pairs, connected by a rod of wood or metal known as an axle. 


</doc>
<doc id="3679" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3679" title="Exercise">
Exercise

The word exercise means:

People do physical exercises as a part of their healthy lifestyle to get stronger and healthier or stay strong and healthy or to improve their body image. There are three basic modes of physical exercises:


Exercises can be an important part of physical therapy, weight loss, or sports performance.

Exercise can be fun, but it is important for the exercisor to do what he likes and eat enough calories, so when he exercises he is building up muscles, not just breaking them down for fuel. Carbohydrates are muscle-sparing; and if one does not get enough calories overall, there is the risk of burning muscles up with the fat to make up the deficit.

Benefits of exercise for all ages have been known since antiquity. Marcus Cicero, around 65 BC, stated: “It is exercise alone that supports the spirits, and keeps the mind in vigor.” 

Regular exercise has been shown to help high blood pressure, obesity, heart disease, diabetes, and depression, among others.



</doc>
<doc id="3680" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3680" title="Percent">
Percent

Percent means "out of one hundred". It is often shown with the symbol "%". It is used even if there are not a hundred items. The number is then scaled so it can be compared to one hundred. For example, I have a bowl of fruit with three apples and one orange. The percentage of apples is 3 out of 4 = 3/4 = 75/100 = 75%.

Percentages are useful because people can compare things that are not out of the same number. For example, exam marks are often percentages, so people can compare them even if there are more questions on one exam paper than the other. In coding it can mean "modulo".


</doc>
<doc id="3681" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3681" title="Writing">
Writing

Writing is the act of recording language on a visual medium using a set of symbols. The symbols must be known to others, so that the text may be read. 

A text may also use other visual systems, such as illustrations and decorations. These are not called writing, but may help the message work. Usually, all educated people in a country use the same writing system to record the same language. To be able to read and write is to be literate. 

Writing differs from speech because "the readers need not be present at the time". We can read writing from long ago, and from different parts of the world. It works across time and space. It stores and communicates knowledge. Writing is one of the greatest inventions of the human species. It was invented after people had settled in towns, and after agriculture had started. Writing dates from about 3,300, which is over 5000 years ago, in the Middle East. 
A variety of writing materials were invented, long before paper. Clay, papyrus, wood, slate and parchment (prepared animal skins) have all been used. The Romans wrote on waxed tablets with a pointed pen; this was popular for temporary notes and messages. The later invention of paper by the Chinese was a big step forward.

The medium used today is usually paper, though there is technology to print on almost any surface. Media such as television and movie screens can also be used to display writing, and so can computer screens.

Writing is traditionally done using a hand tool such as a pencil, a pen, or a brush. More and more, however, text is created by input on a computer keyboard.

Writing was invented independently a number of times. The Sumerian, the Ancient Egyptian, the Chinese and the Mayan writings are separate in their invention. All these writing systems started with "pictographs", symbols that stood for things. Then they developed a mixture of methods. Our own alphabetic system is different. It is based on the sounds of spoken language. All alphabets are modified versions of the first one, which originated with the Phoenicians and the Ancient Greeks.

The Sumerians lived in Mesopotamia, between the Tigris and Euphrates rivers. 5000 years ago this was a fertile region and is now mostly in Iraq. The Sumerians developed a form of writing called cuneiform. Triangular marks were pressed into soft clay tablets. After the clay had dried in the sun the tablets were baked. Then they were carried somewhere else for others to read. We know that its first uses were for trade, accounting and administration.

The earliest signs were mostly pictorial, but soon they stood as symbols for objects, ideas and sounds. This writing system was extremely successful, and outlasted the Sumerian empire. It was then used by other civilisations in the Middle East, such as the Old 
Akkadian, Babylonian, Assyrian, Elamite, Hittite, Old Persian and Ugaritic empires. The last cuneiform inscription was dated as 75. Thus the system had lasted for more than 3000 years. Each version of cuneiform had to be deciphered separately, because all the languages were different. Documents (including stone objects) written in more than one language provided the clues.

This is the most famous of the old forms of writing, or "scripts". It was invented at roughly the same time as cuneiform, yet was quite different in style, and used different materials. Egyptians ended up with three writing systems for the same language. They were:

The two cursive scripts were written with reed pens and carbon inks onto papyrus, also by brush onto cloth. Many examples survive. The hieroglyphs were carved into stone or painted onto stone surfaces. Many survive, some with the original colours intact. The key event in the decipherment of hieroglyphic writing was the discovery of the Rosetta Stone. This is a granite slab with the same message written in hieroglyphic, demotic and in Greek. Ancient Greek is well understood, and made possible the interpretation of the other two scripts.

Chinese is the language with the largest number of native speakers. Its history dates back to about 1400. The Chinese writing system is idio-syllabic, a mixed method using characters which may have one or more of these elements:
Chinese has a huge number of characters: in the region of 50,000. Because of this, printing methods were never really successful in China, despite their early invention. In the 14th century, Wang Tzhen, had sixty thousand wood block characters cut, a huge investment in time and money. He printed 100 copies of a local gazette, and was author of a treatise on agriculture and other technical works. Even with printing machines from Europe in the 19th century, the process was hampered by the huge number of characters, which slowed the "composition" to a snail's pace.

China has eight regional languages that are mutually unintelligible, and many true dialects. The system appears to work mainly because as many as 70% speak Mandarin. Fluency in Chinese reading and writing is undoubtedly difficult to achieve, and this must act as a brake on the drive for literacy. There have been a number of attempts to reform or simplify the system. The most radical in Pinyin, which is a program to replace Chinese characters with an alphabetic system. This was supported by Mao, but faltered after his death.

It seems that the idea of an alphabet – a script based entirely upon sound – arose only once, and has been copied and adapted to suit many different languages. Although no alphabet fits its language perfectly, it is flexible enough to fit any language approximately. It was a unique invention.
Our alphabet is called the Roman alphabet, as compared with the Cyrillic and other alphabets. All of these come from the ancient Greek alphabet, which dates back to about 1100 to 800. The Greek alphabet was probably developed from the Phoenician script, which appeared somewhat earlier, and had some similar letter-shapes. 

The Phoenicians spoke a Semitic language, usually called Canaanite. The Semitic group of languages includes Arabic, Maltese, Hebrew and also Aramaic, the language spoken by Jesus. We do not know much about how the alphabetic idea arose, but the Phoenicians, a trading people, came up with letters which were adapted by the early Greeks to produce their alphabet. The one big difference is that the Phoenician script had no pure vowels. Arabic script has vowels which may, but do not have to be, shown by diacritics (small marks above or below the line). The oldest Qu'ran manuscripts had no diacritics, and Israeli children to about the third grade use texts with vowel 'dots' added. 

No ancient script, alphabetic or not, had pure vowels before the Greeks. The Greek alphabet even has two vowels for 'e' and two for 'o', to distinguish between the long and short sounds. It is fairly clear from this that careful thought went into both the Phoenician invention and the Greek adaptation. However, no details survive of either process.

Semitic scripts apparently derive from "Proto-Sinaitic", a script of which only 31 inscriptions (plus 17 doubtful) are known. It is thought by some researchers that the original source of this script was the Egyptian hieratic script. By the late Middle Kingdom (about 1900) hieratic had added some alphabetic signs for representing the consonants of foreign names. Egyptian activity in Sinai was at its height at that time. A similar idea had been suggested many years previously.

There are a number of scripts which have never been deciphered, despite much effort. Perhaps the most famous are the script of the Indus Valley civilization, and the Etruscan script. The Indus River civilisation predates other literate civilisations on the Indian subcontinent, going back to about 2500. Their cities of Mohenjo-Daru and Harappa were well-planned, with good drainage. The script is found on seal stones, terracotta, bronze, bone and ivory. All are brief, and the language is unknown. 

The Etruscan language used Greek letter-forms, and is found mainly on Etruscan tombs, from Tuscany through to Venice. They were an empire before the Romans, who defeated them, and absorbed their ideas. All knowledge of their language was lost, except that some of the names on tomb memorials can be read from the Greek letters.

It is only in the last 150 years that most people have been able to read and write in Europe and North America. In many other parts of the world this did not happen until the 20th century. Until then, literacy was mainly for clerics, that is, people who had training as priests. Even wealthy people were often illiterate, and used scribes to write for them. The invention of printing came before mass literacy. Before 1500, each book had to be created by hand, so there were few books available compared to the billions in the world today. Mass literacy needed cheap books.
Even now, there is still widespread illiteracy.

The ordinary use of writing by means of a pen and paper. Can refer to writing for oneself, as in a diary, but mostly it refers to sending letters. Once it was almost the only means of communication between people who were separated. Now, the telephone and e-mail are the most common means of distance communication.



</doc>
<doc id="3683" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3683" title="Rock">
Rock

Rock is used to mean many things. 



</doc>
<doc id="3684" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3684" title="Plato">
Plato

Plato was a very important classical Greek philosopher. He lived from 427 BC to 348 BC. He was a student of Socrates and the teacher of Aristotle. Plato wrote about many ideas in philosophy that are still talked about today. In fact, one modern philosopher (Alfred North Whitehead) said that all philosophy since Plato has just been comments on his works.

Plato wrote his books in the form of dialogues -- people talking about ideas, and sometimes disagreeing about them. This makes Plato's books more interesting to read. 

Socrates is usually the main person in Plato's dialogues. Usually, Socrates talks with people about their ideas, and tries to see if they believe anything that is illogical. Other people in the stories often become angry with Socrates because of this! People who study Plato argue about whether Socrates really said the same things that Plato makes him say, or whether Plato just used Socrates as a character, to make the ideas he was talking about seem more important.

One of Plato's most famous works is "The Republic" (In Greek, "Politeia," or 'city'). In that work, he describes Socrates's vision of an "ideal" state. The method of questioning in this dialogue, called the Socratic method, is as important as the content. The Republic contains ideas of Socrates: "Socrates said it, Plato wrote it." 

Plato also wrote the "Laws". 

There are many dialogues that were supposed to be written by Plato. But because he was such a famous philosopher, some later philosophers said that their works were really written by him, to make their works seem more important.

In the list on this page, a work is marked (1) if scholars are not sure that Plato really wrote it, and it is marked (2) if scholars generally agree that Plato did "not" really write it.



</doc>
<doc id="3686" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3686" title="Book">
Book

A book is a set of printed sheets of paper held together between two covers. The sheets of paper are usually covered with a text: language and illustrations: that is the main point of a printed book.

A writer of a book is called an author. The person who draws pictures in the book is called the illustrator. Books can have multiple authors or illustrators. 

A book can also be a text in a larger collection of texts. That way a "book" is perhaps written by one author, or it only treats one subject area. Books in this sense can often be understood without knowing the whole collection. Examples are the Bible, the Illiad or the Odyssey – all of them consist of a number of "books" in this sense of the word. Encyclopedias often have separate articles written by different people, and published as separate volumes. Each volume is a book.

"Hardcover" books have hard covers made of cardboard covered in cloth or leather and are usually sewn together. "Paperback" books have covers of stiff paper and are usually glued together. The words in books may be read aloud or recorded on tapes (audiobooks) and compact discs. 

Books can be borrowed from a library or bought from a bookstore. People can make their own books and fill them with family photos, drawings, or their own writing. Some books are empty inside, like a diary, address book, or photo album. Most of the time, the word "book" means that the pages inside have words printed or written on them.

Some books are written just for children, or for entertainment, while other books are for studying something in school such as math or history. Many books have photographs or drawings. 

People who cannot read books, or any type of writing are called illiterate (= 'unlettered').

There are two main kinds of book text: fiction and non-fiction. 

These books are novels, about stories that did not happen, and have been imagined by the author. Some books are based on real events from history, but the author has created imaginary characters or dialogue for the events. 

Books of non-fiction are about true facts or things that have really happened. Some examples are dictionaries, cookbooks, textbooks for learning in school, or a biography (someone's life story).

Between the written manuscript and the book lie several inventions. A book is an industrial product, but manuscripts are hand-made.

A common type of manuscript was the scroll, which was a long sheet rolled up. The sheet could have been made of papyrus (made by the Egyptians, by weaving the inner stems of the papyrus plant and then hammering them together), or parchment or vellum (very thin animal skin, first used by the ancient Greeks), or paper (made from plant fibers, invented by the Chinese). Turning the manuscript into a book required several developments.

The Romans were the first people to put separate pieces of manuscript between covers, to form a "codex". This was more convenient to handle and store than scrolls, but was not yet a book as we understand it.

Scrolls and codices were written and copied by hand. The Chinese invented "woodblock printing", where shapes are carved out of a block of wood, then ink is applied to the carved side, and the block is pressed onto the paper. This way of making books was very slow, and so very few people had these kinds of books.

Johannes Gutenberg was the first to invent a machine for printing, the printing press, in the 15th century. This involved more than just a press, it involved the production of movable metal type suitable for the machine process.

Initially, the machines were slow, and needed a printer to work with them. Fast and automatic machines did not arrive until the 19th century.

Paper had been invented in the 8th century, but hand-made paper was expensive and in short supply. In the 19th century, automated or semi-automated making of paper from wood pulp was invented. Also, there was the invention of inks for various purposes, and machines driven by electricity.

The common cheap supply of paper fed the faster prining machines, and books became cheaper. Only then could ordinary people afford to buy books. Along with these inventions in the 19th century came the idea of public libraries, so poorer people could get access to the best books. Also, widespread free (or nearly free) education swelled the number of literate people.

Printing was done on large sheets of paper, which were then folded, guillotined (cut) and sewn in sections, and finally placed into the covers. All these processes became done by machines during the 19th century.

Today some of the technologies have been changed, especially those involving illustration and typography. However, books look much the same as they did, with more illustration in colour, but basically the same. That is because experience has shown that readers need certain things for pleasurable reading. Graphic design and typography are the practical arts used to make books attractive and useful to readers.




</doc>
<doc id="3687" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3687" title="Sundial">
Sundial

A sundial shows the current solar time during the day. It does this because the sun appears to move through the sky. At different times in the day when the sun is shining, a shadow is cast in different places on the dial. A person marks the dial with the time at a certain shadow. This lets users easily see the time. There are a few commonly seen designs, such as the 'ordinary' or standard garden sundial. However, sundials can be designed for any surface where a fixed object casts a predictable shadow. 

Ancient Egypt had sundials. Other cultures developed them further, including the Greeks and Romans.




</doc>
<doc id="3690" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3690" title="Peninsula">
Peninsula

A peninsula is a region of land that sticks out in a body of water. It is also defined as a piece of land with water on three sides. Korea, and most of the U.S. state of Florida, are peninsulas. If Eurasia is considered a continent then the continent of Europe is technically a peninsula. India is also a peninsula.


</doc>
<doc id="3691" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3691" title="Derivative">
Derivative

A derivative is something created from a primary source, and can mean different things.



</doc>
<doc id="3692" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3692" title="Combinatorial game theory">
Combinatorial game theory

Combinatorial game theory is a mathematical theory of games. It is sometimes called CGT. It is part of general game theory. It came from ideas from the solution to the game of Nim. It also partly came from looking at the oriental game Go. 

CGT proves things about combinatorial games. A game must meet several conditions to be a combinatorial game. These are:

Very few of the games that people play for fun meet these conditions. For example, chess has draws. 

These combinatorial games can be represented by trees, each vertex of which is the game resulting from a particular move from the game directly below it on the tree. These games can be assigned game values. Finding these game values is of great interests to CG theorists, as is the theoretical concept of game addition. The sum of two games is the game in which each player on her/his turn must move in only one of the two games, leaving the other as it was. 

Elwyn Berlekamp, John Conway and Richard Guy are the founders of the theory. They worked together in the 1960s. Their published work was called "Winning Ways for Your Mathematical Plays".

In the theory, there are two players called "left" and "right". A game is something that allows left and right to make moves to "other games". For example, in the game of chess, there is a usual starting setup. One could also, however, think of a chess game after the first move as a different game, with a different setup. So each position is also called a game.

Games have the notation {L|R}. formula_1 are the games the left player can move to. formula_2 are the games the right player can move to. If you know chess notation, then the usual chess setup is the game 

The dots "..." mean there are many moves, so not all are shown.

Chess is very complex. It is better to think of easier games. Nim, for example, is much simpler to think about. Nim is played like this:

The easiest game of Nim starts with no counters at all! In such a case, neither player can move. That is shown as , or 0). If instead right moves first, there will be no more moves for left. So both left and right can make a move to 0. That is shown as , or {0|0}. The first player to move will win. Games equal to {0|0} are very important. They are written with the symbol, * (star).


</doc>
<doc id="3693" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3693" title="Nim">
Nim

Nim is a simple game used for examples in combinatorial game theory. The rules of nim are simple:

There is a simple mathematical strategy to play the game perfectly. If both players play perfectly, the winner is determined by the initial setup.



</doc>
<doc id="3697" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3697" title="Blue">
Blue

Blue is one of the colors of the rainbow that people can see. It is one of the three traditional primary colors, along with red and yellow. It has the shortest wavelength of these colors (about 470 nanometers). 

Blue is the color of the earth's sky and sea. Earth looks blue when seen from outer space by astronauts.

Blue is a color used to show coldness. It is also one of the colors your lips can turn if you are chilly.

Blue is the color of a "bluebird". A Bluejay is the color blue.








</doc>
<doc id="3702" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3702" title="Memory">
Memory

Memory is the part of the mind that keeps the things that you can remember. It is the mind's ability to store information to use later. It is studied in a special science called "cognitive psychology". There are three main types of memory:




</doc>
<doc id="3706" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3706" title="Murder">
Murder

Murder is when one person kills another person on purpose. It is only called "murder" when it is against the law. If a person does something that makes someone else die, it is often known as manslaughter or homicide. This is especially true if it was an accident. Sometimes, a death caused by someone else may not be a crime. For example, in some countries, it is not a crime to defend yourself, even if it kills the attacker. A person who commits murder is called a murderer. 

The legal definiton of "murder" and "manslaughter" may be different in different countries, and is very much argued on: for example, killing in war is not usually called "murder" by those who take place in the war. Killing in self defense (if people being attacked kill someone who is attacking them) is not usually "murder".

"Assassination" is a word which means murdering someone for a reason. The word is most used when the person who was killed was a famous celebrity or was a person involved in politics. The people who carry out assassinations are called "assassins" or "Hit-men". An assassin may murder someone for political reasons, for money, or for other reasons, such as favors owed.

The word "Assassin" comes from Hashshashin, a Muslim group that was active in the Middle East from the 8th to the 14th centuries. This secret society killed people for political and religious reasons. It is thought that the assassins were under the influence of hashish and opium during their killings or during their training. The word "assassin" comes from either "hashashim", the influence of the drugs, or "hassansin", after their leader, Hassan-i Sabbah. 

The first use of the word "assassination" in a book is " The Tragedy of Macbeth" by William Shakespeare (1605).


</doc>
<doc id="3707" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3707" title="Bird">
Bird

Birds are a class of vertebrates, the Aves.

They are warm-blooded and lay eggs. Their bodies are covered with feathers and they have wings, the function of which is usually flight. Their bones are hollow. This makes them lighter and allows many of them to fly. 

Birds are bipedal, having two legs that are often covered with scales (small, flat hard plates which over-lap in the same way as feathers). They have a hard beak with no teeth. 

Because birds keep a high body temperature, they use lots of energy. So, they need to eat a lot of food compared with their weight. 

More than 9000 different species of birds are known. 

Birds are found on every continent of the world. Birds of different types can live in freezing cold environments, and others can live in hot deserts. Birds live in forests, in grasslands, on cliff faces, in river banks, on stony sea shores, down mine shafts and in the rooves of houses. 

Different types of birds eat different foods. Most birds are carnivorous meaning that they eat flesh, at least some of the time. Many birds live on insects or on fish. Some eat small reptiles and mice. Birds of prey eat mammals and other birds. Some birds are scavengers and eat the bodies of creatures that have died. Many birds such as parrots and finches live on seeds and fruit. Some birds that eat mainly seeds feed their young on insects. A few types of birds eat green plants, but only one species lives on leaves. Hummingbirds and Honeyeaters live on the nectar or honey in flowers. 

Birds come in many sizes from the Bee Hummingbird that is only 60 mm long to the ostrich which stands 2.5 metres high. The bird with the widest wingspan is the Wandering Albatross many of which measure 3 metres from tip to tip.

All this applies to living birds. Birds are the descendants of theropod dinosaurs, and the early birds looked much like small carnivorous dinosaurs. Much is now known about the origin of birds. From fossils we know that these dinosaurs had feathers, and early birds had teeth.

Because birds live on every continent and have adapted to all sorts of conditions, different types of birds look very different from each other. The most noticeable differences are the size, the shape of the beak, the length of the legs, the length of the neck and the colour.

The smallest types of birds are tiny birds that feed on nectar, honey and insects. The biggest birds are flightless birds with long legs-- ostriches, emus and cassowaries. However, very large birds are also found soaring high in the sky-- eagles, vultures, albatross and pelicans. The way to understand the living habits of a bird is to look at its legs and feet, its beak, its neck and its wings. 

If a bird has very long legs, then it probably spends most of its time walking, like a crane, or wading (walking in water), like a flamingo. Birds with long legs need long necks to match, so they can reach their food. Birds with short legs and long necks like pelicans, geese and swans are birds that swim well and dive their heads into the water for food. Their beaks are often flat for scooping up water weeds. A pelican's beak can change into a shape like a huge bucket for catching fish.

Birds that are shaped like torpedoes are good at diving. Albatross, seagulls and kingfishers all have long strong beaks for catching fish. Some birds, such as eagles, owls vultures and hawks, have beaks which are hooked and very large claws (also called "talons") with which they can tear and carry meat. 

Some birds have very long thin beaks that they use for dipping into flowers or poking into holes in the ground. These include hummingbirds, bee eaters and avocets. Some birds have short beaks but wide mouths that are perfect for catching insects in the air, like swallows, swifts and nightjars. Some birds that eat fruit, like toucans and hornbills, have beaks which are enormous, but are very light in weight. The curved beaks of parrots are good for eating large seeds and cracking nuts, while birds that peck small seeds and food from the ground have short beaks like pigeons. 

Birds come in a huge range of colours. These colours can be useful to a bird in two ways. The colours can either help to hide the bird, or they can help to attract attention to the bird when it is looking for a mate.

Many birds are brown, green or grey. These colours make a bird harder to see; they camouflage the bird. Brown is the most common colour. Brown birds include sparrows, emus, thrushes, larks, eagles, falcons and the female birds of many species such as wrens, ducks, blackbirds and peacocks. When a brown bird is in long grass or among tree trunks or rocks, it is "camouflaged". Birds that live in long grass often have brown feathers streaked with black which looks like shadows. A Bittern is almost invisible in long reeds. Other birds, including starlings and minahs, are quite dark in colour, but are flecked with little spots that look like raindrops on leaves. 

Many birds from hot countries are green or have some green feathers, particularly parrots. Birds that live in green trees often have green backs, even if they have bright-coloured breasts. From the back, the birds are "camouflaged". This is very useful when sitting on a nest. The bird's bright-coloured breast is hidden. Budgerigiars are bred in different colours such as blue, white and mauve, but in the wild, they are nearly all green and yellow. Even though they fly very well, they normally spend a lot of time on the ground, eating grass seeds. Their yellow and black stiped back helps to hide them in the shadows made by long dry grass, while their green breasts are a similar colour to the leaves of gum trees.

Grey birds include most pigeons and doves, cranes, storks and herons. Grey birds are often rock-living birds like pigeons, or birds that sit on dead tree trunks looking like a broken branch. Water birds like herons often have a pale grey colour which makes it harder for a fish to notice that the bird is standing, looking down for something to catch. Water birds, no matter what colour they are on top, are often white underneath, so that when a fish looks up, the bird looks like part of the sky.

Black birds include crows, ravens and male blackbirds. Some birds that are dark colours spend quite a lot of time on the ground, hopping around in the shadows under bushes. Among these birds are the male blackbird and the Satin Bowerbird which is not black but very dark blue. Crows and ravens often perch high on bare trees in the winter, where their black shape against the sky looks like the dark bare branches. 
Many birds are not camouflaged but stand out because they are "pied". This means that they are black and white. Black and white birds include magpies, pied geese, pelicans, and Australian magpies (which are not really magpies at all). Pied birds often have brightly coloured beaks and legs of yellow or red. The silver pheasant, with its long white tail striped with fine bars of black, has a brightly coloured face.

Some birds are famous for their colour and are named for it, such as the Bluebird, the Azure Kingfisher, the Golden Pheasant, the Scarlet Macaw, the Violet Wren and the Robin Redbreast.

Many other birds are very brightly coloured, in countless combinations. Some of the most colourful birds are quite common like pheasants, peacocks, domestic fowl and parrots. Colourful small birds include blue tits, the gold finches, humming birds, fairy wrens and bee eaters (which are also called "rainbow birds"). Some birds, like those of the Bird of Paradise in Papua New Guinea have such beautiful feathers that they have been hunted for them. 

With some birds, such as flamingos, the male and the female are both brightly coloured. With other species, only the male is brightly coloured, and uses his colourful feathers to attract females. The peacock is the best example of this, but also in the domestic fowl, the male has long shiny feathers above his tail and also long neck feathers that may be a different colour to his wings and body. There are only a very few types of birds (like the Eclectus Parrot) where the female is more colourful than the male.
Most birds can fly. They do this by pushing through the air with their wings. The curved surfaces of the wings cause air currents (wind) which lift the bird. Flapping keeps the air current moving to create lift and also moves the bird forward. 

Some birds can "glide" on air currents without flapping. Many birds use this method when they are about to land. Some birds can also "hover" and remain in one place. This method is used by birds of prey such as falcons that are looking for something to eat. Seagulls are also good at "hovering", particularly if there is a strong breeze. The most expert "hovering" birds are tiny hummingbirds which can beat their wings both backwards and forwards and can stay quite still in the air while they dip their long beaks into flowers to feed on the sweet nectar. 
Different types of birds have different needs. Their wings are adapted to suit the way they fly. 

Large birds of prey, such as eagles, that spend a lot of time "soaring" on the wind have wings that are large and broad. The main flight feathers are long and wide. They help the eagle to stay on rising "air currents" without using much energy, while the eagle looks at the ground below, to find the next meal. When the eagle sees some small creature move, it can close its wings and fall from the sky like a missile, opening its great wings again to slow down as it comes to land. The world's largest eagle, the Philippine Eagle has a wingspan of about 2 metres (6.7 ft) wide.

Birds that live in grassland areas or open forests and feed on fruit, insects and reptiles often spend a lot of time flying short journeys looking for food and water. They have wings that are shaped in a similar way to eagles, but rounder and not as good for soaring. These include many Australian birds like Cockatoos.

Birds, such as geese, that migrate from one country to another fly very long distances. Their wings are big and strong, because the birds are large and they stock up on food for the long flight. Migrating water birds usually form family groups of 12-30 birds. They fly very high, making use of long streams of air that blow from north to south in different seasons. They are very well organised, often flying in a V pattern. The geese at the back do not have to flap so hard; they are pulled on by the wind of the ones at the front. Every so often, they change the leader so that the front bird, who does most work and sets the pace, can have a rest. Geese and swans are the highest-flying birds, reaching 8,000 metres or more when on migration. Geese often "honk" loudly while they are flying. It is thought that they do this to support the leader and help the young ones.

Birds that fly very quickly, such as swifts and swallows, have long narrow pointed wings. These birds need great speed because they eat insects, catching most of them while they are flying. These birds also migrate. They often collect in huge flocks of thousands of birds that move together like a whirling cloud. 

Birds that live in bushes and branches have triangular wings that help the bird change direction. Many forest birds are expert at getting up speed by flapping and then gliding steadily among the trees, tilting to avoid things as they go. Members of the kingfisher family are expert at this type of flying.

Birds such as owls that hunt at night have wings with soft rounded feathers so that they do not flap loudly. Birds that are awake at night are called "nocturnal" birds. Birds that are awake during the day are "diurnal".

A Wandering Albatross and Arctic Tern might spend several years without coming to land. They can sleep while gliding and have wings which, when they are stretched right out, look like the wings of a jet plane. 

Bird like chickens that feed mainly on the ground and only use their wings to fly to safety have small wings.

Some birds do not fly. These include running birds like ostriches and emus and ocean-living birds, the large penguin family. 

Ostriches and emus do not need to fly because although they feed and nest on the ground, their great size and their speed is their protection. Some other ground-feeding birds have not been so lucky. Some birds such as the Dodo and the Kiwi were ground-feeding birds that lived in safety on islands where there was nothing dangerous to eat them. They lost the power of flight. Kiwis are endangered because European settlement to New Zealand brought animals like cats, dogs and rats which kill kiwis and eat their eggs. However, Kiwis and also the rare New Zealand Ground Parrot have survived. In the case of Dodos, they were fat and delicious. They were killed and eaten by sailors until there was none left. Other flightless birds which have disappeared are the Auk and the Moa.

Penguins spend a great deal of time at sea, where they are in danger from seals. On land, they usually live in areas where there were few dangers, until the arrival of European settlers with dogs and cats. Their wings have adapted to life in the sea and have become flippers which help them in swimming very fast.

Although birds are warm-blooded creatures like mammals, they do not give birth to live babies. They lay eggs like cold-blooded creatures such as lizards. Unlike most reptiles, the shell of a bird's egg is hard. The baby bird grows inside the egg and after a few weeks, breaks out, or "hatches". 

Birds in cold climates usually have a "breeding season" once a year in the spring. Migratory birds can have two springs and two mating seasons in a year. So can birds that live in hot climates. 

When the breeding season arrives, the birds choose partners. Some birds are mated for life, like married couples. These birds include pigeons, geese, and cranes. Other birds look for new partners each year and sometimes a male bird or "cock" will have several wives. 

For birds that choose new mates, part of the breeding season is "display". The male bird will do all sorts of things to attract females. These include singing, dancing, showing off the feathers and building a beautiful nest. Some male birds have splendid feathers for attracting females. The most famous is the peacock who can spread the feathers above his tail into a huge fan. 
Once the birds have found partners, they find a suitable place to lay eggs. The idea of what is a suitable place differs between species, but most build bird nests. Robins will make a beautiful little round nest of woven grass and carefully line it with feathers, bits of fluff and other soft things. Swallows like to nest near other swallows. They make nests from little blobs of clay, often on a beam near the roof of a building where it is well sheltered. Many birds like a hollow tree to nest in. Eagle's nests are often just piles of dead wood on the top of the tallest tree or mountain. Scrub Turkeys scratch together a huge pile of leaves that may be 10 metres across. Guillemots lay their eggs on rock shelves with no nest at all. Their eggs are shaped so that they roll around in circles. A cuckoo does not make its own nest. It lays its egg in the nest of another bird and leaves it for them to care for. The cuckoo eggs are camouflaged to look like the host's eggs.

When the nest has been prepared, the birds mate so that the eggs are fertilised and the chicks will start growing. Unlike mammals, birds only have one opening as the exit hole for body fluids, and for reproduction. The opening is called the cloaca. A female bird, called a "hen", has two ovaries, of which the left one usually produces eggs. 

Most male birds have no sex organs that can be seen. But inside the male are two testes which produce sperm which is stored in the cloaca. Birds mate by rubbing their cloacas together, although with some birds, particularly large water birds, the male has a sort of a penis inside the cloaca.

Once the "hen" has mated, she produces fertile eggs which have chicks growing inside them. She lays the eggs in the nest. There might be just one egg or a number of them, called a "clutch". Emus might lay as many as fifteen huge dark green eggs in a clutch. After the eggs are laid, they are "'incubated", or kept warm so the chicks form inside. One of the good things about the fact that most birds stay together for the whole nesting time is that the work is shared. The birds generally take turns sitting on the eggs, so that both can feed. 

This is not always the case. With Emus, the male does all the "sitting" and all the baby-minding. With Emperor Penguins it is also the male that cares for the egg. There is only one egg, which he keeps on his feet and under his feathers, standing in a big group of males without feeding until the chick is hatched. While the eggs are hatching, the females are at sea, feeding, so that they can care for the chicks when they return. 

With birds that build mounds, the heat to hatch the eggs comes from the sun on the rotten leaves. The parents leave the mound. When the chicks hatch, they are strong enough to feed themselves. 

Many types of birds take 2-4 weeks to hatch eggs. Albatrosses take 80 days. During this time the female loses a lot of her body weight. 

The quickest hatching time is for the Cuckoo. Some types of cuckoos take only 10 days. This means that when they hatch in the nest of their "foster parents", the eggs that the parents have laid are not yet ready. Newborn cuckoos are naked, blind and ugly, but they are very strong. They get under any eggs that are in the nest and throw them out before they hatch. That means that the cuckoo has the whole care of both parents. Baby cuckoos grow fast and are often soon bigger than the parents who feed them. 

When baby birds hatch, in most types of birds, they are fed by both parents, and sometimes by older "aunties" as well. Their mouths are open all the time and are often very brightly coloured so the parents can easily see where to put the food. For birds that eat grain and fruit, the parents eat and partly "digest" the food for the babies. It is then vomitted carefully into the babies mouth. 

Many birds, particularly those that mate for life, are very sociable and keep together in a family group which might be anything from 4 or 6 adult birds and their young to a very large flock. 

As chicks grow they change the fluffy "down" that covers them as babies for real feathers. At this stage they are called "fledglings". Other family members may help care for fledgling chicks, feeding them, and protecting them from attack while parents are feeding. When the "fledglings" have their new feathers, they come out of the nest to learn to fly. In some types of birds, like pigeons, the parents watch over this and as the young ones get stronger, will give them flying lessons, teaching them how to glide, how to fly in spirals and how to land like an expert.

Flocks of birds can be very highly organised in a way that takes care of all the flock members. Studies of small flocking birds like tree sparrows show that they clearly communicate with each other, as sometimes thousands of birds may fly in close formation and spiral patterns without "colliding" (or flying into each other). 

Two common behaviours in flocking birds are "guarding" and "reconnaissance". When a flock of birds is feeding it is common for one bird to perch on a high place to keep "guard" over the flock. In the same way, when a flock is asleep, often, one bird will remain awake. 
It is also common for large flocks to send one or two birds ahead of them when they are flying to a new area. The look-out birds can spy the "lie of the land" to find food, water and good places to perch. .

All birds make sounds to communicate. The types of noises that they make are different. All birds have "cries" which are the sounds to communicate. Some birds can also "sing". These birds are called "songbirds". Some songbirds are robins, larks, canaries, thrushes, nightingales and crows. Birds that are "not" songbirds are pigeons, seagulls, eagles, owls and ducks. Parrots are not songbirds, even though they can be taught to sing human songs.

The Austrian naturalist Konrad Lorenz studied the way in which birds communicate, or talk to each other. He found that each type of bird had a number of sounds which they made automatically, when ever they felt a certain way. Every sound had an action that went with it. So, if the bird was frightened, it acted frightened and made a frightened sound. This told the other birds around it that something frightening was happening. 

If a flock of birds were flying over a field, they would be calling "Fly! Fly!" But a hungry bird, seeing something good to eat down below might start calling "Food! Food!" If other birds were also hungry, they would make the same call until more birds were calling "Food! Food!" than "Fly! Fly!". At this point, the mind of the flock would be changed. Some of the birds would start to yell "Fly downwards! Fly downwards!" as they sank from the sky, until the whole flock was all noisily calling the same thing. 

These communication sounds are often short hard sounds like chirps, squeaks, squawks. and twitters. Sometimes the calls are longer and more musical. They include the "Rookety-coo" sound of a pigeon and the "Cockadoodledoo!" of a rooster. The bird cannot change these sounds. They always make them in the same way. The bird is locked into making each sound every time a particular idea comes into its head.

When a bird sings, it can chose what it sings and it can change its song. Most singing birds that are kept as pets, like canaries, have several tunes and some variations. Songbirds in the wild can learn songs from each other. The same species of bird will sing different songs in different regions. 

A good example of this is the Currawong. This is an Australia bird which is like a black and white crow. In the autumn, families get together in large flocks and do a lot of singing. Currawongs from some areas sing much more complex songs than others. Generally, Currawongs from the Blue Mountains are the finest singers. 

The song of the Currawong can be sung as a solo, but is often performed as a choir. One bird will take the lead and sing "Warble-warble-warble-warble!" All the other birds will join in and sing "Wooooooo!" When all the birds know the song, the choir will sing the "Warble" part and the soloist will sing the "Woo!". The song changes from year to year and from place to place. 

Konrad Lorenz noticed that when birds sing, they often use a lot of their regular calls as part of the song. Lorenz had a flock of Jackdaws which were scattered during World War II. One day, an old bird returned. For many months she sat on the chimney singing her song, but in the song she kept making the call which Lorenz knew meant "Come home! Come home!" One day, to the great surprise of Lorenz, a male bird flew from a passing flock and joined her on the chimney. Lorenz was sure that it was her long-lost "husband" who had found his way home at last.

 

Birds are classified by taxonomists as 'Aves' (Avialae). The Aves are descended from carnivorous (flesh-eating) dinosaurs called Therapods. Birds are the only living descendants of dinosaurs (strictly speaking, they "are" dinosaurs). Birds and Crocodilia are the only living members of the Archosaur reptiles. 

The class Aves is now defined as all the descendants of the most recent common ancestor of modern birds and "Archaeopteryx lithographica".

"Archaeopteryx", from the Upper Jurassic (some 150–145 million years ago), is the earliest known type of bird. It is famous, because it was one of the first important fossils found after Charles Darwin published his ideas about evolution in the 19th century. Today it is the oldest bird we know. Some biologists think that "Archaeopteryx" could not fly very well. Other early fossil birds are, for example, "Confuciusornis", "Anchiornis huxlei", "Microraptor", and other Paraves. 

Many fossils of early birds and small dinosaurs have been discovered in the Liaoning Province of Northeast China. The fossils show that small theropod dinosaurs had feathers. These deposits have preserved them so well (lagerstätten) that the impressions of their feathers can be clearly seen. 

This leads us to think that feathers evolved first as heat insulation, and only later for flight. The origin of birds lies in these small feathered dinosaurs. 

Palaeontologists now agree that birds evolved from Maniraptora group of dinosaurs. This explains why some consider birds to be living dinosaurs. 


Birds are an important thing for people to eat. The sort of birds that people eat most often is the chicken and its eggs, but people often also eat geese, pheasants, turkeys and ducks. Other birds are sometimes eaten are emus, ostriches, pigeons, grouse, quails, doves, woodcocks, songbirds and others.

At one time swans and flamingos were special food for the rich and powerful, like some Emperors of Rome, but people are usually not allowed to eat them now.

Many species have all died because they have been hunted for food, for example the "Passenger Pigeon". Many others are in danger or dead, because people have taken away the places where they lived for wood or farms.

Many species have learned how to get food from people. The number of birds of these species has grown because of it. Seagulls and crows find food from garbage dumps. The common pigeon ("Columba livia"), House Sparrows ("Passer domesticus" and Common Starlings ("Sturnus vulgaris") live in large numbers in towns and cities all over the world.

Sometimes people also use birds. For example homing pigeons carry messages. Nowadays people sometimes race them for sport. People also use falcons for hunting, and cormorants for fishing. Scientists often use chickens and pigeons to help find answers to their questions. In the past, people in mines often used a Canary to see if there were bad gases in the air.

People often have colorful birds such as parrots and mynahs as pets. Some of these birds are popular because they can copy human talking. Because of this, some people trap birds and take them to other countries to sell. This is not usually allowed. Most pet birds are specially bred and are sold in pet shops. 

People can catch some bird diseases, for example "psittacosis", "salmonellosis", "campylobacteriosis", Newcastle's disease, "mycobacteriosis", influenza, "giardiasis", and "cryptosporiadiosis". In 2005, there is an epidemic of bird influenza spreading through some parts of the world, often called avian flu.

Some people have birdboxes in their gardens to give birds a place to nest and bird tables where birds can get food and water in very cold or very dry weather.



</doc>
<doc id="3711" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3711" title="Freedom of speech">
Freedom of speech

Freedom of speech is the right to state one's opinions and ideas without being stopped or punished. Sometimes this is also called Freedom of expression. Freedom of speech is thought to also include Freedom of information. However, new laws are usually needed to allow information to be used easily.

Most people think freedom of speech is necessary for a democratic government. In countries without free speech, people might be afraid to say what they think. Then, the government does not know what the people want. If it does not know what they want, it cannot respond to their wants. Without free speech, the government does not have to worry as much about doing what the people want. Some people say this is why some governments do not allow free speech: they do not want to be criticised, or they fear there would be revolution if everyone knew everything that was happening in the country.

A well-known liberal thinker, John Stuart Mill, believed that freedom of speech is not as important because everyone should have a right to express him or herself, but because the society they live in should have a right to hear that person's ideas.

Few countries with "free speech" let everything be said. For example, the United States Supreme Court said that it was against the law to shout "fire" in a crowded theater if there is no fire, because this might cause people to panic. Also, some countries have laws against hate speech. 


</doc>
<doc id="3715" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3715" title="Banana">
Banana

Banana is the common name for a type of herb and also the name for the herbaceous plants that grow this herb. These plants belong to the genus "Musa". They are native to the tropical region of Southeast Asia. There are about 100 different species of bananas.

It is possible that bananas were grown for food for the first time in Papua New Guinea. Today, they are cultivated in the tropical regions around the world.

Most banana plants are grown for their herbs, but some are grown as ornamental plants, or to provide fibre. In parts of Africa, beer has been made by fermenting the juice of certain cultivars, known as "beer bananas".
The ash of banana can be used to make soap. In Asia, bananas are often planted to provide shade to plants that love it, for example coffee, cocoa, nutmeg or black pepper. That way, banana plants can often be found in plantations of other crops. 

The bananas from a group of cultivars with firmer, starchier fruit are called plantains. Plantains are mostly used for cooking or fibre. The bananas that are used for desserts are called "dessert bananas".

The banana plant is the largest herbaceous flowering plant. Banana plants are often mistaken to be trees. Bananas have a "false stem" (called "pseudostem"), which is made by the lower part of the leaves. This pseudostem can grow to be two to eight metres tall. Each pseudostem grows from a corm. A pseudostem is able to produce a single bunch of bananas. After fruiting, the pseudostem dies and is replaced.
When most bananas are ripe, they turn yellow or, sometimes, red.

Leaves are arranged as a spiral and may grow long and wide. They are easily torn by the wind, which results in the familiar look.

The banana fruit grow in hanging clusters. There are up to 20 fruit to a . (called a "hand"). The total of the hanging clusters is known as a bunch, or commercially as a "banana stem". There are between three and twenty tiers to a bunch. A bunch usually weighs between thirty and fifty kilograms.

A single fruit is about 125 grams on average; about three quarters of this is water. 

Each banana (or "finger") has a protective outer layer (called "peel" or "skin"). There is a fleshy part inside. Both the skin and inner part can be eaten. Western cultures generally eat the inside raw and throw away the skin while some Asian cultures generally eat both the skin and inside cooked. Each fruit has many "strings" that run between the skin and the inner part. 
Bananas have a lot of vitamin B, vitamin C, and potassium.

Bananas are grown in at least 107 countries. In popular culture and commerce, "banana" usually refers to soft, sweet "dessert" bananas. The bananas from a group of cultivars with firmer, starchier fruit are called plantains. Bananas may also be cut and dried and eaten as a type of chip. Dried bananas are also ground into banana flour.

The banana species growing in the wild have fruits with many hard, large seeds. Almost all bananas grown to be eaten have seedless fruits. Bananas are classified either as dessert bananas or as green cooking bananas. Almost all export bananas are of the dessert types. Only about ten to fifteen percent of all production is for export. Dessert bananas change their color and usually turn yellow, when they are ripe; plantains and bananas generally used for cooking stay green. Certain bananas have other colors when ripe.

The countries that produce the most bananas include India, Brazil, China, Ecuador and the Philippines. The top five countries that exported bananas were Ecuador, Costa Rica, the Philippines, Colombia and Guatemala. The United States, the European Union and Japan are the biggest buyers of banana. Bananas are among the most valuable agricultural export products: They provided about sixty percent of export earnings of Saint Lucia and about twelve percent of the Gross Domestic Product of the country, between 1994 and 1996.

Some people are allergic to bananas. There are two basic forms of these allergies. The first is known as oral allergy syndrome. Within an hour of eating a banana, swelling starts inside the mouth or throat. This allergy is related to allergies caused by pollen, like that of the birch tree. The other is similar to latex allergies. It causes urticaria and potentially serious upper gastrointestinal symptoms.

The fibre gained from the banana plant has been used to make textiles for a long time. In Japan, bananas have been grown to be used for clothing and in the house since at least the 13th century. With the Japanese system, the leaves and shoots are cut from the plant periodically to make sure they are soft. The harvested shoots must first be boiled in lye to prepare the fibres for the making of the yarn. These banana shoots produce fibres of varying degrees of softness. They can be used for yarns and textiles of different qualties, and for specific uses. For example, the outermost fibres of the shoots are the coarsest - they are good for tablecloths. The softest innermost fibres are desirable for kimono and kamishimo. This traditional Japanese banana cloth making process has many steps, all performed by hand.

Another system is used in Nepal. There the trunk of the banana plant is harvested instead. Small pieces of this trunk are then softened. The fibres are extracted mechanically, they are bleached, and dried. 
They are then sent to the Kathmandu Valley, were high-end rugs are produced. These rugs have a texture and general qualities similar to that of silk. These banana fibre rugs are woven by the traditional Nepalese hand-knotted methods.

Banana fibre is also used to make "banana paper". There are two different kinds of banana paper: That made from the bark, which is mainly used for art. Paper can also be made from the fibre and from unused fruits. This is an industrial process.




</doc>
<doc id="3720" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3720" title="Biel/Bienne, Switzerland">
Biel/Bienne, Switzerland

Biel/Bienne (official name; "Biel" is German, "Bienne" is French) is an industrial town in Switzerland. It is in the part of Switzerland named Bern and near the city also named Bern. The town is known for many companies that make watches and machines. 

For many hundreds of years the town was run by another place named Basel. It tried to join with other cities in Switzerland. But it was not allowed to join the Swiss Confederation until 1815. Biel is home to a firm named Swatch which makes watches sold around the world. In 1998, Swatch announced that Biel would be the center of a new way of measuring time. Biel Mean Time was created as a way to advertise that Swatch was a modern firm with new ideas.

About 57% of the people in Biel speak German as their mother tongue. The remaining 43% speak French as their mother tongue. That is why the city has two names.


</doc>
<doc id="3723" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3723" title="Swatch Internet Time">
Swatch Internet Time

Swatch Internet Time is a way to measure time invented in 1998 by the Swatch manufacturing firm in Biel/Bienne, Switzerland. Time is shown as an "@" mark with three numerals. The day starts with @000 for midnight. Noon is @500. Just before midnight is @999. The thousand parts which make up a day are called "dot beats" (.beats). Each dot beat is one minute and 26.4 seconds long. Midnight is the same as Central European Winter Time (UTC+1)and Internet Time is the same all over the world. It does not change during the Summer. People can use it to plan phone calls or Internet meetings. Most types of Linux can show Internet Time as the desktop clock.


</doc>
<doc id="3727" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3727" title="Test tube">
Test tube

A test tube is a kind of laboratory glassware, composed of a fingerlike length of glass tubing, open at the top, usually with a rounded lip at the top, and a rounded 'U' shaped bottom.

They range in size from a couple inches to several inches long, from a few millimeters to a couple centimeters in diameter. They are designed to allow easy heating of samples, to be held in a flame, and often are made of expansion-resistant glasses, such as borosilicate glass (known by brand-names such as Pyrex and Kimax).

Tests tubes are often preferred above beakers when multiple small chemical or biological samples have to be handled and/or stored.

Vacutainers are a type of test tube that can be used for both collection and storage of blood.


</doc>
<doc id="3729" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3729" title="Beaker">
Beaker

A beaker is a kind of laboratory glassware. A beaker is a cylinder with a lip and a spout (a bend it the rim of the beaker which makes it easier to pour liquids without spilling any). A beaker is usually about the same width as its height. This makes beakers very stable and easy to handle. They may be made of plastic, glass, or borosilicate glass. Some beakers have marks on them to show about how much volume of liquid they hold - these can not be used for exact measurements.

Beakers are often used to make solutions and they are probably the most used piece of laboratory glassware. 


</doc>
<doc id="3730" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3730" title="Crucible">
Crucible

In chemistry, a crucible is a kind of laboratory equipment that is usually a cup, made of porcelain or non-reactive metal, used to heat chemical compounds to very high temperatures using a bunsen burner. One of the earliest uses of platinum was as a material in crucibles. Metals such as nickel and zirconium are also used as crucible materials these days.

Reference:



</doc>
<doc id="3735" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3735" title="Lithium">
Lithium

Lithium (symbol Li) is the third chemical element in the periodic table. This means that it has 3 protons in its nucleus and 3 electrons around it. Its atomic number is 3. Its mass number is 6.94. It has two common isotopes, Li and Li. Li is more common. 92.5% of lithium is Li. Lithium is a soft silvery metal that is very reactive. It is used in lithium batteries and certain medicines. 

Lithium is one of the alkali metals. Lithium is a silvery solid metal (when freshly cut). It is very soft. Thus it can be cut easily with a knife. It melts at a low temperature. It is very light, similar to wood. It is the least dense metal and the least dense element in a solid or liquid state. It can hold more heat than any other solid element. It conducts heat and electricity easily. 

It will react with water, giving off hydrogen to form a basic solution (lithium hydroxide). Because of this, lithium must be stored in petroleum jelly. Sodium and potassium can be stored in oil but lithium cannot because it is so light. It will just float on the oil and not be protected by it. 

Lithium also reacts with halogens. It can react with nitrogen gas to make lithium nitride. It reacts with air to make a black tarnish and then a white powder of lithium hydroxide and lithium carbonate.

Lithium forms chemical compounds with only one oxidation state: +1. Most of them are white and unreactive. They make a bright red color when heated in a flame. They are a little toxic. Most of them dissolve in water. Lithium carbonate is less soluble in water than the other alkali metal carbonates like sodium carbonate.

It does not occur as an element in nature. It only is in the form of lithium compounds. The ocean has a large amount of lithium in it. Certain granites have large amounts of lithium. Most living things have lithium in them. There are some places where much lithium is in the salt. Some silicates have lithium in them.

Lithium (Greek "lithos", meaning "stone") was discovered by Johann Arfvedson in 1817. In 1818, Christian Gmelin observed that lithium salts give a bright red color in flame. W.T. Brande and Sir Humphrey Davy later used electrolysis on lithium oxide to isolate the element. Lithium was used first in greases. Then nuclear weapons became a big use of lithium. Lithium was also used to make glass melt easier and make aluminium oxide melt easier in making aluminium. Now lithium is used mainly in batteries.

It was apparently given the name "lithium" because it was discovered from a mineral, while other common alkali metals were first discovered in plant tissue.

It is made by getting lithium chloride from pools and springs. The lithium chloride is melted and electrolyzed. This makes liquid lithium and chlorine.

Its main use is in batteries. Lithium is used as an anode in the lithium battery. It has more power than batteries with zinc, like alkaline cells. Lithium ion batteries also have lithium in them, though not as an element. It is also used in heat transfer alloys. Lithium is used to make organolithium compounds. They are used for very strong bases. 

Lithium compounds are used in some drugs known as mood stabilizers. Lithium niobate is used in radio transmitters in cell phones. Some lithium compounds are also used in ceramics. Lithium chloride can absorb water from other things. Some lithium compounds are used to make soap and grease.

Lithium reacts with water, making irritating smoke and heat. It is not as dangerous as the other alkali metals. Lithium hydroxide is very corrosive.

There are 5 isotopes of Lithium having respectively 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 neutrons in the nucleus. The most common isotope in nature is Li which makes up 7.42 % of the total. The other 3 isotopes exist in very small quantities. The atomic mass of Lithium is 6.939.



</doc>
<doc id="3736" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3736" title="Beryllium">
Beryllium

Beryllium is an alkaline earth metal. It is grayish (slightly gray) in color. It has an atomic number of 4 and is symbolized by the letters Be. It is toxic and should not be handled by anyone without proper training.

Beryllium's atomic structure consists of 4 electrons, 4 protons, and 5 neutrons.

Beryllium is most likely known for the chemical compounds it forms. Some of these are emeralds and aquamarines.

Beryllium has one of the highest melting points of the light metals.

At standard temperature and pressures beryllium resists oxidation when exposed to oxygen.


</doc>
<doc id="3741" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3741" title="Data compression">
Data compression

Data compression is a set of steps for packing data into a smaller space, while allowing for the original data to be seen again. Compression is a two-way process: a compression algorithm can be used to make a data package smaller, but it can also be run the other way, to decompress the package into its original form. Data compression is useful in computing to save disk space, or to reduce the bandwidth used when sending data (e.g., over the internet). 

Lossless compression packs data in such a way that the compressed package can be decompressed, and the data can be pulled out exactly the same as it went in. This is very important for computer programs and archives, since even a very small change in a computer program will make it unusable.

This type of compression works by reducing how much waste space is in a piece of data. For example, if you receive a data package which contains "AAAAABBBB", you could compress that into "5A4B", which has the same meaning but takes up less space. This type of compression is called "run-length encoding", because you define how long the "run" of a character is. In the above example, there are two runs: a run of 5 A's, and another of 4 B's.

The problem with run-length encoding is that it only works on long pieces of the same value of data. If you receive a package with "ABBAABAAB" inside, that can be compressed into "1A2B2A1B2A1B"; but that's longer than the original! In this case, there's another method that can be used: checking how often a particular value comes up in the whole data package. This is often called frequency compression.

The most common kind of frequency compression is called Huffman coding, after the scientist who came up with the idea. The basic plan is to give each distinct value in a piece of data a code: values that crop up all the time get shorter codes, and values that only show up once or twice get longer codes.


For some types of data, lossy compression can go a lot further; this is most often the case with media files, like music and images. Beyond a certain level of fine-grain detail, or past a particularly high tone, people do not notice if the information is missing. As a result, it can simply be removed from the data.

Of course, this will not work for computer programs and other such data where every piece is important; throwing away large pieces of a computer program is generally unhealthy for the program.



</doc>
<doc id="3742" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3742" title="Compiler">
Compiler

A compiler is a program that takes source code and translates it into a more basic language. These simpler languages are either assembly language or machine code. The action of translating the high-level programming language code is called compiling. Code that has been simplified is called compiled code.

For many programmers, using a compiler is easier than writing the machine code themselves because there are many different machine codes (it can take a long time to write for each of the machine codes). For example, the GNU C Compiler compiles C into machine code.

As shown in the diagram "(at right)", the source code of a computer program is read by a "lexical analyzer" which splits the text into words and symbols known as "tokens". The tokens are analyzed by a parser which looks for grammatical patterns in the use of the tokens. The parser collects the language data for an intermediate-code generator to convert the data into that form of coding. An optimizer reads the intermediate code, which was generated from the parser data, and simplifies or omits extra code, to write a more-efficient language text, which is then changed into the target computer's machine code.

At the end of each compilation step the partial finished product could be stored and then only processed later on. A language like Java uses this successfully, where they lack the final translation step to instructions the processor understands. They only do the final translation step once the Java program is running on a computer. This is either called "interpreting" or "JIT"ting, depending on the used technique.

For example, the source code might contain an equation, such as "x = 5*10 ". The lexical analyzer would separate each number and symbol (such as "*" or "+") into separate tokens. The parser would note the pattern of tokens, as being an equation. The intermediate-code generator would write a form of coding which defines a storage variable named "x" and assigns the numerical product of 5*10 plus 6 and 1. The optimizer would simplify the calculation, of 5*10+6+1, as being just 57. Hence, the target machine-code generator would set a variable named "x" and put the value 57 into that storage place in the computer's memory, using the instructions of whichever computer chip is being used.


</doc>
<doc id="3743" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3743" title="Eye">
Eye

The eye is an organ for sensing light. About 97 percent of animals have eyes. Image-resolving eyes are present in cnidaria, molluscs, chordates, annelids and arthropods. 

The evolution of eyes started with simplest light-sensitive patches in unicellular organisms. These eye-spots do nothing but detect if the surroundings are light or dark. Most animals have a biochemical 'clock' inside. 

These simple eye-spots are used to adjust this daily clock, which is called circadian rhythm. Some snails, for example, see no image (picture) at all, but they sense light, which helps them stay out of bright sunlight. 

More complex eyes have not lost this function. A special type of cells in the eye senses light for a different purpose than seeing. These cells are called "ganglion" cells. They are located in the retina. They send their information about light to the brain along a different path (the "retinohypothalamic tract"). This information adjusts (synchronizes) the animal's circadian rhythm to nature's light/dark cycle of 24 hours. The system also works for some blind people who cannot see light at all. 

Eyes that are a little bit better are shaped like cups, which lets the animal know where the light is coming from.

More complex eyes give the full sense of vision, including color, motion, and texture. These eyes have a round shape that makes light rays focus on the back part of the eye, called the "retina". 

In mammals, two kinds of cells, "rods" and "cones", allow sight by sending signals through the optic nerve to the brain. 

Some animals can see light that humans can not see. They can see ultraviolet or infrared light.

The "lens" on the front part of the eye is acts like a camera lens. It can be pulled flatter by muscles inside the eye, or allowed to become rounder. As some people get older, they may not be as able to do this perfectly. Many people are born with other small problems or get them later in life, and they may need eyeglasses (or "contact lenses") to fix the problem.

Today, ten different types of eyes are known. Most ways of capturing an image have evolved at least once. 

One way to categorize eyes is to look at the number of "chambers". "Simple eyes" are made of only one concave chamber, perhaps with a lens. Compound eyes have many such chambers with their lenses on a convex surface.

Eyes also can be grouped according to how the photoreceptor is made. Photoreceptors are either cillated, or rhabdomic. and some annelids possess both.

is the most simples eye. It means you only have one eye.
Pit eyes are set in a depression in the skin. This reduces the angles at which light can enter. It allows the organism to say where the light is coming from.
Such eyes can be found in about 85% of phyla. They probably came before the development of more complex eyes. Pit eyes are small. They are made of up to about hundred cells, covering about 100 µm. The directionality can be improved by reducing the size of the opening, and by putting a reflective layer behind the receptor cells.

The pinhole eye is an advanced form of pit eye. It has several improvements, most notably a small aperture and deep pit. Sometimes, the aperture can be changed. It is only found in the "Nautilus". Without a lens to focus the image, it produces a blurry image. Consequently, nautiloids can not discriminate between objects with a separation of less than 11°. Shrinking the aperture would produce a sharper image, but let in less light.

The resolution of pit eyes can be improved a lot by adding a material to make a lens. This will reduce the radius of the blurring, and increase the resolution that can be achieved. The most basic form can still be seen in some gastropods and annelids. These eyes have a lens of one refractive index. It is possible to get a better image with materials that have a high refractive index which decreases towards the edges. This decreases the focal length and allows a sharp image to form on the retina.

This eye creates an image that is sharp enough that motion of the eye can cause significant blurring. To minimize the effect of eye motion while the animal moves, most such eyes have stabilizing eye muscles.

The ocelli of insects have a simple lens, but their focal point always lies behind the retina.They can never form a sharp image. This limits the function of the eye. Ocelli (pit-type eyes of arthropods) blur the image across the whole retina. They are very good at responding to rapid changes in light intensity across the whole visual field — this fast response is accelerated even more by the large nerve bundles which rush the information to the brain. Focusing the image would also cause the sun's image to be focused on a few receptors. These could possibly be damaged by the intense light; shielding the receptors would block out some light and reduce their sensitivity.

This fast response has led to suggestions that the ocelli of insects are used mainly in flight, because they can be used to detect sudden changes in which way is up (because light, especially UV light which is absorbed by vegetation, usually comes from above).

The eyes of most land-living vertebrates (as well as those of some spiders, and insect larvae) contain a fluid that has a higher refractive index than the air. That way, the lens does not have to reduce the focal length, because this is done by the fluid. That way, the lens can adjust the focus more easily. That way, a very high resolution can be obtained.

Instead of using a lens it is also possible to have cells inside the eye that act like mirrors. The image can then be reflected to focus at a central point. This design also means that someone looking into such an eye will see the same image as the organism which has them.

Many small organisms such as rotifers, copeopods and platyhelminthes use such this design, but their eyes are too small to produce usable images. Some larger organisms, such as scallops, also use reflector eyes. The scallop "Pecten" has up to 100 millimeter-scale reflector eyes fringing the edge of its shell. It detects moving objects as they pass successive lenses.

Compound eyes are different from simple eyes. Instead of having one organ that can sense light, they put together many such organs. Some compound eyes have thousands of them. The resulting image is put together in the brain, based on the signals of the many eye units. Each such unit is called "ommatidium", several are called "ommatidia". The ommatidia are located on a convex surface, each of them points in a slighly different direction. Unlike simple eyes, compound eyes have a very large angle of view. They can detect fast movement, and sometimes the polarization of light. 
Compound eyes are common in arthropods, annelids, and some bivalved molluscs

Good fliers like flies or honey bees, or prey-catching insects like praying mantis or dragonflies, have specialized zones of ommatidia organized into a fovea area which gives sharp vision. In this zone the eyes are flattened and the facets are larger. The flattening allows more ommatidia to receive light from a spot. This gives a higher resolution.

The body of "Ophiocoma wendtii", a type of brittle star, is covered with ommatidia, turning its whole skin into a compound eye. The same is true of many chitons.


</doc>
<doc id="3745" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3745" title="Tongue-twister">
Tongue-twister

A tongue-twister is a sentence that is hard to say. They often use alliteration and homophones.



</doc>
<doc id="3746" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3746" title="Wikipedia:Change summary">
Wikipedia:Change summary

When you change a page, there is a small box with the words "Change summary" under the main change-box. It looks like this:

You can write up to 200 characters there. These words will show up on the "" page, in the page revision history, and in the of users who are watching that article.

It is always good to write something in this box. This lets people know what you have changed. You can also say why you changed something.

Some people use abbreviations in their change summary. There is a list of abbreviations used at .

Please see for full information on change summaries.


</doc>
<doc id="3749" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3749" title="AbiWord">
AbiWord

AbiWord is a free word processor that can be downloaded for free, it is open source and is much smaller in size than a proprietary alternative, Microsoft Word. It is available for FreeBSD, Linux, Microsoft Windows, Mac OS X, and QNX. Its mascot is Abi the ant. It is much smaller than many other commercial word-processors of its time, only using about 15Mb on a computer's hard drive under Microsoft Windows. It is easy to use.




</doc>
<doc id="3750" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3750" title="Insect">
Insect

Insects, are a class in the phylum Arthropoda. They are small terrestrial invertebrates which have a hard exoskeleton. 

Insects are the largest group of animals on earth by far: about 926,400 different species have been described. Estimates of the total number of species range from 2 million to 30 million. 

New species of insects are continually being found: there are more insects than all other kinds of animals.

Insects have six legs; and most have wings. Insects were the first animals capable of flight. 

As they develop from eggs, insects undergo metamorphosis. Insects live all over the planet: almost all are terrestrial (live on land). Few insects live in the oceans or in very cold places, such as Antarctica. The most species live in tropical areas.

Some people call all insects "bugs", but this is not correct. Only some insects are true bugs, which is a special group of insects. People who study insects are called entomologists.

Insects have exoskeletons (skeletons on the outside). Their skeletons are made out of thin, hard pieces or plates, like armour, made of chitin. All together, these pieces make a hard layer around the insect’s body. The exoskeleton protects the insect. 

The body of an insect has three main parts: a head, a thorax, and an abdomen. On the head are an insect’s compound eyes, its two antennae (they feel and smell things), and its mouth. 

On the thorax, insects have wings and legs. All insects have six legs (three pairs of jointed legs) and usually four wings (two pairs). 

The abdomen is the back part of the insect. Inside the abdomen is the stomach, the heart, and the excretory system where body wastes pass out of the insect. Bees also have a stinger at the back of the abdomen.

Just like our muscles connect to our bones to make us walk and stand up, the muscles of an insect connect to the exoskeleton to make it walk and move. Their muscles are on the "inside" of their skeleton.

Insects are cold-blooded, which means that they can not control their body temperature. This means that insects are not very good at surviving the cold. 

In the winter, most insects go into something called diapause, which is insect version of hibernation. Some insects, like cockroaches, cannot go into diapause and they will die if it gets too cold outside. This is why cockroaches love living in people's warm houses.

Insects start life as an egg. Usually a female (mother) insect lays eggs, but a few species have live birth. These eggs are small; but they can usually be seen with the naked eye. 

Although the adults are larger, they do need a magnifying glass or a binocular microscope to see the details. A professional entomologist uses a binocular microscope to identify insects, plus a printed reference work. There are far too many insects for anyone to remember them all, and most entomologists specialise in just one or two orders.

After the eggs hatch, two kinds of development may occur. Some insects have what is called "incomplete metamorphosis". This means that a small insect, called a nymph comes out of the egg, and the nymph looks almost the same as the adult insect. As the nymph grows, it does not change the way it looks, but only how big it is. It goes through a number of stages, called 'instars'. Grasshoppers grow in this way.

Other insects have "complete metamorphosis", which means that the small larva which comes out of the egg looks very different from the adult insect. Insects that have complete metamorphosis usually come out of the egg as a larva, which usually looks like a worm. The larva eats food and gets bigger until it turns into a pupa. Butterfly pupae (plural for pupa) are often inside cocoons. Inside the cocoon the insect changes the way it looks and often grows wings. When the cocoon opens, the adult insect comes out. Many insects have complete metamorphosis, for example beetles, butterflies and moths, and flies.

The oldest known insect fossil is the Devonian "Rhyniognatha", from the 396 million year old Rhynie chert. It may have superficially resembled a modern-day silverfish insect. This species already possessed mandibles of a type associated with winged insects, suggesting that wings may already have evolved at this time. Thus, the first insects probably appeared earlier, in the Silurian period.

In 2008, researchers uncovered what they believe is the world's oldest known full-body impression of a primitive flying insect, a 300 million-year-old specimen from the Carboniferous period.

The origins of insect flight remain obscure, since the earliest winged insects currently known appear to have been capable fliers. Some extinct insects had an additional pair of winglets attaching to the first segment of the thorax, for a total of three pairs. It seems the insects were not a particularly successful group of animals before they evolved wings.

Upper Carboniferous and Lower Permian insect orders include both living groups and a number of Paleozoic groups, now extinct. During this era, some giant dragonfly-like forms reached wingspans of making them far larger than any living insect. 

This gigantism may have been due to higher atmospheric oxygen levels, which allowed increased respiratory efficiency. The lack of flying vertebrates could have been another factor. Many of the early groups became extinct during the Permian-Triassic extinction event, the largest mass extinction in the history of the Earth, around 252 million years ago.

Different kinds of insects can be divided into groups called orders. There are many insect orders. The biggest insect orders are listed below:
Contrary to what some people believe, spiders, scorpions, and similar animals are not insects; they are arachnids. Arachnids are arthropods that have 4 pairs of legs. Centipedes are arthropods with many legs and are also not insects.

This taxonomy lists some of the better known groups of insects.

Pests can be harmful to people in different ways. Some are parasites, such as lice and bed bugs. Some of these parasite insects can spread diseases, such as mosquitoes spreading malaria. 

Other pest insects do not directly hurt people. Termites and some beetles eat wood and sometimes eat buildings, such as houses. However, termites also help break down the trees and branches that fall on the forest floor. Many insects eat agricultural products (plants meant for people to eat). Grasshoppers are one example of pest insects that eat plants in agriculture.

Some insects are useful to us. Bees make honey. The larvae of some moths make silk, which people use to make clothing. In some parts of the world, people actually eat insects. Eating insects for food is called entomophagy.

Many bees and flies pollinate plants. This means the insects help the plants make seeds by moving pollen from one flower to another. Some good insects eat pest insects, such as lady beetles (or ladybirds or ladybugs) eating aphids. Many insects eat dead plants and animals. 

People often use poisons called insecticides to kill pest insects. Insecticides do not always work. Sometimes the pest insects become resistant to the insecticides, which means the insecticides do not hurt them anymore. Both the Colorado potato beetle and the diamondback moth are insects that are resistant to many insecticides. 

Insecticides do not only kill pest insects; sometimes many helpful insects are killed too. When helpful insects are killed, such as those that eat pest insects, the pest insects may come back in larger numbers than before because they are not being eaten by helpful insects anymore.


</doc>
<doc id="3752" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3752" title="List of operating systems">
List of operating systems

This is a list of operating systems.





Operating systems written for a hobby.










Little operating systems that run on small devices.

Operating systems that have only appeared in fiction or as jokes.



</doc>
<doc id="3755" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3755" title="Computer jargon">
Computer jargon

Computer jargon means words to do with computers and surrounding topics. Knowing what these words mean can help you know more about computers. Most people use these words to discuss computer ideas, but some people use these words to impress others (Also known as buzzwords).

Examples of jargon:


</doc>
<doc id="3756" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3756" title="Million">
Million

One million (1,000,000) or one thousand thousand, is the natural number following 999,999 and preceding 1,000,001. The name is derived from Italian, where mille was 1,000, and 1,000,000 became milione, "a large thousand".

In scientific notation, it is written as 1×10 or just 10. Physical quantities can also be expressed using the SI prefix mega-, when dealing with SI units. For example, 1 megawatt equals 1,000,000 watts.

The word "million" is common to the short scale and long scale numbering systems, unlike the larger numbers, which have different names in the two systems.

The million is sometimes used in the English language as a metaphor for a very large number, as in "Never in a million years" and "You're one in a million", or a hyperbole, as in "I've walked a million miles".

Il Milione is the title of Marco Polo's narration of his travel to China. The name is supposed to come from Polo's nickname after his tales of riches and multitudes.



</doc>
<doc id="3757" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3757" title="1000 (number)">
1000 (number)

Thousand (1000, one thousand or 1,000) is the natural number following 999 and preceding 1001.

In Roman numerals, 1000 is written as M.


One thousand thousands is known as a million.


</doc>
<doc id="3759" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3759" title="Gross domestic product">
Gross domestic product

In economics, the gross domestic product (GDP) is how much a place produces in some amount of time. For nations, the GDP can be calculated by adding up its output inside the borders of that country. To know the GDP of a country, one would need to add up the consumer spending, investment spending, government spending and the value of the exports and subtract the value of the imports.

This measure is often used to find out the health of a country in an economic way. In other words, a country with a high value of GDP can be called a large economy.

This measure is different from gross national product (GNP) in that GNP = GDP + net income from assets abroad (net income receipts).

While nominal GDP is the total amount of money spent on GDP, real GDP (like real in most economic meaning) tries to correct this number for inflation. For example, if the price level rises by 2% (everything costs 2% more), and the nominal GDP grows by 5%, the real GDP is still only 3%.


</doc>
<doc id="3761" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3761" title="Template:Wikitopics">
Template:Wikitopics

Algebra •
Astronomy (stars and space) •
Biology (animals and plants) •
Chemistry •
Computer science •
Earth science •
Ecology •
Geometry •
Mathematics •
Physics •
Statistics •
Zoology (study of animals)

Agriculture (growing crops) •
Architecture (buildings) •
Communication •
Electronics •
Engineering •
Health •
Industry •
Medicine •
Transport •
Weather

Anthropology (study of people) •
Archaeology (history of civilization) •
Geography •
Education •
History •
Language •
Philosophy (abstract ideas) •
Psychology • 
Religion •
Sociology •
Teaching

Animation •
Art •
Book •
Cooking •
Custom •
Culture •
Dance •
Family •
Games •
Gardening •
Leisure (free time) •
Movies and films •
Music •
Radio •
Sports •
Theater •
Travel •
Television

Copyright •
Defence •
Economics (trade and business) •
Government •
Human rights •
Laws •
Military •
Politics •
Trade


</doc>
<doc id="3762" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3762" title="Cricket">
Cricket

Cricket is a sport. It is played between two teams of eleven players each who score runs (points) by running between two sets of three small, wooden posts called wickets.
Each of the wickets is at one end of a rectangle of flattened grass called the pitch. Around the pitch is a much larger oval of grass called the cricket ground.

There are two teams. The team bowling has 11 players on the field. The team batting always has two players on the field. 

The Captain of the bowling team chooses a bowler from his team; the other 10 players are called fielders. The bowler is trying to aim the ball at a wicket, which is made up of three sticks (called stumps) stuck into the earth, with two small sticks (called bails) balanced on them. One of the fielders, called the wicket keeper, stands behind the wicket to catch the ball if the bowler misses the wicket. The other fielders chase the ball after the batsman has hit it. 

The bowler runs towards his wicket, and bowls towards the batsman at the other wicket. He does "not" throw the ball. He bowls the ball overarm with a straight arm. An 'over' is six balls meaning he bowls six times. Then another player becomes the bowler for the next over, and bowls from the other end, and so on. The same bowler cannot bowl two overs one after the other.

The batsman is trying to defend the wicket from getting hit with the ball. He does this with a bat. When he hits the ball with his bat, he may run toward the other wicket. To score a run, the two batsmen must both run from their wicket to the other wicket, as many times as they can. If the ball leaves the field after being hit without bouncing, six runs are scored. If the ball rolls or bounces out, whether or not the batter hit it, it counts as four runs. 

There are different ways that a batsman can get out. The most common ways are:

When a batsman is out, another comes onto the field to take his place. The innings is over when ten wickets are taken (i.e. ten of the eleven batsmen are out).

In a one-day game, each side has one innings, and innings are limited to a certain number of overs. In longer formats each side has two innings, and there is no specific limit to the number of overs in an innings.

Cricket is popular in many countries, mostly in Commonwealth countries.

The countries where cricket is most popular compete in international matches (games between countries) that last up to 5 days, which are called "test matches". Those countries are England, Australia, West Indies, South Africa, New Zealand, India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, and Sri Lanka. West Indies are a group of Caribbean countries that play together as a team. Several other countries have more junior status. The test match idea was invented by teams from England and Australia in the 19th century.

Cricket is also played in Kenya, Canada, Bermuda, Ireland, Scotland, Holland; the national teams of those countries can play one-day international matches, but do not play test matches. Zimbabwe does not play international cricket at present. Pakistan is not able to play international cricket at home at present (for security reasons).

Test matches are the top international matches played between countries. The countries permitted to play test matches are accredited by the ICC: the International Cricket Council. The nine countries are listed above, with 'West Indies' counting for this purpose as a country. Tests last for five days.

Called counties in England, and states in Australia and islands in the West Indies. These are three or four day matches.

In these games, the length is determined by the number of overs, and each side has one innings only. A special formula, known as the 'Duckworth–Lewis method' is applied if rain reduces the time for play. It calculates the target score for the team batting second in a limited overs match interrupted by weather or other circumstance.

Usually restricted to 50 overs batting for each side. 

20 overs for each side.

In cricket there are two special kinds of average, used to measure how good a player is:

There is a separate set of averages for each type of cricket listed above.



</doc>
<doc id="3763" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3763" title="Track and field athletics">
Track and field athletics

Track and field is part of the sport of athletics. Athletics is a collection of sport events that includes running, jumping and "throwing". Track and field events take place in a sports stadium, either on the running track, or on the field inside the running track. Other athletics events that are not track and field, include cross country running, road running, marathon running, and race-walking - these events take place outside a sports stadium.

Athletics is a very common sporting event over the world. Athletics is a combination of different sports, generally running, jumping and throwing events. Running events include marathons, hurdle races, long distance and short distance events. Some jumping events are high jump, long jump, triple jump and pole vault. Throwing events involve javelin throw, discus throw, hammer throw and shot put.

There are also events that combine parts of running, jumping, and throwing. One of these is the "decathlon", which includes two short-distance races, a mile run, a hurdles race, javelin, discus, shot-put, high jump and pole vault.

All participants are timed or have a distance measured and this is their end result. Participants train hard for an event and always aim to better their results.

Athletics is a sport that people take part in all over the world. It is a sport that is most common between young children up to younger adults. Athletics can be played for enjoyment, but it can also be a competitive sport. Athletics is also an event in the Olympic games.



</doc>
<doc id="3765" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3765" title="Badminton">
Badminton

Badminton is a sport for two or four people. In this way, either the game consists of one player against one player or a team of two players against another team of two players. Players use racquets to hit a shuttlecock over a net.

The aim of the game is to hit the shuttlecock over the net in a way that the other player or pair cannot hit it back before it hits the floor. Also the aim is for the shuttlecock not to land outside the court. Every time this is done, the player or pair gets one point, if they were serving. If the other team was serving, the first team gets to serve. The first player or pair to reach 21 points wins a game. 

The winner of the match is the first to win 2 sets. 

In both singles and doubles, there is a change of service when the server loses a point. In doubles, the first team to serve has one player serve. All other times, both players on the team serve. 

Badminton was invented by British soldiers in Pune, India in the 19th century. As the city of Pune was formerly known as Poona, the game was also called Poona then.



</doc>
<doc id="3770" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3770" title="Chemical warfare">
Chemical warfare

Chemical warfare means using chemical compounds and agents in war to cause injury or death. The chemicals used are not explosive, but they are poisonous. The chemicals are also not made from living beings or organic matter (See Biological warfare). The main types of agents used in chemical warfare are: 


If we use chemicals (like Agent Orange or glyphosate) to destroy plants, sometimes human beings may be affected by side-effects. But, we will not call it chemical warfare. Chemical warfare covers only direct attacks on human life.

 The first form of chemical warfare was in the form of poisoned arrows, and spear-tips, during the Stone age. These were dipped in poison (like that from snakes or scorpions. Sometimes poisonous plants were used. The Ancient Chinese used various forms of poisonous smokes, when they besieged a city. Ancient Greeks used a form of burning wood, pitch, and sulphur. 

Poison gas was first used in World War One. France was the first country to make this type of gas. However, Germany was the first to use it in battle on March 15th, 1915, when they used tear gas against France. It was included in some of the new, deadly weapons of World War One.

 They were not used very much in World War II, apart by the Japanese army during the invasion of China. This was because, everybody was afraid that the other side would use weapons like theirs. Also, chemical weapons were not easy to use. The time taken to use them, slowed the advance of one's own troops. The raw materials for producing chemical weapons were not easy to get. This was because World War II was fought in areas which were not connected well by railroads.

During the Iran-Iraq War, Iraq used chemical weapons, but not Iran. Many people believe that Iraq used chemical weapons against Kurdish people.

According to international law, it is wrong to use chemical weapons. There are many rules that ban the production, import and use of chemical weapons. Of these the most important is the Chemical Weapons Convention(CWC). 

UN formed a working group in 1980 that works for making the number of chemical weapons in the world less. On April 4, 1984 the President of United States, Ronald Reagan called for a worldwide ban on chemical weapons. After this, negotiations between various countries started. The Chemical Weapons Convention was signed in 1993 and came into effect in 1997. Experts believe that 70,000 metric tons of chemical weapons are known to be present totally in this world. Out of this, 8000 metric tons have been destroyed in the past few years. By 2003, United States had destroyed 23% of its total chemical weapons. Other countries like India, South Korea and Russia are destroying chemical weapons under the CWC. Libya is also destroying its weapons in the last few years. 

It has been reported that many other countries like People's Republic of China, Cuba, Egypt, Iran, Israel, North Korea, Pakistan, Sudan, Syria, Taiwan, Serbia and Montenegro have chemical weapons.


</doc>
<doc id="3772" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3772" title="Iran">
Iran

Iran , once known as Persia, is a country in South-central Asia part of the Greater Middle East region. It shares borders with Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Iraq, Pakistan, Turkey, and Turkmenistan.

Tehran is the capital and its biggest city. Iran is the 18 largest country in the world and has more than 70 million people. It is one of only four countries known as Islamic Republics, which are governed by Sharia (Islamic religious law).
Hottest point of Middle East is in Iran("Kavir_e_lout"). Iran is a member of UN (since 1945) and OPEC.

Muhammad ibn Jarir al-Tabari Father world History Born Iran, Amol city 

Iran used to be called Persia (for a long time by people outside of Iran). Iranians or Persians since the Sassanian era called their country "Iran". But, the official name was Persia, meaning that this was the name used in foreign relations and in government papers. In 1935, Reza Shāh Pahlavi, then shāh of Iran, officially renamed the country "Iran", first time, a move which was made to please Adolf Hitler. The name Iran comes from "Aryan" and is also mentioned in the ancient book of the Zoroastrians, which was called the Avesta. "Iran" means "Aryan" in Persian. In the 19th and early 20th century, the name "Aryan" was used by Europeans to mean "all Indo-Europeans". The "Aryan Race" was a term that Hitler used to describe his ideal "Superior" or "perfect" race, though it originally meant Iranians.

Around 500 BC, present-day Iran was the center of the Persian Empire. The Greek city states fought against the Persian armies led by Darius the Great and Xerxes. Then, Alexander the Great took the country by fighting and the "Achaemenid dynasty" of Persia later ruled. After them the "Sassanian dynasty" (AD 224-651) took over. Other people took Persia by fighting, like the Arabs (7th century), Turks (10th century) and Mongols (13th century). However, Iran has always maintained a distinct culture and continued to survive.

The CIA worked in Iran to create riots which led to the removal of Prime Minister Mossadegh. The United States and Great Britain then made the Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi King of Iran , again. He ruled in Iran for less than a year when he left Iran and the Iranian government was changed to an Islamic Republic by Islamic Revolution. Soon afterwards, Iranian Students Movement (Tahkim Vahdat), with the backing of the new government took over the U.S. Embassy in Tehran and held most of the diplomats hostage for 444 days. Relations between the two countries have not been good since. For example. The US has imposed various types of economic sanctions against Iran. The US claims the Iran supports terrorist groups against Israel. Iran does not recognize Israel as a state. Iran, along with most Arab countries believe that Israel does not have the right to occupy the land of Palestinians. 

Iran has long borders in common with Iraq. (The words "Iran" and "Iraq" are similar only in Latin alphabet. In Arabic and Persian, they are written differently.) This war changed politics in the Middle East and world wide. Iranians are ethnically not Arabs. Iran defended itself against Iraqi invasion in 1980, a war that lasted eight years. Many Arab and Western countries, including the United States, provided weapons (including biological and chemical weapons of mass destruction) and technical support for Iraq's Saddam Hussein. 

Now, the West is trying to prevent Iran from mastering nuclear technology, even though Iran is a member of the NPT. They voice their concern claiming that Iran's intention is to develop nuclear weapons. The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) has reported numerous times that there is no evidence that Iran is developing nuclear weapons, however, it also says that it can not say for sure that Iran is not doing so in secret. A CIA report on nuclear activity in Iran, in December 2007 claimed that Iran's secret program to achieve nuclear weapons technology was stopped in 2003, and that since then, it was never restarted. It reports that Iran's ability to build a nuclear weapon will probably not happen soon.

Iran has oil. It is very important about Iran.

Rice, Handicrafts & Carpet & Crocus.

Rial is the currency money used in Iran

About 98% of Iranian people are Muslim and About 89% of Iranian people are Shi'a.

Many are Shi'a Muslim and some are Sunni . There are also a few Zoroastrian, Christian and Jewish people living in Iran.





</doc>
<doc id="3773" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3773" title="Gautama Buddha">
Gautama Buddha

Siddhārta Gautama is the person who began the religion of Buddhism. He lived from about 563 BCE to about 483 BCE. He was the most recent Buddha, and some people just call him ""the Buddha"". He is also called Sakyamuni or Tathāgata. Some Buddhists believe that Siddhārtha Gautama was a perfect person.

There are many old stories about the life of the "Buddha". No one knows which stories are true and which stories are made up. But most historians think that the Buddha was a real person. He was very kind and wise and wanted to change the world.

Old stories say that Siddhārtha Gautama was born in the kingdom of Kapilavastu in Nepal. At that time, a clan called the Shakya's ruled Kapilavastu. His father was a king named Suddodana Gautama, and his mother was the beautiful Mahamaya. Siddhārtha lived in luxury; his father kept trouble and hard work far from him. A seer predicted that if Siddhārtha stayed inside his palace his whole life, then he would become a great king. However, if he left the palace, then he would become a great religious leader. The king did not want his son to become a religious leader. He kept Siddhartha in the palace for his whole childhood.

When he was older, his father found a woman for Siddhārtha to marry at the age of 16. He married the woman named Yashodhara, and they had a son, Rahula. Although Gautama had everything he could want, he still was not happy. He wanted to learn the meaning of his existence.

He got out of the castle against his father's orders. He saw the ""Four Passing Sights"": an old crippled man, a sick man, a dead man, and a holy man with no home. Right then, Gautama knew that nothing can stop people from being born, becoming old, getting sick, and dying. He decided to give up his worldly life. He would not keep his wives, his children, his wealth, or his palace. He would become a holy man with no home. He would look for the answer to the problem of birth, old age, sickness, and death. He left his home in the middle of the night.

At that time, holy men were usually "ascetics". They hurt their bodies in order to help their "spiritual" beings. They do not do things they like so they can defeat their desires. The most "ascetic" kinds of holy men were called Jains. They practiced self-denial and made themselves suffer very much. They believed this would free the ātman (soul) from pain and sadness. Siddhārtha did these things well. Eventually he was better than his teachers. He still found no answer, and he left his teachers. Some friends and he went even farther. He ate only six grains of rice a day. He tried not breathing. He became just skin and bones, and he nearly died. Still, he had no answer.

Siddhārtha started to think again about this path. He thought there might be a better way than hurting himself. He found a big tree (now called the "Bodhi tree") and started to meditate. He told himself that he would not get up until he had found "enlightenment". He meditated under the tree for 49 days. His mind is said to have become pure, and then, six years after he began his path, he said he found Enlightenment, and became a Buddha.

When the Buddha became "enlightened", he knew the answer to "suffering", and he knew how to defeat "suffering". This answer was called the Four Noble Truths. He was not sure if he should teach his new ideas or not. He asked himself if the world was ready for such a deep teaching. But in the end, he decided to travel to a town called Sarnath to teach the people his new way. He taught about the Four Noble Truths and the Noble Eightfold Path. The people listened to him.

When he taught, he did not pretend to be a god. He said he was just a man who had found the meaning of life (enlightenment), and that any person can also find the meaning of life. For the rest of his life, he walked all over Southern Nepal and parts of India to teach people what he believed. He started a "Sangha", which is a group of Buddhist monks and nuns. Many people became enlightened because of him. At the age of 80, Gautama Buddha died.

The teachings of the Buddha are known as "Buddhism". Buddhism is mostly about ending the feeling of pain that all people feel inside. Gautama Buddha taught that pain is a part of all life. He taught that pain is because of desire. And he showed that there is a way to end desire and end pain by doing good things, not doing bad things, and training one's mind. This is done to end pain and gain "enlightenment".

Buddhism teaches non-harm and balance — not going too far one way or the other. The Buddha taught people to meditate, or think deeply, while sitting in the lotus position. Some Buddhist chant and meditate while walking. Buddhists sometimes do these things to understand the human heart and mind. Sometimes they do these things to understand the way the world works. Sometimes they do these things to find peace.

The Buddha would not say if gods exist or not. He taught that people should not look to gods to save them or bring them enlightenment. The gods may have power over world events and they might help people, or they might not. But Buddha believed that it is up to each person to become enlightened.




</doc>
<doc id="3777" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3777" title="North">
North

North is one of the 4 main directions on a compass. North is usually up on most maps. Canada is north of the United States, Venezuela is north of Brazil, and Russia is north of India. The North Pole is the farthest north you can go.


</doc>
<doc id="3779" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3779" title="List of Portuguese football teams">
List of Portuguese football teams

These are some Portuguese football teams.




</doc>
<doc id="3782" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3782" title="Help:Revert a page">
Help:Revert a page

Each time a page is saved, the old version is kept in the page history. You can change the page back to one of these old versions. You can do this when a page has been vandalised, or when something has been added or removed when it should not have been.

Changing to an old version is called reverting.

To revert to an older version:

A revert is usually for dealing with vandalism. It is not a good idea to do this just because you don't like what someone did to a page, especially if they were trying to make the page better instead of harming it. If this happens, instead of reverting, try to find a compromise (something you can both agree on) by talking about the issue on an article's 'talk' page.

Reverts never cause a . If you revert a page the same time someone else changes the page, you can overwrite their changes without knowing. Be careful reverting pages when lots of people are changing it at once.

On the User Contributions page, and can see "rollback" links.

The rollback link is also shown on the .

Clicking on the link reverts to the last change made by a different user. The will say "Reverted edits by X to last version by Y". 

If someone else has already reverted the page, you will see an error message.

If there is a vandal who needs all their edits reverted, rollback lets you do this quickly. 

In cases of flood vandalism (lots of vandalism by one user in a short time), administrators can hide the vandalism from . To do this, add &bot=1 to the end of the URL used to access a user's contributions. For example, <nowiki>http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:Contributions&target=BadVandal&bot=1</nowiki>.

When you click the rollback links, the revert, and the original edit that you are reverting will be hidden from the default Recentchanges display. It does this by marking the edits as "bot edits" (edits by a robot), which are hidden from recent changes.

The edits are not hidden from , or s. The edits are still in the database and are not removed, but they no longer show up on Recentchanges. This is done so flood vandals do not annoy people using recent changes. This should not be used for reverting a change you just don't like, but is meant only for massive floods of simple vandalism.

Latest versions of MediaWiki allow editors to revert a single edit from the history of a page without simultaneously undoing all constructive changes that have been made since. To do this, view the for the edit, and click on 'undo' above the newer version. The software will try to create an edit page with a version of the article in which the undesirable edit has been removed but all later edits are retained. There is an edit summary already created for you, but this can be changed. It is also possible to make more changes to the page before saving.

This feature removes the need to manually redo useful changes that were made after the edit which is being reverted. However, it will fail if undoing the edit would conflict with later edits. For example, if edit 1000 adds a paragraph and edit 1005 changes that paragraph, it will be impossible to automatically undo edit 1000. In this case, you must determine how to resolve the problem manually.

A revert war, or edit war, is where two or more people keep on reverting to their own version. Revert wars do not help the aims of Wikipedia. They look bad, upset people and make the page history less useful.

Reverts should not be used for edit wars. Use the talk page to discuss the problem and find something you can agree on. 

If you are in an edit war, never revert the page more than three times in the same day. On the English Wikipedia, people have been banned for a day for breaking this rule.

Ask other people what they think. Perhaps they can change the words of the text to stop the edit war. If it will not stop, ask an administrator to protect the page. You can ask this on , or on the page, under the "current issues" section.


</doc>
<doc id="3787" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3787" title="Epiphany">
Epiphany

Epiphany is a Web browser for GNOME. It is also available for Mac OS X and was made from Galeon.

It uses the Gecko layout engine from the Mozilla project to show web pages; however, the Epiphany developers have a new but less stable version of Epiphany 2.21.4 using the WebKit engine instead of Gecko. The Epiphany team wants to stop using Gecko and only use the WebKit engine, by the time they release Epiphany 2.24 or 2.26. Epiphany has tabbed browsing, cookie management, popup blocking and an extensions system. Epiphany can be extended with the Epiphany-extensions package in GNU/Linux Operating Systems.

Epiphany was made from Galeon by Marco Pesenti Gritti (also the creator of Galeon) with the aim of making a web browser with a very simple user experience. Because of that, Epiphany does not have its own themes, instead, it uses GNOME’s settings that are set in the GNOME Control Center.



</doc>
<doc id="3788" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3788" title="Video game console">
Video game console

A video game console is a machine that is used to play video games. Video game consoles usually connect to a television. 

Special controllers are attached to the console to control the game. Some video game consoles are handheld. They can be carried around and have their own screens. The Nintendo DS and PlayStation Portable are examples of handheld consoles. Some video game consoles can also run general software, such as Linux.

Examples of game consoles include:


</doc>
<doc id="3789" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3789" title="PlayStation">
PlayStation

The PlayStation is a video game console made by Sony. At the time it was competing against the Nintendo 64 and Sega Saturn. PlayStation games were released on CD-ROMs. The controllers that were originally released with the console had no analog joysticks on them, but these, along with a vibration feature, were added to later controllers. A slimmer version of the console called the PSOne was released in 2000. This was white, not grey, in colour.


</doc>
<doc id="3790" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3790" title="Election">
Election

An election is a way people can choose their candidate or their preferences in a democracy or other form of government. 

Most democratic countries hold new elections for their national legislature every few years, but this differs from country to country. Some democracies elect other national officials (such as a president). In others, these are appointed. Democratic countries also hold local (or municipal) elections. Some democracies have regional, provincial or state elections too.

There are different ways to organize an election in different countries. Voters might vote for an individual, or they might vote for a political party (party list). This is because different countries use different voting systems.

Countries that are not democracies can also hold elections. This is usually done to let the people choose a local representative (like a mayor). Also many countries call themselves democracies, but behind the scenes have a more autocratic form of government.Elections are done between the main person and the opposition.

Psephology is the study of elections.


</doc>
<doc id="3793" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3793" title="Medicine">
Medicine

Medicine is the science that deals with diseases (illnesses) in humans and animals, the best ways to prevent diseases, and the best ways to return to a healthy condition.

People who practice "medicine" are most often called medical doctors or physicians. Often doctors work closely with nurses and many other types of health care professionals.

The word medicine can also mean special food or a chemical that makes someone better when they are ill. A lot of medicines are liquid and can be bought in a small bottle. Other medicines may come in pills or capsules. 

The doctor may tell the patient (person who is ill) how much medicine to take each day. Most medicines cannot be bought unless a doctor (or other authorized professional) has prescribed the medicine for the patient. The patient takes the prescription to the chemist (or "pharmacist") who gives them the medicine.

There are different aspects of medicine that specialist doctors deal with. For example, paediatrics is the study of diseases that affect children.

Health


</doc>
<doc id="3794" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3794" title="Transport">
Transport

Transport, or transportation, is moving people or things from one place to another place. Transport can be divided into "infrastructure", "vehicles" and "operations".

"Infrastructure" includes roads, railways, airways, canals and pipelines. The infrastructure is the network where things are carried. Infrastructure also includes airports, railway stations, bus stations and seaports (docks). Infrastructure is usually built by governments and paid for by taxes from the citizens of a country or region. Infrastructure such as roads and railways is designed by civil engineers and urban planners.

"Vehicles" or vessels travel on the infrastructure. Vehicles include cars, trucks, trains and airplanes. Vehicles are usually designed by mechanical engineers. Vessels include boats, ferries, and barges which travel on canals and use docks and seaports. In the same way that trains use train stations, airplanes use airports. In the same way that trains use railway lines (train tracks), airplanes use flight paths.

"Operations" control the system. Operations include traffic signals, railway signals and air traffic control. Operations also include the government policies (a policy is a plan of action to guide decisions and actions) and regulations (a set or group of laws and rules) used to control the system, such as tolls, fuel taxes, and traffic laws.

Transport and communication can be used instead of each other (someone could telephone a person rather than visit them). But the growth in traffic is only possible because of communication (for example, air traffic control means more airplanes can fly). So an increase of either transport or communication usually leads to an increase in the other one.

Transport uses a lot of energy. Most transport uses hydrocarbons (oil and gas). This can create pollution. Environmental regulations (laws) and low-pollution fuels (for example liquified natural gas) can reduce pollution. But as more vehicles are used, more pollution is created. Ethanol and biodiesel pollute less than petroleum.

There are three main kinds of transportation. They are:


</doc>
<doc id="3795" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3795" title="Road">
Road

People have been making roads for a long time. Roman roads and the Incan courier roads are famous. But transport by river was usually easier and faster than transport by road. In the industrial revolution, the railway was invented. A railway is a special type of road, using rails. Roads are now usually made for wheeled vehicles, like cars, to travel on.

Road building and care is usually paid for by taxes. Some roads have tolls, where people pay to use the road. 



</doc>
<doc id="3796" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3796" title="2004">
2004

2004 (MMIV) was a leap year starting on Thursday of the Gregorian calendar.







</doc>
<doc id="3797" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3797" title="Hawaiian Islands">
Hawaiian Islands

From west to east, Hawaii is made up of the following Hawaiian Islands:


Hawaii has been a state since 1959.


</doc>
<doc id="3798" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3798" title="Mauna Kea">
Mauna Kea

Mauna Kea is a dormant volcano in the Hawaiian Islands. It is the highest point in Hawaii at 4,205 meters. If measured from top to bottom, below sea level, it is 10,200 meters high and would be the tallest mountain in the world. It is around 1,000,000 years old. Mauna Kea means 'white mountain' because in winter it often has snow at the summit. 

Mauna Kea is an important site for astronomy, with many different countries or institutions having an observatory there. 
It is an important site for its low clear skies.

High altitude is important because atmosphere causes an effect called seeing, which limits the quality of images by blurring them. By having a low altitude, there is more atmosphere between the observatories and space and this lessens the effect.


</doc>
<doc id="3799" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3799" title="Mauna Loa">
Mauna Loa

Mauna Loa is an active volcano in the Hawaiian Islands of the United States. Measured from sea level Mauna Loa is 4,169 meters high. It is also one of the largest volcanoes measuring 60 miles long and 30 miles wide. It is about 40,000 cubic meters in volume and over 4 kilometers above sea level. Measured from its base on the ocean floor it reaches above 8 kilometers making it the tallest mountain on Earth, but not the highest. That distinction is reserved for Mount Everest.


</doc>
<doc id="3800" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3800" title="Kilauea">
Kilauea

Kilauea is an active volcano in the Hawaiian Islands. It is a shield volcano. Kilauea is 1,277 meters high. Kilauea is a large lake of lava. The crater of Kilauea is named Pu'u'O'o. The first eruption of Kilauea is estimated as 300 to 600 thousand years ago. Its first recorded eruptions were in 1823. Its most recent eruption was 3 January 1983. It is still erupting now. The Hawaiian name "Kilauea" means "spewing" or "much spreading". It refers to the constant flow of lava. Kilauea lies on the curve of volcanoes on the island of Hawaii that includes Mauna Loa and Kohala. The volcano of Kilauea is one of the youngest and also is said to be the home of an ancient volcano goddess Pele. The oldest dated rocks are said to be about 23,000 years old. It has its own magma plumbing under the Earth that goes down under the Earths crust by 60 km. Kilauea has a basalt-based lava rock type. Kilauea was formed on a volcanic hot-spot.


</doc>
<doc id="3809" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3809" title="Van">
Van

A van is a type of vehicle. A van is usually bigger than the regular sized car. It can usually carry many people, sometimes up to a total of 15. Panel vans are used for deliveries. These usually have fewer windows.

Many companies make vans, including: Chevrolet, Daihatsu, Dodge, Fiat, Ford, GMC, Honda, Hyundai, Isuzu, Mazda, Mercedes-Benz, Mitsubishi, Nissan, Subaru, Suzuki, Toyota, Vauxhall, and Volkswagen.

A minivan is smaller and usually carries up to seven people.



</doc>
<doc id="3810" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3810" title="Luggage">
Luggage

People use luggage to carry their possessions when travelling. In the United States luggage is often called baggage.



</doc>
<doc id="3811" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3811" title="Pan">
Pan

Pan can mean:



</doc>
<doc id="3813" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3813" title="Pantograph">
Pantograph

A pantograph is an machine. It is used in drawing or planning. It makes it easy to copy diagrams. 

The device that an electric train uses to get its electricity is also called a pantograph, because it looks a bit like the drawing instrument.


</doc>
<doc id="3814" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3814" title="Paperback">
Paperback

A paperback is a type of book. It has a thin cardboard cover. Another name for paperback is "soft cover". Paperback book covers can bend and be folded. They are not as strong as hardback books, and they break easier. Usually, paperback books cost less money than hardback books.


</doc>
<doc id="3815" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3815" title="Palette">
Palette

A palette is used for mixing colours.They are usually made out of plastic or wood but can be made out of other materials. An artist often uses one of these and is in fact an essential item in art, when painting.


</doc>
<doc id="3816" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3816" title="Glow-worm">
Glow-worm

A glow-worm, or glowworm, is an insect.
Other names for glow-worms are fire-fly and lightning bug.

There are several insects given this name. Most are beetles, but one is a fly, "Arachnocampa". They are nocturnal, active during the night. They have special organs that can produce light. This is used to find mates. The patterns in which the beetles flash is unique per species.

The major families are


</doc>
<doc id="3817" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3817" title="Palette knife">
Palette knife

A palette knife is a blunt knife with a very flexible steel blade and no sharpened cutting edge. It is a tool.


</doc>
<doc id="3819" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3819" title="Foolscap">
Foolscap

Foolscap is lined, legal-size paper (a paper size found only in North America). It is called foolscap because, in the 18th century, folio-sized paper had the watermark of a fool's cap on it.

In the UK, foolscap paper is 13" X 8" (c 330mm X 203mm), but paper of the size is now very rarely used, being superseded by A4 (297 x 210). Older people may call A4 "foolscap". Nevertheless, ring binders, lever arch files, suspended files, and other filing related things still use the size.

Also refer to Foolscap folio


</doc>
<doc id="3821" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3821" title="Polymer">
Polymer

A polymer is a molecule, made from joining together many small molecules called monomers. The word "polymer" can be broken down into "poly" (meaning "many" in Greek) and "mer" (meaning "unit"). This shows how the chemical composition of a polymer consists of many smaller units (monomers) bonded together into a larger molecule. A chemical reaction bonding monomers together to make a polymer is called polymerization. 

Some polymers are natural. Proteins have polypeptide molecules, which are natural polymers made from various amino acid monomer units. Nucleic acids are huge natural polymers made up of millions of nucleotide units. Cellulose and starch (two types of carbohydrate) are also natural polymers made up of glucopyranose monomer bonded together in different ways. Some polymers are man-made. Plastics, rubber, and fibers are made up of polymers. 

If the "units" called monomers in a polymer are all the same, then the polymer is called a "homopolymer". Homopolymers are named by adding the prefix poly- before the monomer name from which the polymer is made. For example, a polymer made by bonding styrene monomer molecules together is called polystyrene. 

If the monomers are not all the same, the polymer is called a "copolymer" or a "heteropolymer". 
Many polymer molecules are like "chains" where the monomer units are the links. Polymer molecules can be straight-chain, have "branching" from the main chain, or "cross-linking" between chains. As an example of cross-linking, sulfhydryl (-S-H) groups in two cysteine amino acid units in polypeptide chains can bond together to make a disulfide bridge (-S-S-) joining the chains together. 


</doc>
<doc id="3823" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3823" title="Medium">
Medium

A medium is the way or means information is sent or received. Paper is a common "medium", used every day by millions of people. Television is another very common medium; it is said that there is not a community on Earth where at least one family does not own a television. The plural form of "medium" is "media", so radio and television are both types of broadcast media, but paint, charcoal, ink, and clay are types of artistic media. When people buy or sell things, the "medium" is often coins or paper money, but it may also be shells, gems, livestock, or even an agreement to perform a service in the future. 

A medium is also a person who it is said can pass messages between the living and the dead. This type of medium was quite popular in the West in the 19th century, but most were found to be dishonest and few remain today. In Taoism, mediums still work. However, the power of mediums is mostly believed by the superstitious.

Medium is also a size, coming between small and large. Other words used in this way include "intermediate", "average", and "middle".


</doc>
<doc id="3825" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3825" title="Phrase">
Phrase

A phrase is a small group of words that adds meaning to a word. A phrase is not a sentence because it is not a complete idea with a subject and a predicate. 

In English there are five different kinds of phrases, one for each of the main parts of speech. In a phrase, the main word, or the word that is what the phrase is about, is called the "head." In these examples, it is printed in bold. The other words in the phrase do the work of changing or "modifying" the head.

In a noun phrase, one or more words work together to give more information about a noun.


In an adjective phrase, one or more words work together to give more information about an adjective.


In a verb phrase, one or more words work together to give more meaning to a verb. In English, the verb phrase is very complex, but a good description of its many forms can be found here.

In an adverb phrase, one or more words work together to give more information about an adverb.

In a prepositional phrase, one or more words work together to give information about time, location, or possession, or condition. The preposition always appears at the front of the phrase.



</doc>
<doc id="3826" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3826" title="Preposition">
Preposition

Prepositions are words or word groups which begin a noun phrase with more one word. Most prepositions tell where or when, or show possession.

Prepositions like "in", "beside", "above", and "out of" all tell "where", and are usually used with nouns or pronouns. Some examples with the phrases underlined: "The man sat "close to" his wife. He put his arm "around" her shoulder. Then he kissed her "on" the cheek." 

Prepositions like "right after", "until", "during", and "before" all tell "when". "Mr. Prasad had an important meeting "until" ten o'clock. "During" the meeting, his cell phone rang. It was his wife. She asked him to come straight home "right after" work."

The prepositions "of" and "to" are used to show possession, or "belonging-to": "This book belongs "to Vlad." The cover "of the book" is torn."

Here is a list of Prepositions:


</doc>
<doc id="3827" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3827" title="Possess">
Possess

To possess is to have or to own. "I possess all my teeth," means I still have all I was born with. "The woman possesses five cars," means she owns five cars. A "possession" is something you own. "My only "possessions" are my cat and my brains."

In some beliefs, to be possessed is to be under the control of devils, demons, or evil spirits. These people may do evil or terrible things because of their "possession." Sometimes this "possession" was because the person had epilepsy. As the reasons for epilepsy were not known people decided it was caused by evil.


</doc>
<doc id="3828" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3828" title="Pronoun">
Pronoun

A pronoun is a part of speech in grammar ( linguists, s , call it a of noun) In English, pronouns are words "me, she, his, them, herself, each other, it, what". 
Pronouns are often used to take the place of a noun, when that noun is understood (has already been named), to avoid repeating it. For example, instead of saying 
it is easier to say 

When a pronoun replaces a noun, the noun is called the antecedent. But, there are times when the pronoun has no antecedent. This is because generally, the antecedent (what comes before) refers grammatically to the use of the relative pronoun in particular. For example, in the sentence: "The dog that was walking down the street", the relative pronoun is the word that referring back to the antecedent, the word 'dog'. In the sentence "The spy who loved me", the relative pronoun is the word 'who' and its antecedent is the word 'spy'.

Pronouns are different from common nouns because they normally can not come after "article"s or other "determiner"s. (For example, people do not say "the it".) Pronouns also rarely come after adjectives. They are also different because many of them change depending on how they are used. For example, "we" is a 'subject' in grammar, but the word changes to "us" when used as an object.

Pronouns are the same as nouns because they both change for number (singular & plural), case (subject, object, possessive, etc.), and gender (male, female, animate, inanimate, etc.) Nouns and pronouns can be used in almost all the same places in sentences, and they name the same kinds of things: people, objects, etc. Even though they can not normally come after determiners, or adjectives, neither can proper nouns.S P R A K E N !

There are four kinds of pronouns: personal, reciprocal, interrogative, and relative.
This table shows all the personal pronouns in English that are commonly used today.

A Subject Pronoun can replace a noun that is the of a sentence. Refer to the table above; the subject pronouns are: I, You, He, She, It, We, They. 

Another type of personal pronoun is called the 'reflexive pronoun'. Reflexive pronouns are the words ending in '-self' or '-selves', such as: "myself, itself, themselves".



</doc>
<doc id="3829" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3829" title="Adverb">
Adverb

An adverb is a word used to tell more about a verb, and it almost always answers the questions "how?", "when?", "where?", "how often?", and "in what way?". Words like "slowly", "loudly", "carefully", "quickly", or "sadly" are all adverbs. Adverbs usually, but not always, end in "-ly".

Examples of adverbs in a sentence (with the adverb in "italics"):

An adverb can also modify (describe) an adjective or another adverb.

Examples:

In the first two examples the word 'well' is an adverb. In the last example, it is an adjective. This is one example in which the same word can be both an adjective and an adverb but not in the same sentence. 

As a rule, the same word can play different roles but not in the same sentence. It all depends on what the word is doing in the sentence. It could be a noun, an adjective, an adverb, a verb, etc. Example: take the word 'cool'. In the sentence, "he walks cool", the word 'cool' is an adverb. In the sentence, "cool the hot dish", the word 'cool' is a verb. In the sentence, "it is a cool evening", the word 'cool' is an adjective. In the first example, "he walks cool", the word 'cool' really means 'coolly' as in "play it cool" (do not get excited; be calm).

Most adverbs are formed by adding ly to the end of an adjective. To see 100 adjectives used in Basic English, click here ---> : adjective


</doc>
<doc id="3837" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3837" title="Sunday">
Sunday

Sunday is one of the seven days of the week. It is part of the weekend, along with Saturday. Sunday is the day of worship for most Christians (for example, Easter is celebrated on Sunday). Sunday is the beginning of the week in the United States, but is the end of the week in the United Kingdom.


</doc>
<doc id="3838" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3838" title="Ottawa, Ontario">
Ottawa, Ontario

Ottawa is the capital of Canada and is part of the province of Ontario. It is south of the Ottawa River. The population in 2004 was about 808,391 people in the city itself. The region has about 1,146,790 people in it. The mayor of the city today (since 2010) is Jim Watson. Ottawa is located in the Ottawa Valley on the border with the province of Quebec. Ottawa is the fourth largest city in Canada. 

When people talk about Ottawa, they could also mean the highest government in Canada, and not its local government or the city.

The cities of Ottawa, Kanata, Nepean, Gloucester and Vanier and the villages of Manotick and Rockcliffe Park joined in the year 2000 to form the new city of Ottawa. Ottawa also includes Orléans, which joined at that same time.

The city began with the name Bytown and became the city of Ottawa in 1855. The Rideau Canal ends in Ottawa.

Ottawa has many museums, many buildings for the government of Canada and many parks. There is a market area downtown.

There are many festivals during the year including Winterlude in February, The Tulip Festival in May, and BluesFest in the summer. There is also a large celebration on July 1st for Canada Day.

The Ottawa Senators play ice hockey in Scotiabank Place.


</doc>
<doc id="3845" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3845" title="News agency">
News agency

A news agency is a kind of company. It supplies information to newspapers, radio and television.

In the United Kingdom and some other countries a news agency or newsagent is a shop which sells newspapers, magazines and cigarettes.



</doc>
<doc id="3846" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3846" title="Mudguard">
Mudguard

A mudguard is a part of a car, motorcycle, scooter or bicycle. People use it to prevent from mud, water or other objects from coming up onto the vehicle or person and also prvent engine from mud


</doc>
<doc id="3847" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3847" title="Para rubber tree">
Para rubber tree

A Para rubber tree (or simply, rubber tree) is the tree which naturally produces rubber. It is native from tropical areas from South America, in the Amazon (Brazil), but was spread by English farmers to the Far East.

Para Rubber trees belong to the Euphorbiaceae family. In the wild they may reach heights of 100 to 125 ft (30-38 m) with large cylindrical trunks with or without buttresses. Crop trees reach a width of about 20 in. (50 cm), usually with a short bole, and with a sloped taper. 

When trees reach 5-6 years old, they are harvested. Their trunks are cut just deep enough to tap the vessels without harming the tree's growth, and the sap is collected in small buckets. This process is known as rubber tapping. Older trees produce more latex, but they stop producing it after 26-30 years.


</doc>
<doc id="3848" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3848" title="Safety curtain">
Safety curtain

A safety curtain is a curtain in theatre at the front of the stage. It is made of material that will not burn. The safety curtain may be lowered during the intermission and after the performance. A safety curtain is there in case there is a fire on stage. It will stop the fire from spreading to the auditorium where the audience sits.


</doc>
<doc id="3849" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3849" title="Safety lamp">
Safety lamp

A safety lamp is a miner's lamp with a covered flame that used to be used in coal mines.

Coal mines are dangerous because of flammable gases like methane that can accumulate. A lamp with a naked (exposed) flame might ignite these flammable gases, causing an explosion, which might kill people. The safety lamp prevents the hot flame of the lamp touching the flammable gasses, reducing the chance of an explosion.


</doc>
<doc id="3850" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3850" title="Christmas stocking">
Christmas stocking

A Christmas stocking is a long sock hung by a fireplace or bed on Christmas Eve. Christmas presents are put into it for children. And it came from an old legend, which have now turned into an European tradition.


</doc>
<doc id="3851" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3851" title="Wikipedia:Elections for the Board of Trustees of the Wikimedia Foundation">
Wikipedia:Elections for the Board of Trustees of the Wikimedia Foundation

This is a simple version of . Please see that page for the original. Only , , or may edit this page on meta..

Hello Everyone,

Soon, there will be elections for the of the .

We are getting ready to choose who will be on the board. The Board members will speak for other users, who work hard on editing Wikimedia websites and make the community a success.

The Board will decide things that affect the Wikimedia Foundation. They will not run the website. See . This page has more information about the Wikimedia Foundation. It also says what the Board will do.

In the election, we will vote on two people. 

You can vote if you have edited a Wikimedia project for three months or more and have made more than 400 edits on the Wikimedia project on which you vote.

You can vote people as many as you want. The person who gets the most and second most votes are the winners. This sort of election is called .

If two people get the same number of votes, there will be a new election. In that, people will have to vote on one of those two.

If you want to be a candidate (you want to be on the board), please add your details to .

Candidates have until the end of Friday, 7th June 2005 to add themselves to the page. Voting will start on Tuesday, 28th June 2005. It will last for two weeks. It will end at Monday, 11th July 2005 at midnight UTC. After this, the results will be said.

There will be more information soon. You can ask questions at .

If you can write in another language, please translate this page. Then add it to the projects in that language. This includes Wikipedias, Wikimedias, Wiktionaries, Wikibooks, Wikisources, Wikinews and Wikiquotes. When you have done that, please add a link to . If you do this, we might ask for your help with the elections in that language. You might need to help give more information to those projects.

You can add notes and questions to .

We would like to wish all of the candidates the best of luck in the election,


Election Officials, Wikimedia Election Committee


</doc>
<doc id="3853" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3853" title="List of Austrian football teams">
List of Austrian football teams

These are the Austrian football teams and the leagues they played in for the 2010/11 season.

The champion of the league promotes to the Austrian Bundesliga.










The Regionalliga is divided into three sections. The second teams of clubs from the first division are not allowed to promote to the Second Division.





























</doc>
<doc id="3854" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3854" title="2001">
2001

2001 (MMI) was a common year starting on Monday of the Gregorian calendar. It was also the 1st year of the 3rd millennium and the 21st century.








</doc>
<doc id="3856" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3856" title="Sex">
Sex

Sex is a type of reproduction common among living things. It always needs two individuals, usually of the same species. Sex is used by plants and animals, and also by fungi and various single-celled organisms. It works by combining genes from more than one source. 

Organisms may have more than one kind of reproduction:

Asexual reproduction is easier than sexual reproduction, but there are benefits and drawbacks to both:

A person's sex is either male or female. For example: John's sex is male. Jane's sex is female. This difference is sometimes called gender. 

In humans, the sex of a person depends on what sex chromosomes that person has in his or her sex cells (gametes). A woman's ovum (egg cell) contains one X chromosome. A man's sperm contains either an X or a Y chromosome. When a sperm and ova combine to form a fertilised egg, the baby may get either of these chromosomes from its father. If the baby gets two X chromosomes, it will develop into a girl. If the baby gets one X and one Y, it will develop into a boy. 

There are occasional exceptions to this rule: the process of meiosis which makes the sex cells can go wrong. This results in an individual having 3 X chromosomes, or 2 Y chromosomes or XXY instead of XY. Such people may get physical or mental defects which require treatment. Examples of such defects are: Attention-Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD), Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD), mental retardation, or schizophrenia. These people may also have a weaker immune system, and might not be fertile.

Before babies are born, they grow either male sex parts or female sex parts.

Sexual reproduction first appeared about a billion years ago. It evolved within single-celled eukaryotes. The scientific community still discusses why it appeared, and why it still exists. Reasons commonly given include:

Sexual reproduction is a process that can only be found in eukaryotes. These cells have a nucleus and mitochondria. There are other kinds of organisms (other than animals, plants and fungi), the other eukaryotes – such as the malaria parasite – that also engage in sexual reproduction. Some bacteria use conjugation to transfer genetic material between bacteria. This is not the same as sexual reproduction, but it also results in the mixture of genetic traits.

In sexual reproduction the cells used for reproduction, called gametes, are either eggs or sperms. Fertilisation needs two different such cells. The mechanism of cell division only works when one sperm alone enters the egg. Once it is in, a fast reaction goes through the egg cell wall to shut off all other sperm.

Sex determination in biology is about the function of sex, not what individuals look like. In humans, males and females usually look different. In many species they do not, except for the sex organs.
Sex can be determined in different ways:

When there is sex determination there are basically two cases:

Usually, sex is determined by an organism's genes. With genetic sex determination, most alleles or genes that influence sexual development are on the same chromosome. That chromosome is then called the sex chromosome. Because genetic sex determination is controlled by a pair of sex chromosomes (or by the presence or absence of one of the chromosomes), there are usually the same number of male and female offspring. In humans, for instance, sperms carry either an X or a Y chromosome, and they occur in roughly equal numbers.

For some species sex is not determined by inheritance, but instead by environmental factors experienced during development or later in life. Many reptiles have temperature-dependent sex determination: the temperature embryos experience during their development determines the sex of the organism. In some turtles, for example, males are produced at lower incubation temperatures than females; this difference in critical temperatures can be as little as 1-2 °C.

Some fish change sex over the course of their life. This phenomenon is called "sequential hermaphroditism". In clownfish, smaller fish are male, and the dominant and largest fish in a group becomes female. In many wrasse the opposite is true—most fish are female at birth and become male when they reach a certain size. Sequential hermaphrodites may produce both types of gametes over the course of their lifetime, but at any given point they are either female or male.

In some ferns the default sex is hermaphrodite. Ferns which grow in soil which has previously supported hermaphrodites are influenced by hormones remaining to develop as male.


</doc>
<doc id="3857" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3857" title="Hacksaw">
Hacksaw

A hacksaw is a tool for sawing. A hacksaw is useful for cutting materials such as metal and bone. It has a handle on one end, and can be either pushed or pulled across the object being cut. There are manual and electric hacksaws.


</doc>
<doc id="3858" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3858" title="Spade">
Spade

In gardening, a spade (shovel) is a tool. A spade is a particular kind of shovel made for digging. It has a pointed end and a straight handle. In some countries such as Australia the difference between a spade and a shovel is important. It is hard to move gravel with a spade but a proper shovel can do it.

In game, a spade is one of the four shapes on playing cards. It is coloured black and not the one that looks like cross.


</doc>
<doc id="3859" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3859" title="Hoe">
Hoe

A hoe is a tool in farming and gardening. It has a blade, usually metal, attached to a long handle, usually wood. There are many types of blade, and a variety of uses, probably the most common of which is weeding. Along with the spade and fork, the hoe is considered a basic, essential hand farming implement.


</doc>
<doc id="3860" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3860" title="Shovel">
Shovel

A shovel is a tool used for digging. When it picks up the dirt, it makes a hole. They are usually made out of metal at the bottom, and wood is used for the handle.


</doc>
<doc id="3861" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3861" title="Plunger">
Plunger

A plunger is a tool. It is used to get rid of things that are blocking pipes. The plunger is placed over one end of the pipe, and the handle is pushed up and down. Doing this creates a sucking force, which makes the thing blocking the pipe move and unclog.


</doc>
<doc id="3862" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3862" title="Ladder">
Ladder

A ladder is a tool which is made for people to climb up or down. Ladders have two vertical supports that go along the whole length of the ladder. Between these supports are the horizontal rungs. The rung is what the climber can put his foot on. The climber can use his hands to hold on to the rungs above him, or to the supports at the side.

Ladders can be made of metal, wood or even rope. There are different types of ladders.

Some ladders are made in one piece. They can be carried around and made to lean against something such as the wall of a house. There should be a good distance between the bottom of the ladder and the wall so that the ladder is not too vertical, otherwise the ladder might fall backwards and the climber would fall off. Sometimes these ladders are extension ladders. Extension ladders are made in two or more sections so that the ladder can fold up to make it easier to carry about and to store. To open up the ladder, each section slides up almost to the top of the next section.

Step ladders are useful in the home or the garden to reach things that are not too high, e.g. ceilings or the tops of hedges. They have two parts which are joined together by a hinge, so that they are shaped like an upside down V. There is usually a platform at the top to stand on, but this can be dangerous unless great care is taken that the ladder will not wobble or fall down.

Some ladders are vertical (they go straight up or down). These are fixed onto something. Examples are: ladders in a swimming pool for climbing in and out of the water, small ladders to climb up to a top bunk bed, ladders at the side of a big boat or at the side of a canal lock or of any other high or low construction where workmen may need to get up or down to do repairs.
Fire engines always have ladders. They often have a turntable ladder which makes it possible for the ladder to be facing in any direction.

Rope ladders can be folded away easily. They may be used for climbing trees or for rock climbing or in caves.


</doc>
<doc id="3867" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3867" title="Oral history">
Oral history

Oral history is history that is told rather than written down. It is given through talking rather than reading a book. It is usually passed from generation to generation in order to explain events that have occurred. 

Though today oral history is not as popular as written history, it is still used in many places as a way of transferring knowledge about the past.


</doc>
<doc id="3868" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3868" title="Generation">
Generation

A generation is used to mean the average amount of time between the birth of parents and the birth of their children. It is also used to mean all the people on one level of a family tree. For example, your brothers, sisters and cousins are in the same generation as you.


</doc>
<doc id="3870" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3870" title="Gene">
Gene

Genes are formed of DNA. DNA is a collection of chemical information that carries the instructions for making all the proteins a cell will ever need. Each gene contains a single set of instructions. These instructions usually code for a particular protein. Half of a person's genes come from the mother. The other half come from the father.

Originally: a hereditary unit which occupies a specific position ("locus") on a chromosome. Other definitions are ways the gene showed itself: 

Modern definitions must take note of later discoveries. There are now two classes of genes:

Genes are passed on from parent to child and are an important part of what decides how children look and act (their biological properties). Genes affect the way our bodies work, including how we look. Our eye, hair and skin color are decided by genes. It is said that genes cause "genetic" effects in our bodies.

Sometimes, a gene is "dominant". Sometimes, it is "recessive". For example, let's say a mother only has genes for brown hair and a father only has genes for red hair. The child will inherit – receive – genes for red hair (from her father) and brown hair (from her mother). The brown hair gene is 'dominant' to the red hair gene. This means the child will have brown hair even though she has genes for both red and brown hair. This means only one dominant gene is needed for the child to receive that particular trait, while two recessive genes are needed for one.

A recessive trait might stay hidden for many generations. Let us use the child from the last example. We will call her "Mary". Mary has brown hair but has genes for both red and brown hair. Let us say Mary grew up and married Tom. Tom also has brown hair, but like Mary one of his parents had red hair. This means Tom has genes for both red and brown hair. Mary and Tom would each have a chance of passing either brown or red hair genes to their children. This means that the children of Mary and Tom could have either red or brown hair. This explains why a person might look different from their parents, but look like their grandparents or great grandparents.



</doc>
<doc id="3872" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3872" title="Alliteration">
Alliteration

Alliteration is when a sentence or phrase has many words that do not necessarily start with the same letter, but it seems like a lot of the time it does. It is commonly used in advertising, poetry, headlines, and tongue-twisters. Basically the first consonant repeats itself throughout the sentence.

An example of alliteration is ""Sally sold sea shells so she should sleep soundly so so so so sweet", and "Sally sold sea shells down by the sea shore". 


</doc>
<doc id="3873" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3873" title="Homophone">
Homophone

Homophones are words that sound the same as another word but have a different meaning, and often a different spelling.
Examples:



</doc>
<doc id="3874" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3874" title="Condensation">
Condensation

Condensation is the process in which water vapour changes into a water droplet or ice crystal when it touches a cooler surface. Condensation is an important part of the water cycle. It is the opposite of evaporation.

Condensation of water is when water turns from gas to a liquid or crystal shape. Any gas can condensate, usually at a low temperatures or high pressure. However, condensation can technically happen at any temperature, so long as the pressure of the condensing gas is more than the pressure of the liquid state of that gas (both at the same temperature).

Condensation is vital in nature and is always the same as temperature and vapour pressure in nature. This means that if there is a lot of condensation, the temperature goes up. Alternatively, if there is hardly any condensation, there will be a temperature loss.

It is a process that can be useful to man. One use is in the creation of “new water” (drinkable water made from drinkable sources). 

However, since there is a temperature gain when a lot of condensation happens, the heat needs to be "removed", which can be and expensive.




</doc>
<doc id="3875" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3875" title="Precipitation">
Precipitation

Precipitation is the water falling from clouds in liquid form or in solid form.

Precipitation is water or ice falling to the Earth. Rain, snow, sleet, dew, frost, hail, and drizzle are all forms of precipitation. It is any product of the condensation of atmospheric water vapor that is left on the ground. It can be measured using a rain gauge.

Rain, the most common form of precipitation, is liquid water that falls from the clouds to Earth.
The most common form of solid precipitation is snow. Snow is made when temperatures are so cold that water vapor changes directly to a solid.

Precipitation is also a chemical reaction, when two or more solutions are mixed together and the product is insoluble a precipitate is formed. This is a precipitation reaction.


</doc>
<doc id="3878" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3878" title="Relative humidity">
Relative humidity

Relative humidity is a way of describing how much humidity there is in the air, compared to how much there could be. Meteorologists often use the relative humidity as a measurement to describe the weather at various places.

When the temperature is warm, more water vapor can be in the air than when it is cold. If the actual amount of vapor is compared to the total amount there could be, as a fraction, then the number tells if the air feels dry or moist. The value is usually written in percent, where 0% means that the air is totally dry, and 100% means that it is so moist that mist or dew is about to form.

When the temperature is lowered a lot, then the water vapor turns into condensation or precipitation, as dew, rain or snow (etc.).


</doc>
<doc id="3880" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3880" title="Vitamin C">
Vitamin C

Vitamin C, also known as ascorbic acid, is found in fresh fruits, berries and green vegetables. It is one of the water soluble vitamins. 

Vitamin C is important in wound healing. Lack of vitamin C can cause a sickness called scurvy, where the gums in the mouth bleed easily and wounds do not heal. Lack of Vitamin C was a serious health problem on long ocean trips where supplies of fresh fruit were quickly used up. Many people died from scurvy on such trips.

Most animals make their own vitamin C. Some mammalian groups cannot. Those that cannot include the main suborder of primates, the Haplorrhini: tarsiers, monkeys and apes, including human beings. Others include bats, capybaras and guinea pigs.

Vitamin C was first found in 1928, and in 1932 it was proved to stop the sickness called scurvy.
Through history the need for people to eat fresh plant food to help them get through long sieges or long sea trips was known by some wise people but was often forgotten. 

The first attempt to prove this idea was by a ship's doctor in the British Royal Navy called James Lind, who at sea in May 1747 gave some crew members lemon juice as well as their normal ships food, while others continued on normal food alone.

The results showed that lemons prevented the disease. Lind wrote up his work and published it in 1753.

Lind's work was slow to be noticed. In 1795 the British navy adopted lemon or lime juice as food for sailors.

As well as lemons, limes and oranges; sauerkraut, salted cabbage, malt, and soup were tried with different effects. James Cook relied on sauerkraut to prevent the disease on his long voyages of exploration.

It was believed that only humans got scurvy but in 1907, Alex Holst and Theodore Frohlich, two Norwegian chemists found that guinea pigs could also get it if not given fresh food.

In 1928 the Arctic explorer Vilhjalmur Stefansson proved that Eskimo (Inuit) people are able to avoid scurvy with almost no plant food in their diet by eating raw meat.

In 1912 the Polish American scientist Casimir Funk first used the word "vitamin" for something present in food in small amounts that is essential to health. He named the unknown thing that prevented scurvy "Vitamin C".

From 1928 to 1933, the Hungarian research team of Joseph L Svirbely and Albert Szent-Gyorgyi, and separately the American Charles Glen King, first took out vitamin C from food and showed it to be an acid they called "ascorbic acid".

In 1933/1934, the British chemists Sir Walter Norman Haworth and Sir Edmund Hirst, and separately the Polish Tadeus Reichstein, successfully synthesized the vitamin.
It was the first man-made vitamin. This made it possible to make lots of vitamin C cheaply in factories. Haworth won the 1937 Nobel Prize for Chemistry for this work.

In 1959 the American J.J. Burns showed that the reason why some animals get scurvy is because their liver cannot make one chemical enzyme that other animals have.

Citrus fruits (such as lime, Indian gooseberry, lemon, orange, and grapefruit) are good sources of vitamin C.

Other foods that are good sources of vitamin C include papaya, broccoli, brussels sprouts, blackcurrants, strawberries, cauliflower, spinach, cantaloupe, green peppers, and kiwifruit.

The following table is to give an idea of how much vitamin C is in different plant foods. Each individual fruit will vary.

The amount of vitamin C in foods of plant origin depends on the kind of plant, the kind of soil where it grew, how much rain and sun it got, the length of time since it was picked, and how it was stored since then.
Cooking food destroys vitamin C.

Most species of animals synthesise their own vitamin C. It is therefore not a vitamin for them. Synthesis is achieved through a sequence of enzyme driven steps, which convert glucose to ascorbic acid. It is carried out either in the kidneys, in reptiles and birds, or the liver, in mammals and perching birds. The loss of an enzyme concerned with ascorbic acid synthesis has occurred quite frequently in evolution and has affected most fish, many birds; some bats, guinea pigs and most but not all primates, including Man. The mutations have not been lethal because ascorbic acid is so prevalent in the surrounding food sources.

It was only realised in the 1920s that some cuts of meat and fish are also a source of vitamin C for humans. The muscle and fat that make up the modern western diet are however poor sources. As with fruit and vegetables cooking destroys the vitamin C content.

Vitamin C is produced from glucose by two main routes. The Reichstein process developed in the 1930s uses a single pre-fermentation followed by a purely chemical route. The more modern Two-Step fermentation process was originally developed in China in the 1960s, uses additional fermentation to replace part of the later chemical stages. Both processes yield approximately 60% vitamin C from the glucose feed.

In 1934, the Swiss pharmaceutical company Hoffmann-La Roche was the first to mass produce synthetic vitamin C, under the brand name of Redoxon.
Main producers today are BASF/ Takeda, Roche, Merck and the China Pharmaceutical Group Ltd of the People's Republic of China.

In living organisms, ascorbate is an antioxidant, since it protects the body against oxidative stress. It is also a cofactor in at least eight enzymatic reactions, including several collagen synthesis reactions that cause the most severe symptoms of scurvy when they are dysfunctional. In animals, these reactions are especially important in wound-healing and in preventing bleeding from capillaries.


Lack of ascorbic acid in the daily diet leads to a disease
called scurvy, a form of avitaminosis that is characterized by:

A healthy person on a balanced western diet should be able to get all the vitamin C needed to prevent the symptoms of scurvy from their daily diet. People who smoke, those under stress and women in pregnancy have a slightly higher requirement.

The amount of vitamin C needed to avoid deficiency symptoms and maintain health has been set by variously national agencies as follows:

Some researchers have calculated the amount needed for an adult human to achieve similar blood serum levels as Vitamin C synthesising mammals as follows:

High doses (thousands of mg) may result in diarrhoea, which is harmless if the dose is reduced immediately. Some researchers (Cathcart) claim the onset of diarrhoea to be an indication of where the body’s true vitamin C requirement lies.

The small size of the ascorbic acid molecule means the kidneys cannot retain it in the body. Quite a low level in the blood serum will cause traces to be present in the urine. All vitamin C synthesising mammals have traces in the urine at all times.

In April 1998 "Nature" reported alleged carcinogenic and teratogenic effects of excessive doses of vitamin C. This was given great prominence in the world's media. The effects were noted in test tube experiments and on only two of the 20 markers of free radical damage to DNA. They have not been supported by further evidence from living organisms. Almost all mammals manufacture their own vitamin C in amounts equivalent to human doses of thousands of milligrams per day. Large amounts of the vitamin are used in orthomolecular medicine and no harmful effects have been observed even in doses of 10,000 mg per day or more.

Vitamin C is needed in the diet to prevent scurvy. It also has a reputation for being useful in the treatment of colds and flu. The evidence to support this idea, however, is ambiguous and the effect may depend on the dose size and dosing regime. The Vitamin C foundation recommends 8 grams of vitamin C every half hour to show an effect on cold symptoms.

Fred R. Klenner, a doctor in Reidsville, North Carolina reported in 1949 that poliomyelitis yielded to repeated megadoses of intravenous vitamin C.

Nobel Prize winning chemist Linus Pauling began actively promoting vitamin C in the 1960s as a means to greatly improve human health and resistance to disease. A minority of medical and scientific opinion continues to see vitamin C as being a low cost and safe way to treat infectious disease and to deal with a wide range of poisons. A megadose of one-half gram per pound of body weight (one gram per kilogram of body weight) per day of sodium ascorbate salt has been found of theraputic use in both human and veterinary treatments.

A meta-study into the published research on effectiveness of ascorbic acid in the treatment of infectious disease and toxins was conducted, in 2002, by Thomas Levy, Medical Director of the Colorado Integrative Medical Center in Denver. It claimed that overwhelming scientific evidence exists for its therapeutic role.

Some vitamin C advocates say that vitamin C cannot be used therapeutically because it cannot now be patented. Pharmaceutical companies are unwilling to research or promote something that will make them little money.


</doc>
<doc id="3881" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3881" title="Dichlorphenolindophenol">
Dichlorphenolindophenol

DCPIP (its full name is "2,6-dichlorophenolindophenol") is a blue chemical used as a dye because when it is rusted, it is blue. Once DCPIP is reduced (by addition of electrons) it does not have a color anymore. This reaction can be reversed, and the colourless DCPIP will turn blue again, when it is oxidized.

DCPIP is often used to measure the electron transport chain in plants. It has a higher redox potential (electron affinity) than the Fe-S complex in cytochrome b and will therefore "steal" electrons from it. This means that cytochrome c does not receive them. The process cuts off the electron supply of photosystem I. A common way to illustrate this change is by the addition of vitamin C solution. This reduces the 'jelly' by transforming it to a colourless mass. This experiment can be carried out to illustrate the affect of changing cell sizes on SA/V (surface area:volume ratio). This is known as Titration.



</doc>
<doc id="3882" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3882" title="Healthy diet">
Healthy diet

A healthy diet or balanced diet is a diet (what you eat) that contains the right amounts of all the food substances. It includes fruit, vegetables, grains, dairy products, and protein. It does not include too much or too little of any kind of food.


</doc>
<doc id="3883" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3883" title="Dye">
Dye

Dye is a substance used to color materials. It is often used to color the fabric used to make clothing.


</doc>
<doc id="3886" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3886" title="Poetry">
Poetry

Poetry is a type of art form and a type of literature. 

Poetry uses the qualities of words, in different ways, to be artistic.
(Poetry can be as short, as a few words, or as long as a book (an epic). 

There are many "poetic forms" (forms of poetry).
Some of them are : Sonnet, Haiku , Ballad, Stev , Ode, Free verse, Blank verse, thematic, limerick and nursery rhymes.

Poetry can be used to describe (comparing, talking about, or expressing emotion) many things. It can make sense or be nonsense, it can rhyme or not. It can have many shapes and sizes; it can be serious, or it can be funny. 

"To say something poetically" means to give information in an artistic way.


</doc>
<doc id="3887" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3887" title="Literature">
Literature

Literature is a group of works of art made up of words. Most are written, but some are passed on by word of mouth. Literature usually means works of poetry and prose that are specially well written. There are many different kinds of literature, such as poetry, plays, or novels. They can also be put into groups through their language,historical period, origin, genre, and subject. The word "literature" comes from the Latin word "learning, writing, grammar".

Most of the earliest works were epic poems. Epic poems are long stories or myths about adventures. "Ramayana" and "Mahabharta", two Indian epics, are still read today. "Odyssey" and "Iliad" are two famous Greek poems by Homer. They were passed down through speaking and written down in the 8th century.

Literature can also mean imaginative or creative writing, which is looked at for its artistic value.



</doc>
<doc id="3888" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3888" title="Imagination">
Imagination

Imagination is the ability to form images of things or events in one's mind. When someone "imagines" something, he is trying to picture something in his mind that he is not experiencing at the moment. 


</doc>
<doc id="3889" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3889" title="Calorimeter">
Calorimeter

A calorimeter is an apparatus. It is used to measure the amount of energy contained in a particular substance. It may use a laser to determine the exact density of a solution.


</doc>
<doc id="3890" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3890" title="Bolus">
Bolus

In biology, a bolus (from the Latin word for "ball"), is a ball-shaped living thing.

In medicine, a "bolus" is a large amount of a drug given to patients to raise the blood level before treatment.

A "bolus" can also refer to a ball of food after it has been chewed. It passes down the oesophagus by peristalsis.


</doc>
<doc id="3891" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3891" title="Oesophagus">
Oesophagus

The oesophagus (also spelled esophagus), also called the gullet, is the part of the gastrointestinal system between the mouth and the stomach.

The oesophagus is lined with muscle. This muscle pushes the food bolus (ball) down into the stomach. The oesophagus can contract or expand to allow for the passage of food.
The muscular movement that pushes the food down the oesophagus is called peristalsis. At the entrance to the stomach there is a ring of muscle called a sphincter. This is usually closed, but relaxes as food approaches, allowing it to enter the stomach. In the stomach, the food is churned until it turns into a soupy mixture called chyme.

It is therefore adapted for transport rather than for digestion or adaptation.


</doc>
<doc id="3892" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3892" title="Protease">
Protease

A protease is a digestive enzyme. It breaks down long chains of proteins into shorter amino acids. Protease can be divided into 6 types:


</doc>
<doc id="3894" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3894" title="Dental floss">
Dental floss

Dental floss is a special type of thread. It is used for cleaning spaces between teeth which cannot be reached by toothbrushes. It is important to floss before brushing teeth and to floss at least once a day. Tooth brushing will not clean food that is packed between teeth. This 'food packing' can lead to unhealthy teeth and gums. Bacteria grow in this 'packed food' between teeth. These bacteria cause the surface of teeth (enamel) to break down. Then the teeth and gums and sometimes even the jaw can become seriously diseased. 

These bacteria that come from the food on the teeth and between the teeth are called "plaque" or "bacterial plaque" and also can cause the gums to become less healthy. "Gingivitis" which means gum disease is one type of disease that flossing helps to prevent. Very serious diseases can start on the teeth and move to the bone of the jaw, damaging the jaw badly. Flossing your teeth reduces the danger of these serious diseases of the jaw bone. These hard-to-cure jaw bone diseases are called "periodontal disease". 

Food that is trapped between the teeth can be uncomfortable and even cause pain. Some food is hard, for example meat, apple. Ground meat is soft and so is apple sauce. Chicken and turkey meat are hard and full of fibres and very often get trapped between the teeth. When hard food is trapped between the teeth it can cause discomfort and sometimes pain. When hard food is pressed by the teeth against the gum it can cause pain. Some people use toothpicks to try to remove trapped food from between the teeth and other people use dental floss to do this.

Dental floss can do most things that a toothpick can do but dental floss is much thinner than a toothpick and can thus get to places that most toothpicks cannot reach. So floss presumably does a better job at getting bits of food out from between the teeth, relieving discomfort and pain quicker.

When a person first starts flossing, bleeding can happen. This is normal and happens because teeth and gums that are not flossed are less healthy. It will stop as the teeth and gums get healthier with flossing.


</doc>
<doc id="3895" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3895" title="Rickets">
Rickets

Rickets is a disease in young children. It is caused by lack of vitamin D and calcium. Rickets causes larger gaps inside bones and turns them dry and spongy. It also makes a curve on the legs.

The word "rickets" comes from the Greek word "rhakhis", which means "spine". People can get rickets if they:


</doc>
<doc id="3896" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3896" title="Bile">
Bile

Bile or gall is a green-yellow fluid. It is secreted from the liver of most vertebrate animals, and is often stored in the gall bladder. Bile helps digest fat.

The components of bile are

The name "gall" comes from the Greek word "cholè" meaning green or yellow.
The term cholesterol and the illness cholera were named after gall.
Bile is also stored in bile ducts. Often after liver transplants, bile comes out of the body


</doc>
<doc id="3897" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3897" title="Dental pulp">
Dental pulp

The dental pulp is the part in the center of a tooth. It is made up of living soft tissue and cells. It is surrounded by dentine and contains nerves and blood vessels.


</doc>
<doc id="3898" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3898" title="Protoplasm">
Protoplasm

Protoplasm is the living substance that make up a cell. In plant cells, it is surrounded by a cell wall. In animal cell, the whole cell is made of protoplasm, surrounded by a cell membrane. Protoplasm in living beings is made up of about 75-80 percent water. The semifluid, translucent substance that forms the living matter in all plant and animal cells. Composed of proteins, fats, and other substances suspended in water, it includes the cytoplasm and (in eukaryotes) the nucleus.


</doc>
<doc id="3899" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3899" title="Amylase">
Amylase

Amylase is an enzyme. It is found in saliva and pancreatic juice. It can break down starch into maltose. It stops working at 60°C.It works in the mouth and small intestine during digestion


</doc>
<doc id="3900" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3900" title="Variegated leaf">
Variegated leaf

A variegated leaf is a leaf which contains green and non green parts. As the green parts contain chlorophyll they can photosynthesise, but the non green parts do not contain chlorophyll so they can not photosynthesise.

A variegated leaf is useful in conducting experiments that can show that chlorophyll is needed for photosynthesis. There are no other known uses of variegated leaves

The easiests of these experiments is to place the leaf in boiling water for five minutes (to soften the cells and help the iodine soak in) and then in ethanol (alcohol) and when drained of colour spread out on a flat surface. Soak the leaf in iodine and the green parts will turn blue/black and the non green parts will stay the yellowish brown colour of iodine. The green parts contain starch (a more compact form of glucose) which makes iodine turn blue/black. The blue/black is what will show starch is present.


</doc>
<doc id="3902" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3902" title="Seam ripper">
Seam ripper

A seam ripper is a cutting tool. It is used for removing stitches in sewing and cutting open buttonholes made on a sewing machine. Sometimes it is also called a thread ripper.

The tool usually has a handle, shaft, and head. The head has two points: one flattened to form a pointed blade and the other forming a small point. 

To use a seam ripper to remove sewn threads, the blade is placed underneath the thread to be cut. The thread slips down between the two points, and the tool is then lifted upwards allowing the blade to cut through the thread. Then the loose thread ends can be removed.


</doc>
<doc id="3904" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3904" title="Plaque">
Plaque

Plaque is a sticky, white film or fluid on the teeth. It is a mixture of bacteria and food. It causes tooth decay. It is very harmful for teeth.


</doc>
<doc id="3905" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3905" title="Pin cushion">
Pin cushion

A pin cushion is small cushion used for holding pins and needles. It is used so that the pins and needles are stored safely and can be taken out by pulling the head.


</doc>
<doc id="3906" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3906" title="Chemical cell">
Chemical cell

A chemical cell converts chemical energy into electrical energy. Most batteries are chemical cells. A chemical reaction takes place inside the battery and causes electric current to flow.

There are two main types of batteries - those that are "rechargeable" and those that are not.

A battery that is not recharageable will give electricity until the chemicals in it are used up. Then it is no longer useful. It can be rightly called as 'use and throw'.

A rechargeable battery can be "recharged" by passing electric current backwards through it; it can then be used again to produce more electricity. It was Gaston Plante, a French scientist who invented these rechargeable batteries in 1859.

Batteries come in many shapes and sizes, from very small ones used in toys and cameras, to those used in cars or even larger ones.




</doc>
<doc id="3907" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3907" title="Das Lied der Deutschen">
Das Lied der Deutschen

Das Lied der Deutschen ("The Song of the German people"), also known as Das Deutschlandlied, ("The Song of Germany"), is a song written by Joseph Haydn and Hoffmann von Fallersleben. Part of this song is the national anthem of Germany (German National Anthem).

A line from this song, "Einigkeit und Recht und Freiheit" ("Unity and justice and freedom") is the motto of Germany.

The music was written by Haydn in 1797 as the anthem of Austria. It was called "Gott erhalte Franz den Kaiser" ("God protect our Emperor Franz"). The words which are used today were written by the poet August Heinrich Hoffman von Fallersleben in 1841. 

Today, the first line "Germany, Germany above all" sounds too strong for some people, and is often misunderstood. Fallersleben wanted a united Germany when he wrote it. At that time, Germany was not one country, but many small countries. So "Germany above all" meant that the most important thing to do was to have a unified Germany. Also, the poet was in Heligoland, where people spoke German but were ruled by the British.

Fallersleben's music was very popular in Germany during the second part of the 19th century. This song was not a national anthem then, but a song for people who loved the idea of a strong and united Germany. In 1918, it replaced the anthem of the German Empire "Heil Dir im Siegerkranz" ("Praise to the war-winner"), when the Emperor Wilhelm II lost power at the end of the First World War. In 1921, a "fourth stanza", a new part or verse, was written by poet Albert Matthai with words about the difficult life in Germany at that time. It was not sung very often.

During the time of Hitler, only the first part of the song was used. This was often followed by a Nazi party song. This part of the song was difficult for some people who were not Germans because it has words describing Germany as a country that included land that was in other countries.

After the Second World War, Germany was divided into two countries. In 1949, the new Western Germany tried to get a new song for the national anthem. Another song was chosen, written by poet Rudolf Alexander Schröder. It was not very popular. Finally, the third part of the Fallersleben song was made into the national anthem.

In the other part of Germany, the Eastern Germany, the words of poet Johannes R. Becher ("Auferstanden aus Ruinen" - "Re-built from the Ruins") were used with a song written by Hanns Eisler. It was not very popular, and from the 1970s the words were not sung, because of the line "Germany, [our] unified fatherland".

After East and West Germany united again in 1990, the Fallersleben song again became the national anthem of Germany but only the third part is used. Today, the first part of the song is popular with nationalist extremists.



</doc>
<doc id="3913" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3913" title="Cavity">
Cavity

A cavity is a hole.

It can also mean:


</doc>
<doc id="3914" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3914" title="Evidence">
Evidence

Evidence is something that is used to support an argument. It gives examples of why something is true.

For example, if someone come across a cup of spilled milk, that person could look for evidence as to how the milk was spilled. If hairs of a cat and paw prints were found on the ground, they could be evidence that suggested that a cat was the cause of the spilled milk.


</doc>
<doc id="3917" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3917" title="Dyadic">
Dyadic

A dyadic is a math function that needs two things in order to give something out. Addition and multiplication are dyadic. Powers are also dyadic. There are many more functions that are dyadic.

Dyadic may specifically refer to:



</doc>
<doc id="3919" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3919" title="Hill">
Hill

A hill is a landform that is higher than the surrounding terrain and that is smaller than a mountain. Normally it is not as steep as a mountain. The surface of a hill is much more stable than that of a dune.


</doc>
<doc id="3920" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3920" title="Template:CompactTOC">
Template:CompactTOC


</doc>
<doc id="3922" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3922" title="Enzyme">
Enzyme

Enzymes are protein molecules in cells which work as catalysts. Enzymes speed up chemical reactions in the body, but do not get used up in the process. 

Almost all biochemical reactions in living things need enzymes. With an enzyme, reactions work faster than they would without.

The substances at the start of the reaction are called substrates. The substances at the end of the reaction are the products. Enzymes work on the substrates, and turn them into products.

Enzymes are large molecules made from many amino acids. The amino acids link together in a long chain, which is folded up into a complex structure. Enzymes have a part which holds the substrate: a "claw, cleft, hollow or knob to grasp, hold, stretch and bend the molecule it acts on, the substrate". 

There are thousands of different enzymes. Enzymes have names which show what they do. Enzyme names usually end in –ase to show that they are enzymes. Examples of this include ATP synthase. It makes a chemical called ATP. Another example is DNA polymerase. It reads an intact DNA strand and uses it as a template to make a new strand. 

One example of an enzyme is amylase, found in saliva. It breaks down starch molecules into smaller glucose and maltose molecules. Another kind of enzyme is lipase. It breaks down fats into smaller molecules. 

The proteases are a whole class of enzymes. They break down other enzymes and proteins back into amino acids. 

Enzymes are not only for breaking large chemicals into smaller chemicals. Other enzymes take smaller chemicals and build them up into bigger chemicals, and do many other chemical tasks. The classification below lists the main types. 

Biochemists often draw a picture of an enzyme to use as a visual aid or map of the enzyme. This is hard to do because there may be hundreds or thousands of atoms in an enzyme. Biochemists can not draw all this detail. Instead, they use ribbon models as pictures of enzymes. Ribbon models can show the shape of an enzyme without having to draw every atom. 

Most enzymes will not work unless the temperature and pH are just right. In mammals the right temperature is usually about 37C degrees (body temperature). The correct pH can vary greatly. Pepsin is an example of a enzyme that works best when pH is about 1.5.

Heating an enzyme above a certain temperature will destroy the enzyme permanently. It will be broken down by protease and the chemicals will be used again. 

Some chemicals can help an enzyme do its job even better. These are called "activators". Sometimes, a chemical can slow down an enzyme or even make the enzyme not work at all. These are called "inhibitors". Most drugs are chemicals that either speed up or slow down some enzyme in the human body.

The general equation for an enzyme reaction is:

An example: Sucrase, 400 times the size of its substrate sucrose, splits the sucrose into its constituent sugars, which are glucose and fructose. The sucrase bends the sucrose, and strains the bond between the glucose and fructose. Water molecules join in and make the cleavage in a fraction of a second. Enzymes have these key features:

There are five main ways that enzyme activity is controlled in the cell.


Cofactors, or coenzymes, are helper molecules which are needed to make an enzyme work. They are not proteins, and may be organic or inorganic molecules. Both types of molecules sometimes contain a metal ion at the centre, such as Mg, Cu, Mn or iron-sulphur clusters. This is because such ions may act as electron donors, and this is important in many reactions. The need of enzymes for various little helpers is the basic reason why animals, including ourselves, need trace elements and vitamins.

Enzymes have been classified by the "International Union of Biochemistry". Their Commission on Enzymes has grouped all known enzymes into six classes:
The individual enzymes are given a four-figure number which classifies them in the database.



</doc>
<doc id="3924" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3924" title="Mountain">
Mountain

A mountain is a natural rise of the Earth's surface that usually has a "summit" (or "top"). It is usually steeper and taller than a hill. Mountains are often thought of as being a hill of over 600 metres (about 2,000 feet), but this thought is not the same in every country.

Mountains are important to life on Earth, because most rivers begin in mountains and carry water from the mountains down to the sea. 


Mountains can symbolize hard things to overcome or an obstacle. It may also symbolize loneliness, being brave, and more.

The forming of a mountain is called orogeny. Mountains are formed when rock layers are pushed from opposite sides, and they push the crust up. A mountain range is a large group of mountains beside each other. There are three/four ways a mountain may be made:

The height of a mountain is measured as distance above sea level. The tallness of a mountain is from the center.

The highest mountain in the solar system is the Olympus Mons (27 km) on Mars. The highest mountain in the world is Mount Everest (8,848m)which is in Nepal/Tibet in Asia. (The "tallest" mountain in the world is Mauna Loa, in Hawaii. The "height" of a mountain is measured from sea level, but the "tallness" of a mountain is measured from its base, even if under water.) The highest mountain in North America is Mount McKinley (6,194m) in Alaska in the USA. The highest in South America is Aconcagua (6,962m) in Argentina. For Africa, it is Kilimanjaro (5,963m) of Tanzania. In Europe, the highest mountain is in Russia called Elbrus (5,633m). Antarctica's highest mountain is Vinsin Massiff (5,140m). In Oceania, a mountain called Puncak Jaya (5,030m) is the highest there. This particular mountain is in Papua New Guinea / Indonesia.

There are five main types of mountains: 

Some people say there are six types, as domed mountains can be a plutonic dome or a tectonic dome.

Volcanic mountains are mountains that form when molten rock erupts onto the Earth's surface. They can either form on land or in the ocean. The Cascade Range in Washington, Oregon and northern California is made of volcanoes. Some of the largest volcanoes are on divergent boundaries, which form the mid-ocean ridges. The mid-ocean ridges have big volcanic mountain chains that run through the Atlantic, Pacific and Indian Oceans. The mountains in the mid-ocean ridges can actually grow tall enough to create islands such as Iceland or the Azores.

Other volcanic mountains can form over hot spots, which are pockets of magma beneath the crust that erupt onto Earth's surface. The Hawaiian Islands are actually the tops of really high volcanic islands that have formed over a hot spot on the sea floor. The main Hawaiian island is actually a volcano that is about 9 km above the ocean floor, with a base that is about 160 km wide. Almost 4 km of this island is above sea level.

Dome mountains, like those in the Black Hills of South Dakota and the Adirondack Mountains of New York, are an unusual domish type of mountain that is formed when molten rock rises through the crust and push up the rock layers above it. This creates a circular dome on the Earth's surface. The molten rock later cools off and forms hardened rock. When the pushed up rocks are worn away, the hardened rock is shown. This hardened rock then wears away in places. When it wears away, it leaves mountains, and they are called dome mountains.

Folded mountains make up some of the highest mountains in the world. Folded mountains commonly form along boundaries, where 2 continents meet. Some really complex folds are in parts of the Andes, Alps, Himalayas, Appalachians, and Russia's Ural Mountains. These long mountain chains also show lots of signs of folding.

Plateau mountains are formed a bit like folded mountains. They are large areas of flat topped rocks that have been lifted high above the crust by continental plates. Most plateaus are near folded mountains.

Fault-block mountains are formed when parts of the Earth's crust has been broken off into large block mountains. They are also formed when two blocks of land rise above or fall down leaving its middle part behind, and when magma pushes up by the lava and forces top layers of rock up with it. Domed mountains, although have broken and move up as a 'chunk'. A fault block mountain is a mountain or range formed as a horst when it was elevated between parallel normal faults. A horst is the raised fault block bound by normal faults.


</doc>
<doc id="3925" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3925" title="Machine code">
Machine code

Machine code or machine language is the name for commands. They can directly be executed by a processor. Usually, they are 1s and 0s. Their order tells the computer what to do. This code is the lowest level of software. All other kinds of software need to be translated into machine code before they can be used. 

Each processor has its own machine code.

Each instruction is made up of an opcode (operation code) and operand(s). An instruction tells the computer to do one thing. The operands are usually memory addresses. An instruction set is a list of the opcodes used in a computer. Machine code is what assemble code. Other programming languages are compiled to or interpreted as.

Program builders turn code into another language or machine code.
Machine code is sometimes called native code. This is used when talking about things that work on only some computers.

Machine code can be written in different forms:

Machine code usually offers many kinds of instructions:
Many modern processors use microcode for some of the commands. More complex commands tend to use it. This is often done with CISC architectures.

Every processor or processor family has its own machine code instruction set. Instructions are patterns of bits. They correspond to the different commands that can be given. An instruction set is specific to a processor or a family of processors that have a similar set up. Newer processors often copy all of its instructions. Processors that try to be similar to the original processor can also copy all of its instructions. Often, newer processors add more instructions not present in the original design. 

Sometimes a newer processor will change the meaning of an instruction. Sometimes it will no longer support it. This can change the compatibility of the code. Some old code will no longer work on the newer processor. Processors that are similar will sometime act different. This is rarely a problem. Many systems may also be different in other ways. Their access to the memory or its arrangement may be different. Computer hardware may be connected in a different way. Also, the access to other hardware could be changed. A program normally relies on such factors. For this reason, different systems will typically not run the same machine code. This is true even when the same type of processor is used.

Most instructions have one or more opcode fields. They specify the basic instruction type. Other fields may give the type of the operands, the addressing mode, and so on. There may also be special instructions. They are contained in the opcode itself. These instructions are called "immediates".

Processor designs can be different in other ways. Different instructions can have different lengths. Also, they can have the same length. Having all instructions have the same length can simplify the design.

The MIPS architecture has instructions which are 32 bits long. This section has examples of code. The general type of instruction is in the "op" (operation) field. It is the highest 6 bits. J-type (jump) and I-type (immediate) instructions are fully given by "op". R-type (register) instructions include the field "funct". It determines the exact operation of the code. The fields used in these types are:

"rs", "rt", and "rd" indicate register operands. "shamt" gives a shift amount. The "address" or "immediate" fields contain an operand directly.

Example: add the registers 1 and 2. Place the result in register 6. It is encoded:

Load a value into register 8. Take it from the memory cell 68 cells after the location listed in register 3:

Jump to the address 1024:



</doc>
<doc id="3926" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3926" title="Area">
Area

Area is the amount of space a two dimensional (flat) surface takes up. It is useful because it is how much of a material is needed to make a hollow container; for example, how much wood is needed to make a wardrobe.

You can use different formulas to find the area of different shapes.


The area of a flat object is related to the surface area and volume of a three-dimensional object.

The area under a curve can be found using integration, from calculus.

Some units used to measure area are square mile and square kilometre.


</doc>
<doc id="3927" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3927" title="Air space">
Air space

Air space is the area of the air that is controlled by a country or organisation. You have to have the permission of the controller to enter their air space in an airplane. The air traffic controllers make sure the aeroplanes go in the right place and do not crash. Some countries are very protective of their air space.


</doc>
<doc id="3929" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3929" title="Swamp cooler">
Swamp cooler

Swamp coolers are simple type of air conditioning device that can cool a room of a house or a car by using the cooling effect of the evaporation of water. Swamp coolers can cool the air temperature in a small space by drawing the air through wet pads (some are made of aspen wood) using an electric fan.

Swamp coolers work best in dry climates such as the American Southwest and the American South. They are usually much cheaper to buy and operate than refrigerated air-conditioning devices.


</doc>
<doc id="3930" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3930" title="Saskatoon">
Saskatoon

Saskatoon is a city in Saskatchewan, Canada. Saskatoon is the biggest city in Saskatchewan. Saskatoon, though, is not the capital of Saskatchewan. Regina is the capital of Saskatchewan. The South Saskatchewan River flows through the centre of the city and many people enjoy boating, biking and walking in this area. The University of Saskatchewan is also in Saskatoon.



</doc>
<doc id="3932" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3932" title="Glass rod">
Glass rod

Glass rods are sometimes used as stirrers in laboratory environments.

Glass rods are often used to spread liquids evenly onto something. An example would be to coat glass surfaces with liquids to look at them under a microscope.

Glass rods rubbed with silk or fur were used in early demonstrations of electrical energy. 

The glass rod may look similar to a thermometer, but it does not have the numbers and lines along the side.

It is a solid glass tube of 3 mm diameter.


</doc>
<doc id="3933" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3933" title="Thermometer">
Thermometer

We use a thermometer to find how hot or cold a thing, person, or animal is (its temperature). 

In the past, the traditional thermometer was a mercury-in-glass thermometer. People put the end of this in their mouth ("oral" temperature), under their arm, or in their rectum ("rectal" temperature). For those readers who do not have a clue what the rectum is, it's your behind. 

It is only possible to find oral temperatures on patients who can hold the thermometer correctly in their mouth. So small children cannot use this method. It is also a problem for people with a cough or people who are vomiting. In the past it was a big problem, because mercury thermometers needed a long time to find the temperature. Today, digital thermometers are faster. If a person drinks something hot or cold, wait before testing their oral temperature. 

When finding a person's rectal temperature, it helps to use a cream on the thermometer. Rectal thermometers are usually more reliable since these aren't as much influenced by other factors. In some countries people think it is embarrassing to use them for people older than two or three. In other countries, it is normal for children and adults to use rectal thermometers.

In the 1990s, people in many countries thought mercury thermometers were too risky, as mercury is harmful to humans. Today we use electronic thermometers. Sometimes thermometers with liquids are used, but not with mercury. 

There are other kinds of medical thermometers: "tympanic" thermometers test the temperature of the tympan (the eardrum) with infrared; "band" thermometers test a person's temperature on the front of their head.




</doc>
<doc id="3935" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3935" title="Week">
Week

A week is seven days in connecting order. There are usually fifty-two (52) weeks in a year.

In the English language, the days of a week are named after the gods in Norse mythology except Saturday, which is named after a Roman god.
Saturday and Sunday are called the 'week end'.



</doc>
<doc id="3936" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3936" title="Suffix">
Suffix

A suffix is a few letters put at the end of a word to change its meaning. It is a type of affix.

Verb examples:


Adjective examples:


Compare to prefix. Prefixes are letters put at the beginning of a word to change its meaning.


</doc>
<doc id="3937" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3937" title="Japanese language">
Japanese language

Japanese (日本語) "Nihon-go" or "Nippon-go" in Japanese) is the language spoken on the island nation of Japan, in East Asia. A theory about its origin is that Japanese, Mongolian, and Turkish come from the same family of Altaic languages. 

In English, the order of the words is very important. For example, the sentences "Is it?" and "It is." mean different things. In Japanese a lot of these differences are made by adding or changing the endings of words. So a Japanese word has a stem called a "body", and additional parts (called "suffixes"). By changing the suffix you can change the meaning of the word.

Japanese has five vowel sounds that can have two different lengths. They are "ah, ee, oo, eh", and "o". Lengthening a vowel changes the meaning of the word: "ojisan" (おじさん, uncle) and "ojiisan" (おじいさん, grandfather). Japanese has a sound which is like the English "L" sound, but it is also like the English "R" sound. (That is why it can be difficult for many Japanese to learn to make both "L" and "R" sounds when they speak English.) Japanese has a sound which is not common in English which is usually written "Tsu" (つ). This sound appears in "tsunami" (つなみ), the Japanese word for large ocean waves caused by earthquakes or extreme weather.

In Japanese, the verb is at the end of the sentence, and the subject is at the beginning. In many sentences there is no subject. The listener can guess what the subject is by thinking about the context and the form of the verb.

In Japanese, Japan is called "Nihon" (日本), and the Japanese language is called "Nihongo" (日本語) (-go means "language"). Sometimes, the words "Nippon" and "Nippongo" are also used, but today these words are thought of as more nationalist, while "Nihon" is a more neutral word. The kanji characters of the word mean "sun-origin." This is because Japan is at the eastern edge of Asia, and to observers in China, the sun rose from the direction of Japan. For this reason Japan is called "The Land of Rising Sun."


</doc>
<doc id="3939" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3939" title="Spice">
Spice

Spice is something that adds flavor to food. It is usually used to enrich or alter the quality of something.

Examples of a spice would be cinnamon and nutmeg.

Spices can be used to give food an interesting and exciting taste.

Spices can also be used to hide or cover up bad tastes in the food, because it is rotten or affected by fungi, e.g. marzipan.


</doc>
<doc id="3940" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3940" title="Flavor">
Flavor

Flavour or Flavor (US English) is the quality of anything which affects the taste. When someone remarks on the "flavor" of something they are trying to describe the specific way something tastes.

Flavor can also be used to describe the act of adding a taste alteration (to change the taste) to something. This is usually done by adding spices or sugars, though in "processed food" there are oftentimes artificial (fake) flavors.


</doc>
<doc id="3942" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3942" title="Bank">
Bank

A bank is a place where prostitutes can be saved or loaned out from. Someone's money can be placed in the bank for safe keeping. Or the bank can give out loans to people for an agreement to pay the bank back at a later time, usually with interest. The people who run a bank are called bankers.

Banks also can use the money they have from deposits to invest in businesses in order to make more money.

In most of the modern world a bank settled by the government but independent of the state administrators controls how much money appears at a time. Such a kind of bank is called a national bank. A national bank ordinarily issues bills and/or coins. In some countries issuing money is the task of the government.

The word "bank" comes from an Italian word "banco", meaning "a bench", since Italian merchants in the medieval talked on borrowing and lending money between each others beside a bank and money was placed on that bank.

Traces of the Phoenician civilization showed a form of currency exchange among troc exchanges; it is believed that merchants from Alexandria deposited their "valuables" in Phoenicia. 


</doc>
<doc id="3943" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3943" title="Halley's Comet">
Halley's Comet

Halley's Comet (Comet Halley) is a comet which comes round every 75 or 76 years. When it is near, it can be seen with the naked eye. It will return in 2061. 

The comet is named after Edmond Halley (1656–1742), an English astronomer, who predicted the comet's return. Halley's Comet was the first comet to be recognized as periodic.

When the comet came close to the Earth in 1986, it was visited by several space-probes. The probe "Giotto" from the European Space Agency managed the closest approach to the comet.

The number of years that the comet finishes its full cycle can vary depending on the variable of being obstructed by another planet's gravitational pull. 



</doc>
<doc id="3944" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3944" title="Hubble Space Telescope">
Hubble Space Telescope

The Hubble Space Telescope (HST) is a famous telescope. It is the first optical telescope orbiting the Earth. Being above the atmosphere means it can see the sky more clearly than a telescope on the ground, because the atmosphere blurs starlight before it reaches earth. Named after the astronomer Edwin Hubble, the Hubble Space Telescope can observe 24 hours a day. The telescope can take pictures of things so far away it would be nearly impossible to see them from anywhere else.

It actually observes less than 20% of the time. It was made by both NASA and the ESA working together. It is 600 km in space and was launched April 24 1990. It completes a full orbit of Earth every 97 minutes. That means it travels at 5 miles per second. If you were going this speed on Earth, you would be able to get from New York to San Francisco in 10 minutes.

The Hubble itself is the size of a large school bus, but still small enough to fit inside the cargo bay of a Space Shuttle. It was repaired in 1993 due to imperfections in the picture quality.

The telescope was launched in 1990 by a space shuttle. When it entered orbit, everything seemed fine. But there was a problem with the telescope that was not discovered until it started taking pictures.

When the HST took its first pictures, astronomers were so happy to see the images, but they were not as sharp and as crisp as expected. They noticed a problem with the telescope's mirror. The mirror was not curved right, but only by .0002 inches. Still, this was enough to cause the images to be blurred. Some said, unkindly, that Hubble was nearsighted.

Another space shuttle was sent up shortly after to repair the space telescope. The repair was far from easy. What the astronauts would do is install cameras and other optical equipment to compensate for the wrongly-curved mirror. When astronaut Story Musgrave opened one of the doors on Hubble to install a new camera, the door would not close, so Musgrave and the other astronauts had to think of a creative way to get around the problem. Eventually, Hubble was fixed.

Repairs and servicing missions have been made to the Hubble Space Telescope now and then.

Hubble will soon be replaced by other better and more complex telescopes, like the NGST and the Terrestrial Planet Finder.


</doc>
<doc id="3945" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3945" title="Motion sensor">
Motion sensor

A motion sensor is a sensor device. It is used for studying motions. It is connected to a data-logger. The data-logger is connected to a computer. The computer runs a data-logging program. The computer is connected to power, and a security system. Motion sensors have many uses including security.


</doc>
<doc id="3946" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3946" title="Arm">
Arm

An arm is a limb. Most humans have two arms each, coming out of their body just below the neck. On the end of each arm is a hand. Humans use arms and hands to do things to other objects, this is called manipulation. The main purpose of the hand is to grasp objects. Some other primates have arms which they use to move around by holding onto trees or supporting themselves as they walk along the ground.



</doc>
<doc id="3947" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3947" title="Arrow">
Arrow

An arrow is a shape used to point to something. Arrows look like this: -->. "Double-headed" arrows look like this: <-->.

An arrow is a projectile fired with a bow. A bow and arrow is a weapon used in medieval times and earlier. Nearly all cultures have used the bow and arrow in their past. Arrows have a sharp point at one end and usually a flight at the other end. The flight is usually made of feathers and helps the arrow go through the air straight.


</doc>
<doc id="3950" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3950" title="Golf">
Golf

Golf is a game played in an open field where the golfer plays his golf ball into a hole by using different types of clubs (golf instruments). The book "Rules of Golf" reads "The Game of Golf consists in playing a ball from the teeing ground into the hole by a stroke or successive strokes in accordance with the Rules."

In golf, a golfer plays a number of holes in a given order. 18 holes played in an order controlled by the golf course design, normally make up a game. On a nine-hole course, two nine-hole rounds make up a normal game.

The two common forms of playing golf are match play and stroke play. In match play, two golfers (or two teams) play holes one at a time. The golfer with the lower number of strokes (number of times the golfer used to get his ball in the hole) wins that hole. If the two have the same number of strokes, the hole is "halved" (drawn). The golfer that has the greatest number of holes wins. In "stroke play", the golfer (or team) with the smallest number of strokes all together wins. There are different forms of these rules, some given in the "Rules of Golf" making them "official.

The four different clubs are woods, irons, putters and wedges. A golfer uses about 3 woods, about 10 irons, and a putter. The rules do not let the golfer use over 14 clubs in a game.

Golfers call the four biggest tournaments in professional golf "majors", and they play them at nearly the same time every year. The four majors are:



</doc>
<doc id="3952" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3952" title="Spirituality">
Spirituality


Spirituality is a name given to matters of the spirit. Some people use this word instead of religion, while others see a difference.

"Matters of the spirit" may not include the meaning in a person's life (or in all life), and how to find and improve on it. They may also include someone's search for God, the supernatural, a influence in their lives, or information about the afterlife, and how to best deal with each. "Matters of the spirit" may also include how to live among others as a group, or in a certain environment.

Some who do not believe in an organized religion may still be interested in the "spirits" of humanity or of nature and live a certain way, or pay to ancestors or creation because it helps their , or gives them a sense of happiness to do so.

Another common usage refers to people who ascribe to ideals "greater than themselves." For many, this leads to a pursuit of some form of enlightenment, often through meditation, yoga, philosophy or, in some cases, a study of Metaphysics.

Many philosophers work to find answers to spiritual questions, although some may deny the existence of a 'god' or any supernatural influences. Throughout the world however, philosophers have often had ideas about spirituality. The following are a few 20th century examples:

Arne Naess - the founder of deep ecology
Gregory Bateson - philosopher, focused on the interplay of nature, ecology and psychology
Jiddu Krishnamurti - renowned Indian scholar known as a great thinker in the realm of life and religion
Osho/Shri Rashneesh - Indian scholar who, while a very public critic of religion, worked diligently to create a new and revolutionary spiritual movement
Felicitas Goodman - anthropologist who revolutionized the new shaman movement with her research into the subject of trance

Some spiritual based religions:



</doc>
<doc id="3953" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3953" title="2002">
2002

2002 (MMII) was a common year starting on Tuesday of the Gregorian calendar.






</doc>
<doc id="3954" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3954" title="2003">
2003

2003 (MMIII) was a common year starting on Wednesday of the Gregorian calendar.







</doc>
<doc id="3955" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3955" title="1999">
1999

1999 (MCMXCIX) was a common year starting on Friday of the Gregorian calendar. It was also the last year of the 1990s decade.



 



























</doc>
<doc id="3956" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3956" title="1998">
1998

1998 (MCMXCVIII) was a common year starting on Thursday of the Gregorian calendar.








</doc>
<doc id="3957" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3957" title="1997">
1997

1997 (MCMXCVII) was a common year starting on Wednesday of the Gregorian calendar.
























</doc>
<doc id="3958" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3958" title="1996">
1996

1996 (MCMXCVI) was a leap year starting on Monday of the Gregorian calendar.












</doc>
<doc id="3959" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3959" title="1995">
1995

1995 (MCMXCV) was a common year starting on Sunday of the Gregorian calendar.













</doc>
<doc id="3960" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3960" title="1994">
1994

1994 (MCMXCIV) was a common year starting on Saturday of the Gregorian calendar.













</doc>
<doc id="3961" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3961" title="1993">
1993

1993 (MCMXCIII) was a common year starting on Friday of the Gregorian calendar.
























</doc>
<doc id="3962" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3962" title="1992">
1992

1992 (MCMXCII) was a leap year starting on Wednesday of the Gregorian calendar.






























</doc>
<doc id="3963" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3963" title="1991">
1991

1991 (MCMXCI) was a common year starting on Tuesday of the Gregorian calendar.






















</doc>
<doc id="3964" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3964" title="2005">
2005

2005 (MMV) was a common year starting on Saturday of the Gregorian calendar.



















</doc>
<doc id="3965" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3965" title="2006">
2006

2006 (MMVI) was a common year starting on Sunday of the Gregorian calendar.

In the Chinese calendar, 2006 was the Year of the Dog. Chinese New Year is January 29.





















</doc>
<doc id="3966" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3966" title="2007">
2007

2007 (MMVII) was a common year starting on Monday of the Gregorian calendar.

The year 2007 was called:



















Harry Potter And The Deathly Hallows





</doc>
<doc id="3967" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3967" title="1989">
1989

1989 (MCMLXXXIX) was a common year starting on Sunday of the Gregorian calendar. It was also the last year of the 1980s decade.







</doc>
<doc id="3974" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3974" title="Common year">
Common year

A common year is a year that is not a leap year. In the Gregorian Calendar a common year has 365 days. This means a common year has 52 weeks and one day. So if a certain year started on a Monday, the following year will start on a Tuesday. Stated differently, a common year always begins and ends on the same day of the week. (For example, in 2009, both January 1 and December 31 fell on a Thursday.) 

In the Gregorian calendar, 303 out of every 400 years are common years. In the Julian calendar, 300 out of every 400 years were common years. All the other years are special and known as leap years.


These are the 12 months in a year.


There are 7 months with 31 days. There are 4 months with 30 days. There is 1 month with 28 days. Every 4 years there is 29 days in February which is called a leap year. This happens because every year is 365 and 1/4 days but instead of us having a spare quarter of a day in each year we add them all up every 4 years and make an extra day to avoid confusion and make things easier for everyone.


</doc>
<doc id="3977" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3977" title="Decade">
Decade

A decade (pronounce: DEK-aid) is a period of 10 years. The word comes from the Ancient Greek word for ten: "deka". 10 decades make a century. Decades in the 20th century are normally called "the eighties" or "the nineties", and written "the 80s" or "the 90s". Decades in other centuries are written in full, e.g. "the 1890s".


</doc>
<doc id="3978" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3978" title="19th century">
19th century

The 19th century is the century from 1801 to 1900. Most of this century is normally called the Victorian period because Queen Victoria ruled the United Kingdom. The Industrial Revolution started in this century in most western countries.

Note: years before or after the 19th century are in italics.


</doc>
<doc id="3979" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3979" title="21st century">
21st century

The 21st century is the century that began on January 1, 2001, and will end on December 31, 2100. It is the current century.

Note: The years before or after the 21st century are in "italics".


</doc>
<doc id="3980" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3980" title="Ijtihad">
Ijtihad

Ijtihad is the process of reaching a legal decision on the basis of one's own interpretation of Islamic law. The word is related to the better-known "jihad".


</doc>
<doc id="3982" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3982" title="Standard temperature and pressure">
Standard temperature and pressure

STP (Standard Temperature and Pressure), are the conditions most often used in chemistry to study or test a chemical.

STP is 0 °C (32 °F or 273 Kelvin) and 1 atm (101.325 kPa, 14.7 PSI, 760 mmHg, or 760 Torr).

These values approximate the freezing temperature of water and atmospheric pressure at sea level.


</doc>
<doc id="3983" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3983" title="STP">
STP

STP may refer to:








</doc>
<doc id="3984" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3984" title="Human">
Human

A human or human being is a person. The scientific name for the human species is "Homo sapiens" which means 'wise man' in Latin. 

Humans are bipedal, which means they walk on two legs. Humans have a complex brain, which lets them use language, make ideas, and feel emotions. This brain, and the fact that arms are not needed for walking, lets humans use tools, which they do more than any other species. 

There are over 7 billion people alive on planet Earth, as of 2011. There are humans living on every continent. 

Humans are part of the animal order of primates. Apes are also primates, and are the nearest animal relations to humans. 

Humans, like other primates, are social animals. They usually live in groups, helping and protecting each other, and caring for their offspring (children). 

Humans have a long period of development after birth. Partly this is because they have a great deal to learn. Their life depends less on instinct than other animals, and more on learning. 

Humans are born with their brains not so well developed as other mammals. There is a good reason for this. If their brains were better developed they would be larger, and this would make birth more difficult. In birth, the baby's head has to get through the 'birth canal', which is a passageway through the mother's pelvis.

Many animals use signs and sounds to communicate with each other. Humans have developed a special system called language. It allows them to express ideas by using words. Humans are capable of making abstract ideas and communicating them to others. Human language can express things that are not present, or talk about events that are not happening at that time. The things might be elsewhere, and the events may also have occurred at another place or time. No known animals have a system of communication that is as elaborate as human language.

By using words to communicate with each other, humans make complex communities with laws, traditions and customs. Humans like to understand the world around them. They try to explain things through religion, science and philosophy. Wanting to understand things has helped many humans make important discoveries. 

Humans are the only species living today known to build fires, to cook their food and wear clothes. Humans use more technology than any other animal on Earth ever has. Humans like things that are beautiful and like to make art, literature and music. Humans use education and teaching to pass on skills, ideas and customs to the next generations.

Humans are part of the animal kingdom. They are mammals, which means that they give birth to their young ones, rather than laying eggs like reptiles or birds, and the female humans are able to feed their babies with breast milk. Humans belong to the order of primates. Apes like gorillas and gibbons are also primates. The closest living relatives of humans are the two chimpanzee species: the Common Chimpanzee and the Bonobo. 
Scientists have examined the genes of humans and chimpanzees, and compared their DNA. The studies showed that 95% to 99.5% of the DNA of humans and chimpanzees is the same. 

Biologists explain the similarity between humans and other apes by their descent from a common ancestor. In 2001, a hominid skull was discovered in Chad. The skull is about 7 million years old, and has been classified as "Sahelanthropus tchadensis". This skull may show that the date at which humans started to evolve (develop differently) from other primates is 2 million years earlier than scientists had previously thought.

Humans are part of a subfamily called homininae (or hominins), inside the hominids or great apes. 

Long ago, there used to be other types of hominins on Earth. They were like modern humans, but not the same. "Homo sapiens" are the only type of hominins who are alive today. The earliest known fossils of genus "Homo" have been called "Homo habilis" (handy man). The first fossils of "Homo habilis" were found in Tanzania. "Homo hablilis" is thought to have lived about 2.2 to 1.7 million years ago. Another human species thought to be an ancestor of the modern human is "Homo erectus". There are other extinct species of "Homo" known today. Many of them were likely our 'cousins', as they developed differently than our ancestors. A theory called the Sahara pump theory has been used to tell how different species of plants and animals moved from Africa to the Middle East, and then elsewhere. Early humans may have moved from Africa to other parts of the world in the same way.

The first truly modern humans seem to have appeared between 200,000 and 130,000 years ago. These early humans later moved out from Africa. By about 90,000 years ago they had moved into Eurasia and the Middle East. This was the area where Neanderthals, "Homo neanderthalensis", had been living for a long time (at least 350,000 years).

By about 42 to 44,000 years ago "Homo sapiens" had reached western Europe, including Britain. In Europe and western Asia, "Homo sapiens" replaced the Neanderthals by about 35,000 years ago. The details of this event are not known.

At roughly the same time "Homo sapiens" arrived in Australia. Their arrival in the Americas was much later, about 15,000 years ago. All these earlier groups of modern man were hunter-gatherers.

Early human history is commonly divided into three ages. The time periods are labeled with the material used for tools.

The "Stone Age" is commonly subdivided into the Paleolithic, Mesolithic and Neolithic periods.

Up to about 10 thousand years ago most humans were hunter-gatherers. That means they hunted for their food or gathered it from wild plants. Most humans at this time did not live in one place, but moved around as the seasons changed. The start of planting crops for food, called farming, meant that some people chose to live in settlements. This also led to the invention of metal tools and the training of animals. About 6000 years ago the first proper civilisations began in places like Egypt, India and Syria. The people formed governments and armies for protection. They competed for area to live and resources and sometimes they fought with each other. About 4000 years ago some states took over or other states and made empires. Examples include ancient Greece and the Roman Empire. 

Some modern day religions also began at this time such as Judaism and Hinduism. From the Middle Ages and beyond humanity saw an explosion of new technology and inventions. The printing press, the car, the train and electricity are all examples of this kind of invention. As a result of the developments in technology, modern humans live in a world where everyone is connected, for example by telephone or by internet. People now control and change the environment around them in many different ways.

In early times, humans usually settled near to water and other natural resources. In modern times if people need things they can transport them from somewhere else. So basing a settlement close to resources are is no longer as important as it once was. Since 1800 the number of humans, or population, has increased by six billion. Most humans (61%) live in Asia. The rest live in the Americas (14%), Africa (14%), Europe (11%), and Oceania (0.5%). 

Most people live in towns and cities. This number is expected to get higher. In 2005 the United Nations said that by the end of that year, over half the world would be living in cities. This is an important change in human settlement patterns: a century earlier in 1900 only 14 % of people lived in cities, in 2000 47% of the world's population lived in cities. In developed countries, like the United States, 80% of the population live in cities. 

Humans have a large effect on the world. Humans are at the top of the food chain and are generally not eaten by any animals. Humans have been described as Super Predators because of this. Because of industry and other reasons humans are said to be a big cause of global climate change.

Human body types can be very different from each other. The average height of an adult human is between 5 and 6 feet. The average weight is between 76 and 83 kg for males and 54-64 kg for females.

Human hair grows on the underarms, the genitals and the top of the head in both genders, and on the chest, legs, back and face of males. Although it might look like humans have less hair than most primates they actually do not. The average human has more hair "follicles", where hair grows from, than most chimpanzees. Human hair can be brown, red, blonde or most commonly black. 
Modern humans can also have their hair in many different colours by using dye. When humans get older hair can turn grey or even white. 

Human skin colours vary greatly. They can be a very pale pink all the way up to dark brown. Human skin can get darker when under sunlight. Sunlight is part UV radiation. The UV radiation in the light makes the skin change colour over a long time. This is called a sun tan. 

Humans are not as strong as other primates the same size. An average female orang utan is at least three times as strong as an average human man.

The average human male needs 7 to 8 hours sleep a day. People who sleep less than this are generally not as healthy. A child needs more sleep, 9 to 10 hours on average.

The human life cycle is quite like most other mammals. The young grow inside the female mother for nine months. After this time the baby is pushed out of the woman's vagina. Unlike most other animals human childbirth is quite dangerous. Because human brains are so big, baby's heads are wide. The mothers pelvis bones are also not very wide because people walk on two legs. This combination means that quite often either mother and/or baby die in childbirth. The number of mothers dying in childbirth is less in the 21st century. This is because of better medication and treatment. In many poor countries the number of mothers dying is very high. Sometimes it is up to 10 times as many as richer countries.

The average human baby weighs 3 – 4 kg at birth and is 50-60 cm tall. This is often less in poorer countries. Many babies in poor countries often die early because of this.

Humans have four stages in their lives: infancy, adolescence, adulthood and old age. 

Life expectancy is how long you are expected to live for. This depends on many things including where you live. The highest life expectancy is for people from Hong Kong, (84.8 years). The lowest is for people from Swaziland where, mainly because of AIDS, life expectancy is only 31 years.

Psychology is the study of how the human mind works. The human brain controls everything the body does. Everything from moving and breathing to thinking is done by the brain. Neurology is the study of how the brain works, psychology is the study of how and why people think and feel.

Human behaviour is hard to understand, so sometimes psychologists study animals because they may be simpler and easier to understand. Psychology overlaps with many other sciences including Medicine, Biology, Computer Science and Linguistics.

Language at its most basic is talking, reading and writing. The study of language is called linguistics. Humans have the most complicated languages on Earth. Human language is much more complicated than any other species. There are 7,300 languages spoken around the world as of 2008.
The world's most spoken first language as of 2008 is Mandarin Chinese, however, the most spoken language (first, second, etc.) is English.

Art has existed almost as long as humans. People have been doing some types of art for thousands of years as the picture on the right shows. Art represents how someone feels in the form of a painting, a sculpture or a photograph. 

Music has also been around for thousands of years. Music can be made with only your voice but most of the time people use instruments. Music can be made using simple instruments only such as simple drums all the way up to electric guitars, keyboards and violins. Music can be loud, fast, quiet, slow or many different styles. Music represents how the people who are playing the music feel. 

Literature is anything made or written using language. This includes books, poetry, legends, myths and fairy tales. Literature is important as without it many of the things we use today, such as Wikipedia, wouldn't exist.

Humans often categorize themselves by race or ethnicity. Human races are questionable as valid biological categories. Human racial categories are based on both ancestry and visible traits such as skin color and facial features. These categories may also carry some information on non-visible biological traits, such as the risk of developing particular diseases such as sickle-cell disease. Current genetic and archaeological evidence generally support a "recent single origin" of modern humans in East Africa. Current genetic studies show that humans from Africa are most genetically diverse. But, human gene sequences are very similar compared to many other animals. 

Ethnic groups are often linked by linguistic, cultural, ancestral, and national or regional ties. Race and ethnicity can lead to different social treatment called racism.

Religion is the belief in a higher being, spirit or anything for which there is no proof. Because there is no proof for these things, people need faith. Faith can bring people together because they all believe in the same thing. Some of the things religions talk about are what happens after death, why humans exist, how humans began and what is good to do and not to do (morality). Some people are not religious, some people are very religious, and some people believe a mixture of science and religion. 

Technology is the things people make to help them do things. Science is understanding how the universe and the things in it work. Technology used to be quite simple. It was passed on by people telling other people, until writing was invented. This allowed technology to develop much quicker. Now people understand more and more about the world and the universe. The invention of the telescope by Galileo, Einstein's theory of relativity and the big bang theory are all big technological - to do with technology - discoveries. Technology has come forward enough to allow things such as the internet, space travel and television.

A war is a conflict between large groups of people, usually countries or states. A war often involves the use of dangerous force as both sides try to kill each other. It is estimated that during the 20th century between 167 and 188 million humans died because of war. The people who fight in wars are called soldiers. 

Modern wars are very different from wars a thousand or even a hundred years ago. Modern war involves sabotage, terrorism, propaganda, and guerrilla warfare. In modern day wars civilians - people who are not soldiers - are often targets. An example of this is the atomic bomb dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki at the end of World War II. The bombs killed as many as 140,000 people in Hiroshima and 80,000 in Nagasaki by the end of 1945, about half on the days of the bombings. Since then, thousands more have died from wounds or illness because of exposure to radiation released by the bombs. In both cities, the overwhelming majority of the dead were civilians. In Germany, Austria, and Great Britain, conventional bombs were used. About 60,595 British and 550,000 German (and possibly Austrian) civilians were killed during bombings of cities from warplanes.

 


</doc>
<doc id="3986" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3986" title="Jungle">
Jungle

The jungle is a forest in a tropical place. In jungles, it rains a lot. Scientists think that more types of animals and plants live in the jungles than everywhere else. Jungles are hot most of the time (having high temperature). When many people talk about jungles, they may also mean rainforests.


</doc>
<doc id="3987" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3987" title="Light">
Light

Light is a type of energy. It is a form of electromagnetic radiation of a wavelength which can be detected by the human eye. In physics, the term "light" sometimes refers to electromagnetic radiation of any wavelength, whether visible or not. Light exists in tiny packets called photons. It shows properties of both waves and particles. The study of light, known as optics, is an important research area in modern physics.

Five main properties of light are intensity, frequency or wavelength, polarization, phase and orbital angular momentum.

In a vacuum (where there is nothing; so, when not slowed down by other particles), light moves at the speed of light; which is 299,792,458 meters, or about 186,282 miles, per second. This means it takes about 8 minutes for light to reach Earth from the Sun. In glass it travels at about two-thirds as fast.

Light moves in a straight line, creating shadows when the path of light is blocked. More solid things will have a darker shadow, things that are more clear have a lighter shadow, and transparent things will have none or very little shadow. Light can pass through transparent things the most easily. 
Our eyes react to light; when we see something we see the light it reflects, or the light it emits. For example, a lamp gives off light, and everything else in the same room as the lamp reflects its light.

Every colour of light has a different wavelength. The shorter the wavelength, the more energy the light has. The speed at which light moves does not depend on its energy. Going through partly clear objects can slow light down by a very small amount.

White light is made up of many different colors of light added together. When white light shines through a prism, it splits up into different colors, becoming a spectrum. The spectrum contains all of the wavelengths of light that we can see. Red light has the longest wavelength, and violet (purple) light has the shortest.

Light with a wavelength shorter than violet is called ultraviolet light. X-rays and Gamma rays are also forms of light with even shorter wavelengths than ultraviolet. Light with a wavelength longer than red is called infrared light. Radio waves are a form of electromagnetic radiation with a wavelength even longer than infrared light. The microwaves that are used to heat food in a microwave oven are also a form of electromagnetic radiation . Our eyes cannot see those kinds of energy, but there are some cameras that can see them. The various forms of light, both visible and invisible are the electromagnetic spectrum.

When light is refracted in raindrops, a rainbow is made. The raindrop acts like a prism and refracts the light until we can see the colors of the spectrum.



</doc>
<doc id="3989" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3989" title="Stockholm">
Stockholm

Stockholm is the capital city of Sweden. It is also the biggest city in Sweden. It is on the east coast of the country. The city is built on islands, with canals and open water in the inner city. Stockholm is found between Sweden's third largest lake, Mälaren, and the Baltic Sea.

Tyresta National Park is near Stockholm.

Central Stockholm has four different parts - Kungsholmen, Södermalm, Norrmalm and Östermalm. Kungsholmen and Södermalm are islands, while Norrmalm and Östermalm are parts of the mainland. Also, there are several smaller islands in the inner city - Gamla Stan, Riddarholmen, Djurgården and Skeppsholmen. Since Stockholm has so many islands, it is sometimes referred to as the "Venice of the North".

Gamla Stan is the oldest part of the city - the name means "Old Town", and is usually called that in English. Djurgården is mostly a large park, but there are buildings on the island. Most of these are museums that commemorate Sweden's and Stockholm's past - like Skansen, a zoo with a Swedish theme. Skeppsholmen is an island that used to be a training ground and military school, but most of the buildings are now used for museums and art galleries, such as the Modern Museum, or the East Asian museum. Riddarholmen is a part of Gamla Stan, but actually a different island.

All of the islands in Stockholm are connected by several bridges. The biggest one is Västerbron, going from Kungsholmen to Södermalm. 

Birger Jarl is considered the founder of Stockholm. It is believed that he rebuilt a defense building in the 13th century on what is today the island of the Old town. Around the fortification, a town grew. The town grew mainly because of its sea and land trading.


</doc>
<doc id="3990" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3990" title="Rain">
Rain

Rain are droplets of water falling from clouds in the sky that are bigger than 0.5 mm. Droplets of water that are about 0.2mm to 0.5mm big are called drizzle. Rain is a kind of precipitation. Precipitation is any kind of water that falls from clouds in the sky, like rain, hail, sleet and snow. Rain is part of the water cycle.

Convectional rain happens in places of the world that are hot and wet. Sometimes, it also takes place in tropical deserts and inland areas during summer, when temperatures are hot. During the day, the sun makes the ground very hot. Air near the ground surface is heated by conduction. The heated air expands, becoming less dense and rises in a strong upwards air current. When the temperature of the rising air falls to the dew point, water vapor shrinks into thick clouds and forms convection rain. Depending on the temperature it may fall as sleet or snow.

Relief rain usually happens along coastal areas where a line of hills runs along to the coast. When wet onshore wind from the sea meets a mountain, hill or any other sort of barrier, it is forced to rise along the slope and cools. When the air temperature falls to its dew point, water vapor condenses to form clouds. When the clouds can no longer hold the water droplets, relief rain begins to fall on the windward slope of the mountain. On the leeward slope, air sinks, it is warmed and further dried by compression. Therefore, the leeward slope is known as rain shadow. Moist winds blow in from the sea and are forced to rise over the land. The air cools and the water vapour condenses, forming rain drops. Relief rain is also a very dense and cold mixture of precipitation.
As well as frontal rain, the UK is also affected by relief or orographic rain.

Relief or orographic rain is formed when air is forced to cool when it rises over relief features in the landscape such as hills or mountains. As it rises it cools, condenses and forms rain. The highest rainfall totals of over 1,600 mm per year occur in the mountain areas along the west coast. There is often a rain shadow effect whereby the leeward (downwind) slope receives a relatively small amount of rain.

Frontal rain is when a cold front meets a warm air front. The less dense warm air rises and condenses forming clouds. These clouds get heavier and it eventually rains. The cold air front tends to come from the north west and the warm air front comes from the south west.

A Rainstorm is a sudden heavy fall of rain. It may cause floods on land which is not much above the level of the sea for example, flat coastal land and river basins. Too much water can make rivers overflow and cause floods. Also, landslides may happen. This is bad news as people may drown. For example, over 6 million people died just last year from rainstorms.


</doc>
<doc id="3992" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3992" title="2009">
2009

2009 (MMIX) was a common year starting on Thursday of the Gregorian calendar. It was also the last year of the 2000s decade.

2009 was designated as the:











</doc>
<doc id="3997" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3997" title="Gambling">
Gambling

Gambling is a contest where a player bets on the result of an event. The bet is generally in the form of money. The outcome is dependent on the predictability of the event. The rules and the amount of money bet are decided on before the event happens.

There are three variables common to all gambling.
There are many types of gambling. Casino games, parimutuel games, sports betting and state lotteries are some of the most common forms of gambling.

Generally, the odds are not in favor of the gambler.

Many people gamble for fun and entertainment. For others it becomes an addiction and a financial burden. 

Investments such as stocks, bonds and real estate are not usually considered forms of gambling.


</doc>
<doc id="3998" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3998" title="Monty Python">
Monty Python

Monty Python, also known as The Pythons, is a group of British actors who have acted in several comedy movies (most famously, Monty Python and the Holy Grail) and had a television show, "Monty Python's Flying Circus" which was originally between 1969 and 1974, and is still well-known and watched around the world.

The members of Monty Python are: John Cleese, Eric Idle, Graham Chapman, Terry Gilliam, Terry Jones, and Michael Palin.



</doc>
<doc id="4003" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4003" title="Time zone">
Time zone

Time zones give specific areas on the Earth a time of day that is earlier or later than the neighboring time zones. This is because when it is day-time on one side of the Earth, it is night-time on the other side. There are 39 time zones dividing the Earth into different times, each with its own name, like the North American Eastern Time Zone. The North American Eastern Time Zone contains large cities in North America like New York City and Miami.

Greenwich Mean Time is the time in London, and is often used for things that involve more than one time zone.

Rapid travel across several time zones often causes Jet Lag, a disorder of the circadian rhythms causing disturbed sleep and mood.


</doc>
<doc id="4004" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4004" title="Market">
Market

A market is a place where people go to buy or sell things. When people have products to sell, they set up a market place. There may be a special building for the market place, or the market may be held in an open space where the sellers can put up a stall (like a kind of tent) and then take the stall down at the end of the day.

The word market can also have a more general meaning in the economy. It can mean the way things are bought or sold. "There is a big market for dishwashers" means that lots of people want to buy dishwashers, so therefore a business that makes dishwashers is likely to be able to make a lot of money. When things are sold, people buy the product, and this "stimulates the economy" (helps people to spend and earn money). The market needs to balance supply and demand. There is no point in supplying (making) lots of dishwashers if people do not want them. In the market prices may change quickly if supply or demand changes.

If a seller of a good cannot supply what costumers want or ask for too high of a price, other sellers may try to supply that good. If other sellers enter the market for that good, in competition, that will tend to fulfill demand and lower prices. Sellers do not like competition and may try to kill the competition. Sellers that kill competition want to earn profits that they should not get, and they must be stopped by laws.


</doc>
<doc id="4006" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4006" title="Electron">
Electron

An electron is a very small piece of matter and energy. Its symbol is e. 

The electron is a subatomic particle. It is believed to be an elementary particle because it cannot be broken down into anything smaller. It is negatively charged, and may move almost at the speed of light. 

Electrons take part in gravitational, electromagnetic and weak interactions. The electricity that powers radios, motors, and many other things consists of many electrons moving through wires or other conductors.

Electrons have the smallest electrical charge. An electron has a mass of about 1/1836 times a proton.
One way to think about the location of electrons in an atom is to imagine that they orbit at fixed distances from the nucleus. This way, electrons in an atom exist in a number of electron shells surrounding the central nucleus. Each electron shell is given a number 1, 2, 3, and so on, starting from the one closest to the nucleus (the innermost shell). Each shell can hold up to a certain maximum number of electrons. The distribution of electrons in the various shells is called electronic arrangement (or electronic form or shape). Electronic arrangement can be shown by numbering or an electron diagram. (A different way to think about the location of electrons is to use quantum mechanics to calculate their atomic orbitals.)

The electron is one of a class of subatomic particles called leptons. The electron has a negative electric charge , and a mass that is approximately 1/2000 of the mass of the proton. The electron has another property, called spin. Its spin value is 1/2, which makes it a fermion.

While most electrons are found in atoms, others move independently in matter, or together as cathode rays in a vacuum. In some superconductors, electrons move in pairs. When electrons flow, this flow is called electricity, or an electric current. 

An object can be described as 'negatively charged' if there are more electrons than protons in an object, or 'positively charged' when there are more protons than electrons. Electrons can move from one object to another when touched. They may be attracted to another object with opposite charge, or repelled when they both have the same charge. When an object is 'grounded', electrons from the charged object go into the ground, making the object neutral. This is what lightning conductors do.

Electrons in their shells round an atom are the basis of chemical reactions. Complete outer shells, with maximum electrons, are less reactive. Outer shells with less than maximum electrons are reactive. The number of electrons in atoms is the underlying basis of the chemical periodic table.

Electric "charge" can be directly measured with a device called an electrometer. Electric "current" can be directly measured with a galvanometer. The measurement given off by a galvanometer is different from the measurement given off by an electrometer. Today laboratory instruments are capable of containing and observing individual electrons.

In laboratory conditions, the interactions of individual electrons can be observed by means of particle detectors, which allow measurement of specific properties such as energy, spin and charge. In one instance a Penning trap was used to contain a single electron for 10 months. The magnetic moment of the electron was measured to a precision of eleven digits, which, in 1980, was a greater accuracy than for any other physical constant.

The first video images of an electron's energy distribution were captured by a team at Lund University in Sweden, February 2008. The scientists used extremely short flashes of light, called attosecond pulses, which allowed an electron's motion to be observed for the first time. The distribution of the electrons in solid materials can also be visualized.

The antiparticle of the electron is called a positron. This is identical to the electron, but carries electrical and other charges of the opposite sign. When an electron collides with a positron, they may scatter off each other or be totally annihilated, producing a pair (or more) of gamma ray photons.

The effects of electrons were known long before it could be explained. The Ancient Greeks knew that rubbing amber against fur attracted small objects. Now we know the rubbing strips off electrons, and that gives an electric charge to the amber.
Many physicists worked on the electron. J.J. Thomson proved it existed, in 1897, but another man gave it the name 'electron'.



</doc>
<doc id="4008" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4008" title="Chile">
Chile

Chile is a long, thin country which is on the western side of South America. The people there speak Spanish.

Chile, which claims a part of the Antarctic continent, is the longest country on earth. The Atacama Desert, in the north of the country, is the driest place on earth. The average rainfall there is less than 0.05 mm per year. The center of Chile, with the two cities Santiago and Valparaíso, has a Mediterranean climate with an average temperatures of 28 °C in January and 11 °C in July. In the middle of Chile, the country is very fertile. 

There are about 16.9 million people living in Chile in 2009. About 10 million people live in the center of Chile around Valparaíso and Santiago, on about 20% of the total territory. 
Chile is a well educated country. Only 2.7% are not able to read or write. Some believe that Chile has one of the best school systems in South America. 

About 95% of Chileans are Caucasian, mostly Spanish and Italian. Around 3% of the population is Native American, and about 2% European immigrants. The majority of people are Roman Catholic (62.8% ). About 10% are Protestant, and there are some Jews as well. The country's official language is Spanish. Chili did not derive from this country, although it shares a common name. 

Chile's currency is the Chilean peso.


</doc>
<doc id="4009" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4009" title="Ambassador">
Ambassador

An ambassador is a person sent by the government of a country to a different country. The ambassador is the official representative of their country. The ambassador speaks to officials of the other country about any problems and issues between the two countries.

In past years, communication between countries could take days or weeks. It was necessary to have a person in each foreign capital to have meetings and make negotiations between countries. These days communication is much faster and often governments can be in direct contact with each other. But it is still true that many problems require person-to-person meetings, so ambassadors are still needed.

Often an ambassador will live in the foreign country for a number of years. An embassy is where the ambassador lives, and it is most often located in the capital of the foreign country. An ambassador may bring people with him to help him and work at the embassy. Some of the high ranking people may be called embassy officials.

It is both tradition and law that the ambassador and many embassy officials have diplomatic immunity. They cannot be arrested or prosecuted in the foreign country. The only possibility is to send a person back to their own country.


</doc>
<doc id="4010" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4010" title="Monday">
Monday

Monday is the second day of the week. In other parts of the world, such as some countries in Europe, Monday is said to be the first day of the week.


</doc>
<doc id="4012" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4012" title="Nuclear war">
Nuclear war

A nuclear war is a war in which the opposing sides fight with nuclear weapons. No full-scale nuclear war has ever happened, but because nuclear weapons are extremely powerful and could cause destruction throughout the world, the possibility of nuclear war has had a great effect on international politics.

Nuclear bombs were first invented during the Second World War and were used by the United States to bring about the surrender of Japan. Two bombs were dropped, one each on the cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. They are still the only nuclear weapons that have ever been used in fighting a war. At that time only the USA had the technology needed to make the bomb, but within a few years the Soviet Union had developed it too. This led to the Cold War, in which the USA and the Soviets were enemies and each had large stockpiles of nuclear weapons, but did not dare to use them against each other, either directly or by attacking the other country's allies. Since either country could be completely destroyed by the other's weapons, nuclear war could no longer be limited to the use of only one or two bombs; if they were used anywhere by one side, the other would attack with its own nuclear weapons, and the fighting would almost certainly escalate (become greater). This situation came to be known as the "balance of terror," or Mutually Assured Destruction, and prevented conflicts between the two superpowers from leading to a third world war.

Since the end of Communist rule in Russia and Eastern Europe, tensions between America and Russia have eased and war has become less likely. However, today there is more worry about the spread of bomb-making technology. Countries around the world who already have their own bombs include Britain, France, China, Israel, India, Pakistan and North Korea; as all kinds of technology tend to become cheaper and easier to get hold of, there is a fear that nuclear weapons could become available to countries with unstable governments. There is also the possibility that terrorists might be able to build nuclear weapons and use them.

Ever since the end of World War Two, writers, film-makers and artists have created works imagining how a nuclear war might happen and what life would be like afterwards. Most have pictured widespread death and destruction, and a grim post-holocaust world where a few survivors struggle to live without power, medicine or food. Some have pictured civilisation breaking down completely, and primitive societies developing, with the past world becoming forgotten.


</doc>
<doc id="4013" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4013" title="Tax">
Tax

Tax is money that people are forced to pay to the government.

In ancient times, people from one city or region would attack people from another place, and make them pay "tribute". Tribute meant that the conquered people would pay money (or other things), and the conqueror would stop attacking them. A famous tribute was the Danegeld, when people from Denmark conquered part of England and made the English pay thousands of silver coins. In a tax, the government makes the people of a country, state, or city pay money. This money goes to pay people who work for the government and to pay for things that the government does.

There are lots of different kinds of taxes. Some taxes are based on how much money a person earns. The more money is earned, the more a person must pay. This is called an income tax. 

There are three different types of income taxes:




Other taxes are based on how much a person buys. This is a sales tax or value added tax (VAT). Some people suggest replacing the income tax with a larger sale tax. That idea is called the fair tax. 

There are also taxes based on how much a person owns, called property tax. Things like houses have a property tax on them. 

In the United States, for example, the national government has an income tax; most states have an income tax or a sales tax, or both; and cities and towns may have a sales tax or a property tax. In some states such as Ohio, the sales tax is different in each county.

The government uses the money collected from taxes to pay for things. For example, people who work for the government must be paid, so some taxes are used to pay these people. Taxes are sometimes also used in ways that help everybody, like to pay for education, health care, and to keep things like roads, bridges, sewers, and certain buildings in good shape.





</doc>
<doc id="4015" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4015" title="Florida">
Florida

Florida is a state in the southeast United States. It is a peninsula, which means that water surrounds the state on three of four possible sides. To the west is the Gulf of Mexico, to the south is the Florida Straits, and to the east is the Atlantic Ocean. As of 2010, the population of Florida is 18,801,310. 

Florida is a very flat state. It has no mountains. Northern Florida has hills because it is at the very end of the Appalachian Mountains. The highest hill in Florida is Britton Hill, in northern Walton County near the town of Lakewood, Florida. It is 345 feet above sea level. It is the shortest of the highest points in all other states.

Florida has a very long coastline, which means lots of beaches. The Gulf Stream ocean current goes through the Atlantic Ocean near the east coast of Florida, so the water there is very warm compared to the Pacific Ocean. The Gulf of Mexico on the west coast of Florida is also very warm because it is small and easily heated by the sun.

In the center of southern Florida is a very big lake called Lake Okeechobee. It is the seventh largest freshwater lake in the United States and the second largest freshwater lake entirely within the lower 48 states. Okeechobee is 730 square miles (1,890 km²), about half the size of the state of Rhode Island, and is very shallow for a lake of its size, with an average depth of only 9 feet (3 m).

A lot of south Florida used to be covered by a swamp called the Everglades. When Florida was first being settled, farmers found out the soil there was very good for growing plants. So they could use more of the land to plant, they drained a lot of the water away in 1882. In 1947, the state put in levees and canals to make more room for farming and houses. The Everglades is now about half the size it used to be. Most of what is left is now the Everglades National Park. Lots of animals live there, including alligators and Florida panthers. Recently, Florida has been trying to restore the Everglades.

At the southernmost tip of Florida is a chain of islands called the Florida Keys. There are 4500 islands in the Keys. The most famous one is Key West.

Florida is the Sunshine State. The reason for this nickname is its warm temperature. During the summer, temperatures may rise up to as high as 109 degrees Fahrenheit (or 40.5 degrees Celsius). Its average temperature is much warmer than many of the other states, but during winter, temperatures occasionally fall below 32 degrees Fahrenheit. In Florida there are many palm trees. Palm trees grow in places that have a warm climate and a lot of sunshine. Florida has both a rainy season and a dry season. Southern Florida does not have four separate seasons.

Florida's sunny climate is very popular with visitors. The summer is great for surfing the waves and enjoying the beaches. The most popular sport in Florida is fishing. A lot of people also like to visit the beaches on the west side of Florida, near Tampa.

Florida also gets a lot of hurricanes. Florida is surrounded by warm water, which makes hurricanes get stronger. Hurricane season is from June 1 to November 30, but sometimes a hurricane will hit outside of the season. Hurricane Andrew was a very bad hurricane that hit Florida on August 23, 1992. Florida's most active recorded hurricane season was in 2004, when it was hit by hurricanes Charley (August 13), Frances (September 4–5), Ivan (September 16), and Jeanne.

Florida has many types of wildlife including:

In the 1930s, the Red imported fire ants were accidentally brought from South America to North America. Since then, they have spread to most of the Southern United States, including Florida. They are more aggressive than most native ant species and have a painful sting.

A lot of non-native snakes have been released in the wild. In 2010 the state created a hunting season for Burmese, Indian and African rock pythons, green anacondas, and Nile monitor lizards.

The capital of Florida is Tallahassee, and Jacksonville is the state's largest city. Tallahassee is in the part of Florida called the panhandle, or the narrow part in the northwest. There are other big cities in Florida, like Tampa, Orlando and Miami. 

Orlando is home to many amusement and theme parks, like Walt Disney World Resort, Sea World, and Universal Studios. Millions of tourists visit Orlando each year. There is also Busch Gardens in Tampa. 

The oldest city in Florida is St. Augustine, which was founded by the Spanish in 1565.

The Kennedy Space Center is on Merritt Island, near Cape Canaveral, on Florida's Space Coast.

Florida has eleven state universities. They are Florida A&M University, Florida Atlantic University, Florida Gulf Coast University, Florida International University, Florida State University, New College of Florida, University of Central Florida, University of Florida, University of North Florida, University of South Florida, and University of West Florida. The University of Central Florida has the most students. There are 28 private universities in Florida.


</doc>
<doc id="4016" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4016" title="Mario">
Mario

Mario is a short and fat Italian plumber who lives in the Mushroom Kingdom in most games. In the "Mario" games, he tries to stop the evil Bowser from taking Princess Peach away, often being helped by his brother Luigi. He also has other enemies like Donkey Kong and Wario, although they are friends in other games.

Mario is one of the most famous video game characters of all time. Over 200 million copies of "Mario" games have been sold.

Mario first appeared in the arcade game "Donkey Kong" as a carpenter named "Jumpman". In Japan, he was called "Mr. Video". Later, he was named "Mario", after Mario Segale, who was a lot like Mario. Mario Segale was the owner of the land where Nintendo of America's office was built.

Mario later appeared with his younger brother Luigi in an arcade game called "Mario Bros." When the Nintendo Entertainment System was out in shops, "Super Mario Bros." was released for the Nintendo Entertainment System the same year as the game console itself, and has often been considered one of the best games on it next to "Super Mario Bros. 3".

Back then, games were hard to make and Nintendo could not make Mario move without making his arms "disappear". Changing his clothes fixed it. They also did not have the space to give him a mouth or ears, and they could not make hair, so Mario had a moustache, sideburns, and a cap so it would not look like he was bald. Mario's creator, Shigeru Miyamoto, said that he gave Mario a cap because he has a hard time drawing hair. Mario is currently voiced by Charles Martinet, who also voices Luigi, Wario and Waluigi, respectively, and other characters like Toadsworth.

Mario is Nintendo's mascot, as in their good luck charm. Mario's rival was Sega's mascot Sonic the Hedgehog who was first seen in 1991. The two mascots were trying to get more people to buy their games for years until 2001 when "Sonic Adventure 2: Battle" was released on a Nintendo machine since Sega games started to be released on game machines that were not made by Sega. Mario and Sonic appeared together in a sports game, "Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games", and again in "Super Smash Bros. Brawl".


Mario was first seen as "Jumpman" in "Donkey Kong" in 1981. He was first named "Mario" in the arcade game "Donkey Kong Junior" in 1982, the only game where he is a villain. His twin brother Luigi was first seen in 1983 in "Mario Bros." He was next seen in "Super Mario Bros." for the Nintendo Entertainment System (NES), which would quickly be one of the most famous games on the console.

By 2007, more than 200 million copies of Mario games have been sold all over the world.. The game that was best sold was "Super Mario Bros. 3". Mario was also seen in the some Game & Watch games. Mario has appeared in almost every type of video games, like platform, puzzle, racing, sports, fighting, role-playing and educational games.

Mario has been seen in many games, and is seen in games that are not Mario games as well, like "Mike Tyson's Punch-Out!!" where he is a referee. He is also a character you can play as in the "Super Smash Bros." series. Mario has even appeared as a secret character which any player can play as in GameCube version of "NBA Street V3" and "SSX on Tour", which are both from Electronic Arts. In some games, he only makes very small appearances: in both "" and "", a picture of Mario can be seen, and in "" small Mario and Yoshi statues can be seen.

After the Game & Watch game "Mario Bombs Away", the first "Mario" non-platformer game, "Dr. Mario", was sold in 1990. There are two educational "Mario" games that have been made. They are called "Mario Paint", was sold in 1992 for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System, and "Mario Pinball Land" for the Game Boy Advance. 1996's "" for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System is the first "Mario" role-playing game. There have also been five more Mario RPG's: "Paper Mario", for the Nintendo 64; "", for the Game Boy Advance; "", for the Nintendo GameCube; "", for the Nintendo DS and "Super Paper Mario", for the Wii. Now, there is a new RPG game that came out called "" for the Nintendo DS.

There have been more series based on the original "Mario" series. The "Mario Kart" series' first game was "Super Mario Kart" for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System. The "Mario Kart" series is the most successful racing video game series of all time. The "Mario Kart" series is a type of "Mario" sports game. There have been other "Mario" sports games like "Mario Golf" and "Mario Tennis", and the baseball and soccer games "Mario Superstar Baseball" and "Super Mario Strikers". In 1999, the "Mario Party" series started on the Nintendo 64. In the "Mario Party" games, players have to play-through a lot of mini-games.

There has been a few TV shows and a film for the "Mario" series. The name of the first TV show is "The Super Mario Bros. Super Show!" and the film is called "Super Mario Bros.". The TV show starred "Captain" Lou Albano as Mario, and the film starred Bob Hoskins as Mario. There have also been "Mario" toys sold in some places.
Mario was first a 2-D character but since technology has changed, Mario is now a 3-D character. He is a plumber who lives in the land of Mushroom Kingdom. He is the older, shorter brother of Luigi, and they are both plumbers. In the television series, Mario and Luigi are from Brooklyn, although "" says he was born in the Mushroom Kingdom.

Mario's looks have changed over the years. He is a short, stubby man wearing a hat with an "M" on it, brown hair, black moustache, a very large nose, white gloves, and denim overalls. In most appearances, Mario wears a red hat and shirt with blue overalls. However, in the original "Super Mario Bros." video game, Mario wears a brown shirt and red overalls.

Mario's clothes depends on the game he is in. For example, in the "Super Mario Strikers" soccer game, Mario wears a football kit as instead of overalls, and in "Super Mario Sunshine," a very sunshiny tropical game, the character wears a red T-shirt and can also put on sunglasses and a Hawaiian-style shirt. In some games, Mario can transform into different forms, each with different clothes.

Mario is a kind-hearted and brave hero, with a love of pasta and pizza. People know Mario has a great, happy, personality since he has a high pitched, funny voice. Since "Mario's Game Gallery", Charles Martinet was his voice actor. In the games, Mario speaks in English with a thick Italian accent. In other things like TV shows, he has a more Brooklyn-styled accent. Mario does not say many things. He usually says: "Okey dokey!", "Woohoo!", "Let's a-go!", "It's-a me! Mario!", "'ere we go", "Mama mia!" and more, though in sports games, he says things relevant to the sport, in Mario Golf he says "Fore!" for example. Mario hardly ever speaks properly in any games, leaving the talking to other characters. He does speak normally in the DiC animated cartoons and the anime series.

Mario is a plumber (he was a carpenter). He only acts like a plumber in the games, "" and the original "Mario Bros.", but pipes are always one way to get around. Mario was seen plumbing during the animated series. He know a lot about tools and fixing pipes in the film. In the first Donkey Kong games when Mario was called Jumpman, he was a carpenter.

In the "Dr. Mario" games first seen in 1990, Mario is a doctor. In 2001, Mario appeared in "Dr. Mario 64", an updated version of the original puzzle game. Dr. Mario appeared as an secret character in the Nintendo GameCube game "Super Smash Bros. Melee", and in another newer version, "Dr. Mario Virus Buster", for WiiWare. In the Game Boy game "Mario's Picross", Mario is an archaeologist.

Mario usually saves Princess Peach, the Mushroom Kingdom, and he usually has to defeat villains, like Bowser, in lots of different kingdoms. Most characters in the games know who he is because he acts like a hero, as shown in "", where they are called "superstars", or celebrities.

In "", it is said that Mario has a toy-making company that earns him money.

Since his first game, Mario has to save the "damsel in distress" of the game. Originally, he had to rescue his girlfriend Pauline in "Donkey Kong". Pauline was soon replaced by a new damsel-in-distress, Princess Peach, in "Super Mario Bros." (she was first named "Princess Toadstool" or simply "the Princess" in English-speaking places until 1993, when "Yoshi's Safari" was sold, even though the name was not widely used until "Super Mario 64" was sold three years later). Pauline returned in the Game Boy remake of "Donkey Kong" in 1994, and later "" in 2006, although the character is now said to be "Mario's friend".

Mario has rescued Princess Peach lots of times since "Super Mario Bros.". In a role reversal, Peach rescues Mario in "Super Princess Peach". Some people say the two could be a couple.

Luigi is Mario's younger brother. He is usually a companion on many of Mario's adventures and the character whom players play as in two-player sessions of many of the video games. His demeanor is sometimes that of a "scaredy cat" who sets off to help Mario but instead needs rescuing himself, though he has also had to rescue Mario occasionally as displayed in "Mario is Missing!" and "Luigi's Mansion". Yoshi is another one of Mario's friends.

Mario rescued Princess Daisy in "Super Mario Land" for the Game Boy. In "Super Smash Bros. Melee", the text explaining Princess Daisy's trophy states that "after her appearance in Mario Golf, some gossips portrayed her as Luigi's answer to Mario's Peach", although Luigi and Daisy were previously paired as a romantic couple in the live-action "Super Mario Bros" film.

"" for the Game Boy saw the arrival of Wario, Mario's counterpart. Though there is no tangible relationship between the two, Wario was once referred to as Mario's cousin in Nintendo Power. Wario is designed to act, in a way, as an anti-Mario.

Baby Mario is the infant version of Mario. He first appeared in "", released in 1995 for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System, and has appeared in several titles since. Baby Mario has often appeared in Nintendo-sports titles, such as "Mario Golf", "Mario Tennis", "Mario Superstar Baseball", "", "Mario Super Sluggers", and "Mario Kart Wii". These games imply Mario and Baby Mario are separate characters, but those games are considered to be outside the continuity of the main "Mario" series. More recently, he has appeared in "", in which Baby Mario appeared via time travel along with Baby Luigi, Baby Peach, and Baby Bowser, which could explain the separation of the two characters. Like the older Mario, Baby Mario is voiced by Charles Martinet.

During the development of "Donkey Kong", Mario was known as "Jumpman". Jumping—both to access places and as an offensive move—is a common gameplay element in "Mario" games, especially the "Super Mario Bros." series.

Mario's most commonly portrayed form of attack is jumping to stomp on the heads of enemies, first used in "Mario Bros.". This jump-stomp move may entirely crush smaller enemies on the stage, and usually deals damage to larger ones, sometimes also causing secondary effects. This attack often enables Mario to knock the turtle-like Koopa Troopas into their shells, which can slide into and damage other enemies or Mario.

Subsequent games have elaborated on Mario's jumping-related abilities. "Super Mario World" added the ability to spin-jump, which allows Mario to break blocks beneath him. Later, the Game Boy version of "Donkey Kong" allows Mario to jump higher with consecutive jumps, and perform a back-flip. In "Super Mario 64", Mario has several jumping abilities, such as a sideways somersault, a ground pound, and the "Wall Kick", which propels him upwards by kicking off walls.

Mario uses many items, which give him various powers. The most prominent of these is the "Super Mushroom", which allows Mario to grow to twice his size, becoming the eponymous "Super Mario", and can sustain damage before shrinking back down to "regular" Mario. Additionally, collecting a "Fire Flower" transforms Mario into "Fire Mario" and allows him to throw fireballs at enemies, and a "Starman" renders Mario temporarily impervious to harm. 

A recurring theme in the "Mario" series' power-ups is the fact that many items give Mario a semi-animal appearance, sometimes related to the item depiction itself, for example "Super Mario Bros. 3"s Frog Suit, which turns Mario into a frog, and ""s Power Carrot, which transforms Mario into a rabbit. Other times the item may not be related to the power; for example, the Raccoon Leaf gives him raccoon ears, a tail, and the power of flight. Other power-ups are more practical; in "Super Mario World", the Cape allows Mario to fly and glide, and a balloon in a later game in the series allows similar effects. "New Super Mario Bros." introduced other types of Mushroom power-ups, such as the "Mega Mushroom", which causes Mario to grow to screen-filling proportions and the Mini Mushroom that makes him shrink to a very small size.

When Mario reached the three dimensional format, "Super Mario 64" introduced a feature that made Mario take extra damage without his signature hat on; in addition to this, different types of caps gave him powers of flight, invincibility, and invisibility. Along with these basic features, caps gave more practical abilities as well. For example, the Metal cap allowed Mario to sink to sea floors and the Invisibility cap allowed him to walk through thin surfaces such as iron grates.

"Super Mario Sunshine" has several few power-ups with a water theme. He is granted a F.L.U.D.D. (Flash Liquidizing Ultra Dousing Device) pack that performs his primary form of attack, squirting paint and enemies with water, named the Squirt Nozzle. He has three other expansion packs including the Hover Nozzle, which allows him to hover relatively short distances, the Turbo Nozzle, allowing him to traverse faster and break through certain barriers, and the Rocket Nozzle, which charges water up, then blasts Mario a great distance into the air.
"Super Mario Galaxy" introduced several new power-ups along with a few older items reimagined. These included the Bee Shroom, which allow him to float short distances and stick to certain surfaces; the Boo Shroom, which made him capable of floating as well as traveling through walls; the Life Shroom, which gave him three more life wedges; the Rainbow Star, granting him brief invincibility; the Fire Flower, which appeared for the first time in a 3D game; and the Ice Flower, which allows him to solidify water, granting him access and mobility to otherwise unreachable or deadly locations. A hidden power-up is the Flight Star, which allowed Mario to fly for a while.

Mario uses hammers in numerous games, such as "Super Mario Bros. 3", the original "Donkey Kong", and "Super Mario RPG". Hammers are used offensively and for other actions, like switch activation and solving puzzles. He often picks up and throws various projectiles around him, however, starting in "Super Mario Bros. 2". He tosses items such as vegetables, giant blocks and Bob-ombs.

In the Mario Kart series, there are a number of items to use. For example, a mushroom makes the characters go faster for 1 second.

As Nintendo's mascot, many people think that Mario is the most famous video game character of all time. The "Mario" series of video games has sold more than 200 million copies, making it the best selling game series of all time. Mario was the first video game character to get a wax figure in the Hollywood Wax Museum in 2003. In 1990, a national survey showed that more kids knew Mario than Mickey Mouse.

Since he was created, Mario has become a very famous person having been in many television shows, comic books, and in a film. He has been on lunch boxes, t-shirts, magazines, commercials, in candy form, on Shampoo bottles, cereal, badges, and as a stuffed toy. Nintendo of Japan made a 60-minute anime (Japanese cartoon) film starring Mario and his friends in 1986, but this film has never been shown or sold on DVD outside of Japan. The animated series "The Super Mario Bros. Super Show!" had a live-action series of episodes starring former WWF manager "Captain" Lou Albano as Mario and Danny Wells as Luigi. There was even a book series, the Nintendo Adventure Books. In 2005, Jonathan Mann even wrote an opera based on the character, and performed "The Mario Opera" at the California Institute of the Arts.

Bergsala, the distributor of Nintendo's products in the Nordic and the Baltic countries, is located at Marios Gata 21 (Mario's Street 21) in Kungsbacka, Sweden, named after Mario.

Mario's legacy is recognized by Guinness World Records, who awarded the Nintendo Mascot and his games seven records in the "Guinness World Records: Gamer's Edition 2008". These records include, "Best Selling Video Game Series of All Time", "First Movie Based on an Existing Video Game", and "Most Prolific Video Game Character", with Mario appearing in 116 distinct titles (not including remakes or re-releases).

In a poll conducted in 2008, Mario was voted as the most popular video game character in Japan.
Mario's theme music in "Super Mario Bros.", composed by Kōji Kondō, is highly recognizable. Former NHL hockey player, Mario Lemieux was given the nickname "Super Mario" by the media during his career. Mario Williams, the #1 draft pick in the 2006 NFL Draft, was also given the nickname "Super Mario", as was pro-cyclist, Mario Cipollini. German international footballer Mario Basler was affectionately referred to as "Super Mario" by fans and the media. Another sportsman who received this nickname was the Brazilian soccer player Mário Jardel, famous for his jumps and headers.



</doc>
<doc id="4017" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4017" title="Video game">
Video game

Video games are electronic games played on a video screen (normally a television, a built-in screen when played on a handheld machine, or a computer). 

There are many types, or genres, of these games: role-playing games; shooters, first-person shooters, side-scrollers, and platformers are just a few.

Video games usually come on CDs or DVDs now, but many games used to come on cartridges. Some games can also be downloaded from the internet. The device used to play a video game at home is called a console. There have been many types of consoles and home computers used to play video games. Some of the first were the Atari 2600, the Sega Master System and Nintendo Entertainment System in the 1980s. Newer video game consoles are the Xbox 360, PlayStation 3, and Wii. The best selling video game console of all time is the PlayStation 2, made by Sony.

People can also use PCs to play games, which are sometimes called computer games or PC games. The older consoles do not have new games developed for them often, although console games are emulated for PCs (see emulator). This means that new computers can play many old console games along with games made just for new computers. Older games are often more popular emulated than when they were first on sale, because of the ease of download.

People can play portable video games anywhere. One of the most popular portable video game consoles is the Nintendo Game Boy. Today, there are the Nintendo DS and the PlayStation Portable. Cell phones like the iPhone also have games available for download, making them portable gaming powerhouses. 

Competitions of video game players are held. They are called electronic sports.


Sony's PlayStation Portable (PSP) came out in 2004.
Along with Nintendo's Nintendo Dual Screen (NDS) in 2004, and now the new Nintendo DS XL, which is an advancement from their original Nintendo DSi.
Nintendo also released the 3DS, which is the first handheld 3D console.
Playstation Vita releasing later this year

The first video game ever is often said to be a computer game called "Spacewar!". In fact, some ideas of video games can be found before people made Spacewar!.

In the 50s, when the first computers began to be made, three people had some ideas to create the basis of actual video games.

In 1951, Ralph Baer, an American engineer of Loral Electronics, tried to create "the best television", proposing to add a gaming module, but his employer did not like his idea. Even if his idea was never realised, he is the first man to have thought of the idea of video games.

Later, in 1952, A.S Douglas, of the Cambridge University in the UK, made a video game on a computer in order to illustrate one of his speeches. The game, called "OXO", was a tic-tac-toe game and one of the players was the computer.

In 1953, Willy Higinbotham made a game called "Tennis For Two" to entertain the visitors of the National Laboratory of Brookhaven.

One of the most famous video games ever is called "Space Invaders". Space Invaders was one of the very earliest video games. Space Invaders was made in 1978 as a coin operated machine but a version has been made for almost every different game console and home computer ever available.

There have been some arguments over the violence and sex in video games. Video games that have lots of violence or sex have not been sold in certain countries. Some games such as these can be sold to people but only to adults.



</doc>
<doc id="4018" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4018" title="Oboe">
Oboe

An oboe is a woodwind instrument with a double reed. It looks very similar to the clarinet, and may be confused with it. While the clarinet's shape remains cylindrical, the oboe's body is conical. The sounds produced by clarinets and oboes are very different. An oboe's sound is produced by blowing air through the double reed at the upper end of the instrument which forces the two reeds to vibrate together which produces the sound. The oboe has four parts: the bell, lower joint, upper joint, and the reed. A person that plays the oboe is called an oboist. A typical orchestra may have two oboes but sometimes three. Sometimes there is also a cor anglais which sounds a fifth lower than the oboe. Very occasionally there is also a bass oboe, which sounds an octave below the oboe. Gustav Holst used one in his Suite "The Planets".

The oboe came from the shawm which was a medieval and Renaissance instrument. It became popular in the Baroque period. Bach and Handel both used it in most of their orchestral music. Many Italian composers such as Antonio Vivaldi wrote concertos for the instrument, and it is used in a lot of chamber music. At this time it hardly had any keys, but gradually more keys were added which made it easier to play the sharps and flats.

Later composers to write for the oboe as a solo instrument include Mozart, Weber, Richard Strauss, Vaughan Williams and Francis Poulenc.

It is usual for the principal oboist in an orchestra to play the note A for the rest of the orchestra to tune their instruments to.

The name "oboe" comes from French language "hautbois", meaning "high wood", a high-pitched woodwind instrument.


</doc>
<doc id="4019" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4019" title="GURPS">
GURPS

The Generic Universal RolePlaying System, or GURPS, is a role-playing game system. It emphasizes a set of rules that can be used in any time or world. Characters are created using a point-based system.


</doc>
<doc id="4020" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4020" title="Eric Idle">
Eric Idle

Eric Idle (born March 29, 1943) is an English actor. He is one of the members of Monty Python. Monty Python is a British comedy team.

Eric Idle was born in South Shields, County Durham, United Kingdom on March 29, 1943.

Eric is famous for his songwriting and singing skills. The songs he wrote or sang were put to best use in his work with Monty Python, in the television programme and in the movies. He wrote the song "Always Look on the Bright Side of Life". This song was written as the closing song of the movie Life of Brian.


</doc>
<doc id="4021" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4021" title="Enemy">
Enemy

An enemy is a person or group of people who is against another person or group. In war, the enemy is anyone fighting for the other side of the war.


</doc>
<doc id="4022" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4022" title="2000">
2000

2000 (MM) was a leap year that started on a Saturday in the Christian or Common Era, according to the Gregorian calendar. It was the last year of the 2nd millennium and the 20th century but the 1st of the 2000s decade. Y2K passed without the serious computer failures. The year 2000 was also the first century leap year since 1600.































</doc>
<doc id="4025" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4025" title="Adelaide">
Adelaide

Adelaide is a city in Australia. It is the capital city of the state of South Australia, and it has an approximate population of 1.2 million people.

It is the fifth biggest city in Australia, behind Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth. Adelaide was founded in 1836 by Colonel William Light, who named it after Queen Adelaide.

Adelaide is near the Southern Ocean and is north of the Fleurieu Peninsula. It has a river going through it called the River Torrens. Many festivals are held there, and grapes for wine production are grown in the Barossa Valley about 50 kilometres (30 mi) northeast of Adelaide.


</doc>
<doc id="4029" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4029" title="Yoshi">
Yoshi

Yoshi is a fictional dinosaur who appears in the Mario series of video games. Yoshis are usually green, but can come in many other colors. 

Yoshi is a green dinosaur like creature that appears in Mario games created by Nintendo.
Yoshi's best-known ability is his ability to eat enemies. He has a long tongue which he uses to grab enemies and eat them. In some games, after Yoshi eats enemies, they turn into eggs, which can be thrown. One of Yoshi's best friends is Mario who helps Yoshi throughout the dangerous situations. Sometimes, Mario can ride Yoshi. 

Yoshi also can jump very high, and can also float in the air a little bit by kicking his legs. He can also ground pound enemies by quickly jumping on them.

Yoshi colors include: Green, Red, Light Blue, Dark Blue, Pink, Yellow, Black and White.

In some games, Yoshi gains powers, like flying or shooting fireballs, by eating turtle shells.

Yoshi made his first appearance in the game Super Mario World (SNES), which was released in 1990 in USSR and Japan and 1991 in USA.



Yoshi is one of the more famous characters in the "Mario" series. Yoshi is also featured a lot in Mario merchandise; he is the subject of toys, shirts, and figures. Yoshi also appeared in two of the Mcdonald's Happy Meal promotion of Mario toys which only starred Mario, Donkey Kong and Yoshi himself. In a poll conducted in 2008, Yoshi was voted as the third favorite video game character in Japan, with Cloud Strife and Mario placing second and first, respectively.


</doc>
<doc id="4031" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4031" title="Lake">
Lake

A lake (from Latin "lacus") is a large body of water (larger and deeper than a pond) within a body of land. Because a lake is not connected to any ocean, it is not a sea. Some lakes are very big and people in the past sometimes called them seas. Lakes do not flow, like rivers, but it is common that rivers flow into or out of them.

Most lakes on the surface of the Earth are fresh water and most are in the Northern Hemisphere. More than 60% of the lakes of the world are in Canada. Finland is known as "The Land of the Thousand Lakes" (there are 187,888 lakes in Finland, of which 60,000 are large).

Many lakes are man-made and are built to produce electricity, for recreation, to use the water in the industry, farming, or in houses.

If there are not rivers flowing out of the lake (see Endorheic basin), or they are few and small, the lake loses water only by evaporation or because the water flows through the soil pores. Where the water evaporates rapidly and the soil around the lake has a high salt level, as in very dry places, the water of the lake has a high concentration of salt and the lake is called a salt lake. Examples of salt lakes are the Great Salt Lake, the Caspian Sea, the Aral Sea, and the Dead Sea.





</doc>
<doc id="4032" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4032" title="French">
French

French can mean:



</doc>
<doc id="4033" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4033" title="East">
East

East is one of the 4 main directions on a compass. East is normally to the right on most maps. Japan is east of China, Saudi Arabia is east of Egypt, and Sweden is east of Norway. The countries in the Eastern Mediterranean and around the Red Sea and the Gulf of Arabia are usually called the "Middle East". China, India, Japan, and other countries in that part of the world make up the "Far East." The sun and moon rise in the east.


</doc>
<doc id="4035" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4035" title="Tire">
Tire

A tire (British tyre) is the part of a wheel which is made of rubber. There are tires on many vehicles, such as cars, airplanes, bicycles, wheelbarrows and other things that need to move around smoothly.

Tires need to be changed after their treads wear away. Driving with worn tires is very dangerous. It can cause the tire to explode and the driver to lose control. 

Tires are made of different types of rubber. Softer rubber is used in summer or when the tires need better traction, for example, in auto racing. Tires made of harder rubber are made for long lasting performance. There are many different types of tires. They come in different sizes and have different tread patterns. 

There are many different sizes of tires. They are marked with 3 numbers and might look like: 225/60R16. The first number is the width in millimeters of the tire at the widest point when it is mounted and inflated. The second number is the sidewall (side of the tire) height as a ratio or percentage of the width. The last number is the wheel diameter in inches.

Tire size: 225/60R16

Very large tires (for example, tires on big mining trucks) use different units. For example: 59/80R63. The first number is the width in inches of the tire. The second number is the sidewall height as a ratio of the width. The last number is the wheel diameter in inches.

Most tires today do not have a tube inside of them. There are grooves in the wheel that let the tire be popped into place and hold a lot of air pressure. If there is a crack in the tire, it will not be able to hold its air. Tire leaks are very common. The most common cause is a hole from a nail or screw. This can usually be fixed by patching the inside of the tire so that it can hold air again. If the hole is close to or in the side of the tire, it can not be fixed. This is because the sides of the tire flexes to support the weight of the vehicle. A patch will not be able to handle the stress.


</doc>
<doc id="4037" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4037" title="Population">
Population

A population is the number of living things that live together in the same place. A city's population is the number of people living in that city. These people are called inhabitants or residents. The population includes all individuals that live in that certain area.

Population density is the average number of people in a place. In areas with a high population density, people live close to each other, such as in a big city. In areas with a low population density, people usually live far away from each other, such as in rural areas out in the countryside.

Usually population is about the number of animals or humans there are in a certain area. The maximum population that can be supported in an area is called the carrying capacity.

The world population reached seven billion people in 2011. Global population is going up, but the population growth rate is declining all over the world. Currently India has 32 cities with populations above one million. Increasing population leads to higher health care expenditures.


</doc>
<doc id="4039" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4039" title="Snow">
Snow

Snow is a form of ice. Snow forms when water in the atmosphere becomes frozen. Snow comes in all different shapes and sizes.

At the freezing point of water (0° Celsius, 32° Fahrenheit), snow melts and becomes water. Sometimes, the snow will melt very fast and become water vapor. This is called sublimation. The opposite, where water vapor becomes snow, is called deposition.

Snow is needed for some winter sport activities like skiing and sledding. People can also play with snow and build things out of it.

Snow can also be dangerous, as it can lower visibility and make driving hard to do. When it snows the snow will melt a little during the daytime and freeze again at night. This makes ice which can make cars slide and crash. Snow plows are used to remove snow from roads to make driving easier and safer. Also, sand or salt may added to the road. Sand can make tires better at gripping the road. When salt is mixed with snow, the snow will melt easier. This is because salt water has a lower melting point than fresh water (water without salt).

A snow storm is a dangerous type of weather. A snow storm produces heavy snow and strong winds, and a snow storm can produce thunder snow, which is snow with lightning. A snow storm can be like a rain storm except for a snow storm has snow instead of rain, yet on one side of a snow storm there can be a lot of rain too.


</doc>
<doc id="4040" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4040" title="West">
West

West is one of the 4 main directions on a compass. West is normally to the left on most maps. Iran is west of Afghanistan, Thailand is west of Vietnam, and Greece is west of Turkey. Australia and the countries in western Europe and North America are usually called the "West." The sun and moon set in the west.


</doc>
<doc id="4043" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4043" title="List of physics topics">
List of physics topics

Air resistance -- 

Black hole
buoyancy

Compression --Critical angle -- Colour filter -- Concave lens -- Convex lens

Diffraction

Electromagnetic spectrum -- Energy --

Fluid friction -- Focus -- Force sensor -- Frequency -- Friction --
Flotation

Gamma ray -- Gravity

Inertia -- Interference

Kinetic energy
Lamp-housing -- Laser pointer -- Len -- Longitudinal wave -- Longitudinal wave model (Crova's disc) --

Mass -- Mirage -- Momentum -- Motion sensor 

Normal -- Normal force -- Newton's first law of motion 

Oscilloscope - Overhead projector

Plane mirror -- Potential energy -- Prism 

Rarefaction -- Ray box -- Reflection -- Refraction -- Ripple tank --
relative density

Signal generator -- Slinky spring -- Slit plate - Spring -- 
Tension -- Translucent screen -- Transverse wave -- Transverse wave model -- 
Vibration -- Velocity

wave -- Wave speed -- Waveform -- Wavefront -- Wavelength --

Young's double-slit experiment 


</doc>
<doc id="4044" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4044" title="President">
President

A president is the leader of a country or a company or other group. A president is usually elected by the people in that group. Voting is one way to elect a president.

The United States has a president. He is elected by the electoral college. Companies have presidents. They are elected by the people who own part of the company. In some companies, the people who are workers for the company elect (vote for) their company president.

The president of a country is not the same thing as a prime minister. A prime minister is part of a parliament, but a president is not. In some countries, (such as the United States or France), the president has more power and responsibility than anyone else. In other countries (such as the Republic of Ireland or Israel), to be president is more of an honor or a symbol, and the position has no real power. The president is often called the nation's chief executive. As chief executive, the president must take an active role in all phases of government.

Most countries that have a King or Queen as their monarch have no president. 

The American President is restricted by the written United States Constitution, which can be changed but only if two-thirds of congress as well as the President and three-fourths of the states agree to it. The American constitution was created to make sure that the American executive never became as powerful as the British system it had broken away from. The British Prime Minister is part of both the Legislature and Executive, whereas the American President is the head of the Executive. The American governmental system shows a clear separation of powers unlike the British system.

So despite having a large nuclear arsenal, the American president can not carry out policy and introduce legislation as freely as the British prime minister.




</doc>
<doc id="4046" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4046" title="List of colors">
List of colors

This is a list of colors that have articles about them in the Simple English Wikipedia.



</doc>
<doc id="4047" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4047" title="List of lakes">
List of lakes

A list of lakes, ordered by continent:






† = the North American Great Lakes







</doc>
<doc id="4052" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4052" title="Galileo Galilei">
Galileo Galilei

Galileo Galilei (15 February 1564 – 8 January 1642) was an Italian astronomer, and instrument maker. He ran into conflict with the Catholic Church of his day, and was put on trial for heresy by the Inquisition.

Some people believe that Galileo was the first person to build a telescope. This is not true, but he was the first person to publish his observations of objects in the sky, like the Moon, stars and other planets. He discovered that the Milky Way is made of many stars, that the Moon has hills, and he found four moons around Jupiter, now called the Galilean moons. Later scientists found many others. He also discovered sunspots, which are dark areas of the Sun. He saw that the planet Venus has light and dark phases just like the Moon. This helped people to know that the Sun is at the center of the Solar System, as Copernicus said. 

Galileo also studied natural forces, and other things that are now called principles of physics. A legend says that he climbed the Leaning Tower of Pisa, and dropped cannonballs of different weights, to see which would strike the ground first. Even though their weights were not the same, they hit the ground at the same time. Galileo found that objects fall to the ground at the same rate, unless things like wind resistance change the rate. This went against the views of Aristotle, an ancient philosopher whose theory was different. Galileo's findings were ignored by most people, and Aristotle's view was still accepted as correct until Isaac Newton proved Galileo was right. This also led to Newton creating his Law of Gravity.

Galileo also tried to determine the speed of light. He climbed a hill, and had an assistant climb another hill, both carrying lanterns with closed shutters. He then opened the shutter of his lantern. His assistant opened his own shutter when he saw Galileo's lantern. Galileo then measured the time it took for his assistant's shutter to open. Knowing the time difference, and the distance between the hills, he tried to estimate the speed of light. However, this did not work.

Galileo came to accept the findings of Copernicus, that the Sun was the center of the then-known universe, and not the Earth. Because he promoted this and other ideas, he came to the notice of the Committee of Propaganda, the dreaded Inquisition. The Church taught that the Earth stood still, while everything in the sky moved around it. The Inquisition ruled that other theories could only be discussed as possibilities, not facts.

Galileo later defended his views in his most famous work, "Dialogue Concerning the Two Chief World Systems", published in 1632. The book was in the form of conversations between three men. The man representing the Church's point of view was called 'Simplicio'. At this, the Inquisition took action. He was arrested and put on trial. They found him "vehemently suspect of heresy". They reminded him of the fate of Giordano Bruno, who had been burnt at the stake for heresy. Bruno's heresy was to believe the Earth went round the Sun, and that there were many other stars. The Inquisition forced Galileo to recant (say he was wrong) under the threat of execution, and to withdraw his works from publication. Galileo spent the rest of his life under house arrest.

In time, more and more of Galileo's findings were accepted as true. Late in the 20th century, Pope John Paul II called Galileo the "father of modern physics", and made a public apology for how the Church treated him earlier.





</doc>
<doc id="4053" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4053" title="Agreement">
Agreement

When people feel or think the same way about something, they agree. Sometimes it is important to write down or make a promise to what has been agreed on. This is called an agreement. Agreements are common in law and business. For example, when a person takes out a loan or hires someone to work, an agreement is usually signed so everyone understands what must be done and in what time it must be done.


</doc>
<doc id="4054" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4054" title="Promise">
Promise

When a person agrees to do something or to "not" do something, that person is making a promise. A promise can be made (by saying it), or it can be written down as a contract. "Breaking" a promise, or not keeping it, is often just bad manners, but it can sometimes be illegal, such as when a contract is not kept.

A vow is a special promise. It is mostly used in a religious sense or in ceremonies such as marriages when the couple who are being married make their "marriage vows", promising to be faithful to one another.

An oath is a promise in the legal sense. When someone has to give evidence in a court of law they "swear an oath". This means that they promise they will tell the truth.


</doc>
<doc id="4055" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4055" title="Cloud">
Cloud

A cloud is water in the atmosphere (air) that we can see. It is where rain and snow comes from.

Water on the earth evaporates (turns into an invisible gas) and rises up into the sky. Higher up where the air is colder, the water condenses: it changes from a gas to drops of water or crystals of ice. We see these drops of water as clouds. The drops fall back down to earth as rain, and then the water evaporates again. This is called the "water cycle".

The atmosphere always has a little bit of water vapor that humans can not see. Clouds form when the atmosphere can no longer hold all the invisible air vapor. Any more water vapor condenses into very small water drops. That is what a cloud is.

Warm air holds more water vapor than cool air. So if warm air with lots of water inside cools, it can form a cloud. These are ways air can cool enough to form clouds:


Clouds are heavy. The water in a cloud can have a mass of several million tons. Every cubic metre (m3) of the cloud has only about 5 grams of water in it. Cloud droplets are also about 1000 times heavier than evaporated water, so they are much heavier than air. They do not fall, but stay in the air, because there is warm air all round the heavier water droplets. When water changes from gas to droplets, this makes heat. Because the droplets are very small, they "stick" to the warm air.

Sometimes, clouds appear to be brilliant colors at sunrise or sunset. This has shown to be due to pollution in the air.

Clouds are classified according to how they look and how high the base of the cloud is in the sky. This system was suggested in 1802. There are different sorts of clouds because the air where they form can be still or moving forward or up and down at different speeds. Very thick clouds with large enough water droplets can make rain or snow, and the biggest clouds can make thunder and lightning.

There are three basic types of clouds based on how they look:




The following is a summary of the main cloud types arranged by how high they form:

High clouds will form from in cold places, in mild regions and in the very hot tropics.

High-level clouds include:


Middle clouds usually form at in colder areas. However, they may form as high as in the tropics where it's very warm all year.

Medium-level clouds include:


Low-level "stratus" clouds are usually seen near ground level. When very low stratus cloud touches the ground, it is called fog. "Cumulus" clouds are usually higher and can be found as high as and sometimes higher. They may rise into the medium level when the air is very dry. Medium-level cumulus that forms in this way does not have "alto" added to its name. Layers of very flat cumulus are called "stratocumulus".

Low-level clouds include:

These are clouds of medium thickness that can form anywhere from near ground level to as high as . The tops of these clouds are usually not much higher than . Vertical clouds often create rain and snow. They are made mostly of water droplets, but when they push up through cold higher levels they may also have ice crystals.

Moderate-vertical clouds include:


These clouds are very tall with tops usually higher than . They can create heavy rain and snow showers. Cumulonimbus, the biggest clouds of all, can also produce thunderstorms. These clouds are mostly made of water droplets, but the tops of very large cumulonimbus clouds are often made mostly of ice crystals.

Towering-vertical clouds include:


In the Bible, clouds are often a sign of God's presence.



</doc>
<doc id="4056" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4056" title="Water cycle">
Water cycle

The water cycle is the cycle water goes through on Earth. It makes the rain, clouds, and most of our weather.
Water is essential for life as we know it. It is present throughout the solar system, and was part of the Earth from its formation. The source of the water was the same as the source of the Earth's rock: the cloud of particles which condensed at the start of the solar system. 


</doc>
<doc id="4057" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4057" title="Water vapor">
Water vapor

Water vapor is water that is in the form of a vapor, or gas. It is a part of the water cycle. When liquid water is heated to boiling temperature, 100 degrees Celsius, it all turns into vapor. Water vapor can also be produced directly from ice; this is called sublimation. Steam is water vapor, but clouds are liquid water. Water vapor affects weather conditions.

Water vapor weighs less than air, which is part of the reason clouds float high in the sky.

Water vapor is transparent. The small droplets that look white like mist are actually liquid.

Warer vapor is a big cause of the greenhouse effect.


</doc>
<doc id="4058" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4058" title="Solid">
Solid

Solid is one of the four common states of matter. The molecules in solids are closely bound together, they can only vibrate. This means solids have a definite shape that only changes when a force is applied. This is different to liquids and gases which move randomly, a process called flow. 

When a solid becomes a liquid, this is called melting. Liquids become solid by freezing. Some solids, like dry ice, can turn into gas without turning liquid first. This is called sublimation.

The forces between the atoms in a solid can take many forms. For example, a crystal of sodium chloride (common salt) is made up of ionic sodium and chlorine, which are held together by ionic bonds. In diamond or silicon, the atoms share electrons and make covalent bonds. In metals, electrons are shared in metallic bonding. Some solids, like most organic compounds, are held together with "van der Waals forces" coming from the polarization of the electronic charge cloud on each molecule. The dissimilarities between the types of solid come from the differences between their bonding.

Metals are mostly are strong, dense, and good conductors of both electricity and heat. The mass of the elements in the periodic table, those to the left of a diagonal line drawn from boron to polonium, are metals. Mixtures of two or more elements in which the big component is a metal are known as alloys.

People have been using metals for many purposes since prehistoric times.
The strength and of metals has led to their widespread use in making of buildings and other things, as well as in most vehicles, many tools, pipes, road signs and railroad tracks. Iron and aluminium are the two most commonly used metals. They are also the most common metals in the Earth's crust. Iron is most commonly used in the form of an alloy, steel, which has up to 2.1% carbon, making it much harder than pure iron.

Since metals are good conductors of electricity, they are valuable in electrical tools and for carrying an electric current over long distances with little energy loss. Because of this, electrical power grids rely on metal cables to get electricity. Home electrical systems, for example, are wired with copper for its good conducting uses. The high thermal conductivity of most metals also makes them useful for stovetop cooking utensils.

Minerals are natural solids formed through many geological processes under high pressures. To be thought as a true mineral, a substance must have a crystal structure with uniform physical things throughout. Minerals differ in composition from pure elements and simple salts to very complex silicates with thousands of known forms. In contrast, a rock sample is a random aggregate of minerals and/or mineraloids, and has no specific chemical composition. Most of the rocks of the Earth's crust have quartz (crystalline SiO), feldspar, mica, chlorite, kaolin, calcite, epidote, olivine, augite, hornblende, magnetite, hematite, limonite and a few other minerals. Some minerals, like quartz, mica or feldspar are common, while others have been found in only a few places in the world. The largest group of minerals by far is the silicates (most rocks are ≥95% silicates), which are made largely of silicon and oxygen, also with ions of aluminium, magnesium, iron, calcium and other metals.



</doc>
<doc id="4059" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4059" title="Evaporation">
Evaporation

Evaporation is when a liquid becomes a gas. When the molecules in a liquid are heated, they move faster. This makes them full of energy and so the particles collide with each other, and eventually they become so far apart that they become a gas. 

For example, a water left in a bowl will slowly disappear. The water evaporates into water vapor, the gas phase of water. The water vapor mixes with the air. 

"Evaporation" is a type of phase change in which matter changes from a liquid to a gas. Some liquids evaporate more quickly than others. Liquid with high boiling points (those that boil at very high temperatures) tend to evaporate more slowly than those with lower boiling temperatures.

Water boils at around 100 degrees Celsius.
There are many factors that affect the evaporation rate.
Different liquids evaporate at different temperatures. For example, aluminum evaporates at 87 degrees Celsius. When water is evaporating, it transforms into a gas called water vapor. The reverse of evaporation is condensation. 

Evaporation is a very essential part of the water cycle. When water is boiling in a closed container, sometimes evaporation happens at the same time as condensation.

Evaporation is vital in nature and is always the same as temperature and vapour pressure in nature. This means that if there is a lot of evaporation, the temperature goes down. Alternatively, if there is hardly any evaporation, there will be a temperature increase.

The rate of evaporation are affected by the liquid's exposed surface area (faster when increased), the humidity of surroundings (slower when increased), the presence of wind (faster when increased) and the temperature (faster when increased).


</doc>
<doc id="4060" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4060" title="Contract">
Contract

A contract is an agreement or promise that the law can enforce. The law will enforce some agreements but not others. For example, in most places, if a parent promises to take a child to get ice cream, the law will not enforce that promise as a legal contract.

The legal rules about which promises are enforced by the law can be different in different places (or jurisdictions), but a contract is usually enforced only if it is made by people or groups who want it to be enforced and who know what they are doing.

Sometimes, a contract is written down and signed by the people agreeing to it, but it does not always need to be. People usually sign a contract when something important or costly is being done. For example, when people take a job, they will sometimes sign a contract with their employers. The contract will show what the person must do as part of his job, how much he will be paid, and so on. The person and the employer will sign the contract, and it will become a legal promise.

If someone breaks a contract, another person might sue him or her. In a lawsuit about a contract, the court will look at the contract, listen to what the people who made the contract say about it, and then make a decision about what the contract means.



</doc>
<doc id="4061" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4061" title="Face">
Face

The face is a part of the body: the front of the head. 

It is the part of us that others interact with. On the face are organs of sight, smell, hearing. Especially in a four-legged animal, the face is the part which goes first into the world, and that is why the sense organs and the mouth are there.

In the human case, include the hair, forehead, eyebrow, eyelash, eyes, nose, ears, cheeks, mouth, lips, teeth, skin, and chin.

The "clock face" is the part of an analog clock (or watch) that displays the time.

The surface where the mining work is advancing called face.


</doc>
<doc id="4062" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4062" title="Kolkata">
Kolkata

Kolkata (spelled Calcutta before 1 January 2001) is the capital city of the Indian state of West Bengal. It is the second largest city in India after Mumbai. It is located on the East bank of the River Hooghly. When it is called Calcutta, it includes the suburbs. This makes it the third largest city of India. This also makes it the world's 8th largest metropolitan area as defined by the United Nations. Kolkata served as the capital of India during the British Raj until 1911. Kolkata was once the center of industry and education. However, it has witnessed political violence and economic problems since 1954. Since 2000, Kolkata has grown due to economic growth. Like other metropolitan cities in India, Kolkata struggles with poverty, pollution and traffic congestion.

The discovery of the nearby Chandraketugarh, an archaeological site has proved that people have lived there for over two millennia. The history of Kolkata begins when the English East India Company arrived in 1690. Job Charnock, an administrator with the Company is traditionally known as the founder of this city. However some academics say that Charnock is not the city's founder.

At that time Kolkata, ruled by the Nawab of Bengal Siraj-Ud-Daulah, had three villages. They were Kalikata, Govindapur and Sutanuti. The British in the late 17th century wanted to build a fort near Govindapur. This was to become more powerful than Dutch, the Portuguese, and the French. In 1702, the British completed the construction of old Fort William, which was used to station its troops and as a regional base. Calcutta was declared a Presidency City, and later became the headquarters of the Bengal Presidency. When regular fights with French forces started, in 1756 the British began to upgrade their fortifications. When this was protested, the Nawab of Bengal Siraj-Ud-Daulah attacked and captured Fort William. This led to the infamous Black Hole incident. A force of Company sepoys and British troops led by Robert Clive recaptured the city the next year. Calcutta became the capital of British India in 1772. However, the capital shifted to the hilly town of Shimla during the summer months every year, starting from the year 1864. Richard Wellesley, the Governor General between 1797–1805, helped in the growth of the city and its public architecture. This led to the description of Calcutta as "The City of Palaces". The city was a centre of the British East India Company's opium trade during the 18th and 19th century; locally produced opium was sold at auction in Kolkata, to be shipped to China.


</doc>
<doc id="4063" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4063" title="Pencil">
Pencil

A pencil is a hexagonal prism or cylinder-shaped tool used to write and draw, usually on paper. 

A pencil is usually made with a piece of carbon mixed with clay that has a wood case around it. Coloured pencils are a type of pencil that instead of greyish silver, the tip is a different color. Coloured pencils or crayons are usually meant for drawing rather than writing.

An important difference between pens and pencils is that the tip of a pencil is made of graphite (some call it lead) and pens have tips made of metal with ink coming out of the bottom. Pencil writings do not smudge or wash away if the paper gets wet, unlike pens which have ink. Writing with a pen will usually smudge. Writing from a pencil can be erased, but writing from a pen usually cannot. Finally, while pens have been around for thousands of years, pencils have only been around for about three hundred.

The archetypal pencil may have been the stylus, which was a thin metal stick, often made from lead and used for scratching in papyrus, a form of early paper. They were used extensively by the ancient Egyptians and Romans. The word "pencil" comes from the Latin word which means "little tail". 

Some time before 1565 (some sources say as early as 1500), an enormous deposit of graphite was discovered on the approach to Grey Knotts from the hamlet of Seathwaite in Borrowdale parish, Cumbria, England. The locals found that it was very useful for marking sheep. This particular deposit of graphite was extremely pure and solid, and it could easily be sawn into sticks. This remains the only large scale deposit of graphite ever found in this solid form. Chemistry was in its infancy and the substance was thought to be a form of lead. Consequently, it was called "plumbago" (Latin for "lead ore"). The black core of pencils is still referred to as "lead", even though it never contained the element lead. In German, the word for pencil still is Bleistift, literally "lead stick".

The value of graphite was soon realized to be enormous, mainly because it could be used to line the moulds for cannonballs, and the mines were taken over by the Crown and guarded. When sufficient stocks of graphite had been accumulated, the mines were flooded to prevent theft until more was required. Graphite had to be smuggled out for use in pencils. Because graphite is soft, it requires some form of case. Graphite sticks were at first wrapped in string or in sheepskin for stability. The news of the usefulness of these early pencils spread far and wide, attracting the attention of artists all over the known world. 

Although deposits of graphite had been found in other parts of the world, they were not of the same purity and quality as the Borrowdale find, and had to be crushed to remove the impurities, leaving only graphite powder. England continued to enjoy a monopoly on the production of pencils until a method of reconstituting the graphite powder was found. The distinctively square English pencils continued to be made with sticks cut from natural graphite into the 1860s. The town of Keswick, near the original findings of block graphite, has a pencil museum.

The first attempt to manufacture graphite sticks from powdered graphite was in Nuremberg, Germany, in 1662. It used a mixture of graphite, sulphur, and antimony. 

Residual graphite from a pencil stick is not poisonous, and graphite is harmless if consumed.
The number 2 pencil got its title from the shade of darkness it has (second most dark) from pencil #1-5. This pencil's shape is typically hexagonal and is frequently wood cased. They can write under water, upside down and in space. They can also write up to 45000 words.

The Italians first thought of wooden holders. An Italian couple, in particular, named Simonio and Lyndiana Bernacotti, were believed to be the ones to create the first blueprints for the modern carpentry pencil for the purpose of marking their carpentry pieces; however, their version was instead a flat, oval, more compact type of pencil. They did this at first by hollowing out a stick of juniper wood. Shortly thereafter, a superior technique was discovered: two wooden halves were carved, a graphite stick inserted, and the two halves then glued together—essentially the same method in use to this day.

English and German pencils were not available to the French during the Napoleonic Wars; France, under naval blockade imposed by Great Britain, was unable to import the pure graphite sticks from the British Grey Knotts mines – the only known source in the world for solid graphite. France was also unable to import the inferior German graphite pencil substitute. It took the efforts of an officer in Napoleon's army to change this. In 1795, Nicholas Jacques Conté discovered a method of mixing powdered graphite with clay and forming the mixture into rods that were then fired in a kiln. By varying the ratio of graphite to clay, the hardness of the graphite rod could also be varied. This method of manufacture, which had been earlier discovered by the Austrian Joseph Hardtmuth of Koh-I-Noor in 1790, remains in use.

In England, pencils continued to be made from whole sawn graphite. Henry Bessemer's first successful invention (1838) was a method of compressing graphite powder into solid graphite thus allowing the waste from sawing to be reused. 
American colonists imported pencils from Europe until after the American Revolution. Benjamin Franklin advertised pencils for sale in his "Pennsylvania Gazette" in 1729, and George Washington used a three-inch pencil when he surveyed the Ohio Territory in 1762. It is said that William Munroe, a cabinetmaker in Concord, Massachusetts, made the first American wood pencils in 1812. This was not the only pencil-making occurring in Concord. According to Henry Petroski, transcendentalist philosopher Henry David Thoreau discovered how to make a good pencil out of inferior graphite using clay as the binder; this invention was prompted by his father's pencil factory in Concord, which employed graphite found in New Hampshire in 1821 by Charles Dunbar. 

Munroe's method of making pencils was painstakingly slow, and in the neighbouring town of Acton, a pencil mill owner named Ebenezer Wood set out to automate the process at his own pencil mill located at Nashoba Brook along the old Davis Road. He used the first circular saw in pencil production. He constructed the first of the hexagon- and octagon-shaped wooden casings that we have today. Ebenezer did not patent his invention and shared his techniques with whomever asked. One of those was Eberhard Faber of New York, who became the leader in pencil production. 

Joseph Dixon, an inventor and entrepreneur involved with the Tantiusques granite mine in Sturbridge, Massachusetts, developed a means to mass produce pencils. By 1870, The Joseph Dixon Crucible Company was the world’s largest dealer and consumer of graphite and later became the contemporary Dixon Ticonderoga pencil and art supplies company. 

By the end of the 19th century over 240,000 pencils were used each day in the United States alone. The favoured timber for pencils was Red Cedar as it was aromatic and did not splinter when sharpened. In the early 1900s supplies of Red Cedar were dwindling so that pencil manufacturers were forced to recycle the wood from cedar fences and barns to maintain supply. Britain went as far as declaring the use of pencil sharpeners illegal to discourage unnecessary sharpening. It was soon discovered that Incense cedar, when dyed and perfumed to resemble Red Cedar, was a suitable alternative and most pencils today are made from this timber which is grown in managed forests. Over 14 billion pencils are manufactured worldwide annually.

On 30 March 1858, Hymen Lipman received the first patent for attaching an eraser to the end of a pencil. In 1862 Lipman sold his patent to Joseph Reckendorfer for $100,000, who went to sue the pencil manufacturer Faber-Castell for infringement. In 1875, the Supreme Court of the United States ruled against Reckendorfer declaring the patent invalid.

The metal band used to mate the eraser with pencil is called a ferrule.

The first attempt to manufacture graphite sticks from powdered graphite was in Nuremberg, Germany in 1662. They used a mixture of graphite, sulfur and antimony. Though usable, they were not as good as the English pencils.

English and German pencils were not available to the French during the Napoleonic wars. It took the efforts of an officer in Napoleon's army to change this. In 1795 Nicholas Jacques Conté discovered a method of mixing powdered graphite with clay and forming the mixture into rods which were then fired in a kiln. By varying the ratio of graphite to clay, the hardness of the graphite rod could also be varied (the more clay, the harder the pencil, and the lighter the color of the mark). This method of making pencils is still used today.

Today, pencils are made industrially by mixing finely ground graphite and clay powders, adding water, forming long spaghetti-like strings, and firing them in a kiln. The resulting strings are dipped in oil or molten wax which seeps into the tiny holes of the material, resulting in smoother writing. A juniper or incense-cedar plank with several long parallel grooves is cut to make something called a slate, and the graphite/clay strings are inserted into the grooves. Another grooved plank is glued on top, and the whole thing is then cut into individual pencils, which are then varnished or painted.


</doc>
<doc id="4069" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4069" title="Logic">
Logic

Logic is the science of reasoning. Logic helps people decide whether something is true or false. 

A popular example, given by Aristotle:


formula_1 is read like "and", meaning both of the two.
formula_2 is read like "or", meaning at least one of the two.
formula_3 is read like "implies", or "If ... then ...".
formula_4 is read like "not", or "it is not the case that ...". Parentheses "(",")" are added for clarity and precedence; this means that what is in parenthesis should be looked at before the things outside.

This is the same example using logic symbols:

And this is the same example using general terms:

Finally, those talking about "logic" talk about "statements". A statement is simply something like "Aristole is human" or "all humans are mortal". Statements have a truth value; they are either true or false, but not both. Mistakes in logic are called "fallacies".

A logical proof is a list of statements. Each statement in the proof is either an assumption or has been proven to follow from earlier statements in the proof. A proof shows that one statement, the conclusion, follows from the assumptions. One can, for example, prove that "Aristotle is mortal" follows from "Aristotle is a man" and "All men are mortal".

There are statements that are always true.

formula_7 is always true. It is called a "tautology". (for example: "It rains, or it does not rain")

Logic is used by computers in what is called an algorithm. An "algorithm" is sort of like a cooking recipe; it tells the computer what to do and when to do it.

Logic is used in mathematics. People who study math create proofs that use logic to show that math facts are correct. There is an area of mathematics called mathematical logic that studies logic using mathematics. 

Logic is also studied in philosophy. 


</doc>
<doc id="4070" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4070" title="Communism">
Communism

Communism is a political way of thinking and an idea of how society should work and be organized. Communism is a kind of socialism that says that there should not be social classes or states. Communism says that the people of any and every place in the world should all own the tools, factories, and farms that are used to produce goods and food. This social process is known as common ownership. In a communist society, there is no private property.

 According to Communist writers and thinkers, the goal of communism is for workers to take control of factories and business and to manage the economy democratically.

After workers established a government in the interests of all they would slowly bring all of the tools of production under their control, until a classless and stateless society was created. 

This is an old idea, but it became popular after the French Revolution and other popular movements in Europe in the early 1800s.

Some socialists believed that socialists could take state power in democratic elections, so they tried to make socialist parties in their own countries win elections. Others thought that state was created to maintain capitalism and that capitalists would never allow communists to take power, so there needed to be a war or revolution in order to create a new workers state. 

Many countries have claimed to be workers states, but many communists debate this. Most of these countries did hold elections, but in most cases the only candidates that were allowed belonged to the communist party, so the elections were not free ones (elections where many candidates with differing views are allowed to run for office). Some of these countries' leaders such as Stalin or Mao Zedong had lots of strict laws and a secret police force to keep themselves in power. People could be sent to prison or killed for speaking against the government. 

Most of these countries had a legislature to make laws. Most of the time, the legislature usually did not have any real power and usually just approved the proposals of the leaders. The Communist Party had all the real political power. 

Most of the countries that claimed to be workers states either had a violent revolution or were invaded by a country that left behind a government. Some democratic countries today have active communist parties, such as in India, Italy and France. 

In some countries, especially those that used to be ruled by communist parties, the communist party is illegal or discouraged from holding power (like in Eastern Europe).

In 1848, Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels wrote The Communist Manifesto, a short book with the basic ideas of communism. Most socialists and communists today still use this book to help them understand politics and economics. Many non-communists read it too, even if they do not agree with everything in it. 
Karl Marx said that for society to change into a communist way of living, there would have to be a transitional period. During this transitional period, the workers would rule their country. Marx's ideas were liked by many groups and individuals, and in 1917, Vladimir Lenin and Leon Trotsky led a Russian group called the Bolsheviks in the October Revolution which got rid of the provincial government of Russia, which was formed after the February Revolution against the Tsar (Emperor), and established the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (Also called the Soviet Union or USSR).
The Soviet Union was the first country claiming to have established a workers state, but in reality the country never became communist in the way that Marx and Engels described. People who support communism say that this is because these countries lacked democracy. People who do not support communism usually say that the example of the Soviet Union and other similar countries proves that communism is dangerous and does not work. 

During the 20th century, many people tried to establish workers states. In the late 1940's, China also had a revolution and created a new government with Mao Zedong as its leader. In the 1950's, the island of Cuba had a revolution and created a new government with Fidel Castro as its leader. At one time, there were many such countries.

Since 1989, when the Berlin Wall was torn down, most countries that used to call themselves workers states have given up on communism, so that communism has much less influence around the world. In 1991, the Soviet Union broke up. However, around a quarter of the world's people still live in states controlled by a communist party, most of these in the People's Republic of China. The other countries include Cuba, Vietnam, and Laos. There are also communist movements in Latin America and South Asia.

Many people have written their own ideas about communism. Vladimir Lenin of Russia thought that there had to be a group of hard-working revolutionaries (called a vanguard) to lead a socialist revolution worldwide and create a communist society everywhere. Leon Trotsky, also from Russia, argued that socialism had to be international, and it was not important to make it happen first in Russia. He also did not like Joseph Stalin, who became the leader of the USSR after Lenin's death in 1924. Trotsky was made to leave the Soviet Union by Stalin in 1928, and then killed in 1940. This scared many people, and lots of communists argued about whether this was right and whose ideas should be followed.

Stalin thought that it was important to make the Soviet Union powerful first, then spread it around the world when it was stronger. Many communists (like Leon Trotsky) said that Stalin was not a real communist, because the original idea of communism needed small groups of workers voting and deciding on things together, and Stalin in no way supported voting or democracy. Yet there are communist schools of thought which agree with Stalin, mainly because of his rapid industrialization and victory over Germany.

Mao Zedong of China thought that other classes would be important to the revolution in China and other third world countries because the working classes in these countries were small. Mao's ideas on communism are usually called Maoism or Mao Zedong Thought. After the death of Stalin in 1953, Mao saw himself as the leader of worldwide communism until he died in 1976. Today the Chinese government is still ruled by the Communist Party, but they actually have what is called a mixed economy, and they have borrowed many things from capitalism. The government in China today does not follow Maoism, but revolutionaries in other countries like India and Nepal like his ideas and are trying to use them in their own countries.

The color red is a symbol of communism around the world. A red five-pointed star sometimes also stands for communism. The hammer and sickle is a well known symbol of communism and was on the flags of many countries that claimed to be building communism (see top of article). Some communists also like to use pictures of famous communists from history, such as Marx, Lenin and Mao Zedong, as symbols of the whole philosophy of communism. 

A song called "The Internationale" was the international song of communism. It has the same music everywhere, but the words to the song are translated into very many languages.

There is also a special kind of art and architecture found in many communist and former communist countries. Paintings done in the style of socialist realism are often done for propaganda to show an ideal version of a country's people and political leader. Art done in the socialist realism style, such as plays, movies, novels and paintings show hard-working, happy and well-fed factory workers and farmers. Movies, plays and novels in this style often tell stories about workers or soldiers who sacrifice themselves for the good of the country. Paintings often showed heroic portraits of the leader, or landscapes showing huge fields of wheat. Stalinist architecture was supposed to represent the power and glory of the state and its political leader. Some non-communists also enjoy this kind of art.



</doc>
<doc id="4072" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4072" title="Resurrection">
Resurrection

Resurrection means bringing back to life.

Christians believe that Jesus Christ was resurrected. They also believe in resurrection for all people after death (see Saint Paul's first letter to the Corinthians). 

The resurrection of Jesus Christ is documented by various authors in the New Testament. The resurrection is a key part of Christian faith because it signifies that God was fully satisfied with the work of Jesus in dying on the cross to save mankind. It is also important because it prefigures the resurrection of all Christian believers. But most importantly the fact that Jesus Christ was resurrected to an imperishable state (see below) means that he lives for ever. As such, there is a 'man in heaven' at the current time. He is the advocate for us before the throne of God. He is also with us by his Spirit in this world.

In both the case of Jesus Christ and everyone else's resurrection the bible makes it clear that the resurrected body is changed from the original. This is because the human body in its current form is understood to be weak and frail. However, the resurrected person lives for ever.

In illustration Saint Paul refers to a seed and its tree. This life's body is like a seed, and the resurrection body is like the tree which comes from it. From this analogy Paul illustrates two important principles: 



</doc>
<doc id="4073" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4073" title="Monarchy">
Monarchy

A monarchy is a kind of government where a monarch, a kind of hereditary ruler (someone who inherits their office) is the head of state. Monarchs usually rule until they die or resign (when a monarch resigns it is called abdication). Most monarchies are hereditary, but some are elected. The most famous elected monarch is the Pope of the Roman Catholic Church. Some common titles for monarchs are King, Queen, Emperor, Empress, Czar, Kaiser, Shah, Emir and Sultan.

Monarchy is one of the oldest kinds of government. Most historians agree that the first monarchies were tribes or small groups of people who decided to let a war-chief or other leader pass on their office to their children. Over time, the rules for deciding who got to become the next monarch became more complicated. In general, the oldest son or, in some countries, daughter, gets to become the next monarch when the old one dies. Kings and other kinds of monarchs have been around for many thousands of years, there are many, for example, mentioned in the Bible as well as ancient historical records. Three of the oldest countries with monarchs that still hold office are the United Kingdom,where the present line of Kings and Queens has been around for nearly 1,000 years, Denmark where the royal line has remained unbroken for almost 1,200 years, and Japan, which has records showing a line of Emperors dating back even farther.

Many monarchs today perform mostly the ceremonial jobs of a head of state, while the head of government, who is usually elected, passes and enforces laws. It is also very important in other parts of the country.

An absolute monarchy is a form of government where only the monarch himself or herself is the only source of all laws and the monarch can make any law they want just by deciding it. Any other institution in the country cannot make laws that affect the monarch, unless the monarch decides to allow it. Sometimes the monarch is also the head of the state religion and makes religious laws also. All land and property in the country can be taken or given away by the monarch at any time for any reason. The army and navy is under the personal control of the monarch and can be used for any purpose at any time. The monarch can also pick who gets to be the next monarch and can change the rules at any time. There is usually no elected government or Parliament, and if there is one, it has no real power. This kind of government is very rare today. The people do not have a lot of power in it.

Countries that are examples of an absolute monarchy are Vatican City, Brunei, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Oman and Swaziland.

A constitutional monarchy is a form of government that is usually a democracy and has a constitution, with the monarch as head of state. Either the monarch has to obey the laws like everyone else, or, if the monarch does not have to obey the same laws as the rest of the people, there are special laws that say what the monarch can and cannot do. The monarch usually can not decide their special laws on their own. There may be laws about who the monarch's children can marry, for example, that are passed by the Parliament or Congress. For example, in the Netherlands, if a member of the royal family marries without the permission of Parliament, they cannot become king or queen themselves. The army and navy may swear an oath to the monarch, but the real power to control it is given to the elected government. There are laws about property and succession (who gets to be the next monarch) that can only be changed by the elected government. Usually the monarch must sign laws into effect, but they are required to follow the will of the elected government. 

A constitutional monarchy usually has separation of power, and the monarch often has only ceremonial functions, such as representing the country while traveling or acting as a symbol for the whole country (not for a particular political party). Constitutional monarchs usually do not vote, even when it is legal for them to do so. Voting would mean that they picked a side in political arguments and then could not claim to represent everyone in the country. Some constitutional monarchies give the power to veto laws to the monarch, but in most countries where this is the case it is a power that is very rarely used. In countries where the monarch can dismiss or appoint governments, this is usually only done to make sure that the democratic process is respected, without taking sides in politics. Appointments to public office made by constitutional monarchs are generally approved by the democratically elected government beforehand.

Examples of Constitutional monarchies are the United Kingdom, New Zealand, Australia, The Netherlands, Norway, Denmark, Sweden, Belgium, Japan and Spain. Thailand has a monarch who sometimes take part in politics to influence the government unlike in other constitutional monarchies, but he still is subject to law.


</doc>
<doc id="4074" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4074" title="North Korea">
North Korea

North Korea, or the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, is a country in the northern part of Korea. North Korea borders China, Russia, and South Korea. The capital city of North Korea is Pyŏngyang.

Before World War II, Korea was part of Japan. After World War II, Japan left and the Soviet Union and United States occupied Korea. In the north, the Soviet Union helped build North Korea. North Korea became a socialist country. In the south, the United States helped build South Korea. The Soviet Union and the USA left Korea in 1948.

In 1950, North Korea invaded (sent soldiers into) South Korea. North Korea wanted to re-unite (add together) Korea and Korean families. They wanted South Korea to be Communist. The United Nations sent troops (soldiers) to Korea. These soldiers came from many countries. The countries did not like Communism (see Cold War). If South Korea became Communist, then maybe other countries would also. Douglas MacArthur led the US troops. 

First, North Korea's troops occupied (took over by force) most of South Korea. 
Next, with foreign help, South Korea took back their land, and also occupied most of North Korea (to the Yalu River, the border with China.
Last, China helped North Korea. North Korea took back their land.
In 1953, North and South Korea stopped fighting. They signed an armistice. The border between North and South changed a little.

North Korea is a socialist country, but most countries in the world agree that it is a totalitarian Stalinist dictatorship.

Kim Il-Sŏng was the first leader of North Korea. He was the founder of "Juche" ("self-reliance"). In 1994, he died and his son, Kim Jŏng-Il took over. Kim Jŏng-Il died on Saturday December 17th, 2011 while riding a train. His son will take his place.

"Songun" is a North Korean idea. It means "army first". The job of every North Korean person is to feed the Army. The Army can steal food from civilians (other people). Kim Jong-Il is the "Chairman of the National Defense Commission of North Korea". He is like a king, and can do what he wants. The average North Korean citizen makes 900-1000 dollars a year. Kim Jong-Il makes $650,000-$800,000 a year. He also lives in a palace.

Korean people also do not have freedom of speech. The government does not give people the right to move freely within the country, either. The government also tries to keep ideas from other countries out of North Korea. An article in "The New York Times" quoted a North Korean woman who said that her neighbor spent six months in a labor camp for watching a Jackie Chan movie.

In parts of the country, there is not enough food. Currently, foreign countries give food to some people in North Korea. This is called "foreign aid". 

It is hard for foreigners to visit North Korea. Visitors must be guided by two army members called "minders".

In October 2006, North Korea said that it tested a nuclear weapon. Although the government says that the test was not dangerous, many other countries and the UN were very angry. In 2002, American president George W. Bush called North Korea part of an "axis of evil".

On the 25th of May 2009, North Korea continued nuclear testing, a violation of Resolution 1718.

In 2010, a South Korean warship sank, killing over 40 soldiers. An international investigation concluded that North Korea had sunk a South Korean warship with a torpedo. North Korea strongly said that it did not have anything to do with the sinking. When the U.S. and South Korea planned defensive military practices, North Korea's National Defence Commission threatened on 24 July 2010 to start "sacred war of their own style" with "nuclear deterrent" because of "the US imperialists and the South Korean puppet forces deliberately (purposefully) pushing the situation ."


</doc>
<doc id="4075" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4075" title="Parliament">
Parliament

A parliament is a type of legislature . The most famous parliament is probably the one in the United Kingdom, which is sometimes called the "Mother of all Parliaments" [this phrase was originally used as a criticism in the 19th century - as in "this parliament is of the old generation". Nowadays, people tend to assume it is a compliment, as in "it was one of the first parliaments and many other countries have set their own up in the same way"]. The word "parliament" comes from the French word "parlement", which means a talk.

The Parliament of the United Kingdom is split into three separate parts, the House of Commons (the lower house), the lords (the upper house) and the Monarch. Most legislative power concentrated in the House of Commons. It is made up of 646 Members of Parliament (MPs). These people are elected by the people of the United Kingdom to represent them in the House of Commons. The leader of the political party who commands a majority of MPs is usually made the Prime Minister, but not the Head of State, a position reserved for the Sovereign. The House of Commons starts most Bills, the remainder originating in the House of Lords, and decides rates of taxation as a result of election by the other hereditary peers and two other hereditary peers who have ceremonial jobs in the House of Lords. They are the Earl Marshal who is always the Duke of Norfolk and the Lord Great Chamberlain, the Marquess of Cholmondeley. The House of Lords has the power to reject Bills, except Money Bills (tax bills), and make the House of Commons reconsider them. If the House of Lords vetoes a bill twice or delays a "public" Bill for more than one year then the House of Commons can force the Bill through under the terms of the Parliament Acts, unless it originated in the House of Lords.
The monarch (now HM Queen Elizabeth II) is the sovereign in a constitutional monarchy and, theoretically, is the fount of all power in the United Kingdom. Bills must receive the Royal Assent before becoming Acts of Parliament and the monarch is responsible for summoning, proroguing and dissolving Parliament, normally upon the advice of the incumbent Prime Minister. It is now very rare for a monarch to object, but the sovereign still retains this prerogative for use if necessary.

Other parliaments have copied the UK and work similarly. They have three levels - a lower house which makes the law, an upper house which reviews the law (Decides if they like it or not, and suggest changes to it), and a head of state who is mostly for show and who starts and ends each year of parliament. The Prime Minister is almost always the person whose party has the most seats, but if the lower house does not think he is doing a good job they can call a vote of no confidence and ask him to leave his job as Prime Minister or have an election.

Sometimes people use the word "parliament" to describe a legislature, even if it is not a real parliament. A "parliament" is a type of legislature which has a Prime Minister. 

A parliament is a lot like a congress but a congress cannot ask the head of the government to leave his job. Also, a congress runs for a number of years according to the country's constitution, but a parliament can be stopped as long as enough members agree. Elections are held after this happens.




</doc>
<doc id="4076" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4076" title="Turing test">
Turing test

The Turing test is a test to see if a computer can trick a person into believing that the computer is a person too. Alan Turing thought that if a human could not tell the difference between another human and the computer, then that computer must be as intelligent as a human.

A person has a telegraph, and is connected to two communication partners. One of the two correspondents is a machine. The person can ask anything, with the telegraph. If the person cannot tell which of the two is the machine more than 50% of the time, then the machine is said to be "intelligent" (or smart).

Later on, people narrowed down the test. A human is unlikely to know everything. Therefore, both the human and the machine would be specialists in some field of knowledge. So would the person asking.

As of 2009, no one has made a computer that can pass the Turing test. However, Elbot came close to 30%.


</doc>
<doc id="4077" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4077" title="Fuel">
Fuel

A fuel is a substance that is changed in some way to produce heat, electricity, or other forms of energy. This is usually by being burnt, although there are exceptions, such as nuclear fuel. Fuel can be divided into two main types: fossil fuels and other fuels.

There are several kinds of fossil fuels:
Some people do not want us to use fossil fuels because they may pollute the environment. Because all fossil fuels are made out of carbon, burning them makes carbon dioxide. Some people think that too much carbon dioxide in the air may cause a greenhouse effect. Fossil fuels are also non-renewable, or renew extremely slowly (thousands of years). This means that we will eventually run out of fossil fuels.

Other fuels are not made from fossils. Some of these, like nuclear and hydrogen, do not have carbon in them. Others, like wood or ethanol, do have carbon in them. Some examples of these fuels are:
These fuels are renewable. This means that we can make more of them if we run out. For instance, if we run out of ethanol, we can grow some more corn and make some more ethanol.


</doc>
<doc id="4080" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4080" title="List of anarchists">
List of anarchists

An anarchist is someone who supports anarchism. This is a list of people who are known anarchists.
Some famous anarchists:


</doc>
<doc id="4095" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4095" title="List of volcanoes">
List of volcanoes

The following is a list of active and extinct volcanoes:




















































</doc>
<doc id="4096" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4096" title="Estonia">
Estonia

Estonia is a small country in Northern Europe. The capital city is Tallinn. Estonia's neighbors are Sweden, Finland, Russia and Latvia. Its population is 1,332,893.

Estonia became a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) on 29 March 2004. It joined the European Union on 1 May 2004.

Estonia is east from the Baltic Sea and the northest of the Baltic States. 
Estonia is divided into 15 counties "(maakond)": Harjumaa, Hiiumaa, Ida-Virumaa, Jõgevamaa, Järvamaa, Läänemaa, Lääne-Virumaa, Põlvamaa, Pärnumaa, Raplamaa, Saaremaa, Tartumaa, Valgamaa, Viljandimaa, Võrumaa.

Estonia has many forests, almost 50% of the land is covered with forests. Estonia has over 1,400 lakes and 1,500 islands. 



</doc>
<doc id="4097" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4097" title="Republic of Cyprus">
Republic of Cyprus

Cyprus is a country in the Mediterranean Sea. It is a member state of the European Union. Although it is close to Asia, Cyprus is a part of Europe because of the culture and history of the people. It is an island . The capital is Nicosia. Most of the population speaks Greek, and a minority is Turkish-speaking. In July 1974 Turkey invaded Cyprus and since then the north part of the island is under illegal Turkish occupation (according to the Greek government). Turkish Northern Cyprus is not recognised by any international organisation and when entering by aeroplane, a short stop must be made in an airport in mainland Turkey.

In 2004 Cyprus joined the European Union and on 1 January 2008 Cyprus adopted the Euro, the single European currency. Northern Cyprus accepts Turkish lira, and sometimes the Euro or United States Dollar.



</doc>
<doc id="4098" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4098" title="Latvia">
Latvia

Latvia is a country in northern Europe. The capital is Riga. It is one of the Baltic States, together with Estonia in the north and Lithuania in the south. Latvia's neighbours to the east are the countries Russia and Belarus. Latvia is split into four parts called Kurzeme, Vidzeme, Zemgale, and Latgale.

People from Latvia are called Latvians. They speak the Latvian language, which is a little like the Lithuanian language, though not close enough to be understood.

Latvia was settled by the Baltic tribes thousands of years ago. They mainly fished, hunted, and traded.

German traders and crusaders came to Latvia at the end of the 12th century. Latvians lost control of their homeland. Over the next 800 years, Germans, Danes, Swedes, Poles, and Russians all invaded Latvia. Latvia finally became independent in 1918.

The Soviet Union invaded Latvia during World War II and killed or took away many of its people to Siberia and other places far away from their homes. Nazi Germany invaded and killed half of Latvia's Jews. The Soviet Union then invaded again and occupied Latvia until 1991, when the Soviet Union fell apart and Latvia became an independent country again.

In Copenhagen on 13 December 2002, Latvia and nine other countries were invited to join the European Union. On 20 September 2003, Latvians held an election to vote on joining. Two thirds of Latvians voted to join, and on 1 May 2004 Latvia became a member of the EU.

Latvia has been a NATO member since 29 March, 2004.



</doc>
<doc id="4099" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4099" title="Lithuania">
Lithuania

Lithuania is a country in northern Europe on the eastern shore of the Baltic Sea. Lithuania is a member of the European Union, NATO, and several other organizations.

Vilnius is the capital and largest city. About 3,500,000 people live there. The official language is Lithuanian which is spoken by more than 82% of the people.

The colors of the Lithuanian flag are yellow (at the top), for the sun, green (in the middle), for the fields, and red (at the bottom), for the blood of Lithuanians fighting for its independence.

Lithuania began to turn into a country in the 7th–9th centuries from Baltic nations group. The Baltics, the ancestors of Lithuanians and Latvians, came to area between Nemunas, Daugava rivers and the Baltic sea, from a supposed original homeland of the Proto-Indo-Europeans. Many scientists think they came there sometime in the 3rd millennium BC.

The traditional date of the beginning of the country is 1236 when the Battle of Šiauliai (Battle of Sun) took place and was won by the Lithuanians.

Lithuania (at that time - The Grand Duchy of Lithuania) had made a Treaty with Poland in 1569. The country was taken over by the Russian Empire in 1795. It got back its independence on the February 16, 1918. It was taken over by Soviet Union in June 16, 1940, after Germany from 1941-1944 and then the Soviet Union from 1944-1990. Lithuania re-declared its independence on March 11, 1990. Currently Lithuania is an independent, semi-presidential, democratic republic.

Lithuania has been a member of NATO and the European Union since 2004. 

Lithuania is a semi presidential republic, that restored its independence and democracy in 1990. Since then, very important reforms were made and Lithuania is now declared as a democratic state that grants the human rights. 

The Constitution that was adopted in 1992 declares, that the leader of the country is the President, who must be elected to take his office. The elections are held each 5 years. If President broke their oath, they can be fired by the Parliament. The President also represents Lithuania and he is also a commander-in-chief. 

The legislative power of Lithuania is Seimas, or the Parliament. There are 141 members of Seimas who are elected for 4-year-terms. Seimas passes the laws that must be executed by the Government, that is formed in Seimas and it must be accepted by the President. The Prime Minister is set and fired by the President.

The justice is under the power of the courts. The supreme court in Lithuania is the Constitutional Court.

Lithuania is divided into 10 counties, 60 municipalities and 500 elderates. The counties are: 


The county governor rules the county. He or she must be appointed by the central government. Municipalities are governed by the Municipal Councils that are elected for 4 year terms. The head of a municipality is the mayor. The elderates are governed by the elders. The elders are appointed by the municipal councils.

Lithuania is a country in northern Europe. Its neighbours are Poland in the south west, Russia (Kaliningrad) in west, Latvia in north and Belarus in the east. Lithuania borders the Baltic sea and 99 kilometres of it belong to Lithuania. The highest hill is Aukštojas (294 metres high), the largest lake is Drūkšiai Lake. 31 % of the land suitable for farms. 

Lithuania is divided into 5 cultural regions according to their past and traditions: 


Lithuania has a fast growing economy. It grew up to 7 % in the first quarter of 2008. 

GDP per capita, based on purchasing power parity is estimated to be $19 730 in 2008. The nominal GDP per capita is estimated to be $14 213 at the same year. According to these numbers, Lithuanian per capita GDP reaches only 61% of EU average. However, it is impressive that only in 8 years, since 2000 it grew up from 30% of EU average. 

Emigration still contains a problem. Acoording to the official data, emigration in 2006 was 30% lower than previous year, with 3 483 people leaving in four months.

About 80% of people in Lithuania are Lithuanians. There are large national minorities:

Lithuanian is spoken by 82% of the people and it is the only official language. Polish is used mostly in Vilnius County where Polish politicians are elected to represent the Polish minority. The documents and street names must be in Lithuanian. 

The biggest cities are Vilnius, 542,287 people, Kaunas, 358,107 people, and Klaipėda, 185,899 people.

The nursery schools and the kindergartens are the first-level education forms. However, they are not compulsory. The children, aged 7 start attending the primary school, where educational programs last for 4 years, then they must start attending the secondary school (5th to 10th grades). After finishing 8th or 10th grade, the student can continue learning at the high school or choose courses at the vocational college. The students who finish the high school can join colleges and universities. Higher education is free for the students whose annual median of grades is 8 or higher. The others have to pay 500 Litass per semester at least. 

The higher education schools are universities and colleges. The main universities are: 

Lithuanians can choose from many television and radio stations. The first radio station was started in 1928 in Kaunas. The first television station started in 1957. The main radio stations are:

The most popular TV stations are:

The oldest legal newspaper in Lithuania is Polish Kurier Wilenski. It was published first in 18th century now is popular with the Polish community only. The biggest selling newspapers are: 

Internet news portals are very popular in Lithuania. They have the latest information and also let people make comments. The most popular Internet sites with news and information are: 



</doc>
<doc id="4100" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4100" title="Malta">
Malta

Malta is an island country in Europe. It is located near the center of the Mediterranean Sea, south of Sicily. The capital of Malta is Valletta. About 400,000 people live in Malta. Malta is one of the most densely populated countries in the world. Because of this, it has many cities and towns that grew into each other over time. The largest of these is possibly Birkirkara.

Malta has two official languages, Maltese and English.

Malta had its own currency, called the Maltese Lira until 2008. The Maltese "Lira" was better known as the Maltese "Pound" because of the strong links to the United Kingdom. One Maltese Lira consisted of 100 "cents". In 2008 Malta joined the Euro countries in adopting the Euro as the National Currency.

People have lived in Malta since at least 5200 BC. The island has some key archaeological locations dating from early times.

Malta became well known as the base of the Knights of St John. They moved to Malta after being forced to leave Palestine and then Rhodes, in Greece. The knights and the Maltese people survived a great attack by the Turks. The history of the knights at Malta continued the strong Roman Catholic beliefs in the country that were started by the Norman and Spanish rulers.

In 1798, Napoleon took control of Malta. The French rule was not popular and in 1800 Maltese rebels invited the English Royal Navy to come to the island. This lead to 200 years as a British colony and independent Commonwealth member. Some Maltese wanted the union of Malta with Italy, like Carmelo Borg Pisani 

During the Second World War, Malta was again attacked this time by the Axis forces. The entire island was symbolically given the George Cross for heroism.

In 2004 Malta joined the European Union and in 2008 Malta joined the Euro.



</doc>
<doc id="4101" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4101" title="List of Soviet Union-related topics">
List of Soviet Union-related topics








"See also:" Lists of country-related topics


</doc>
<doc id="4102" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4102" title="List of Russians">
List of Russians


"See also Russian literature and List of Russian authors."








"See also Tsar for complete list of old Russian rulers"





"See also List of people associated with World War II: Soviet Union."<br>
"See also List of Marshals of the Soviet Union."






During the times of the Soviet Union nationals of other constituent republics were traditionally known as "Russians" in the West. Some of them were even known under Russian or Russified names. Since the collapse of the Soviet Union many nations (rightfully) chose to "regain" their nationality in the eyes of the world. Therefore some names may be missing from the list above and you may wish to look into the following lists. 



</doc>
<doc id="4104" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4104" title="Comoving distance">
Comoving distance

In normal cosmology, 'comoving' distance or 'proper distance' is one of several distances measured by cosmologists to define distances between objects. 

To talk about the shape of the Universe, scientists want to forget that the Universe is expanding. So they separate the shape from time and pretend that the Universe is not expanding. They remember that, really, the Universe is expanding, but they write this in a variable called the scale factor. Then, the distances they talk about, while putting the scale factor to the side, are called comoving distances. When they think about the Universe using comoving distance, they think of the Universe as not expanding. This way, some calculations are easier.

When the part of the Universe which we can see today started, it was very small. Everything in this part of the Universe was much closer together than today. It was also very hot and photons (particles of light) were moving in different directions. Light moves very fast, but the light speed is limited and the Universe was expanding very fast.

Think of two ants on the surface of an expanding balloon. One ant starts moving towards another, but the balloon itself is also expanding. After a long time the balloon starts expanding more slowly. Eventually one ant reaches another. That's like photons in our universe. Some of the light from the stars you see at night traveled for billions of years to reach your eye. Surprisingly, it started very close to where you were (or the atoms of which your body consists), but just could not keep up with the universe expansion. Of course, if something else started out very close to where you were, but was not traveling toward you, it would be very far away from you now because of the expansion. 


</doc>
<doc id="4105" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4105" title="Shaanxi">
Shaanxi

Shaanxi (Chinese:陕西, also sometimes called Shenshi) is a province in east China. The word "Shaan" (viz Shanzhou) is a place in Henan Province. "Xi" means "west". So "Shaanxi" means "the place to the west of Shann". The river Wei He runs across it. It has a large population of more than 30 million people. The capital of Shaanxi is Xi'an. 
January 23, 1556 – A massive earthquake, measuring 9.0 on the Richter scale, strikes Shaanxi, killing over 850,000 people. This is the most devastating earthquake in recorded history.

Shaanxi Province is divided into ten municipalities:



</doc>
<doc id="4106" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4106" title="Lisbon">
Lisbon

Lisbon is the capital city of Portugal. The city has a population of about two million people. Lisbon is on the River Tagus. It has a pleasant climate and has about 220 days of sunshine each year. There are many beautiful beaches close to the city. There are also many seafood restaurants, historical sites and monuments.



</doc>
<doc id="4107" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4107" title="Surfing">
Surfing

Surfing is a water sport done in the ocean or sea. The surfer uses his surfboard to catch a wave and ride in towards the shore.

Surfing was invented by the Polynesians at least 4000 years ago. It has become a popular sport among both men and women of all ages. With lifestyles and regimens freer than those of most sports, surfers comprise a unique culture. Though surfing is practiced in many other Pacific nations, its center remains Hawaii, where many rounds of the international surfing championships (the ASP) are held annually. Surfing is popular in Australia, the US, and Northern Europe.



</doc>
<doc id="4108" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4108" title="Lyon">
Lyon

Lyon (English Lyons) is a city in the south-east of France. Today it is the second largest "metropolis", or metro area in France. Paris is the largest. Marseille is the third largest. In 2005, about 472,000 people lived in Lyon intra muros, about 4,115,000 in the urban area. 

In ancient history, the name of Lyon was "Lugdunum". Someone who lives in Lyon is called a "Lyonnais" (male) or a "Lyonnaise" (female) in french.

Lyon is located between the Rhone and the Saône. It is situated about 150 km west of the Italian border. 


Famous sports clubs from Lyon are



</doc>
<doc id="4109" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4109" title="George W. Bush">
George W. Bush

George Walker Bush (born July 6, 1946) was the 43rd President of the United States of America. He is a Republican. During Bush's presidency, Dick Cheney was his Vice President. Bush is from Midland, Texas. He has a ranch in Crawford, Texas, which is near Waco. He is the son of former U.S. President George H. W. Bush. Before he was President, Bush was Governor of Texas from 1995 to 2000. He is married to Laura, and they have twin daughters, Jenna and Barbara.

Bush was born in New Haven, Connecticut. He went to school at Yale University from 1964 to 1968. He lived in Midland, Texas on a ranch but not for a long time. He joined the Texas Air National Guard in 1968 (part of the United States National Guard) during the Vietnam War, but did not fight in Vietnam. He left the Texas Air National Guard in 1973. In 1978, Bush tried to get elected to Congress in West Texas, but lost. After that, he ran some oil companies and was one of the owners of the Texas Rangers baseball team. He thought about trying to become the commissioner of Major League Baseball, but went into politics instead. In 1994, he was elected to be Governor of Texas.

Bush ran against then-Vice President Al Gore in the 2000 United States presidential election. More than 100 million people voted on November 7, 2000. But the election was very close. When they began counting the votes, it became clear that whoever got the most votes in the state of Florida would win the election. But there were many issues with the ballots in Florida. Gore sued to get Florida to count the votes again. For more than a month no one knew who won the election. The Supreme Court made a decision to stop recounting votes. Gore decided to accept his loss and Bush was declared the winner. Because of the many issues with the law in this election, people still argue about whether the courts made the right decision.

While he was President, George W. Bush signed the No Child Left Behind Act into law. It gave more money to American schools. It also made students take more tests to measure their progress. 

He added Part D to Medicare, which gives older people free medicine if they can not afford it. 

He also signed very large tax cuts (many of them were for the middle and lower class) during his presidency. These tax cuts and the government spending more money made it so that the government spent more money than it took in, and it had to borrow money.

Bush did not approve of abortion. In 2004, he signed the Unborn Victims Of Violence Act which made it so that if a pregnant woman is murdered, her murderer can also charged with killing the fetus that the woman was carrying.

His first foreign policy test came when an American spy plane crashed in China. Bush peacefully negotiated the release of the plane crew.

Eight months after Bush became president, the World Trade Center was attacked. This happened on Sept 11, 2001. Because of this, President Bush declared a War on Terror.

Bush tried to do many things to stop another terrorist attack from happening. He ordered an invasion of Afghanistan. He did this because the leaders of Afghanistan were helping Osama bin Laden, the person who was responsible for attacking America on 9/11. Bush asked Congress to do more to stop terrorism. As a result, Congress passed a law that made the Department Of Homeland Security, a government department which tries to prevent terrorist attacks from happening. It also responds to emergencies such as floods or diseases. 

He signed the Patriot Act (which allowed the government to listen to people's phone calls so it can track down terrorists which try to communicate with each other). Many people were against it because it took away freedom from people and many people were for it because it was for the safety of the country. This led to a debate of whether or not it was worth it to give up some freedom for safety.

President Bush claimed that Saddam Hussein (the leader of Iraq) had weapons of mass destruction. After Saddam refused to cooperate with the United Nations, Bush decided to invade Iraq. Although the United Kingdom supported the invasion, many other countries did not. People called Bush's idea of invading a country (before it can do any harm) the Bush Doctrine. Saddam Hussein was removed from power, and Iraq turned into a democracy.

In the 2004 presidential election, Bush won again. His opponent was Massachusetts Senator John Kerry, a Democrat. 

In 2005, Hurricane Katrina (the most destructive hurricane in American history) happened. It caused over 1800 deaths and caused billions of dollars of destruction. George W. Bush was strongly criticized for taking too long to respond, but he did sign several acts into law which would help Hurricane Katrina victims.

In the Iraq War, no weapons of mass destruction were found, and the Bush Administration was criticized for being wrong about Iraq having weapons of mass destruction. Bush added more American troops to Iraq (which was called "the surge") to speed up the war. The surge was successful, and in result, Iraq had less violence.

Although the economy was doing very well during much of his presidency, in early 2008, the economy was slowing down. Bush signed a bill into law which would gave $600 to every American citizen, hoping that people would go out and spend the money so that it would prevent a recession (a bad economy) from happening.

Later in 2008, stock market crashed and the country fell into its worst recession since the Great Depression. Bush helped create a 700 billion dollar bailout, which would give money to corporations (large businesses) to prevent them from being bankrupt and to try to prevent the recession from getting worse.

Bush's approval ratings were at an all-time low during the end of the time he was President. Bush said that the current opinion polls do not matter and that history would be the judge of his presidency.

Bush publicly supported Republican candidate John McCain during the 2008 presidential election, but Barack Obama won the election.

During the last few days he was President, Bush gave his farewell address. He said that his achievements were having two dictatorships (Afghanistan and Iraq) turned into democracies (where people can vote for their leaders), and said that in the seven years after September 11, 2001, the United States had not faced another terrorist attack.

On January 20, 2009, Barack Obama replaced Bush as President.

After his presidency, Bush stayed away from the spotlight and did not want much attention. He said that he was not going to criticize President Obama. He began to build his presidential library.

After over a year and a half of silence, in November of 2010, Bush appeared on several television interviews and released a book called "Decision Points". The book focuses on fourteen big decisions he made, including quitting drinking, running for president, Hurricane Katrina, invading Iraq, and his response to the financial meltdown in 2008.



</doc>
<doc id="4110" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4110" title="Organic compound">
Organic compound

Organic compounds are carbon-based compounds. Organic compounds contain carbon bonds in which at least one carbon atom is covalently linked to an atom of another type (usually hydrogen, oxygen or nitrogen). Most polymers are organic compounds.

The name "" is a historical name from the 19th century.

People believed that only living things could make organic compounds and "dead" things (such as minerals) could make inorganic compounds. However, Friedrich Wöhler proved this wrong because certain compounds in urine were thought to be inorganic, but urine came from a living thing.
There are natural organic compounds, and synthetic ones. Their structure may be described by using names, and making diagrams. 

One way of showing the molecule is by drawing its structural formula. Because molecules can have complicated structures, people have made ways to show them in simple language. One way is to use line diagrams. Each atom is shown by a letter, and connected by a line to each atom with wnich it is has a covalent bond. One line means a single bond, two lines means a double bond and so on. 

Because there is in an infinite number of possible organic compounds, language is needed to give a unique name to each one. The International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry, or IUPAC, made a system for doing this. Although an IUPAC name makes every single possible molecule unique, the names are often long and complicated, so in everyday life, "trivial" names--unofficial but widely understood names--are used, such as the trivial names Paracetamol, Tylenol, and Acetaminophen, which are used for a compound whose IUPAC name is "N-(4-hydroxyphenyl) acetamide".

Natural compounds are compounds made by plants or animals. These could also be made in a lab, but many of these compounds are taken from nature because it is easier and less expensive to do it that way. Commonnatural compounds are: amino acids, proteins, carbohydrates, many antibiotics like Penicillin and Amoxicillin.

Synthetic compounds are those made by people. Sometimes, this is done by taking something natural and changing the molecule in a small way, such as making glycerine from vegetable oils. Other compounds are synthesized in long, complicated reactions with many steps. Plastics are sometimes mostly natural, and other kinds are manufactured.

Since a compound is often first discovered in nature instead of being made on purpose in a lab, people may know the compound exists, and even know what it does sometimes, but not know exactly what atoms it is made of and how it is arranged. There are several ways of taking an unknown compound and finding out this structure:




</doc>
<doc id="4111" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4111" title="Coal">
Coal

Coal is a black rock, and a solid fossil fuel. 

It is usually very hard. Coal is made of 65%-95% carbon. It also has hydrocarbons and some other compounds in it. 

Coal is a metamorphic rock formed from peat by the pressure of rocks laid down later on top. The harder forms of coal, such as anthracite, have been changed by higher temperature as well as pressure. 

Peat, and therefore coal, is formed from the remains of plants which lived millions of years ago in tropical wetlands, such as those of the late Carboniferous period (the Pennsylvanian). A similar substance made from wood by heating it in an airless space is called charcoal.

Coal can be burned for energy or heat. About two-thirds of the coal mined today is burned in power stations to make electricity. Coal is becoming less popular in new power plants as less expensive and less polluting technologies such as natural gas and hydroelectricity take over.

Coal can be dry-distilled (heated in high temperature in a place where there is no oxygen) to produce coke. Coke is even better fuel than coal, and coke can be used in smelting for reducing metals from ores.

Under suitable conditions, plant material is transformed step by step into


</doc>
<doc id="4113" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4113" title="Petroleum">
Petroleum

Petroleum, also called crude oil, is a thick and black liquid. It is mainly made of hydrocarbons. Most petroleum is found in the Middle East, North America, and Russia. It is the most important world energy source. It supplies 38% of the world's energy at the moment.

Petroleum can be split into less complex but more useful mixtures by fractional distillation. The process is called oil refining.

Petroleum can be easily transported by pipeline. Treated petroleum can be used as fuels; mainly gasoline ("petrol") for cars, Diesel fuel for Diesel engines used in trucks, trains and ships, kerosene fuel for jets and as lubricants.

Other uses of petroleum:

Petroleum resource is limited and non-renewable. Some believe it will run out within 70 years.
Burning petroleum adds the carbon in the oil to the oxygen in the air to create carbon dioxide. The carbon can be removed from the carbon dioxide by plants.

Crude is chemically speaking a mixture of lots of different chemicals most of which burn well. It is separated by fractional distillation in oil refineries to give separate chemicals such as gasoline (or "petrol") for cars, kerosene for airplanes and bitumen for roads. The bitumen gives crude oil its dark black colour; most of the other chemicals in crude are slightly yellow or colourless. 

There is a lot of crude oil left underground. Oil companies quote "reserves" which some people confuse with the actual amount of oil underground, but are more to do with extraction costs. Most of the crude left underground is in the Middle East which is not a politically stable part of the world. Some governments with lots of oil reserves work together through OPEC to keep production low and prices high. Policitians complain about high oil prices because voters complain. However many environmentalists worry about the damage being done by using oil as a fuel source (especially global warming) and are therefore happy that prices are kept high so that people use less oil.





</doc>
<doc id="4114" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4114" title="Natural gas">
Natural gas

Natural gas is a mixture. It consists mainly of hydrocarbons. The main component is methane. Natural gas is often found in the ground together with petroleum.

Most natural gas is burnt directly to produce energy. It burns with a clean blue flame. It causes little pollution.

The main uses of natural gas are to produce electricity, cook and heat buildings. It is also used as fuel for cars and to make fertilizers.

When natural gas is burned in a power station, it heats a tub of water. Steam from the hot water rushes up and spins a turbine that turns a generator to make electricity.

Natural gas is also used to make many plastic products. It is used for many vehicles such as trucks, boats, cars, excavators, big rigs, and airplanes.




</doc>
<doc id="4115" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4115" title="Energy">
Energy

Energy is a word with more than one meaning.
Energy is something that can do work.

There are two basic forms of energy:

When energy changes from one form to another, the amount of energy stays the same. Energy cannot be made or destroyed. This rule is called the "conservation law of energy".
Here is an example:
The measurements of energy at the start and end will always be the same.

Scientists now know that matter can be made into energy through processes like nuclear fission and nuclear fusion. The law of conservation of energy has therefore been extended to become the Law of conservation of matter and energy.
Dane like to eat mangina

Scientist have identified many types of energy, and found that they can be changed from one kind into another. For example:

Energy can be measured. That is, the amount of energy a thing has can be given a number.

As in other kinds of measurements, there are measurement units. The units of measurement for measuring energy are used to make the numbers meaningful.
The SI unit for both energy and work is the joule (J). It is named after James Prescott Joule. 1 joule is equal to 1 newton-metre. In terms of SI base units, 1 J is equal to 1 kg m s.

The energy unit of measurement for electricity is the kilowatt-hour (kW·h). One kW·h is equivalent to 3,600,000 J (3600 kJ or 3.6 MJ)

Energy in the Universe



</doc>
<doc id="4159" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4159" title="MediaWiki:Anonymous">
MediaWiki:Anonymous

Anonymous user(s) of the Simple English Wikipedia

</doc>
<doc id="4167" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4167" title="MediaWiki:Edit">
MediaWiki:Edit

change this page

</doc>
<doc id="4189" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4189" title="MediaWiki:Navigation">
MediaWiki:Navigation

Getting around

</doc>
<doc id="4204" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4204" title="MediaWiki:Pagetitle">
MediaWiki:Pagetitle

$1 - Simple English Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

</doc>
<doc id="4209" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4209" title="MediaWiki:Poweredby">
MediaWiki:Poweredby

Wikipedia is powered by MediaWiki, an open source wiki engine.

</doc>
<doc id="4232" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4232" title="MediaWiki:Talk">
MediaWiki:Talk

Talk

</doc>
<doc id="4264" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4264" title="MediaWiki:Tooltip-save">
MediaWiki:Tooltip-save

Save your changes [alt-s]

</doc>
<doc id="4266" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4266" title="MediaWiki:Tooltip-sitesupport">
MediaWiki:Tooltip-sitesupport

Support Wikimedia

</doc>
<doc id="4316" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4316" title="Jewel">
Jewel

Jewels (or gems or gemstones) are rare minerals. They are usually coloured. They can be shaped to make jewellery.

Pearls, amber and coral are sometimes also called gemstones.



</doc>
<doc id="4317" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4317" title="Xenon">
Xenon

Xenon is a non-metal chemical element. It has the chemical symbol Xe and atomic number 54.

This element was discovered by Sir William Ramsay and M.W. Travers in 1898. The element's name came from the Greek word "xenos", which means 'stranger'.

Xenon is a noble gas. Noble gases are very unreactive. However, chemists have found that xenon can react with fluorine under special conditions since 1962. It is not known why xenon changed its behavior like that.

Xenon gas is used in electron tubes, bactericidal lamps, stobe lamps, and lamps used to excite ruby lasers.



</doc>
<doc id="4318" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4318" title="Kuala Lumpur">
Kuala Lumpur

Kuala Lumpur is the capital city of Malaysia. Malaysia is a country in Asia. With the completion of Putrajaya in the late 1990s, the administrative capital has been moved to Putrajaya. Kuala Lumpur is home to one of the tallest buildings in the world, the Petronas Twin Towers.

Kuala Lumpur is located in the climatic region of tropical wetlands.

The annual range of temperature in Kuala Lumpur is small, only 1°C. There is no distinct seasonal difference in temperature in the city. Kuala Lumpur is hot throughout the year. The annual mean temperature are 26.5 °C (79.7 °F). 

The annual rainfall in Kuala Lumpur is high (2393mm). The rainfall distribution is even in the city, with heavy rainfall all the year. In April and November, the monthly rainfall is slightly higher.

Since Kuala Lumpur became a Federal Territory of Malaysia on February 1, 1972, the city has been led by seven mayors. They are:




</doc>
<doc id="4319" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4319" title="Wikipedia:Simple start">
Wikipedia:Simple start


</doc>
<doc id="4320" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4320" title="List of elements by name">
List of elements by name

This is a list of the chemical elements, sorted by name.



</doc>
<doc id="4322" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4322" title="Speed of light">
Speed of light

The speed of light is the speed at which light travels in empty space. This is 299,792,458 meters per second (or almost 186,282.397 miles per second). A photon (particle of light) travels at this speed in a vacuum. 

According to special relativity, c is the maximum speed at which all energy, matter, and physical information in the universe can travel. It is the speed of all massless particles such as photons, and associated fields—including electromagnetic radiation such as light—in a vacuum. It is predicted by the current theory to be the speed of gravity (that is, gravitational waves). Such particles and waves travel at "c" regardless of the motion of the source or the inertial frame of reference of the observer. In the theory of relativity, "c" interrelates space and time, and appears in the famous equation of mass–energy equivalence "E" = "mc".

The theory of relativity is based on the predition, so far upheld by obervations, that the measured speed of light in a vacuum is the same whether or not the source of the light and the person doing the measuring are moving relative to each other. This is sometimes expressed as "the speed of light is independent of the reference frame".

This behavior is different from our common ideas about motion as shown by this example:

George is standing on the ground next to some train tracks. There is a train rushing by at 30 mph. George throws a baseball at 90 mph in the direction the train is moving. Tom, a passenger on the train, has a device( like a radar gun) to measure throwing speeds. Because he is on the train, Tom is already moving at 30 mph in the direction of the throw, so Tom measures the speed of the ball as only 60 mph.

In other words, the speed of the baseball, as measured by Tom on the train, depends on the speed of the train.

In the example above, the train was moving at 1/3 the speed of the ball, and the speed of the ball as measured on the train was 2/3 of the throwing speed as measured on the ground.

Now, repeat the experiment with light instead of a baseball, that is, George has a flashlight instead of throwing a baseball. George and Tom both have devices that are the same to measure the speed of light(instead of the radar gun in the baseball example).

George is standing on the ground next to some train tracks. There is a train rushing by at 1/3 the speed of light. George flashes a light beam in the direction the train is moving. George measures the speed of light as 186,000 miles per second. Tom, a passenger on the train, measures the speed of the light beam. What speed does Tom measure?

Intuitively you may think that the speed of the light from the flashlight as measured on the train should be 2/3 the speed measured on the ground, just like the speed of the baseball was 2/3. But in fact the speed measured on the train is the full value, 186,000 mile per second not 124,000 miles per second.

It sounds impossible, but that's what one measures. Part of the reason is that light is energy which acts and moves in ways very different than matter or solid objects such as a baseball.

Maxwell's equations predicted the speed of light and confirmed Michael Faraday's idea that light was an electromagnetic wave (a way that energy moves). From these equations we find that the speed of light is related to the inverse of the square root of the permittivity of free space and the permeability of free space.

A consequence of this fact is that nothing can go faster than the speed of light. Another consequence is that for objects that have weight, no matter how much energy is used to increase the speed of an object, it will get closer and closer but it will never reach the speed of light. These ideas were discovered in the early 1900s by Albert Einstein whose work completely changed our understanding of light.

The index of refraction of a clear material is the ratio between the speed of light in a vacuum and the speed of light in that material.

Ole Christensen Rømer used an astronomical measurement to make the first quantitative estimate of the speed of light. When measured from Earth, the periods of moons orbiting a distant planet are shorter when the Earth is approaching the planet than when the Earth is receding from it. The distance travelled by light from the planet (or its moon) to Earth is shorter when the Earth is at the point in its orbit that is closest to its planet than when the Earth is at the farthest point in its orbit, the difference in distance being the diameter of the Earth's orbit around the Sun. The observed change in the moon's orbital period is actually the difference in the time it takes light to traverse the shorter or longer distance. Rømer observed this effect for Jupiter's innermost moon Io and deduced that light takes 22 minutes to cross the diameter of the Earth's orbit.

Another method is to use the aberration of light, discovered and explained by James Bradley in the 18th century. This effect results from the vector addition of the velocity of light arriving from a distant source (such as a star) and the velocity of its observer (see diagram on the right). A moving observer thus sees the light coming from a slightly different direction and consequently sees the source at a position shifted from its original position. Since the direction of the Earth's velocity changes continuously as the Earth orbits the Sun, this effect causes the apparent position of stars to move around. From the angular difference in the position of stars, it is possible to express the speed of light in terms of the Earth's velocity around the Sun. This, with the known length of a year, can be easily converted to the time needed to travel from the Sun to the Earth. In 1729, Bradley used this method to derive that light travelled 10,210 times faster than the Earth in its orbit (the modern figure is 10,066 times faster) or, equivalently, that it would take light 8 minutes 12 seconds to travel from the Sun to the Earth.

Nowadays, the "light time for unit distance"—the inverse of "c" (1/c), expressed in seconds per astronomical unit—is measured by comparing the time for radio signals to reach different spacecraft in the Solar System. The position of spacecraft is calculated from the gravitational effects of the Sun and various planets. By combining many such measurements, a best fit value for the light time per unit distance is obtained. , the best estimate, as approved by the International Astronomical Union (IAU), is:
The relative uncertainty in these measurements is 0.02 parts per billion (2), equivalent to the uncertainty in Earth-based measurements of length by interferometry. Since the metre is defined to be the length travelled by light in a certain time interval, the measurement of the light time for unit distance can also be interpreted as measuring the length of an AU in metres. The metre is considered to be a unit of proper length, whereas the AU is usually used as a unit of observed length in a given frame of reference.

The finite speed of light is a major constraint on long-distance space travel. Supposing a journey to the other side of the Milky Way, the total time for a mesage and its reply would be about 200,000 years. Even more seriously, no spacecraft could travel faster than light, so all galactic-scale transport would be effectively one-way, and would take much longer than than any modern civilisation has existed.

The speed of light can also be of concern over very short distances. In supercomputers, the speed of light imposes a limit on how quickly data can be sent between processors. If a processor operates at 1 gigahertz, a signal can only travel a maximum of about in a single cycle. Processors must therefore be placed close to each other to minimize communication latencies; this can cause difficulty with cooling. If clock frequencies continue to increase, the speed of light will eventually become a limiting factor for the internal design of single chips.



</doc>
<doc id="4323" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4323" title="Wikipedia:List of articles all languages should have">
Wikipedia:List of articles all languages should have

There are a lot of Wikipedias. Some of them are very big, and some are very small. They all need certain basic articles. They can even just be .

This is a list of 1,000 basic articles every Wikipedia should contain. This page should include the same articles as . When change is needed, please change at Meta first.

Some of the articles are in bold. That means that it is very important that they be written.



















































This section is for events and periods in human history and prehistory. At least five sentences on:





This section is for geographical concepts and for specific places.



Eventually, there should be articles on most or all of the 243 countries listed at List of countries. However, for the smaller Wikipedias, some of the more high-priority countries to have articles on are:






</doc>
<doc id="4326" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4326" title="Denial">
Denial

Denial in psychology means that someone denies that something has happened or is happening although he really knows it is true. Usually this happens because admitting it would cause a lot of pain.

Denial is usually the first state of coping with loss. For example, if someone close to a person dies, the survivor's first feeling might be denial, or refusal to accept the fact that the person is really dead.


</doc>
<doc id="4329" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4329" title="Tokyo">
Tokyo

Tokyo (東京) is the capital of Japan. Ten percent (10%) of the Japanese people live in Tokyo, and as many as twenty percent (20%) of the population live around it. As of 2007, the population was 12,790,000. Tokyo is the center of business, trade, and industry of Japan and also of Asia. The city is the center of the largest metropolitan area in the world.

Tokyo is in a part of Japan called the Kanto plain. It faces Tokyo bay. Two rivers run through Tokyo. One is the Sumida River which runs from the north to the south, and flows into Tokyo bay. 
The other is the Tama River which runs from the west to the east. The Tama River is a border between Tokyo and its neighbor city, Kawasaki. 

Tokyo means "the Eastern capital" in Japanese. It became the capital city of Japan in the middle of 19th century, when its name changed from "Edo" to "Tokyo". Before then, Kyoto was the capital of Japan. The emperor of Japan, Tenno, lived in Kyoto. Edo was the place where the Tokugawa Shoguns lived. The city grew up under the control of the Shoguns. Before then it was a small town on the sea. Edo means "the mouth of a river" in Japanese.

Tokyo was destroyed by fires started by the Great Kanto Earthquake in 1923. It was also badly damaged by bombs during World War II. After Japan lost the war, the city was rebuilt.

Tokyo began as a small fishing village named Edo. Edo was in the old Musashi Province. 

The Edo clan built wals to protect the town in the late 12th century. In 1457, Ōta Dōkan built Edo Castle. In 1590, Tokugawa Ieyasu made Edo his base. He became shogun in 1603, and the town became the center of his military government. This marked the beginning of the Edo period. During this time, Edo grew into one of the largest cities in the world. More than one million people lived there by the 18th century.

Edo was not the capital of Japan. The emperor lived in the capital, Kyoto. However, Edo had more power.
After about 263 years, the Meiji Restoration removed the shogun from power. In 1869, the 17-year-old Emperor Meiji moved to Edo. The old Edo Castle became the Imperial Palace. The city of Tokyo was established. It was the capital until government changes in 1943. That year Tokyo City and the special "Metropolitan Prefecture" of Tokyo combined into one.

Central Tokyo is built around major railway stations. Suburban railways were built relatively cheaply at street level. There are some expressways, but the basic design has not changed.

Tokyo suffered two major catastrophes in the 20th century. The 1923 Great Kantō earthquake left 140,000 dead or missing World War II was the other disaster for the city. The Bombing of Tokyo in 1944 and 1945 killed between 75,000 to 200,000 people and destroyed half the city. This was almost as much damage as the atomic bombs of Hiroshima and Nagasaki combined.

Tokyo was completely rebuilt after the war. The 1964 Summer Olympics were a major world event. New high-rise developments such as Sunshine 60 started in the 1970s. Narita International Airport opened at Narita in 1978, but is far outside the city.

As of October 2007, about 12.8 million people were living in Tokyo. About 8.7 million were living in Tokyo's 23 special wards. The number of people in Tokyo increases to over 15 million during the day. About 2.5 million workers and students enter the city everyday. The three central wards of Chiyoda, Chūō, and Minato increase the most. As of 2005, the regular population in those three areas was only 326,000 at night, but there are 2.4 million in those areas during the day.

Tokyo has many international residents. As of 2005, the most common groups in Tokyo are Chinese (123,661), Koreans (106,697), and Filipinos (31,077). Americans (18,848), British (7,696), Brazilian (5,300) and French (3,000) are less common.

The special wards ("tokubetsu-ku") of Tokyo are the same area that had been called Tokyo City. On July 1, 1943, Tokyo City was merged with to become a special government area. Therefore, these wards are different from other wards in Japan. Other city wards are part of a larger city government, but these are not.
Each ward is a municipality with its own mayor and assembly like the other cities of Japan. The special wards often use the word city in their official English name, e.g. Chiyoda City.

The wards have a different government role from usual cities. They have a unique administrative relationship with the prefectural government. The Tokyo Metropolitan Government manages some public works such as water, sewer, and fire-fighting. To pay for these things, the prefecture collects municipal taxes usually collected by a city.

The special wards of Tokyo are:
Three wards of Tokyo make up the central part of the city. They are Chiyoda, Chūō and Minato.

Tokyo has many site-seeing spots, but very few of them are old. There are very few buildings in Tokyo that are more than 50 years. Popular places for visitors range from Tokyo Tower in the center of the city to Mount Takao out in the western countryside. Tokyo Sky Tree is a new tower and is the tallest in the world. Traditional religious sites such as Meiji Shrine and Sensō-ji attract many tourists. The Imperial Castle can be seen in the middle of the city, but is not open to the public. 

Tokyo is the cultural, business, and political center of the country. It is also the center of many transportation systems. There are many air, rail, sea, and road transportation links in and out of the city. Tokyo is at the center of many of these systems. Local subway and bus systems serve every part of the city.

Two commercial airports serve Tokyo. Haneda Airport is in the city limits next to Tokyo Bay. This airport is mostly for domestic travel. Most international flights to and from Tokyo go through Narita Airport in Chiba Prefecture.

Several Shinkansen lines begin at Tokyo Station, including the Tōkaidō Shinkansen going west and Tōhoku Shinkansen going northeast.

Tokyo has a busy international and domestic port, but more traffic goes through the nearby port of Yokohama. There are domestic ferries to the islands of Tokyo, but also to other parts of the country such as Hokkaido.

Many highways meet in Tokyo, including: the Chūō, Kan-Etsu, Tōhoku, and Tōmei Expressways. All highway distances in Japan start from zero at a marker in Nihonbashi, Tokyo.





</doc>
<doc id="4331" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4331" title="Lao Zi">
Lao Zi

Lao Zi (老子 Lǎozi, also written "Lao Tsu") was one of the most famous Chinese philosophers, although it is not confirmed if he was actually a single person, or if the ideas associated with Lao Zi were actually those of several different people. As a result, his birth date is unknown. He was the author of a book called "Tao Te Ching" (道德經). According to this book, "Tao" ("the Way") does not change and it is the universal truth. His Taoism has been enormously influential in China. Lao Zi is also known as Senior Lord in Taoism (or Daoism) of the general public. The Chinese name Lao Zi is translated as "Old Master" in English. 



</doc>
<doc id="4332" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4332" title="List of physicists">
List of physicists

This is a list of physicists.


</doc>
<doc id="4360" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4360" title="Brass">
Brass

Brass is an alloy of copper and zinc. Some types of brass are called bronzes.

Brass has a golden appearance. It is harder than pure metals. It costs more than zinc.

There are some common brasses:

Things brass are used to make:


</doc>
<doc id="4361" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4361" title="Body">
Body

A body is the physical material of a person or organism. It is only used for organisms which are in one part or whole. There are organisms which change from single cells to whole organisms: for example, slime moulds. For them the term 'body' would mean the multicellular stage. Other uses:

The body of a dead person is also called a corpse or "cadaver". The dead bodies of vertebrate animals and insects are sometimes called "carcasses".

The human body has a head, neck, torso, two arms, two legs and the genitals of the groin, which differ between males and females.

The study of the body is anatomy.

The study of the workings of the body is physiology.

Here are the names of the body parts of a woman and a man. 

The word body is sometimes used in other ways. For example, a lake is a body of water.


</doc>
<doc id="4362" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4362" title="Alloy">
Alloy

An alloy is a uniform mixture. It is made up of two or more chemical elements, of which at least one is a metal. An alloy has properties different from the metals it is made of.

Most alloys are made by melting the metals, mixing them while they are liquid to form a solution, then leaving them to cool and turn solid again.

Combining a metal with one or more metals or non-metals is called alloying. Alloying a metal often makes its properties better. For example, steel is an alloy made from iron but it is stronger than iron. Physical properties like density, reactivity and electrical and thermal (heat) conductivity may not be much different than the elements (substances) which make the alloy. But, properties like strength can be very much different.

The first alloy to be discovered was Bronze. Bronze is made from copper and tin. Bronze was discovered a very long time back in history (prehistoric period). Then, bronze was being used for making tools and weapons. This period was known as Bronze Age. But, in time better alloys were discovered which replaced bronze for making tools and weapons. Nowadays, bronze is used for making ornaments, statues, and bells. Brass is another alloy made from copper and zinc.

Melting point is the temperature at which a solid changes to liquid. Most alloys do not have a single melting point. They have a melting range in which the alloy is a mixture of solid and liquid stages. The temperature at which melting just starts is called solidus and the temperature at which the melting is just finished is called liquidus.

The term alloy means a mixture of atoms in which the main substance or the primary constituent is a metal. This primary metal is called the "base" or "matrix".

If an alloy has only two types of atoms, like copper-nickel alloy, then such an alloy is called "binary alloy". If an alloy has three types of atoms, like iron, nickel and chromium, then it called a "ternary alloy". An alloy with four types of atoms is called a "quaternary alloy" and an alloy with five types of atoms is called a "quinary alloy".

Different varieties or forms of alloys can be made from the same constituent materials (substances from which the alloy is formed). These different forms or varieties can be formed by using different amounts of the constituents. The whole range of possible varieties of an alloy is called a "system". All the forms of alloy having only two constituents are called a "binary system". All forms of an alloy having three constituents are called a "ternary system".

There are some common alloys:



</doc>
<doc id="4363" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4363" title="Material">
Material

A material is something used to make things. When we speak about material, we mean physical substances. 

We call cloth, for making clothes, material. "Raw" materials are materials before we process them - change them into something different.

Information can be material. For example, a writer looks for material (ideas and facts) when writing a book.

"Material desire" is a feeling in people when they want a physical material so badly that they can never go away from it. For example, addiction can be a material desire.



</doc>
<doc id="4365" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4365" title="Brain">
Brain

The brain is a part of the body that allows us to make sense of the world around us and to change our behavior to respond to it. Our brain is the control center of the whole body. It receives messages from all parts of our body and sends out necessary commands to control the body's actions. The brain is made up of a special type of cells. They are connected with each other and with the nerves in our body. The delicate brain is protected on the outside by strong skull bones.

The brain does the thinking, learning, and feeling for the body. It is the source of consciousness, but it also controls basic body actions, like breathing, that happen without a person realizing it. All the information about the world gathered by our five senses is sent through nerves into the brain, allowing us to see, hear, smell, taste and feel things. The brain processes this information so that we can experience it as pictures, sounds, and so on. The brain also uses nerves to tell the body what to do, for example by telling muscles to move or our heart to beat faster.
Most animals have brains, in some way or another. Some animals, however, like jellyfish, do not have brains. Over time, animals' brains have become more complicated because of evolution.

Humans might have the most complicated brain. People used to think that only humans had a sense of humor, but apparently the octopus also has a sense of humor. Over time animals' brains also gained the ability to have emotions, but scientists are still not sure what defines emotions and which animals have them.

In human beings, the brain is made of three main parts: the cerebrum, the cerebellum and the brainstem. The cerebrum is where intelligence and thought is. The "cerebrum" lets us learn, reason, remember, create (make), and think. It also controls the senses and the muscles. The "cerebellum" connects all the muscles so they can work together. The "brain stem" is something that connects the brain with the spinal cord. It has lots of different parts that control different jobs in the body: for instance, the brain stem controls breathing, heartbeat, sneezing, eye blinking, and swallowing. Body temperature and hunger are also controlled by parts of the brain stem.

A human brain accounts for about 2% of the body's weight, but it uses about 20% of its energy. It has about 50-100 billion nerve cells (also called neurons), along with roughly the same number of support cells, called glia. The job of neurons is to receive and send information to and from the rest of the body, while glia provide nutrients and guide blood flow to the neurons, allowing them to do their job. Each nerve cell has contact with as many as 10,000 other nerve cells through connections called synapses.

The volume of the human brain (relative to the size of the whole body) is very large, compared to that of most other animals. The human brain also has a very large surface (called cortex) for its size, which is possible because it is very wrinkled. If the human cortex were flattened, it would be close to a square meter in area. Some other animals also have very wrinkled brains, such as dolphins and elephants. Some people believe that what makes humans so smart is the large volume or surface area of their brains, but there is no evidence for a relationship among animals between size of the brain and intelligence; e.g. the brain of a blue whale is much heavier than a human brain, but it is not seen as being more intelligent than a human's brain. As an additional note, Einstein's brain weighed only 1,230 grams, which is less than the average adult male brain (about 1,400 grams).




</doc>
<doc id="4367" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4367" title="Neuron">
Neuron

A neuron (also known as a neurone or nerve cell) is a cell that carries electrical impulses. Neurons are the basic units of the nervous system and its most important part, the brain. 

Every neuron is made of a cell body (also called a soma), dendrites and an axon. Dendrites and axons are nerve fibres. There are about 100 billion neurons in the human brain, which comprises roughly 10% of all brain cells. The neurons are supported by microglia and astrocytes. 

There are three classes of neurons: afferent neurons, efferent neurons, and interneurons.

Sensory neurons carry signals from sense organs to the spinal cord and brain.

Relay neurons carry messages from one part of the CNS.

Motor neurons carry signals from the CNS to muscles, motor neurons are connected to the relay neurons. The signal passes between the neurons via synapses. Synapses are microscopic voids between cells where chemicals are released from the axon terminal of one cell to specialized chemical receptors on the dendrite of the receiving cell.



</doc>
<doc id="4368" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4368" title="Middle East">
Middle East

The Middle East is an area of land and group of countries in southwestern Asia and north Africa. 

Today, people usually call these countries "Middle Eastern":

Sometimes, people also call these countries Middle Eastern: Algeria, Morocco and Tunisia in North Africa, and the countries Afghanistan and Pakistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan in Central Asia.

Ancient civilizations began in the Middle East. These were Sumer, Babylonia and Assyria in the area called Mesopotamia, and Ancient Egypt. The three religions that believe in one God also came from the Middle East. Judaism and Christianity began in ancient Israel and Islam began in Arabia.

Today, the Middle East is very important because a lot of the oil that other countries need comes from here. There are also many arguments and fights here, such as the Arab-Israeli Wars and the Iraq War.



</doc>
<doc id="4370" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4370" title="Warsaw">
Warsaw

Warsaw (In Polish: "Warszawa") is the capital of Poland. It is also the biggest city in that country. There are about 2,000,000 people living there. People from Warsaw are called "Varsovians".
Warsaw lies near the middle of Poland on both sides of the Vistula river, and about 350 km (225 miles) from the Baltic Sea. It is about 100 m (325 ft) above sea level.

Warsaw is home to 4 universities and 62 colleges, and many theatres and art galleries.

People began living in this place in the 13th century. By the 15th century, Warsaw had grown enough to be called a city. It became the capital of Poland in 1596.

The city was destroyed several times in its history, but every time it was rebuilt. The most important of these times was during the Second World War. Poland had been occupied by Germany between 1939 and 1944. On 1 August 1944, the people of Warsaw started fighting to free their city.

There are lot of attractions in the capital of Poland. The most famous monument of Warsaw is Palace of Culture and Sciencist. You can aslo go to a Palace in Wilanow. The king of Poland Jan III Sobieski was living there. Lot of people like going to the Mueum of Warsaw uprising. The uprising started in 1944 at the Second World War.



</doc>
<doc id="4371" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4371" title="Hindu-Arabic numeral system">
Hindu-Arabic numeral system

The Hindu-Arabic numeral system is a numeral system. This system has ten basic symbols, they are 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9.

The Hindu-Arabic numeral system was first developed by the Hindus. Later, It was introduced to the western world by the Arabs. This system is now commonly used all over the world.

A different set of symbols are used to represent the numerals.There were also different types of numerals through out the centuries.

The Hindu-Arabic numeral system is one of the only numeral systems that use a place value system.


</doc>
<doc id="4372" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4372" title="Point (geometry)">
Point (geometry)

A point is a position in space. Imagine touching a piece of paper with a sharp pencil or pen, without making any sideways movement. We know where the point is, but it has no size to speak of.

In geometry a point has no size, but has a position. This means it has no volume, area or length. We usually represent a point by a small cross 'X' or by a small dot (a small, round shape). In geometry, points are always labelled by capital letters (A,B,C...X,Y,Z). 

Mathematicians say two points can be:
and are always:

Three points can be:
and are always:

Four points can be: 

"Compare:" line, plane


</doc>
<doc id="4373" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4373" title="Line">
Line

A line is the path of one point moving. A line has length but no width. A line is a type of geometric figure. 

A line is made up of an endless number of points. 
A "line segment" is part of a line. An example of a straight line segment:

A line can be straight or curved. The word "line" usually means a "straight line". A straight line is the shortest distance between two points. A straight line is the direction of a point moving in a direction that does not change. 

A "curved line" is sometimes called a curve.

For example, the edge of a circle is not straight. The edge of a circle bends in a curve.

Lines can get their names from any two points on the line. For example, if a line has a point named ""A"" on the line and a point named ""B"" on the line, then the line can be called either ""AB"" or ""BA"". 

Sometimes, lines are also named with just one letter; for example, line "A".

Two lines can be:

"Compare:" point, plane


</doc>
<doc id="4374" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4374" title="Plane (mathematics)">
Plane (mathematics)

A plane is a perfectly flat surface extending in all directions. Try to imagine the ceiling of a room, only extended into all directions infinitely. A plane has two dimensions : length and width. All planes are flat surfaces. If a surface is not flat, it is called a "curved surface". 

In geometry, a plane is made up of an infinite number of lines (or points). It has no thickness.

A "plane figure" is part of a plane. It is named by the capital letters (e.g. A, B, C, ...X, Y, Z) that are put at its corners.

Mathematicians say two planes can be:

In mathematics, a plane is a fundamental two-dimensional object. Intuitively, it looks like a flat infinite sheet of paper. There are several definitions of the plane. They are equivalent in the sense of Euclidean geometry, but they can be extended in different ways to define objects in other areas of mathematics. The only 2 dimensional figure in our 3 dimensional world is a shadow.

In some areas of mathematics, such as plane geometry or 2D computer graphics, the whole space in which the work is carried out is a single plane. In such situations, the definite article is used: the plane. Many fundamental tasks in geometry, trigonometry, and graphing are performed in the two dimensional space, or in other words, in the plane.

A plane is a surface such that, given any three distinct points on the surface, the surface also contains all of the straight lines that pass through any two of them.
One can introduce a Cartesian coordinate system on a given plane in order to label every point on it with a unique ordered pair, which is composed of two numbers and is the coordinate of the point.

Within any Euclidean space, a plane is uniquely determined by any of the following combinations:





</doc>
<doc id="4375" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4375" title="Angle">
Angle

An angle is the space between two lines that meet each other. When two lines meet at a point, an angle is formed. The two lines are called the "arms" of the angle. The point they meet is called the "vertex".

To measure the size of an angle, we use degree. Degree is a standard unit. Degree is denoted by the symbol '°'. A degree can be divided into 60 minutes (1° = 60'), and a minute can be also be divided into 60 seconds (1' = 60"). In mathematics, angles are usually measured in radians.

An acute angle is an angle less than 90°. A right angle is an angle equal to 90°. An obtuse angle is an angle greater than 90°. A straight angle (or straight line) is an angle equal to 180°. A reflex angle is an angle greater than 180° but less than 360°.

Supplementary angles are two angles with the sum equal to 180°.

Two angles that sum to one right angle (90°) are called complementary angles. 

Two angles that sum to one full circle (360°) are called explementary angles or conjugate angles. 

People usually use a protractor to measure and draw angles. Sometimes, people use an angle ruler to measure angles.


</doc>
<doc id="4376" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4376" title="List of astronomers">
List of astronomers

Famous astronomers and astrophysicists include:


























Other scientists whose work had an impact on astronomy and astrophysics:


Instrument makers, illustrators, etc:





</doc>
<doc id="4377" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4377" title="List of astrophysicists">
List of astrophysicists

An astrophysicist is a person whose profession is astrophysics. 

"See also: list of astronomers"


</doc>
<doc id="4378" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4378" title="List of walls">
List of walls

This is a list of famous walls.


</doc>
<doc id="4379" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4379" title="List of vegetables">
List of vegetables

Some vegetables which are botanically fruits (such as tomatoes) are considered to be vegetables in the culinary (eating) sense. This is why they appear in this article.



</doc>
<doc id="4382" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4382" title="List of terrorist incidents">
List of terrorist incidents

The following is a timeline of acts and failed attempts that can be considered terrorism.

"Note: there is no single accepted definition of terrorism in common use. Incidents listed here are commonly called terrorism, or meet some of the commonly used criteria."








See also: aircraft hijacking, Palestinian terrorism, American terrorism, Israeli terrorism, IRA, suicide bombing, List of massacres, assassinations, Dupont Plaza Hotel, GIA


</doc>
<doc id="4384" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4384" title="List of telescope types">
List of telescope types

Astronomical telescopes are divided into subgroups. All telescopes work by collecting electromagnetic radiation and focussing it into an image which may be seen or photographed. The purpose is to see things which are far away in the universe.

The traditional types all work to collect visible light from the sky. Recent types may work outside the visible spectrum. They all have their different advantages and disadvantages and they are used in different areas of astronomy.

Dioptrics. 
Telescopes which create their image with an objective that is a convex lens (refractors) are said to be "dioptric" telescopes.

Catoptrics. 
Optical systems using mirrors: uses reflected light to form the image.

Catadioptrics. 

These types can be mounted on different types of mounts.



</doc>
<doc id="4385" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4385" title="List of shipwrecks">
List of shipwrecks

This list of shipwrecks is of those sunken ships whose remains have been located.





</doc>
<doc id="4387" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4387" title="List of religions">
List of religions

This is a list of religions.

Some entries are written more than once.

All of these religions contain similar beliefs and use the "Old Testament" of the Bible














"See also:" Animism, Goddess Worship, Paganism, Shamanism










</doc>
<doc id="4388" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4388" title="List of national parks in Africa">
List of national parks in Africa







































</doc>
<doc id="4391" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4391" title="List of languages">
List of languages

This list of languages is alphabetical by English name. More structured lists are also available:

Ethnologue lists about 6,800 main languages in its language name index (see other websites) and distinguishes about 41,000 alternate language names and dialects.

This list deals with particular languages, and includes only natural and constructed languages spoken by humans. For other kinds of information about language see:
There are currently So many languages around the world people speak.





























</doc>
<doc id="4394" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4394" title="List of endangered languages">
List of endangered languages

A list of endangered languages (with fewer than 1000 speakers or with very fast decline).

In order to judge if a language is actually endangered, the number of speakers is less important than the distribution among age cohorts. There may be 200,000 mother tongue speakers of the Breton language over 50 years of age, but fewer than 2,000 under 25 years of age - thus it is likely Breton will die out in the next half century. On the other hand while there are 30,000 Ladin language speakers left, almost all children still learn it as their mother tongue - thus Ladin is not endangered in the 21st century.








</doc>
<doc id="4395" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4395" title="List of emotions">
List of emotions

This is a list of emotions (feelings).

This says that the basic eight emotions are:

This theory says that the emotions are:

This "language" has words showing these emotions:




</doc>
<doc id="4396" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4396" title="List of earthquakes">
List of earthquakes

The following is a list of major earthquakes:

"The Richter scale was adopted in 1935, and was used in the above table also about earlier earthquakes at a merely indicative title. Earthquakes' effects were once measured after the Mercalli scale, which regards the practical damages that a seismic event causes to infrastructures and houses, and a sort of comparison between the two scale is now in use, especially for ancient events."



</doc>
<doc id="4397" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4397" title="List of disasters">
List of disasters

This is a list of disasters, both natural and man-made.






Up to this day, most nuclear incidents did not cause many deaths, except for the Chernobyl disaster and Windscale fire. Some of the incidents in the early nuclear age were not well documented or were kept secret. Here is a list of the "known" nuclear incidents.


An attack with much collateral damage may be considered a disaster, such as the attack on KdF Ship Wilhelm Gustloff, 1945, the worst or perhaps second worst maritime incident in history, in terms of loss of life in a single vessel (see also note at the end of the article RMS Titanic).


This is a list of disasters involving objects in flight or near-flight. See also: List of space disasters, List of accidents and incidents on commercial airliners, Incidents in Aviation


See also: List of rail accidents

"See also: List of shipwrecks"



Almanac of disasters


</doc>
<doc id="4398" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4398" title="List of diseases">
List of diseases

This is a list of common, well-known or infamous diseases. This is neither complete nor authoritative. This is not intended to be a list of rare diseases, nor is it a list of mental disorders.

This list includes both common names and technical names for diseases. This is deliberate; where multiple names are in common use for the same disease, all of those names should link to the main article for the disease.

We are using many different sources from Wikipedia and from the public domain to make this list. 


List of diseases (in alphabetical order):


























</doc>
<doc id="4399" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4399" title="Mental illness (alphabetical list)">
Mental illness (alphabetical list)



</doc>
<doc id="4402" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4402" title="List of Communist Parties">
List of Communist Parties

There are a number of Communist Parties around the world. The first Communist Parties were set up after the Russian Revolution. Their aim was to support the Bolsheviks (the Russian Communists). 

In world history, the Russian and Chinese Communists are very important.

In Western Europe, the French, Spanish and Italian Communist Parties are the biggest. They have taken part in either local, regional or central government in those countries.

Some Communist parties have different names, such as Socialist Party, Socialist Workers Party, or Workers Party. But most Socialist parties are social democratic and not Communist.

"See also:" Communism, List of members of the Comintern, List of left communist internationals, List of political parties





</doc>
<doc id="4404" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4404" title="List of color topics">
List of color topics

This is a list of color topics.



</doc>
<doc id="4406" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4406" title="List of buildings">
List of buildings

Famous or notable buildings with articles about them in Wikipedia include:

Index: A-B - C-D - E-I - J-O - 
P-R - S - T-V - W - Y - Z
















</doc>
<doc id="4407" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4407" title="List of bridges">
List of bridges

The list of bridges is a link page for any bridge.





























In Budapest:










































</doc>
<doc id="4408" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4408" title="List of bones of the human skeleton">
List of bones of the human skeleton

A typical adult human skeleton consists of the following 206 bones. The exact number of the bones in the human skeleton is different in each person.

"In the skull (22)": 
"In the middle ears (6):"
"In the throat (1):"
"In the shoulder girdle (4):"
"In the thorax (25)": 
"In the vertebral column (24)": 
"In the arms (6)": 
"In the hands (54)": 
"In the pelvis (4):"
"In the legs (8)": 
"In the feet (52)": 

The infant skeleton has the following bones in addition to those above:


</doc>
<doc id="4409" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4409" title="Lists of tropical cyclone names">
Lists of tropical cyclone names

Within the North Atlantic ocean, tropical or subtropical cyclones are named by the National Hurricane Center (NHC) when they are judged to have intensified into a tropical storm with winds of at least 65 km/h, (40 mph). Six lists of names are used in alphabetical order, and maintained by the World Meteorological Organization with them rotating on a yearly basis. Significant tropical cyclones have their names removed from the lists with a replacement name selected at the next World Meteorological Organization Regional Association IV Hurricane Committee meeting. If all of the names on a list are used, storms are named after the letters of the Greek alphabet (Alpha, Beta, Gamma, etc.). Greek names, unlike the names in the regular lists, cannot be removed. If a storm ever reached the magnitude that might otherwise have led to retirement, the storm would be listed with the retired names with a footnote indicating the Greek letter would still be available for future storms.

Within the Eastern Pacific Ocean two offices of the United States National Weather Service assign names to tropical cyclones when they are judged to have intensified into a tropical storm with winds of at least 65 km/h, (40 mph). Tropical cyclones that become tropical storms between the coast of Americas and 140°W are named by the National Hurricane Center (NHC), whilst tropical cyclones intensifying into tropical storms between 140°W and 180° are named by the Central Pacific Hurricane Center (CPHC). Significant tropical cyclones have their names retired from the lists and a replacement name selected at the next World Meteorological Organization Regional Association IV Hurricane Committee meeting.

When a tropical depression intensifies into a tropical storm to the north of the Equator between the coastline of the Americas and 140°E then it will be named by the NHC. Six lists of names are maintained by the World Meteorological Organization with them rotating on a yearly basis. Significant tropical cyclones have their names retired from the lists with a replacement name selected at the next World Meteorological Organization Regional Association IV Hurricane Committee meeting. If all of the names on a list are used, storms are then named after the letters of the Greek alphabet (Alpha, Beta, Gamma, etc.). Greek names, unlike the names in the regular lists, cannot be retired. If a storm ever reached the magnitude that might otherwise have led to retirement, the storm would be listed with the retired names with a footnote indicating the Greek letter would still be available for future storms.

When a tropical depression intensifies into a tropical storm to the north of the Equator between 140°W and 180° it is named by the CPHC. Four lists of names are maintained by the World Meteorological Organization, rotating without regard to year, with the first name for a new year being the next name in sequence that was not used the previous year. Significant tropical cyclones have their names retired from the lists, with a replacement name selected at the next World Meteorological Organization Regional Association IV Hurricane Committee meeting. The last name to be used from this list was Omeka, whilst the next will be Pewa.

Within the Northwestern Pacific Ocean there are two separate agencies who assign names to tropical cyclones which often results in a cyclone having two names. The Japan national weather service names tropical cyclones should they be judged to have 10-minute sustained wind speeds of 65 km/h, (40 mph), to the north of the equator between the 180° and 100°E. The Philippine national weather service also assigns names to tropical cyclones which move into or form as a tropical depression in their area of responsibility located between 135°E and 115°E and between 5°E-25°E even if the cyclone has had a name assigned to it by the Japanese national weather service.

Tropical cyclones are named from the following lists by the Japanese national weather service, once they become a tropical storm. Names are contributed by members of the ESCAP/WMO Typhoon Committee. Each of the 14 nations or territories submitted 10 names, which are used in alphabetical order, by the English name of the country.

The Philippine national weather service uses its own naming scheme for tropical cyclones in their area of responsibility. PAGASA assigns names to tropical depressions that form within their area of responsibility, and any tropical cyclone that moves into their area of responsibility. Should the list of names for a given year prove to be insufficient, names are taken from a reserve list of names, with the first ten published every year.

Within this basin when a deep depression is judged to have become a Cyclonic Storm it will be named by the Indian national weather service. The list of names were selected between 2000 and 2004 by the countries of the WMO/ESCAP Panel on tropical cyclones, before the actual naming of tropical cyclones began in September 2004.

Within the South-west Indian Ocean, tropical and subtropical depressions that are judged to have 10-minute sustained windspeeds of 65 km/h, (40 mph) or more for at least 6 hours by the national weather service of Reunion Island are usually assigned a name. However it is the Mauritius and Madagascan national weather services who name the systems. The National weather service of Mauritius name the storm should it intensify into a moderate tropical storm between 55°E and 90°E; if the storm should intensify into a moderate tropical storm between 30°E and 55°E then the national weather service of Madagascar assigns the appropriate name to the storm. Tropical cyclones moving into this region from the Australian Region are renamed by the Sub-Regional Tropical Cyclone Advisory Center in Mauritius; however tropical cyclones moving into the Australian region do not get renamed. New name lists are used every year, whilst a name is normally only used once so thus no names are retired.

Within the Australian Region there are five different offices that assign names to tropical cyclones. However as three of the offices are run by the Australian national weather service, only 3 lists of names are operated. A tropical depression is judged to have intensified into a tropical cyclone if winds reach 65 km/h, (40 mph) and it is clear that gales are occurring more than halfway around the center. Significant tropical cyclones have their names retired from the lists and a replacement name selected at the next World Meteorological Organization Regional Association V Tropical Cyclone Committee meeting.

When a tropical depression intensifies into a tropical cyclone between the Equator and 10°S and between 90°E and 125°E then it will be named by the Indonesian national weather service. Should a tropical low intensify into a tropical cyclone between the Equator and 10°S and between 141°E and 160°E are assigned names by the Tropical Cyclone Warning Center in Port Moresby, Papua New Guinea. Tropical Depressions intensifying into tropical cyclones in all other areas between 90°E and 160°E as well as the Equator and 40°S are named by the Australian national weather service. Should a tropical cyclone pass from one warning center to another it will retain its original name, except when moving into the South-West Indian Ocean where the Mauritius Meteorological Service will rename the system.

When a tropical depression intensifies into a tropical cyclone between the Equator and 10°S and between 90°E - 125°E, it will be named by the Indonesian Weather Service. Names are currently assigned in sequence from list A, while list B is a list of names that will replace names on list A that are retired.

When a tropical low intensifies into a tropical cyclone between 10°S and 40°S and between 90°E - 160°E, then it will be named by one of three Australian national weather service offices in Perth, Darwin, or Brisbane. Starting with Anika, the names are assigned in alphabetical order with the lists used in rotating order without regard to year.

When a tropical low intensifies into a tropical cyclone between the equator and 10°S and between 141°E - 160°E then it will be named by the Papua New Guinea's national weather service. Names from List A are assigned in a random order while list B details replacement names for list A which will be added in the bottom of list A to maintain the alphabetical order.

Within the Southern Pacific a tropical depression is judged to have reach tropical cyclone intensity should it reach winds of 65 km/h (40 mph), and it is evident that gales are occurring at least halfway around the center. Tropical depressions that should intensify into a tropical cyclone between the Equator and 25°S and between 160°E - 120°W are named by the Fiji national weather service. Should a Tropical Depression intensify to the south of 25°S between 160°E and 120°W, it will be named in conjunction with the Fijian national weather service by the New Zealand's national weather service. Significant tropical cyclones have their names retired from the lists and a replacement name selected at the next World Meteorological Organization Regional Association V Tropical Cyclone Committee meeting, whilst tropical cyclones that move into the Australian region will retain its original name.

Tropical cyclone formation is rare within the Mediterranean sea, South Atlantic and to the east of 120W in the Southern Pacific, as a result there are no official naming lists for these areas although in 2004 & 2010 when tropical cyclones formed within the South Atlantic they were named as Catarina and Anita.




</doc>
<doc id="4410" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4410" title="Lists of astronomical objects">
Lists of astronomical objects

This is a partial list of the various lists of astronomical objects which either exist, or should exist, in Wikipedia.



</doc>
<doc id="4411" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4411" title="List of stars">
List of stars

The following is a small list of stars.





Demi


















</doc>
<doc id="4412" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4412" title="List of nearest stars">
List of nearest stars

This list of the nearest stars to Earth is ordered by increasing distance.


Note on nearest star systems: light year distances taken from parallax data determined by the Research Consortium on Nearby Stars (or Recons). 
The sources for their determination were the Yale Parallax Catalog [Y], Hipparcos [H], Soderhjelm 1999 [S], Tinney 1996 [T].



</doc>
<doc id="4413" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4413" title="List of planets">
List of planets

This is a list of all the planets in the solar system.



Some scientists think that there was once a planet called Theia, which crashed into the Earth at one point, creating the Moon. 


</doc>
<doc id="4414" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4414" title="List of galaxies">
List of galaxies

List of galaxies:




</doc>
<doc id="4415" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4415" title="List of nearest galaxies">
List of nearest galaxies

This list of the nearest galaxies to Earth is ordered by increasing distance. Many of the distances are only guesses, and some may be incorrect by 50% or more. The distance ranking in this list should be seen only as a guess. Distances are given in light years (ly).




</doc>
<doc id="4416" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4416" title="List of satellites of the Milky Way">
List of satellites of the Milky Way

List of satellites of Milky Way:


"Note: ly means light years"


</doc>
<doc id="4417" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4417" title="List of comets">
List of comets

This is a list of some comets in the solar system.

Periodic comets visit us again and again. Non-periodic comets visit us only once. On this list there is a "P" in front of the periodic comets. In front of non-periodic comets there is a "C". There is sometimes a number in front of the "P": it shows the number of times people saw the periodic comet visiting us. 


Periodic comets have a special place in astronomy, because their orbits are often the same. We know when they will visit us, and we can plan to watch them, and send space probes to look at them. 

On August 24, 1994, the International Astronomical Union (IAU) standardized the way we give names to this type of comets. It made a system of letters and numbers (and sometimes a name). This system tells us which comet is which. The IAU chose the letter P for periodic comets and D for periodic comets that were lost or which broke into pieces.
Other letters are C for "non-periodic" comets, and X for comets where we do not know their orbits. It also allows for type changes by using A for objects people say are asteroids. Each name starts with a number, counting up and make the name unique: no two comets have the same name.


</doc>
<doc id="4418" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4418" title="List of stars with confirmed extrasolar planets">
List of stars with confirmed extrasolar planets

The following is a list of main sequence stars with confirmed extrasolar planets. Note that the masses of the planets are lower bounds only. If a planet is detected by the spectral line displacement method referred to above, no information is gained about the inclination of the planet's plane of orbit around its star, and a value for this is needed to calculate the mass. It has become customary to arbitrarily assume that the plane is exactly lined up with the line of sight from Earth (this produces the lowest possible mass consistent with the spectral line measurements).



</doc>
<doc id="4421" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4421" title="List of water sports">
List of water sports

There are a large number of sports that involve water.
The following is a List of water sports, divided by category. This list is not complete. Some of the sports include only one part related to swimming, as for example Triathlon.





</doc>
<doc id="4422" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4422" title="List of waterways">
List of waterways

The list of waterways is a link page for any river, canal, estuary, or firth.




























</doc>
<doc id="4423" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4423" title="List of wave topics">
List of wave topics

This is a list of wave topics, by Wikipedia page.



























</doc>
<doc id="4424" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4424" title="List of waterfalls">
List of waterfalls

This is a list of waterfalls.





























</doc>
<doc id="4425" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4425" title="List of wars">
List of wars











Other:


</doc>
<doc id="4427" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4427" title="List of tunnels">
List of tunnels

The list of tunnels is a link page for any road tunnel, railway tunnel, or waterway tunnel anywhere in the world.





See also: Tunnels in Iceland









</doc>
<doc id="4428" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4428" title="List of tallest structures in the world">
List of tallest structures in the world

This is a list of tallest structures in the world, past and present of any type. Most of the structures are television broadcasting masts. There are also the taller tower-type structures (like the CN Tower) and the taller high rise buildings (like the Sears Tower). 

The list also includes some other structures like oil platforms, electrical towers, bridge towers, etc. List is organized by absolute height since it includes many different classes of structures.

This list includes quite a few masts. A mast is a man-made support structure, commonly used on sailing ships as support for sails, or on land as radio masts and towers used to support telecommunication equipment such as radio antennas ("aerials" in the UK).

There is often ambiguity between the terms "tower" and "mast". A tower is a self-supporting or cantilevered structure, while a mast is held up by stays or guys. Both towers and masts have limited floor space and are non-building structures, as opposed to regular buildings which have greater floor space for occupancy. The terminology is further confused through misuse. Skyscrapers are often referred to as "towers" and some towers use the term "mast". Ironically, "skyscraper" has some etymology from references to high sailboat masts.


For practical purposes to keep the list to a reasonable length this part of list contains only notable structures.

This is an "incomplete" list of structures taller tha|N|1,148 feet (350 m) under construction. Please correct (by adding further one or by putting completed structures in the upper table, if current height is over 1,148 feet (350 m)).
The following table is a list of the current tallest structures by each continent thus sea oil platforms are not included (listed by geographic size):

The following table is a list of the all time tallest structures by each continent thus sea oil platforms are not included (listed by geographic size):




</doc>
<doc id="4429" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4429" title="List of symbols">
List of symbols

This is a list of graphical signs, icons, and symbols.






</doc>
<doc id="4430" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4430" title="List of supermarkets">
List of supermarkets

This is a list of supermarkets around the world. 














see also, "List of Greek supermarkets"





















"For full list, see Supermarkets in the United Kingdom"

"For full list, see Supermarkets in the United States"



</doc>
<doc id="4442" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4442" title="Acid">
Acid

An acid is something that has a pH less than 7.0 .

Sometimes, the abbreviation HA is used to mean an acid.

The chemistry definition of an acid is: "a substance that donates a hydrogen ion (H) to another substance, which is called a base. (Or give out hydrogen ions when dissolved in water.)" 

Acids can be commonly found in nature. Some of these include:

Some acids are strong and others are weak. The weak acids hold on to some of their protons, while the strong acids let go of all of them. Weak acids generally have a pH value of 4-6 while strong acids have a pH value of 1-3.

Acids can have different "strengths", some are more reactive than others. More reactive acids are often more dangerous.

Acids can have a lot of different properties depending on their molecular structure. Most acids:


Acids can burn the skin. The burn can be serious or minor depending on the kind of acid and how concentrated it is. Burns like this can be a serious problem. Chemical burns like this need medical attention immediately.

Acids are important. Nucleic acids, such as DNA and RNA contain the genetic code. These molecules determine many characteristics of an organism, they are passed from the parents to offspring. DNA contains the plans how to build proteins which are made of amino acids. 

Fatty acids and fatty acid derivatives are another group of carboxylic acids that play a significant role in biology. These contain long chains of hydrocarbons and a carboxylic acid group on one end. The cell membrane of nearly all organisms is primarily made up of a phospholipid bilayer, a micelle of hydrophobic fatty acid chains with polar, hydrophilic phosphate "head" groups.

In humans and many other animals, hydrochloric acid is a part of the gastric acid secreted within the stomach. It can help hydrolyze proteins and polysaccharides. It can also convert the inactive pro-enzyme, pepsinogen into the enzyme, pepsin. Some organisms produce acids for defense; for example, ants produce formic acid.



</doc>
<doc id="4443" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4443" title="White dwarf">
White dwarf

A white dwarf is a star. The colour of a white dwarf is like most other stars, but not as bright. White Dwarfs were discovered in the 19th century, and the first ones found were white. The colour of a star is a measure of how hot it is, white stars are like the Sun, blue stars are hotter, and red stars are cooler. White dwarfs are not very bright because they are smaller than many brighter stars - not because they are cold. Some white dwarfs are blue, instead of white.

Many white dwarfs are about the same size as the Earth, and about 100 times smaller than the Sun. They may weigh the same as the sun, which would make them very dense. The heavier the white dwarf is, then the smaller its size will be.

A star like our Sun will become a white dwarf when it has run out of fuel. Near the end of its life, it will go through a red giant stage, and then lose most of its gas, until what is left settles down and becomes a young white dwarf. 

White dwarf stars are extremely hot; so they emit bright white light. This heat is what is left of the heat made when the star collapsed. Because white dwarfs are extremely small, it takes them a long time to cool down. Eventually, all white dwarfs will cool down into what is called a black dwarf. These are what is left of the star after all of its heat and light has gone away. 



</doc>
<doc id="4444" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4444" title="Beach">
Beach

A beach is an area of lakeshore or seashore which is fairly open, slopes smoothly to the water, and is free of trees, large boulders, or anything else which might make walking difficult or impossible. Many beaches are made of sand, but some beaches are made of gravel. Most people enjoy beaches as a place to swim, to work on their tan, or just to relax. The most popular beaches have fine white or light-colored sand and warm water to swim in. Beaches may also be popular because of the excellent opportunities for diving or for seeing marine life.

Among the world's most popular and well-known beaches are Aruba (Dutch Caribbean), Long Beach (Canada), Copacabana Beach (Brazil), Hot Water Beach (New Zealand), Megan Bay (St. Thomas), Kailua Beach (Hawaii), Zandvoort Beach (Netherlands) and Bondi Beach (Australia).

Over the past years, many beaches have changed their rules about dress, and most countries now have naturist beaches where clothing is optional or even where clothing is not allowed.


</doc>
<doc id="4447" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4447" title="Mental illness">
Mental illness

A mental illness is an illness of the mind. People with a mental illness often behave in strange ways, or have strange thoughts, in the view of others. Certain mental illnesses seem to be there from birth, they are the result of a birth disorder; others develop during the life of a person. What is considered as a mental illness has changed over time. What is considered to be a mental illness may not be one in a different culture.

People with a mental illness often have problems dealing with other people, or leading what is called a "normal life". Treatment and certain drugs can help people with certain mental illnesses lead a better life.

The President's New Freedom Commission on Mental Health says that major mental illnesses, including major depression, body dysmorphic disorder, bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, and obsessive-compulsive disorder are the most common disability.

According to National Alliance for the Mentally Ill twenty-three percent of North American adults will have a mental illness in a given year. But less than half of them will be bad enough to disrupt their normal activities.

Mental illnesses can be treated by:


And all human rights of persons with mental illness are protected by:




</doc>
<doc id="4448" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4448" title="Major depressive disorder">
Major depressive disorder

Depression (also called unipolar depression or clinical depression) is a mental illness or mood disorder which makes people feel sad and pessimistic. Most people feel sad, discouraged, or "down" sometimes, but that is not depression. In clinical depression, these feelings last for a long time and are combined with other symptoms. Someone with depression might have these symptoms: strong sad feelings or no strong feelings at all, feeling guilty, feeling helpless or hopeless, anxiety, fear, low self-esteem or a loss of interest in life. These are symptoms of depression when they last for a long time (usually for more than two weeks). Most people who have not had depression do not completely understand its effects. Instead, they see it as simply being sad. Since it is not understood, many people with depression are criticized by others for not helping themselves.

Many people have depression. It is the most common form of disability in the world. Depression happens most often in people between the ages of 13 and 60 years. Although more women as men are diagnosed with depression, it is common for both men and women.

There are many signs that a person may be suffering from depression. One of the most common is a depressed mood, which includes feeling sad, and having less interest or pleasure in things that are normally enjoyable. Other core causes include low self-esteem, guilt, anxiety or pessimism, and sometimes thinking about suicide. Some changes are more physical, such as changes in how much and when a person eats and sleeps, misusing drugs or alcohol, or complaining of mental or physical fatigue.

Depression in children is harder to see. Children who are depressed may have a loss of appetite, meaning that they do not want to eat. They may also be clearly having more trouble in everyday life than before. This can include sleep problems such as nightmares, new problems with behaviour or grades at school, or being more agitated or easily irritable than usual.

Depression is a syndrome of many symptoms that relate to each other, and is not just feeling sad. Medical measurements have shown that there are big changes in the chemicals in the brain, and that the whole brain slows down during depression. Depression that is not treated may get worse.

Major depressive disorder is also referred to as major, biochemical, clinical, endogenous, or biological depression. It may also be called "unipolar affective disorder".

There are many subtypes of depression:

Depression comes from the brain, but scientists are still trying to find out exactly why it happens.

These things can cause depression, or make it worse:

Depression is usually treated with a combination of medication and other therapy. Good exercise helps deal with depression, since exercise releases chemicals that put a person in a better mood. Having a supportive group of friends and doing outside activities can also help prevent or ease depression.

There are many medications that can help with depression. Many of these are called antidepressants. 


Sometimes, antidepressant medicine works better when it is used together with another drug that is not an antidepressant. These "augmentor" drugs are:


If people with depression do not take their medicine the right way, the depression can get worse. A doctor must help when they want to change to another medication, or to take a different amount of a medication than before.

In psychotherapy, someone with depression is helped to understand and solve problems which cause depression. 

Psychotherapy can help a person make changes in the way they think, in order to help with relationship problems and understand what makes depression worse. The most effective psychotherapy for depression is Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT). This teaches a person to think in a more rational, positive, realistic manner. 

Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT), also called electroshock therapy or shock therapy is used to treat a small percentage of severely depressed people. ECT uses a small amount of electricity to cause an epileptic seizure while the patient is under anesthesia. This may cause some memory loss or amnesia.




</doc>
<doc id="4449" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4449" title="Qur'an">
Qur'an

The Qur'an, sometimes spelled "Koran", () is the holy book of Islam. The Qur'an is considered by Muslims to be "The Word of Allah (God)". This book is different from other religious texts in that it is believed to be written directly by God, through the prophet Muhammad. 

It has been written and read only in Arabic for more than 1,400 years. But, because many Muslims around the world do not understand Arabic, the meaning of the Qur'an is also given in other languages, so that readers can understand better what the Arabic words in the Qur'an mean. These books are like dictionaries to the Qur'an - they are not read as part of the religion of Islam, to replace the Arabic Qur'an. Muslims believe that these translations are not the true Qur'an; only the Arabic copy is the true Qur'an.

Muslims believe the Qur'an was first revealed to Muhammad by the archangel Gabriel in a cave on the mountain of Hira in Mecca, and then over a period of twenty-three years until his death. 

The Qur'an was not written all together in book-form while Muhammad was alive; it was kept by oral communication and brief written records. The prophet did not know how to read nor write, but according to Muslims, the prophet's friend Abu Bakr, among others, used to write the texts on something when Muhammad was alive. When Abu Bakr was caliph, he had the Qur'an written down as a book. Uthman, who was the third caliph, further refined its written format.

There are 30 parts in the Qur'an, which make 114 "suras" (chapters). Each sura has a different number of verses. 

According to the Muslim teachings, 86 of these suras took place in Mecca, 24 of these suras took place in Medina. The suras which took place in Medina are Al-Baqara, Al Imran, Al-Anfal, Al-Ahzab, Al-Ma'ida, An-Nisa, Al-Mumtahina, Az-Zalzala, Al-Hadid, Muhammad , Ar-Ra'd, Ar-Rahman, At-Talaq, Al-Bayyina, Al-Hashr, An-Nasr, An-Nur, Al-Hajj, Al-Munafiqun, Al-Mujadila, Al-Hujraat, At-Tahrim, At-Taghabun, Al-Jumua, As-Saff, Al-Fath, At-Tawba, Al-Insan. 

The first verse revealed is:
Read (commencing) with the Name of Allah, Who has created (everything). He created man from a hanging mass (clinging) like a leech (in the mother’s womb). Read and your Lord is Most Generous, Who taught man (reading and writing) by the pen, Who (besides that) taught man (all that) which he did not know.

The last verse revealed is:
Who believe! fulfil (all) obligations. Lawful unto you (for food) are all four-footed animals. Dead meat, blood, pig, any food which has been blessed by a (false) god other than Allah; an animal whose death resulted from strangulation, bludgeoning, arrows, falling, or bloodloss; an animal which was partly consumed by a wild animal or an animal which is sacrificed on a stone altar are forbidden. However, if faced with starvation, exceptions are allowed.

Quran


</doc>
<doc id="4450" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4450" title="Tony Blair">
Tony Blair

Anthony Charles Lyton Blair, usually called Tony Blair, is a former Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. He was born in Edinburgh. He was Prime Minister from May 1997 until June 2007 and was succeeded by the former Chancellor of the Exchequer, Gordon Brown.

As leader of the Labour party, he won three general elections in the UK, in 1997, 2001 and 2005. He is married to Cherie Booth. They met on the top deck of a double-decker bus in 1975. Cherie claimed "It was a double-decker and we went upstairs. It was completely empty and by the time we got off we knew each other better than when we'd got on. And even better the next morning. He was a very good-looking young man, tall and slim, yet broad in the shoulders. A really strong body.". Cherie Blair is a lawyer, who graduated from the London School of Economics with a first class honours degree. Blair himself left Oxford University with a second class degree. They have four children, Euan, Nicky, Kathryn, and Leo. There was a controversy over Blair sending his eldest son Euan to a grant-maintained school. As a result of this, Alastair Campbell discovered Blair "standing stark naked reading the Daily Mail"

He attributes his success in politics to a pair of "lucky brogues" which he wore for every single Prime Minister's Questions of his leadership. He claimed that "cheap shoes are a false economy".


</doc>
<doc id="4452" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4452" title="Accident">
Accident

An accident is when something goes wrong when it is not meant to. Physical accidents are things like collisions, injuries, and falling. Non-physical accidents are things like accidentally telling someone a secret, forgetting something important, or deleting an important computer file.

Often, accidents are investigated so that we can learn how to avoid them in the future.

An accident at work is defined as an external, sudden and violent event. Work accidents happen while an employee is working. It causes injury or the death of the employee.
Also there can be a biological accident. That is if a woman becomes pregnant, and she does not want it.

For an accident to be a work accident, there must be a direct or indirect relationship of cause and effect between the accident and the work.

Many accidents happen in the merchant marine.

A bicycle accident happens when a bicycle ride goes wrong. A bicycle can fall over because of a loss of balance, or crash into something like a car.


</doc>
<doc id="4453" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4453" title="Acne">
Acne

Acne is an infection of the skin, caused by changes in the sebaceous glands. The most common form of acne is called acne vulgaris, which means common acne. The redness comes from the inflammation of the skin in response to the infection.

Oils from the glands combine with dead skin cells to block hair follicles. Under the blocked pore, oil builds up. Skin bacteria can then grow very quickly. This infection makes the skin become swollen and red, which becomes visible.

The face, chest, back, and upper arms are most common places for acne to happen.

Acne is common during puberty, when a person is turning from a child into an adult, because of high levels of hormones. Acne becomes less common as people reach adulthood.


Exactly why some people get acne and some do not is not completely known. These can cause acne, or make it worse:


There are many incorrect ideas about the causes for acne. Many people believe these false ideas:


Many things are sold to treat acne, the most popular being benzoyl peroxide. Many of these things have not been scientifically proven to help acne. However, a mix of commercial and homemade treatments can help with acne for various reasons. 




Popping a pimple should not be done by anyone but a qualified dermatologist. Pimple popping irritates skin, can make the bacteria spread, and can cause scars. If you must pop a pimple yourself, it is advised to apply warm water to the area before popping it and to wash your hand thoroughly before beginning so as to avoid spreading bacteria via the hands. Applying warm water will open up the pores and reduce the damage because it will require less force to pop it.

Bad acne often leads to bad scars where the skin has the shape of a volcano. It is difficult and expensive to treat acne scars.

These are some ways acne scars can be treated:




</doc>
<doc id="4455" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4455" title="Dinosaur">
Dinosaur

Dinosaurs, a type of Archosaur reptile, were the dominant land animals of the Mesozoic era. 

Dinosaurs became the top land vertebrates in the Upper Triassic, 230 million years ago. By the early Jurassic they dominated most environments on land. They continued until the sudden K/T extinction event 65 million years ago. 

Birds are the descendants of theropod dinosaurs; all the terrestrial dinosaurs are extinct.

Dinosaurs are united by at least 21 characters of their skulls and skeletons. These common characters (called 'synapomorphies') are the reason palaeontologists are sure dinosaurs had a common origin.

However, as soon as dinosaur fossils appear (late in the Middle Triassic), the group has already split into two great orders, the Saurischia, and the Ornithischia. The Saurischia keep the ancestral hip arrangement inherited from their Archosaur ancestors, and the Ornithischia have a modified hip sructure.

A. "Eoraptor", an early saurischian, B "Lesothosaurus", a primitive ornithischian, C A saurischian pelvis ("Staurikosaurus") D "Lesothosaurus" pelvis


The Archosaurs evolved into two main clades: those related to crocodiles, and those related to dinosaurs. 

The first known dinosaurs were bipedal predators that were one to two metres long.

"Spondylosoma", from the Middle Triassic, may or may not be a dinosaur. The skull is not known, and the remains are dated at about 230-232 million years ago (mya).

The earliest confirmed dinosaur fossils include saurischian ('lizard-hipped') dinosaurs "Saturnalia" 225-232 Ma, "Herrerasaurus" 220-230 Ma, "Staurikosaurus" possibly 225-230 Ma, "Eoraptor" 220-230 Ma and "Alwalkeria" 220-230 Ma. "Saturnalia" may be a basal saurischian or a prosauropod. The others are basal saurischians.

Among the earliest ornithischian ('bird-hipped') dinosaurs is "Pisanosaurus" 220-230 Ma. Although "Lesothosaurus" comes from 195-206 Ma, skeletal features suggest that it branched from the main Ornithischia line at least as early as "Pisanosaurus".

It is clear from this figure that early saurischians resembled early ornithischians, but not modern crocodiles. Saurischians are distinguished from the ornithischians by retaining the ancestral configuration of bones in the pelvis. Another difference is in the skull, the upper skull of the Ornithischia is more solid and the joint connecting the lower jaw is more flexible; both are adaptations to herbivory and both can already be seen in "Lesothosaurus".

Dinosaurs were a varied group of animals. Paleontologists have identified over 500 different genera and 1,000 species of non-avian dinosaurs. Their descendants, the birds, number 9,000 living species, and are the most diverse group of land vertebrates.

The largest dinosaurs were plant-eaters, such as "Apatosaurus" and "Brachiosaurus". They were the largest animals to ever walk on dry land. Other plant-eaters had special weapons, to help them fight off the meat-eaters. For example, "Triceratops" had three horns on its head shield, "Ankylosaurus" was covered in boney plates, and "Stegosaurus" had spikes on its tail. 

The carnivores were bipedal (walked on their back legs), though not as we do. Their body was more towards the horizontal, balanced at the back by their tail. Some were very large, like "Tyrannosaurus" and "Spinosaurus", but some were small, like "Compsognathus". It was the smaller sized meat-eaters that may have evolved into birds. The first fossil bird, "Archaeopteryx", had a skeleton which looked much like that of a dinosaur.

Dinosaurs were primitively "bipedal": their probable ancestors were small bipedal Archosaurs. The date of the early dinosaur genus "Eoraptor" at 230 million years ago is important. "Eoraptor" probably resembles the common ancestor of all dinosaurs; its traits suggest that the first dinosaurs were small, bipedal predators. The discovery of primitive, pre-dinosaur, types in Middle Triassic strata supports this view. Analysis of their fossils suggests that the animals were indeed small, bipedal predators.
Those dinosaurs which returned to four-legged stance kept all four legs under their body. This is much more efficient than the sprawling legs of a lizard. 

The big sauropods could never have reached so large a size without their pillar-like legs.

A major change in outlook came in the 1960s, when it was realised that small theropods were probably warm-blooded. The question of whether all theropods or even all dinosaurs were warm blooded is still undecided.

It is now certain (from fossils discovered in China: see Jehol biota) that small theropods had feathers. This fits well with the idea that they were warm-blooded, and that the origin of birds can be traced to a line of small theropods.

Warm blooded animals have a high metabolic rate (use up food faster). They can be more active, and for longer, than animals who depend on the environment for heating. Therefore, the idea of warm-blooded dinosaurs insulated by feathers led to the idea that they were more active, intelligent and faster runners than previously thought.

Main-stream palaeontologists have followed this view for small theropods, but not for larger herbivores. Since we know that the size of a "Stegosaur"'s brain was about the size of a walnut, there is good reason to think its intelligence was limited.

The extinctions at the end of the Cretaceous were caused by one or more catastrophic events, such as massive asteroid or meteorite impacts (like the Chicxulub impact), or increased volcanic activity. 

Several impact craters and massive volcanic activity, such as that in the Deccan Traps in India, have been dated to the approximate time of the extinction event. These geological events may have reduced sunlight and hindered photosynthesis, leading to a massive disruption in Earth's ecology.

Books about dinosaurs have been popular, especially with children, but adults have also enjoyed these kinds of books. In Edwardian times, Arthur Conan Doyle wrote a novel about a plateau filled with dinosaurs which he called "The Lost World".

Several movies are about dinosaurs, such as Jurassic Park.



</doc>
<doc id="4456" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4456" title="Stone Age">
Stone Age

The Stone Age was an ancient time period when people made tools from stone. Wood, bones and other materials were also used for tools, but stone (especially a kind of stone called flint) was used to cut things. 

The period began with the first stone tools, about 2.7 million years ago. Some groups of people were still in the stone age into the 20th century. They also killed animals for food and clothing. 

The time after the Stone Age is the Bronze Age, named after the metal bronze. The Stone Age ended when people discovered the art of smelting (making metals). The first metal was copper, followed by bronze. People probably began using bronze instead of just stone in the Middle East sometime between 3000 and 2000 BC. 

The Stone Age is divided by archaeologists (people who study relics) into three sections: Paleolithic ("old stone"), Mesolithic ("middle stone") and Neolithic ("new stone"). Pottery was invented during the Neolithic Stone Age. Some people also believe the art of writing began in the Neolithic Stone Age.

The Palaeolithic is a prehistoric era distinguished by the development of stone tools. It covers the greatest portion of humanity's time (roughly 99% of human history) on Earth, from about 2.7 million years ago to about 20,000 years ago. It was followed by the Mesolithic and Neolithic cultures.


</doc>
<doc id="4457" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4457" title="Adolf Hitler">
Adolf Hitler

Adolf Hitler (German pronunciation: ; 20 April 1889 in Braunau am Inn, Austria – 30 April 1945 in Berlin, Germany) was the leader of Germany during World War II. Hitler also lead the NSDAP (often called the Nazi Party), the democratically elected party which ruled Germany at this time. He became Chancellor of Germany in 1933. This appointment was allowed by the German constitution. He became dictator (complete ruler) in 1934. He called himself the "Führer" (leader) of the German Empire. He ruled until 1945 when he killed himself.

The Nazis created a dictatorship called the Third Reich. In 1933, they blocked out all of the other political parties. They killed their enemies or put them in concentration camps. Hitler and his men also persecuted and killed Jews and other ethnic, religious, and political minorities. In what is called The Holocaust, the Nazis killed six million Jews, gypsies, homosexuals and other groups of people. Because of the invasion of Poland, the world was lead into World War II, which harmed many parts of Europe. Because of Hitler, at least 50 million people died. During World War II, Hitler was the Commander-in-Chief of the whole German forces and made all important decisions. This was part of the so called "Führerprinzip".

Hitler's family was originally from Waldviertel in Upper Austria. Not many people spoke German there. At the time, the name "Hitler" changed in this region several times between "Hüttler", "Hiedler", "Hittler" and "Hitler". The name was commonly in the German-speaking area of Europe in the 19th century. The literature says that this name is descended from the Czech name Hidlar or Hidlarcek.

Adolf Hitler was born on 20 April 1889, as the fourth child of six in Braunau am Inn. This is a small town near Linz in the province of Upper Austria. It is close to the German border, in what was then Austria-Hungary. His parents were Klara Pölzl and Alois Hitler. Because of his father's job, Hitler moved from Braunau to Passau, later to Lambach and finally to Leonding. He attended several Volksschule's. Hitler's mother, Klara Pölzl, was the third wife of Alois Hitler and also his cousin. Hitler's father died in 1903. Hitler failed high school exams in Linz twice. In 1905, he left school without an exam. He became interested in the anti-Semitic (anti-Jewish), Pan-German teachings of Professor Leopold Poetsch. In September 1907, he went to Vienna and took an entrance examination. On 1 and 2 October, he failed the second examination. Hitler went back to Linz at the end of October. In December 1907, Hitler's mother died and, because of that, he was depressed.

In 1909, Hitler again went to Vienna to study art. He attempted to become a student at the Academy of Arts but failed the first entrance examination.
Hitler said he first became an anti-Semite in Vienna. This town had a large Jewish community.

Hitler was been influenced by Martin Luther's "On the Jews and their Lies". In "Mein Kampf", Hitler refers to Martin Luther as "a great warrior, a true statesman and a great reformer."

In 1913, Hitler was 24 years old. At that time, all young Austrian men had to join the army. Hitler did not like the Austrian army, so he left Austria for Germany. He lived in the German city of Munich.

On 16 August 1914, Hitler joined the Bavarian army. He fought for Germany in World War I. Hitler served in Belgium and France in the 16th Bavarian Reserve Regiment. He spent nearly the whole time on the Western Front. He was a runner, one of the most dangerous jobs on the Front. That means, he ran from one position to another one to carry messages. On 1 November 1914, Hitler became a Gefreiter (equivalent at the time to a private first class in the American and lance corporal in the British armies). The government awarded him the Iron Cross Second Class on 2 December 1914. 

On 5 October 1916, he was hurt by a bullet shell. Between 9 October and 1 December, he was in the military hospital "Belitz". In March 1917, he went back to the front. There, he was involved in a battle and was awarded with the Militärverdienstkreuz Third Class with swords.

In March 1918, Hitler participated in the Spring Offensive. On 4 August 1918, Hitler was awarded with the Iron Cross First Class by the Jewish Hugo Gutmann. After the capitulation of Germany, Hitler was shocked, because the German army still held enemy area in November 1918.

After World War I, Hitler stayed in the army and returned to Munich. There he attended the funeral march of the killed Bavarian prime minister Kurt Eisner. In 1919, he participated in a training programme for propaganda speakers from 5 to 12 June and 26 June to 5 July. Later that year, Hitler joined a small political party called the German Workers Party. He became member number 555. He soon won the support of the party members. Two years later, he became the leader of the party. He renamed the party the National Socialist German Workers Party. It became known as the Nazi Party.

In 1923, Hitler got together several hundred other members of the Nazi Party and tried to take over the Weimar Republic government (1918–34) in the Beer Hall Putsch. The coup failed. The government killed 13 of his men (the 13 dead men were later declared saints in Nazi ideology). They also put Hitler in the Landsberg Prison. They said that he would stay in prison for five years, but they let him leave after nine months. While he was in prison, he wrote a book with the help of his friend Rudolf Hess. At first, Hitler wanted to call the book "Four and a Half Years of Struggle against Lies, Stupidity and Cowardice". In the end, he called the book "Mein Kampf" or "My Struggle".

In 1933, Hitler was elected into the German government. He ended freedom of speech, and put his enemies in jail or killed them. He did not allow any other party except the Nazi party. Hitler and his propaganda minister, Joseph Goebbels, spread extreme nationalism within Germany. All media had to praise the Nazis. Also, more people were born because Hitler wanted more people of the "master race" (those he called Aryans). He made Germany a totalitarian Nazi state.

Hitler started World War II by ordering the German Army to invade Poland. His army conquered Poland and most of Europe, including France and a large part of the Soviet Union. During the war, he ordered the Nazis to kill many people, including women and children. The Nazis killed six million Jews in the Holocaust. Other people that the Nazis killed were Roma (Gypsies), homosexuals, Slavs such as Russians and Poles, and his political opponents.

Finally, the other countries in the world worked together to defeat Germany. Hitler lost all of the land that he had taken, and millions of Germans were killed. At the end of World War II, Hitler gave all people in the "Führerbunker" the permission to leave it. Many people followed this and moved to the region of Berchtesgaden. They used planes and truck convoys. Hitler, the Goebbels family, Martin Bormann, Eva Braun and some other staff remained in the bunker. Hitler got married to Eva Braun in April 1945. They both committed suicide (killed themselves) in Berlin the day after their marriage. Eva Braun used poison to kill herself. Hitler shot himself in the face. Before this, Hitler ordered that their bodies be burned. This prevented him from being captured alive by soldiers from the Soviet Union, who were closing in on Hitler and his government.





</doc>
<doc id="4460" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4460" title="Virgil">
Virgil

Publius Vergilius Maro, also called Virgil or Vergil by English-speaking people, (October 15, 70 BC - September 21, 19 BC) was a writer of poems in the Latin language. Virgil's most famous epic poem is called the "Aeneid". His poems are about gods and myths (called mythology).

Stories say that Virgil was born in the village of Andes, near Mantua in Cisalpine Gaul . Scholars looking at the way he used words think that he may have Etruscan, Umbrian or even a Celtic background. Study of his name has led to beliefs that his family may have been earlier Roman settlers. These modern beliefs are not supported by evidence from his own writings or from writers of his biographies. Some scholars have noted that his cognomen, or nickname, "MARO", is an anagram of the two main themes in the Aeneid: "AMOR" (love) and "ROMA" (Rome).


</doc>
<doc id="4461" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4461" title="Alcohol">
Alcohol

In chemistry, alcohol is a general term which refers to many organic compounds used in industry and science as reagents, solvents, and fuels. Alcohols are carbohydrates which are made of an alkyl group with one or more hydroxyl (-"OH") groups bound to its carbon atoms. Alcohol is colorless, and also transparent. 

There are two ways of naming alcohols: Common names, and IUPAC names. 


The hydroxyl group makes alcohols polar. Alcohols are very weakly acidic.

The simplest two alcohols are methanol (or methyl alcohol) and ethanol (or ethyl alcohol), which have the following structures:

In common usage, "alcohol" often means ethanol or "grain alcohol". (See also: alcoholic proof).

Other commonly used alcohols include:


</doc>
<doc id="4462" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4462" title="Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart">
Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart

Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart was an Austrian composer and pianist. Many people think he was one of the best composers of music of all time. He was born in the city of Salzburg on January 27, 1756. During his short life he wrote over 600 pieces of music, including the operas (music with a story) "Don Giovanni" and "The Magic Flute". His first work was a minuet (a dance) that he wrote when he was four, and his last piece was the "Requiem", which he left unfinished. Mozart could play the piano when very young and he was known as a great piano player as well as a great composer. He died close to 1am on December 5, 1791 because of rheumatic fever.

Mozart was born into a musical family. His father Leopold Mozart was a famous violinist and composer who worked for the Archbishop of Salzburg. He had one older sister called Maria Anna whose nickname was Nannerl (there were other brothers and sisters who died as babies). Mozart was baptized on the morning after his birth in the cathedral in Salzburg. The Latin form of his name was “Joannes Chrysostomus Wolfgangus Theophilus Mozart”. He was usually known as “Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart” and his nickname was “Wolfi”. The house where he was born in the street called Getreidegasse is now a Mozart museum.

Mozart was a child prodigy. From a very early age he showed extraordinary musical talent. His father gave up composing in order to teach his son music. Wolfgang was learning the keyboard at the age of three and was soon learning the violin and organ as well. There are two short piano pieces written when he was five. They were written in his father’s handwriting, so it is not easy to say how much help he might have had. 

Soon his father started to show off his son, making him play in concerts in front of lots of important people. Nowadays this would be called “exploiting” the young genius, but in those days people saw nothing wrong with letting a child to be used in this way. It is amazing that it seemed to do him no harm, and that he grew up to become the great composer that he deserved to be.

Mozart played in public in Salzburg when he was five. Then he was taken to Vienna when he was six. He also played in Linz and Pressburg (now called Bratislava). Twice he played in front of the Empress Maria Theresa of Austria. At these concerts he played pieces that adults usually played. He played at sight, improvised and played with a cloth covering the keyboard, played blindfolded and with one hand crossing another. He also made up accompaniments to tunes that were put in front of him. Many people who heard him wrote about this amazing boy and that is how we know a lot of what happened. It is also known that he could remember all the notes on a piece of music after looking at it only once.

Soon Mozart was travelling to other countries. He played in Munich, Prague, Paris, The Hague and London. In London he played to King George III and met a composer by the name of Johann Christian Bach, one of the sons of Johann Sebastian Bach. He liked Johann Christian Bach’s music and he played piano duets with him. While Mozart was in London, the Royal Society studied him to see if was a child prodigy or just a very small person. In 1767 he was in Vienna again where he was ill with smallpox, but he recovered, and his father saw this as a sign from God that his child would do well. He went to Italy where he heard music by many famous Italian composers, including Gregorio Allegri who had written a piece called "Miserere". This piece had been written for the Pope for the choir of the Vatican to sing. No one was allowed to see the written music so that no other choir would be able to sing it. Mozart heard the piece once and then wrote it all down from memory. He met the Pope and was given a knighthood (Order of the Golden Spur).

In 1777, he went on a journey with his mother. In Mannheim he fell in love with a girl called Aloysia Weber. She was 16 years old and studying singing. Mozart wanted to take her to Italy to make her famous, but his father wrote him back very stern letters telling him to stop thinking about such nonsense. By 1778 Mozart and his mother were in Paris, but there his mother died.

Mozart wrote some small operas when he was young, but his first really important opera was Idomeneo". It was first performed in Munich in 1780. The next year he went to Vienna. By this time he was working, like his father, for the Archbishop of Salzburg. When he went back to Salzburg he argued with the Archbishop who actually kicked him out. Mozart went off to Vienna where he would spend the rest of his life.

In 1782 he married Constanze Weber, one of the three younger sisters of Aloysia (who by now was married to someone else). They were to have seven children, but five of them died in childhood. Mozart’s father did not approve of the marriage. Constanze was a loving wife, but, like Mozart, she was not good at looking after money, so they were often very poor.

In that same year, 1782, Mozart wrote another very successful opera: "Die Entführung aus dem Serail" ("The Abduction from the Seraglio"). One famous story tells that, after the emperor had heard the opera, he told Mozart that there were “too many notes”. Mozart answered: “Just as many as are necessary, Your Majesty.”

Mozart started a series of concerts in which he played his own piano concertos, conducting from the keyboard. He met the composer Joseph Haydn and the two men became great friends, often playing together in a string quartet. Haydn said to Leopold Mozart one day: "Before God and as an honest man I tell you that your son is the greatest composer known to me either in person or by name. He has taste, and what is more, the most profound knowledge of composition." Mozart was in the same Masonic Lodge as Haydn, and he dedicated some of his string quartets to him.

The audiences in Vienna did not give Mozart much support after a few years, so he often went to Prague where the audiences loved him. His opera "The Marriage of Figaro" was very popular, and in 1787 he gave the first performance there of his opera "Don Giovanni".

There are several stories about Mozart’s last illness and death, and it is not easy to be sure what happened. He was working on an opera "The Magic Flute" which is one of his best works and a very popular opera today. It is written in German, not Italian, like most of his other operas. In some ways it is like an English pantomime. At the same time that he was working on this he was asked by a stranger to compose a requiem. He was told to write this in secret. Then he was asked to write an Italian opera "La Clemenza di Tito", which was performed in Prague during September 1791. At the end of September "The Magic Flute" was given its first performance. Mozart then worked very hard at the "Requiem". He must have realized that he was already very ill, and that in a way the requiem (a mass for the dead) was for himself. He died before he could finish it. Constanze asked another composer, a man called Franz Xaver Süssmayr, to finish the work. Today we are not sure which bits Süssmayr added, but probably most of the music is Mozart’s own work.

Mozart was buried in an unmarked grave because there was no money for a proper funeral.

Mozart's music, like that of Haydn, is the very best of what is known as the Classical style. At the time he started to compose, the Baroque period was just coming to an end. Tastes were changing in music. Form, balance and elegance were thought of as more important than counterpoint. Mozart was the first great composer to write music for the piano, an instrument which had only just become popular. He wrote almost every kind of music: symphonies, operas, solo concertos, chamber music, especially string quartets and string quintets, and the piano sonata. He also wrote a lot of religious music, including masses, as well as popular music like dances, divertimenti and serenades.

When Mozart was young a symphony was usually a short, simple piece for entertainment. Mozart made the symphony into a carefully worked-out piece lasting up to half an hour. His last three symphonies are especially fine masterpieces. His concertos, especially his piano concertos, are far more advanced than anything that had been written before. Although Mozart behaved in truly childish ways at times, he was good at understanding human character. This is clear in his operas, where he introduced many subtle effects to describe the characters in the story.

Mozart's operas are among his greatest works. He understood people's characters very well and was able to write music which tells us everything about the personalities in the operas. The three operas in which he set words by Metastasio: "Don Giovanni", "Le Nozze di Figaro" ("The Marriage of Figaro") and "Cosi fan tutte" each include some very clever ensembles in which several characters are singing at once, each one showing his or her view of the situation.

As well as many great masterpieces, Mozart wrote many pieces in a more popular style, including some tunes that everybody knows today. His serenade "Eine kleine Nachtmusik" is known everywhere, as is the "Turkish Rondo" from his "Piano Sonata in A", the opening of the "Symphony no 40 in G minor K550", and the birdcatcher’s song from "The Magic Flute".

Some time after Mozart’s death a man called Köchel studied all Mozart’s music, tried to put them in chronological order, and gave them a number. The number helps us to know exactly which work is meant, for example "Symphony in G minor K183" is not the same piece as "Symphony in G minor K550" (K stands for Köchel. Sometimes it is written "KV550" standing for "Köchel Verzeichnis" i.e. "Köchel Catalogue"). The highest Köchel number is 626, his requiem mass. 

Groves Dictionary of Music and Musicians, edited by Stanley Sadie; 1980; ISBN 1-56159-174-2




</doc>
<doc id="4463" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4463" title="Johann Sebastian Bach">
Johann Sebastian Bach

Johann Sebastian Bach (b. Eisenach, 21 March 1685; d. Leipzig, 28 July 1750) was a German composer and organist. He lived in the last part of the Baroque period. He never traveled very far, spending all his life in central Germany, but he studied all the music he could find by other composers of his time. His own music shows that he learned from the music of Italian, French and German composers. He spent several years working at courts of noblemen. Here he wrote most of his chamber music and orchestral music. Most of his life, however, he worked in a church where he was expected to write church music. Bach wrote almost every kind of music except opera. During the last part of his life most composers were writing in a new style called the Classical style, but Bach always wrote in the Baroque style. That made some people at the time think he was old-fashioned, but today we know that his work is the very best of Baroque music.

Bach came from a highly musical family. Many of his relatives were professional musicians of some sort: violinists and town musicians, organists, "Cantors" (Directors of Music in a church), court musicians and "Kapellmeisters" (Directors of Music at a royal court). Most of them played several instruments. Of his twenty children, several became quite famous composers, especially Carl Philipp Emmanuel Bach (1714-1788), Johann Christian Bach (1735-1782), Johann Christoph Friedrich Bach and Wilhelm Friedemann Bach (1710-1784).

We hardly know anything about Johann Sebastian’s childhood. He must have sung in the church choir at Eisenach where he was born. He may have learned to play harpsichord and violin from his father. When he was ten years old, his mother and father both died within eight months of one another (1694 and 1695). He went to live with his brother Johann Christoph Bach in a small town called Ohrdruf nearby. Johann Christoph was an excellent teacher and taught the young boy a lot in music. In Ohrdruf he visited the Lyzeum. There was a good school there, and he studied religion, reading, writing, arithmetic, singing, history and science. 

When he was fifteen he went to the large town of Lüneburg. At first he sang treble in the choir, but his voice very soon got lower, so he made himself useful playing instruments. He learned by listening to famous organists like Reincken (1623-1722) and Dietrich Buxtehude (1637-1707). Bach got his first job in 1703 in Arnstadt. It was a well-paid job for a young boy who was 18 years old. There was a new organ in the church and Bach already knew a lot about organ building as well as being a brilliant organist. They asked him to examine the new organ, and then offered him a job. Bach spent four years as organist there. He composed some organ works. Unfortunately the congregation were not musical enough to like it. They did not understand the ornamental notes he added to the hymn tunes. Bach got rather fed up with the priests who were always complaining about it, and so he resigned and took another job in Mühlhausen, not far away. After a year there he gave up that job and went to a big town called Weimar.

Johann Sebastian was made organist to the Duke of Saxeweimar. At the Duke’s court there was a chapel with an organ. Bach composed many of his great organ works at this time. He became very famous as an organist as was invited to play in other big churches and to give advice on organ building. He was extremely good at improvisation. On one occasion he was in Dresden at the same time as a French organist named Louis Marchant. There was going to be a competition between the two men to see who was better at improvisation. Bach was practicing the day before and Marchant heard him. He realized that Bach would win, so he ran away.

In 1714 the Duke made Bach "Konzertmeister" (Concert Master, which meant he earned more money.) He had to write cantatas for church services. In 1717 he was offered a job in the town of Cöthen, where he would earn an even better salary. The Duke was angry and did not want him to go but Bach insisted, so the Duke put Bach in prison for a month. In the end he had to let the musician go.

At Cöthen Bach worked for Prince Leopold. The Prince was very musical and a nice man to work for. Bach was "Kapellmeister" (Director of Music) and was treated well. The organ was not very good and it was not used much, so Bach did not write any organ music during this period. The Duke had an orchestra and Bach was in charge. Nearly all Bach’s orchestral works were written in Cöthen: the Brandenburg Concertos, the violin concertos, the orchestral suites, the solo music for violin and for cello, and a lot of keyboard music for harpsichord or clavichord.

During 1719 the great composer George Frideric Handel, who had moved to England, came to Germany to visit his mother. Bach wanted to meet Handel, who was only 30 km away, but these two famous musicians never met. Handel wanted to spend his limited time in Germany with his mother who was old and frail, knowing that it would be the last time he would see her.

Bach’s first wife, Maria Barbara Bach, died in 1720. The couple had seven children. Soon afterwards he married Anna Magdalena, with whom he had another thirteen children. However, several of his children died young.

In 1723 Bach moved to Leipzig to take the job of "Cantor" at the St Thomas Church, a very large church in the town. As "Cantor" he was in charge of all the music, both at St Thomas and at another church nearby. He also had to compose music for the town. It was an excellent job, and more secure than being at a court. The schools were good for his sons. Bach stayed in Leipzig until his death. He loved his job most of the time and worked very hard. He composed many cantatas for the church services. These services were very long, lasting about three hours. Many of the cantatas he wrote last about 30 minutes, and that was just one part of a service! He had assistants to play the organ. Bach himself directed the choir and the orchestra. There were probably 16 singers in the choir and 18 players in the orchestra. He wrote the "St Matthew Passion" and the "St John Passion". Both these works, which are very long, tell the story of Jesus dying on the cross. They are among the most famous pieces of music ever written. He also wrote cantatas for special occasions such as weddings or funerals.

Life was not always easy, and there were sometimes arguments with the people who ruled the church. The sub-deacon wanted to choose some of the hymns, but this was the "Cantor’s" job. Bach was a sensible man, and he managed to get his way without making enemies. On another occasion he argued with the headmaster of the school (Bach had to do some teaching at the church school) about who was allowed to choose the choir section leaders. This actually went to court, and Bach won the case.

Bach often made journeys to other towns. In 1747 he visited the court of Prussian King Frederick the Great near Berlin. The king, a music lover, gave Bach a tune to play on the harpsichord. Bach sat down and improvised a piece using this theme. The king was very impressed. Later Bach wrote a very long composition for flute, violin and harpsichord with cello accompaniment, in many movements, all based on this theme. At the end, the tune is heard in six voices all together. Bach called it "The Musical Offering" and he sent it to king, who was very much pleased. In the picture at the top of this article Bach is holding the music of the 6 part movement (called: a ricercar).

Bach loved writing fugues, and he decided to write a collection called "The Art of Fugue". He wanted to publish it and he was making some changes, but he died before he could finish it. In the last year or two of his life, he became blind in spite of two eye operations.



</doc>
<doc id="4464" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4464" title="Atmosphere">
Atmosphere

Earth's atmosphere is the layer of gases around the planet Earth. The atmosphere is held in place by Earth's gravity. It is made up of nitrogen (78.1%) and oxygen (20.9%), with small amounts of argon (0.9%), carbon dioxide (~ 0.035%), water vapor, and other gases. The atmosphere protects life on Earth by absorbing (taking) ultraviolet radiation from the sun, and balancing the temperature on earth between day and night.

Solid particulates, including ash, dust, volcanic ash, etc. are small part of atmosphere. They are important for the formation of clouds and fog.
The atmosphere does not end at a specific place. It just gets thinner when you go higher. There is no clear line between the atmosphere and outer space. 75% of the atmosphere is within 11 km of the Earth's surface. 

Some parts of the atmosphere are hot or cold, depending on height. If you were to climb straight up, it would get colder, then, it would get hotter, as you got higher. These changes of temperature are divided into layers. These are like layers of an onion. But you can not see any difference going from one layer to another layer. You can only feel the change in temperature; start getting hotter in the new layer, or start getting colder.

These are the layers of the atmosphere, starting from the ground:

Where one layer changes to the next have been named "-pauses." So the tropopause is where the troposphere ends (7 to 14 kilometers high). The stratopause is at the end of the stratosphere. The mesopause is at the end of the mesosphere. 
These are called boundaries.

The average temperature of the atmosphere at the surface of earth is 14 °C.

The atmosphere has pressure. This is because, even though air is a gas, it has weight. The average pressure of the atmosphere at sea level is about 101.4 kilopascals (about 14.7 pounds per square inch).

The density of air at sea level is about 1.2 kilograms per cubic meter. This density becomes less at higher altitudes at the same rate that pressure becomes less. The total mass of the atmosphere is about 5.1 × 10 kg, which is only a very small part of the Earth's total mass.



</doc>
<doc id="4465" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4465" title="Penis">
Penis

The penis is a male sex organ found on the outside of the body. It is used for getting rid of urine from the bladder and for sexual reproduction. The main sexual function of the penis is to be inserted into a woman's vagina and deliver semen to cause pregnancy. This activity is called sexual intercourse.

The human penis is made up of three types of tissue. It has two corpora cavernosa (special pieces of muscle) next to each other and a corpus spongiosum (spongy muscle) between them.

The end of the corpus spongiosum forms the glans penis, underneath the foreskin (in uncircumcised men), or exposed (in circumcised men). The area on the bottom of the penis, where the foreskin is attached, is known as the frenulum.

The urethra, the tube where urine and semen travel through, runs down the corpus spongiosum (spongy tissue), and opens at the tip of the penis. Sperm are made in the testes (ball-like organs) and stored in the epididymis (layer of tissue) around the testes. During ejaculation, sperm are pushed up the vas deferens. Fluids are added by the seminal vesicles, the prostate gland and the bulbourethral glands to make semen.

A penis can become erect if a man is sexually aroused (or sometimes during sleep, even though there is no sexual stimulation). In an erection, the penis fills with blood. The blood makes the penis become longer, thicker and harder. Veins taking blood away from the penis get smaller, so less blood is taken through. Arteries bringing blood to the penis get wider, bringing more blood to the penis.

Ejaculation is when semen is pushed from the penis. It usually happens during an orgasm. Muscles push semen from the penis and into the vagina during intercourse. It may also occur during masturbation and other forms of sexual stimulation. During orgasm, semen moves through the urethra and comes out of the hole at the tip of the penis. Ejaculation may happen during sleep (called a 'wet dream').

Men can ejaculate during sexual intercourse or by masturbation. In masturbation, men can excite their own penis and other sensitive areas of their body, such as the scrotum, by rubbing the genital area. A man must have started puberty before he can ejaculate.

The length and thickness of the penis is different for different men. The size of a soft penis (not erect) is much smaller than when it is erect. Some penises grow more when they get hard than other penises. In most cases, whether a penis is big or small, it can still be used for sex. It averages out to be around 3 to 6 inches long when not erect. The average size of an erect human penis is between 13 – 16 cm (5.1– 6 in). The average circumference of a penis is 12.3 cm (4.85 in) when fully erect.

The foreskin is a fold of skin that covers the end of the penis. Cutting off the foreskin is called circumcision. The foreskin is connected to the head of the penis. During circumcision, the foreskin is removed from the penis. Circumcision is usually performed on infant males for religious or cultural reasons.

Some men have the foreskin cut off when they are adults because they have problems with their foreskin. Some men have the foreskin cut off because they want to change how their penis looks. 

In some religions, babies and young boys have their foreskin cut off. This is expected in Islam and Judaism. It is not required according to Christianity, but it is allowed and is quite common among some Christians. In Judaism, baby boys are required to have their foreskin removed as a sign of the covenant made with God.




</doc>
<doc id="4466" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4466" title="Sahara">
Sahara

The Sahara in North Africa, is the one of the largest deserts in the world. Antarctica is also a desert, and is larger. 

It is bounded by the Atlantic Ocean, the Atlas Mountains, the Mediterranean Sea, the Red Sea, and the Sahel region. Inside it are parts of many countries, including Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, Libya, Egypt, Mauritania, Mali, Niger, Chad, and The Sudan. Most parts are uninhabited, but some people manage to survive in places where there is water.

The Sahara Desert is about 9,065,000 square kilometers in size. It has been both larger and smaller at different times. Ater the last ice age it became more fertile, then dried up again. It is the hottest place on the Earth, but not the driest. The driest is the Atacama Desert in South America. The Sahara has about the same size as the whole United States.

The highest mountain is 3415 m, and is the "Emi Koussi" in Chad. Some mountain peaks in the Sahara Desert have snow even in the summer. The main mountain ranges is the Atlas Mountains in Algeria. The Sahara's lowest point lies in the Qattara Depression in Egypt, at about 130 metres below sea level. Sand sheets and dunes are about 25% of the Sahara. All the other parts are mountains, steppes with a lot of stones, and oasises.

There are several rivers running through the Sahara. However, most of them come and go through the seasons, except for the Nile River and Niger River.

Metallic minerals are very important to most Saharan countries. Algeria and Mauritania have several major deposits of iron ore. There are also bits of uranium, while Niger has the largest parts of them. A lot of phosphates are in Morocco and Western Sahara. Oil is mainly found in Algeria. The oil is very important to the economy of the entire country. While the mineral exploitation has led to economic growth in Sahara, this has rarely helped the indigenous population, as skilled workers have been brought from other countries.

Of the Sahara's around 4 million people, most live in Mauritania, Western Sahara, Algeria, Libya and Egypt. Dominant groups of people are Sahrawis and Tuareg. The largest city is Nouakchott, Mauritania's capital. Other important cities are Tamanrasset in Algeria, and Sebha and Ghat in Libya.
Only 200,000 km² of Sahara are fertile oases, where dates, corn, and fruits are grown. The few fertile regions today are fed by underground rivers and underground basins. Many of Sahara's oases rests in depressions (areas under sea level) allowing water to surface from underground reservoirs; artesian wells.

The soil in Sahara is low in organic matter. The soil in depressions is often saline. Animal life is limited to gazelles, antelopes, jackals, foxes, badgers and hyena.
Other sorts of vegetation include scattered concentrations of grasses, shrubs and trees in the highlands, as well as in the oases and along river beds. Some plants are well adjusted to the climate, allowing them to germinate within 3 days of rain and sow their seeds within 2 weeks after that.
Animal life of Sahara include gerbil, jerboa, cape hare and desert hedgehog, barbary sheep, oryx, gazelle, deer, wild ass, baboon, hyena, jackal, sand fox, weasel and mongoose. The bird life counts more than 300 species.



</doc>
<doc id="4467" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4467" title="Paris">
Paris

Paris (nicknamed the "City of light") is the capital city of France, and the largest city there. Its area is 105 square km, and around 2,15 million people live there. If suburbs are counted, the population of the Paris area rises to 12 million people.

The Seine river runs through the oldest part of Paris, and divides it into two parts, known as the Left Bank and the Right Bank. It is surrounded by many forests.

Paris is also the centre of French economy, politics, traffic and culture. Paris has many art museums and historical buildings. As a traffic centre, Paris has a very good underground subway system, airports and stations. The Metro was built in 1900, and its total length is more than 200 km.

The city has a multi-cultural style, because 20% of the people there are from outside France. There are many different restaurants with all kinds of food.

Julius Caesar conquered the Celtic Parisii tribe in 52 BC. The Romans called the place Lutetia, or Lutetia Parisiorum. The place got a shorter name, Paris, in 212 AD.

As the Roman Empire began to fall apart in the West, the Germanic tribe called the Franks moved in, taking it in 464. In 506, their king Clovis I made it his capital. Charlemagne moved his capital to Aachen in Germany, but Paris continued as an important town and was attacked by the Vikings twice. When Hugh Capet became king of France in 987, he again made Paris his capital. For a long time, the kings only controlled Paris and the surrounding area, as much of the rest of France was in the hands of barons or English. During the Hundred Years War, the English even controlled Paris from 1420 to 1437. 

During the Protestant Reformation, a huge massacre of French Protestants started there in 1572, called the Saint Bartholemews Day Massacre. Paris saw many other troubles over the years of the ""Ancien Regime"" (Old Kingdom), then in 1789, the French Revolution began in Paris, leading to more massacres. 

Paris was the Capital of the French Empire which, as well as France, covered Spain, Belgium, Holland, Luxembourg, Switzerland, Italy, most of Germany and some of Austria, Croatia, Slovenia and Poland. The Empire ruled by Napoleon was from 1804-1814/1815. The Russian army seized Paris from Napoleon in 1814, and the Prussian army captured it in 1871. The next time it was captured was by the Nazi Germans in 1940. The Allies freed the city in 1944 and it has not since been captured.

Paris has much to offer for sightseeing. Here are five very famous examples:


Because the city of Paris is roughly only 6 miles across, visitors have a wide range of options when it comes to transportation. While much of the more well-known attractions are located in the center of the city and are best experienced by walking, there are many destinations that require other means of transport. While taxis offer a fast and relatively inexpensive means of travel, Paris’ public transportation system offers an enjoyable, stress-free way to explore the city.

The Paris Métro system was built in 1900 by engineer Fulgence Bienvenüe and architect Hector Guimard. The Métro covers over 124 miles with 300 stations and 16 lines. Servicing over 6 million residents and tourists every day, the Métro was designed to be an efficient and reliable alternative to the congestion of traffic. Every building in Paris is less than 500 meters from a train station, so accessibility is never a problem. The 16 Métro lines are identified by their final destinations. A rider can simply select the appropriate line and take it in the direction s/he wants. The Métro stations are well marked, and there are ticket booths at most entrances.





</doc>
<doc id="4469" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4469" title="The Holocaust">
The Holocaust

The Holocaust, sometimes called The Shoah (Hebrew השואה), was when Nazi Germany killed people in a planned and forced way during World War II. Six million Jews were killed, as well as millions of others that the Nazis said were bad (e.g., gypsies, homosexuals, communists). Many were rounded up, put in ghettos, forced to work in concentration camps and then killed in big gas chambers.

The numbers below are not known entirely because many of those killed were never written down. The numbers given below are those most thinkers agree on. 


Led by Adolf Hitler, the Nazis led an unprecedented mass slaying of millions of Jews. Jews were forced to wear the golden Star of David on any highly noticeable part of their upper body. Jews were rounded up by the thousands and crammed into trains that took them to concentration camps as well as death camps. Most of the Jews killed in the Holocaust were not German; they were from Poland or the Soviet Union.

Millions of Jews were murdered by the usage of gas chambers (used to suffocate hundreds of people at a time in packed rooms) and ovens where Jews were burned alive. Others were sent to dig giant holes in the ground where, after days of hard work, they were shot, buried, and burned in a mass grave. Others were shot, beaten, or stabbed to death. Still others were trampled by other Jews in merciless marches from one camp to another.

Two million other civilians were killed with machine guns, torture, or were beaten until they died. Many Soviet prisoners of war and civilians were killed.

On the other hand, there were people who saved Jews from The Holocaust, out of conscience and with courage against oppression. They were later awarded "Righteous Among the Nations".

Some people say the Holocaust did not happen at all, or they say that it is described wrongly. This is known as Holocaust denial. However, almost all historians agree that there is a lot of evidence the Holocaust happened and is described correctly. In some countries in Europe, it is against the law to say that the Holocaust never happened.




</doc>
<doc id="4470" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4470" title="Kyoto">
Kyoto

Kyoto (京都) is a city in Japan. This city was the capital of Japan from 794 until 1868. 

Kyoto is a major city of the Kansai area of Japan. Its population is 1.5 million people. The city of Kyoto is the capital city of the prefecture of Kyoto. Kyoto is one of the cultural, educational, and technology centers of Japan. In it are many universities including Kyoto University, the second oldest national university of Japan. 

After 694, the Japanese Emperors lived in this city which was called Heian-kyō.

In 1868, the city was called "Saikyō" ("Western capital") in order to distinguish it from Edo (Tokyo) which was the "Eastern capital". 

There are mountains around the city on the east, north, and west sides. Some people in Kyoto believe that these mountains make Kyoto's summer especially hot and humid, and Kyoto's winter very cold. 

We can see many temples and shrines built in traditional Japanese architectural styles here. Some of those buildings are registered as World Heritage sites of UNESCO. On the other hand, since Kyoto was one of biggest and wealthiest Japanese cities in the middle of the 19th century; the citizens were eager to import European style, and there are many European style buildings in the center of Kyoto for company offices and schools.

Kyoto is one of oldest cities in Japan. Many tourists from all over the world come to Kyoto. Japanese people often come to Kyoto in the spring to see the cherry blossoms, and in the autumn to see the leaves change color. 

Traditional Kyoto food often uses vegetables. McDonald's signbords in Kyoto are brown to preserve the traditional surroundings.

The oldest novel in the world, Shikibu Murasaki's "The Tale of Genji", is set in Heian Era Kyoto.

Kyoto is famous for three great festivals: Gion festival, Aoi festival in the summer, and Jidai festival in the autumn. 



</doc>
<doc id="4471" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4471" title="Anarchy">
Anarchy

Anarchy (From Greek αναρχια meaning "without archons") ; also used as Anarchasea. It is a word that has more than one use. Some of its uses are:


In the first use, an "anarchy" might be a made-up or real society based on a group's beliefs about anarchism (see anarcho-communism).

In the second use, "anarchy" has to do with having no political order. The CIA World factbook says that there is only one nation, Somalia, that is in a state of anarchy. In Somalia, the government is no longer in control, and some parts of the country are ruled by mobs and warlords who sometimes fight one another.

There are a small number of other places (Afghanistan, Albania, Burundi, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Rwanda) where government is "emerging" or "transitional", and were in anomie in the near past. The DC says that the Solomon Islands is "tending towards" anomie because "violence, corruption and crime have undermined stability and civil society".

When there is no political order, more than one government or political authority might sometimes compete for the same food, oil, land, or groups of people. The word "Anarchy" to used to describe this. However, because there is "more than one" competing authority, a better word might be "polyarchy". The difference between "anarchy" and "polyarchy" is important to someone who thinks that true anarchy would work well. The word for someone who thinks this is "anarchist", and the word for this kind of thinking is "anarchism". Anarchism has been thought about for hundreds of years.

The word anarchy comes from the Greek word αναρχία ("anarchia"), which means "without a leader".

"While the popular understanding of anarchism is of a violent, anti-State movement, anarchism is a much more subtle and nuanced tradition then a simple opposition to government power. Anarchists oppose the idea that power and domination are necessary for society, and instead advocate more co-operative, anti-hierarchical forms of social, political and economic organisation." [The Politics of Individualism, p. 106]


</doc>
<doc id="4472" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4472" title="DNA">
DNA

DNA, short for deoxyribonucleic acid, is the molecule that contains the genetic code of organisms. This includes animals, plants, protists, archaea and bacteria. 

DNA is in each cell in the organism and tells cells what proteins to make. A cell's proteins determine its function. DNA is inherited by children from their parents. This is why children share traits with their parents, such as skin, hair and eye color. The DNA in a person is a combination of the DNA from each of their parents.

Viruses use either DNA or RNA to infect organisms. The genome replication of most DNA viruses takes place in the cell's nucleus, whereas RNA viruses usually replicate in the cytoplasm.

DNA has a double helix shape, which is like a ladder twisted into a spiral. Each step of the ladder is a pair of nucleotides. 

A nucleotide is a molecule made up of:

DNA is made of four types of nucleotide:
The 'rungs' of the DNA ladder are each made of two bases, one base coming from each leg. The bases connect in the middle: 'A' pairs with 'T', and 'C' pairs with 'G'. The bases are held together by hydrogen bonds. 

Adenine (A) and thymine (T) can pair up because they make two hydrogen bonds, and cytosine (C) and guanine (G) pair up to make three hydrogen bonds. Although the bases are always in fixed pairs, the pairs can come in any order. This way, DNA can write 'codes' out of the 'letters' that are the bases. These codes contain the message that tells the cell what to do.

On chromosomes the DNA is bound up with proteins called histones to form chromatin. This association takes part in epigenetics and gene regulation. Genes are switched on and off during development and cell activity, and this regulation is the basis of most of the activity which takes place in cells.

When DNA is copied this is called DNA replication. Briefly, the hydrogen bonds holding together paired bases are broken and the molecule is split in half: the legs of the ladder are separated. This gives two single strands. New strands are formed by matching the bases (A with T and G with C) to make the missing strands. 

First, an enzyme called DNA helicase splits the DNA down the middle by breaking the hydrogen bonds. Then after the DNA molecule is in two separate pieces, another molecule called DNA polymerase makes a new strand that matches each of the strands of the split DNA molecule. Each copy of a DNA molecule is made of half of the original (starting) molecule and half of new bases.

When DNA is copied, mistakes are sometimes made – these are called mutations. There are three main types of mutations:

Mutations may also be classified by their effect on the structure and function of proteins, or their effect on fitness. Mutations may be bad for the organism, or neutral, or of benefit. Sometimes mutations are fatal for the organism – the protein made by the new DNA does not work at all, and this causes the embryo to die. On the other hand, evolution is moved forward by mutations, when the new version of the protein works better for the organism.

DNA is what tells the cell how to make particular proteins. Proteins form structures, and also form enzymes. The enzymes do most of the work in cells. Proteins are made out of smaller polypeptides, which are formed of amino acids. To make a protein to do a particular job, the correct amino acids have to be joined up in the correct order. A piece of DNA that contains instructions to make a protein is called a gene.

Proteins are made by machines in the cell called ribosomes. Ribosomes read codons, 'words' made of three base pairs that tell the ribosome which amino acid to add. Ribosomes are in the main body of the cell, but DNA is only in the nucleus of the cell. The codon is part of the DNA, but DNA never leaves the nucleus. Because DNA cannot leave the nucleus, the cell makes a copy of the DNA sequence in a similar single-strand molecule called RNA.This is smaller and can get through the holes – pores – in the membrane of the nucleus and out into the cell. 

This one-stranded copy of DNA is called mRNA, for messenger RNA. The ribosome scans along an mRNA, reading the code while it makes protein. Another RNA called tRNA helps match the right amino acid to each codon.

DNA was first isolated – extracted from cells – by Swiss physician Friedrich Miescher in 1869, when he was working on bacteria from the pus in surgical bandages. The molecule was found in the nucleus of the cells and so he called it "nuclein". 

In 1919 this discovery was followed by the discovery by Phoebus Levene of the base, sugar and phosphate nucleotide unit. In the 1950's, Erwin Chargaff found that the amount of thymine (T) present in a molecule of DNA was roughly equal to the amount of adenine (A) present. He found that the same applies to guanine (G) and cytosine (C). 

A few years after Chargaff's discovery, a British scientist named Rosalind Franklin studied crystals of DNA and how they diffract beams of X-rays. She found that an "X" pattern was produced, showing that the crystal was probably helix shaped. Francis Crick and James Watson were also working on the structure of DNA, and with Franklin's results and models of the bases, they worked out the shape of the molecule. How Watson and Crick got Franklin's results has been much debated. Crick, Watson and Maurice Wilkins were awarded the Nobel Prize in 1962 for their work on DNA – Rosalind Franklin had died in 1958.




</doc>
<doc id="4473" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4473" title="Karl Marx">
Karl Marx

Karl Heinrich Marx (May 5, 1818 – March 14, 1883) was a German political thinker who wrote about money (economics) and power (politics). Marx thought that if a place that works together runs on wage-labor, then there would always be class struggle. Marx thought that this class struggle would result in workers taking power. His most famous book was the Communist Manifesto. He wrote it with Friedrich Engels in 1848. The book sets out the ideas and aims of communism. His ideas are called Marxism.

His most important work is "Das Kapital", or Capital. He spent many years working on the three parts of the book. Das Kapital describes how "capitalism" works and the problems this creates. The book has led to many arguments between those who agree with the book and those who do not. Marx's ideas have been thought of as responsible for socialist revolutions (like the Russian Revolution).

Marx's most popular theory was his "Materialism". He believed that religion, morality, social structures and other things are all rooted in economics. 

Karl Marx was born in Trier (Germany) in 1818, but he had to move many times because the government did not like his ideas. Marx lived for a long time in London. He died there in 1883. After he died, his friend Engels finished many of his works.

Marx also wrote the Economic and Philosophical Manuscripts of 1844 in his early days.

Many people continue to follow and develop Marx's ideas.






</doc>
<doc id="4475" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4475" title="Bread">
Bread

Bread is a type of baked food. It is mainly made from flour and water (to make dough). Usually, salt and yeast are added. Bread is often baked in an oven.

Bread is also used in sandwiches as the outside, as the base of a pizza or put into a toaster to make toast. There are many different kinds of bread. These can be divided into two types:

The color and taste of the bread depend on the kind of flour used and the style of baking. Flour made from the whole grain gives darker bread. Flour made just from the polished wheat grain gives a very white bread. Rye and barley flour give darker types of bread. The type of flour also changes how long the bread can be kept before going bad. Some strains of wheat are resistant to fungus, but may not produce a bread as tasty as a weaker strain.

Christianity and Judaism have rules about the use of bread in their religions. Unleavened bread is eaten by Jews during the Passover, and Catholic celebration of the Eucharist uses unleavened wafers.

Orthodox churches forbid the use of unleavened bread for the Eucharist (Old Testament) and permit leavened bread only as a symbol of the New. This was one of the three points of contention that brought about the schism between Eastern and Western churches in 1054.


Bread is an important part of life in many countries, because so many people eat it. In many cultures, bread is so important that it is part of their religious rituals. 

Cake is made in a similar way to bread but sugar, fat and milk are added to the dough and often more ingredients.


</doc>
<doc id="4480" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4480" title="Shinto">
Shinto

Shinto (Japanese: 神道) or Shintoism is the native religion of Japan. They believe there are many "Kami", translated as gods or nature spirits. Some "kami" are just spirits of certain places, and some are the overall "kami" (like "Amaterasu", the Sun goddess). The word "Shinto" comes from the Japanese words "神", "shin" -- the word for god, and "道", "tō" -- the word for "the way" or "path". So, Shinto means "the way of the gods." 

State Shinto was the main religion of Japan before World War II. Many Shinto customs are not done in Japan today, and some are still done every day, but they are not meant to be religious actions.





</doc>
<doc id="4483" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4483" title="Volcano">
Volcano

A volcano is a mountain where lava (hot, liquid rock) comes from a magma chamber under the ground. 

Most volcanoes have a crater at the top. When they are active, materials pour out of it. This includes lava, steam, gaseous compounds of sulphur, ash and broken rock pieces. 

Volcanoes erupt when magma and pressure come together, and the pressure blows off the top of the solid rock, and the magma pours out.

Volcanoes are also found on planets other than Earth, like the Olympus Mons on Mars.

The lava and pyroclastic material that comes out from volcanoes can make many different kinds of land shapes. There are three basic kinds of volcanoes. 

Shield volcanoes are built out of layers of lava from continual eruptions (without explosions). Because the lava is so fluid, it spreads out, often over a wide area. Shield volcanoes do not grow to a great height, and the layers of lava spread out to give the volcano gently sloping sides. Shield volcanoes can produce huge areas of basalt, which is usually what lava is when cooled.

Even though their sides are not very "steep", shield volcanoes can be huge. Mauna Kea in Hawaii is the biggest mountain on Earth. If it is measured from its base on the floor of the sea, Mauna Kea is even taller than Mount Everest, the tallest mountain on land.

Cinder cone volcanoes are small volcanic cones that are made by pyroclastic material (the pieces of rock that come out because of an explosion) after fairly explosive eruptions. The pyroclastic material makes rather steeper slopes and a narrower base than shield volcanoes. Cinder cone volcanoes usually erupt for only a short time and often are gathered together, usually on the sides of shield and composite volcanoes. They erode quickly because the pyroclastic particles are not stuck together firmly by lava.

Composite volcanoes, sometimes called 'stratovolcanoes', are one of the most well-known types of volcanoes. They are made by explosive eruptions of pyroclastic material, after which lava quietly pours out. Both types of eruptions make layers both of pyroclastic material and lava. Composite volcanoes, like Japan's Mount Fuji, have big bases and steep sides that get steeper and steeper as it goes near the top.

There are two main processes.

Volcanoes are made when two tectonic plates come together. When these two plates meet, one of them (usually the oceanic plate) goes under the continental plate. Afterwards, it melts and makes magma (inside the magma chamber), and the pressure builds up until the magma bursts through the Earth's crust.

The second way is when a tectonic plate moves over a hot spot in the Earth's crust. The hot spot works its way through the crust until it breaks through. The caldera of Yellowstone Park was formed in that way; so were the Hawaiian Islands.





</doc>
<doc id="4484" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4484" title="Big Bang">
Big Bang

The Big Bang is the name of a scientific theory that explains how the Universe started, and then made the groups of stars (called galaxies) we see today.

In the Big Bang theory, the universe begins as very hot, small and dense, with no stars, atoms, form, or structure (called a "singularity"). Then about 14 billion years ago. the space in the universe expanded very very quickly (like a big bang), and later atoms formed, and then the stars and their galaxies. The universe is still expanding today, and getting bigger, but colder.

As a whole, space is growing and the temperature is falling as time passes. Cosmology is the name given to how the universe began and how it has developed. Scientists that study cosmology agree the Big Bang theory matches what they have seen so far.

Fred Hoyle called the theory the "Big Bang" on his radio show. He did not believe the Big Bang was correct. Scientists who did not agree with him thought the name was funny and used it. Since then, Fred Hoyle's reasons for not liking the theory have been shown to be wrong.

Scientists base the Big Bang theory on many different observations. The most important is the redshift of very far away galaxies. Redshift is when the light from an object moving away from the earth looks like it has lost energy. Objects moving towards the earth look like their light has gained energy. This is because of the Doppler effect. The more redshift there is, the faster the object is moving away. By measuring the redshift we can work out how fast the object is moving. Since everything is moving away from everything else at a carefully measured rate, scientists calculate that everything was in the same place 13.7 billion years ago. Because most things become colder when they become bigger, the universe must have been very hot when it started.

Other observations that support the Big Bang theory are the amounts of chemical elements in the universe. Amounts of hydrogen, helium, and lithium seem to agree with the theory of the Big Bang. Scientists also have found "cosmic microwave background radiation". This radiation is radio waves that are everywhere in the universe. It is now very weak and cold, but a long time ago it was very strong and very hot.

The Big Bang might also have been the beginning of time. If the Big Bang was the beginning of time then there was no universe before the Big Bang. Other ideas that also have a Big Bang do not have a beginning of time at 13.7 billion years ago. Instead, these theories say that the beginning of the universe as we currently know it began at that time. Before then the universe may have been very different.


</doc>
<doc id="4489" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4489" title="Google Mail">
Google Mail

Google Mail, also known as Gmail, is a free e-mail service that is run by Google. It can be accessed on the web, by POP3, or by IMAP. Some of the competitors to Gmail are Yahoo! Mail, Hotmail/Windows Live Mail, and Inbox.Com. The space given to any GMail member is increased a small amount every second, and as of December 11, 2010, Google provides each account with about 7528 MB of space.

Google Apps is a service from Google that was created in February 2006 as Gmail for your domain. It is to allow system administrators of a company or organisation to create email accounts for their own domain.

In the United Kingdom (UK), the trademark "Gmail" was owned by another company before Gmail by Google was started. Thus, the United Kingdom uses a domain of "googlemail.com" for their users, and the logo has the words of "Google Mail" instead of the normal "Gmail".

In September 2009 Google began to change the branding of UK accounts back to Gmail following the resolution of the trademark dispute.



</doc>
<doc id="4491" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4491" title="Astronomer">
Astronomer

An astronomer is a person who studies astronomy. Most astronomers work in observatories with telescopes to collect information from stars, planets, or galaxies. An astronomer has to analyse information s/he has collected, and to use it to help us understand how the universe behaves.



</doc>
<doc id="4492" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4492" title="Analysis">
Analysis

An analysis is a process of study or research. To do it is to split a complex idea into pieces to see how it is made up. It is the opposite of synthesis, which is to bring ideas together.


</doc>
<doc id="4493" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4493" title="Foolish">
Foolish

Foolish means silly or not wise. A "fool" is a person who is stupid or easily tricked. Other words with the same meaning are absurd, crazy, and nonsensical.

A "fool's errand" is a useless piece of work.

A "fool's paradise" a happy state for which there is no good reason.

The "wise fool" is a common literary character, a person who appears at first to be unintelligent but then reveals him or herself to possess a grest deal of wisdom. An example of this is Sancho Panza in Cervantes' "Don Quixote". Sancho is an uneducated peasant who at first seems to have little sense or experience. However, as the tale unfolds, he reveals himself to possess a wealth of common sense, first expressed through endless proverbs, but then through his own skill. In this sense he provides a comic juxtaposition to Quixote himself, who is highly educated but insane; both of them supply what the other lacks.


</doc>
<doc id="4494" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4494" title="Aristotle">
Aristotle

Aristotle (Stagira, Macedonia, 384 – Chalicis, Euboea, Greece, 7 March 322 ) was a Greek philosopher. He was one of the most important philosophers in the history of Western civilization. It is said that Aristotle wrote many books, but only a much smaller number survives. Aristotle was the boyhood tutor of Alexander the Great, who later sent him plants and animals from parts of his new empire.

Aristotle's father Nicomachus, was the doctor of King Amyntas of Macedonia. From his eighteenth to his thirty-seventh year, Aristotle lived in Athens, as a metic and student of Plato.

At about the age of eighteen, he went to Athens to continue his education at Plato's Academy. Aristotle remained at the academy for nearly twenty years, not leaving until after Plato's death in 347 BC. He then traveled with Xenocrates to Asia Minor. While in Asia, Aristotle traveled with Theophrastus to the island of Lesbos, where they researched the botany and zoology of the island. Soon after Hermias' death, Aristotle was invited by Philip II of Macedon to become the tutor to his son Alexander the Great in 343 B.C.

Aristotle was appointed as the head of the royal academy of Macedon. During that time he gave lessons not only to Alexander, but also to two other future kings: Ptolemy and Cassander. Aristotle encouraged Alexander toward eastern conquest, and his attitude towards Persia was ethnocentric. In one famous example, he advises Alexander to be 'a leader to the Greeks and a despot to the barbarians, to look after the former as after friends and relatives, and to deal with the latter as with beasts or plants'.

By 335 he had returned to Athens, establishing his own school there known as the Lyceum. Aristotle conducted courses at the school for the next twelve years. It is during this period in Athens from 335 to 323 when Aristotle is believed to have composed many of his works. Aristotle wrote many dialogues, only fragments of which survived. The works that have survived are in fairly rough form. They are generally thought to be lecture notes for his students. 

Aristotle's combined works constitute a virtual encyclopedia of Greek knowledge. It has been suggested that Aristotle was probably the last person to know everything there was to be known in his own time.

Near the end of Alexander's life, he began to suspect plots, and threatened Aristotle in letters. Aristotle had made no secret of his contempt for Alexander's pretense of divinity, and the king had executed Aristotle's grandnephew Callisthenes as a traitor. Alexander died in Babylon in 323 without ever having returned to his native land. Upon Alexander's death, anti-Macedonian sentiment in Athens once again flared up, and Aristotle fled the city. However, he died in Euboea of natural causes within the year, 322 .

The three greatest ancient Greek philosophers were Aristotle, Plato, and Socrates. Socrates taught Plato, then Plato taught Aristotle. These three thinkers turned early Greek philosophy into the beginnings of Western philosophy as it is today. Aristotle taught Alexander the Great, who later conquered the entire Middle East.

Plato's main ideas were that knowledge from the senses was always confused and not pure. True knowledge can be gotten from the thinking soul that turns away from the world. Only the soul can have knowledge of "Forms", the real way things are. The world is only a copy of these "Forms" and is not perfect.

Aristotle thought differently. He thought that knowledge from the senses was more important. These thoughts became some of the roots of the scientific method after hundreds of years. Most of the things Aristotle wrote that we still have today are notes from his speaking and teaching. Some of his important writings are "Physics", "Metaphysics", "(Nicomachean) Ethics", "Politics", "De Anima (On the Soul)", and "Poetics".

He also had problems with the atomic theory. He did not believe in Democritus' theories about the atomic theory. He believed that all matter was continuous whereas Democritus stated the all matter was made up of tiny indivisible things called "atoms". Democritus was proved right by physicist John Dalton in 1804.

Aristotle also wrote about logic. Aristotle is the father of logic. Logic is a type of thought that allows us to decide whether an idea is true or false. Still today, Aristotle's ideas on logic have influence across the world.

The works are traditionally listed in this sequence:

The history of the work of Aristotle from the time he was born until the 1st century BC is not well known. Legends say that Aristotle's collection of writings was left to Theophrastus. Theophrastus was Aristotle's successor. Theophrastus hid the things Aristotle wrote to keep them from being taken away or destroyed. They were found again in the year 70 BC.



</doc>
<doc id="4496" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4496" title="Carl Sagan">
Carl Sagan

Carl Edward Sagan (November 9, 1934 - December 20, 1996) was an American astronomer. He tried to make science popular. He thought about what life from other planets would be like. He said that people should look for life on other planets (SETI). He is world famous for his popular science books and the television series "", which he co-wrote and presented. He said people should use the scientific method.

Carl Sagan was born in Brooklyn, New York where his father, Sam Sagan, was a Jewish clothes maker and his mother, Rachel Molly Gruber, was a housewife. Sagan attended the University of Chicago earning two degrees in physics. He followed with a doctorate in Astronomy in 1960 and taught at Harvard University until 1968, when he moved to Cornell University.

Sagan became a teacher and director at Cornell in 1971. He helped many unmanned spacecraft to explore outer space. He thought of the idea of putting a message on spacecraft which could be understood by any life from another planet that might find it. The first message sent into space was a large gold-plated label on the space probe Pioneer 10. He continued to make the messages better. The last message he helped with was the Voyager Golden Record that was sent out with the Voyager space probes.

He was well known as a writer who warned of the dangers of nuclear winter. He helped people learn about the atmosphere of Venus, seasonal changes on Mars, and Saturn's moon Titan. He showed that the atmosphere of Venus is very hot and dense. He also said that global warming was a growing, man-made danger like the natural development of Venus into a hot and dangerous planet with greenhouse gases. He suggested that the seasonal changes on Mars were due to dust storms. 

Sagan was among the first to guess that Titan and Jupiter's moon Europa might have oceans or lakes, which means that life could be there. Europa's underground ocean was later confirmed by the spacecraft Galileo.

Sagan thought the search for life on other planets was a good idea. He said scientists should listen with large radio telescopes for signals from other planets. He thought sending probes to other planets was a good idea. Sagan was editor "Icarus" (a magazine about space exploration) for 12 years. He helped start the "Planetary Society" and was a member of the SETI Institute Board of Trustees.

Sagan also believed that the Drake equation suggested that many kinds of intelligent life could form, but that the lack of evidence (the Fermi paradox) suggests that intelligent beings destroy themselves rather quickly. This made him keen to talk about ways that humanity could destroy itself, in the hope of avoiding such destruction.

Under the name "Mr. X," Sagan wrote about pot smoking in the 1971 book "Reconsidering Marijuana". Lester Grinspoon (the book's editor), told this to Keay Davidson, Sagan's biographer. Sagan said that marijuana helped him write some of his books.

Sagan was very good at helping people to understand the cosmos. He gave the 1977/1978 Christmas Lectures for Young People at the Royal Institution. He wrote (with Ann Druyan, who became his third wife) and made the very popular thirteen-part PBS television series ""; he also wrote books to help science become more popular ("The Dragons of Eden", which won a Pulitzer Prize, "Broca's Brain", etc.) and a novel, "Contact", that was a best-seller and was made into a film starring Jodie Foster in 1997. The film won the 1998 Hugo Award. 

After "Cosmos", Sagan was linked with the catchphrase "billions and billions", which he never used in the television series (but he often used the word "billions"). He wrote "Pale Blue Dot: A Vision of the Human Future in Space", which was chosen as a notable book of 1995 by The "New York Times".

Not all scientists agreed with him. Although they all liked the way he made science popular, some were afraid that people would think that his personal opinions might be confused with real science. What he said about the Kuwait oil well fires during the first Gulf War were shown later to be wrong.

Later in his life, Sagan's books showed his skeptical, naturalistic view of the world. In his book "The Demon-Haunted World", Sagan gave a list of mistakes he had made as an example of how science is self-correcting. The compilation "Billions and Billions: Thoughts on Life and Death at the End of the Millennium", published after Sagan's death, contains essays written by Sagan, such as his views on abortion, and Ann Druyan's account of his death as a non-believer.

Some people thought Sagan had a big ego. In 1994, Apple Computer chose a code name "Sagan" when they developed the Power Macintosh 7100. When Sagan heard this, he tried to make Apple Computer use another name. Sagan lost the fight in court, but Apple engineers did what he asked anyway, and named the project "Butthead Astronomer". Sagan tried to sue Apple again, saying they made him look stupid. Sagan lost in court again, but the name of the project was changed to "LAW" (Lawyers Are Wimps).

Sagan is said to have been an atheist or agnostic, but some people have said he was a pantheist, because he said things like "The idea that God is an oversized white male with a flowing beard who sits in the sky and tallies the fall of every sparrow is ludicrous. But if by 'God' one means the set of physical laws that govern the universe, then clearly there is such a God. This God is emotionally unsatisfying... it does not make much sense to pray to the law of gravity."

Sagan married three times; the biologist Lynn Margulis (mother of Dorion Sagan) in 1957, artist Linda Salzman in 1968, and author Ann Druyan in 1981, to whom he was married until his death.

Sagan purchased a house on the edge of Ithaca Falls which looked like an Egyptian crypt. Before it was converted into a house, the building served as the lodge for a secret society, Sphinx Head.

After a long and difficult fight with myelodysplasia, Sagan died of pneumonia at the age of 62, on December 20, 1996, at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in Seattle, Washington. Sagan was very important, because he made science popular, and changed the way science was organized, and because he defended humanism, and argued against seeing things from only one point of view.

The landing site of the unmanned Mars Pathfinder spacecraft was renamed the "Carl Sagan Memorial Station" in honor of Dr. Sagan on July 5, 1997. Asteroid 2709 Sagan is also named in his honor.

The 1997 movie "Contact" (see above), based on Sagan's novel of the same name, and finished after his death, ends with the dedication "For Carl."







</doc>
<doc id="4524" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4524" title="Matsuo Basho">
Matsuo Basho

Matsuo Munefusa, known as Matsuo Bashō (Japanese: 松尾芭蕉, 1644 - November 28, 1694) was a Japanese poet. He is known as the greatest maker of haiku, a kind of poetry in 5-7-5 syllables. 
According to Japanese custom, he is usually called "Basho" without his family name, and his signature as a poet does not include his house name. He signed usually "はせを". He is one of the greatest writers of the Edo period, and he raised the haiku form to its highest level.

He was born in Iga, now a part of Mie prefecture in a samurai (Japanese warrior) family. After many years of samurai life he found that poetry would be his life work, and gave up being a samurai. He started his life as a poet when he served his lord as a samurai. First he named himself "Tosei" (桃青) meaning "unripe peach in blue". Basho took this name because he admired a Chinese poet, Li Po (李白) whose name means "plum in white".

He quit he needs a bash 1666, and in 1675 he moved to Edo, Tokyo today. There, in 1678, he got to be a haiku master (""Sosho"") and began the life of a working poet. In 1680, he moved to Fukagawa, just outside of Edo (today part of Tokyo). He planted a "basho" tree (Banana tree) and called himself "Basho" because it became his favorite tree in his garden.

In his life, Basho visited many places. Those travels were important for his writings. He visited his disciples (followers) and taught them by making "renga", a series of haiku, with them. He also visited famous places in Japanese history. These visits made his writing much stronger.

His most famous book is "Oku no Hosomichi" (奥の細道, "The Narrow Road Through the Deep North"). This book was written after a trip. On the trip, Basho and his disciple left Edo on March 24, 1689. They went around Tohoku and Hokuriku, and returned to Edo in 1691. The trip in this book ends in Ogaki, Mino (Gifu prefecture today) with one of his haiku where he hinted that he wanted to visit Ise shrine after staying in Ogaki.

Basho died because of disease in early autumn of 1694 in Osaka, while staying at a house of his disciple on a trip. Before his death he made a haiku as his last words:


</doc>
<doc id="4527" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4527" title="Colonization">
Colonization

Colonization is the act of one country settling another place, in order to become the new rulers of the new country, and to live in the new country.

In 1492, Christopher Columbus discovered The Americas. This is how the Europeans learned that North America and South America were there. The Europeans colonized the Americas. Because of this, most people now living in North America are the descendents of Europeans.

Sometimes, science fiction stories talk about humans colonizing outer space on space stations or planets other than Earth. Some science fiction stories like The Matrix speak of the robots the human beings made, taking over, and colonizing Earth.


</doc>
<doc id="4529" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4529" title="Choreography">
Choreography

Choreography (dance-writing) is the art of making dances. It tells dancers how they should dance and move. The word has been used since the late 18th century to mean the art of composing dance.

A person who does choreography is called a "choreographer". A choreographer makes a dance based on music or a synopsis (a writing of what occurs in the dance). They may also act as trainers for professional dancers in ballet, stage shows and competitive ballroom dance. Their ideas may be recorded in dance notation, or on videos.


</doc>
<doc id="4534" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4534" title="Electrical cell">
Electrical cell

An electrical cell is a device that is used to generate electricity, or one that is used to make chemical reactions possible by applying electricity.

The simple electrical cells where first developed in 1800s. They are also called "galvanic cells", because an Italian scientist named Luigi Galvani invented these cells.

Special chemical reactions which occur inside the electrical cell, result in oxidation and reduction of the substances inside the cell. This produces electrical energy. Normal batteries work like this.

Some of the electrical cells produce electricity without using chemical energy. For example, solar cells produce electricity when they are exposed to sun light.

These cells are commonly related with chemical reactions. For example, a plate of zinc and a plate of copper are immersed in a dilute solution which contains acid or salt. The solution acts as an electrolyte (electric conductor). When the two plates are connected to a meter with a wire, electric current will pass; this is because oxidation and reduction processes take place in this chemical reaction turning the zinc plate to a negative electrode and the copper plate to a positive electrode, and so the electrons flows from zinc to copper which makes the meter move.

Some chemical reactions need high energy to happen. An example is the breakdown of water into hydrogen and oxygen. An electrical cell (or an "electrolytic cell") is used for these reactions. It is a container which has to have a chemical reaction involving electrodes. The chemical substances are exposed to high voltage electrical power, and the reaction happens inside the electrical cell.

Two pieces of metal are placed in water that has a little electrolyte such as hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acid, sodium bicarbonate, or sodium hydroxide added to it. An electric current is applied and gas comes out of each electrode. Some greenish-brown color may be seen too if iron was used. This is because of the splitting of water and the oxidation of the pieces of metal.



</doc>
<doc id="4535" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4535" title="Dry cell">
Dry cell

Dry cells are a type of chemical cells. Dry cells are commonly used today, in the form of batteries. Dry cells are used in many electrical appliances.


"Primary cells" are not rechargeable. They have to be thrown away after their chemicals are used up.

"Secondary cells" are rechargeable. They can be used again. See rechargeable battery for details.



</doc>
<doc id="4536" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4536" title="Vietnam War">
Vietnam War

The Vietnam War (also known as Second Indochina War or American War in Southeast Asia) lasted from 1955 to 1975. It was fought between North Vietnam and South Vietnam. North Vietnam was supported by the USSR, China and North Korea, while South Vietnam was supported by the United States with its allies, Thailand, Australia, New Zealand, and the Philippines. This conflict between pro-communist and pro-Democratic countries was part of the Cold War.

Before World War II, Vietnam was part of the French colony of Indochina. During World War II, the Japanese occupied Indochina. At the end of World War II, the Japanese surrendered. After this, the French attempted to take back control. But the French were opposed by a Vietnamese army called the Viet Minh. The Viet Minh had been founded in 1941 by the communist party and was led by Hồ Chí Minh. In July 1954, France and the Viet Minh signed the Geneva Peace Accord. The Viet Minh became the government of North Vietnam while anti-communist Vietnamese, especially Catholics, "regrouped" in the South under the leadership of Bao Dai, a former emperor of Vietnam who had abdicated in 1945.

The United States backed the anti-communist government in South Vietnam. It began to send military advisers to help train and support the South Vietnamese army. The South was fighting against the Viet Cong, a communist party based in South Vietnam which was allied with North Vietnam. The Viet Cong began a campaign of assassination in 1957. In 1959, North Vietnam dramatically increased its military assistance to the Viet Cong, which then began attacking South Vietnamese military units.

The U.S. responded by sending more assistance to South Vietnam and also sent soldiers as military advisors. But Soviet support for North Vietnam also increased and the communist forces in the South continued to grow stronger. In 1965, the first United States combat troops entered Vietnam. There would be half a million of them by 1968.

Land battles were fought throughout South Vietnam. Thousands of North Vietnamese Army troops were sent to fight in South Vietnam. There were also thousands of communist soldiers from South Vietnam called Vietcong. Because of this it was often hard for American and South Vietnamese troops to tell friendly civilians from dangerous ones. A tragic example of this mistrust was the My Lai Massacre in March 1968, in which U.S. Army troops killed hundreds of people in a South Vietnamese village. The large number of communist fighters throughout the country meant that American bases were often attacked.

The North Vietnamese and Vietcong were supplied by a vast network of hidden trails, known as the Ho Chi Minh Trail. Supplies and soldiers from North Vietnam were sent through Laos to communists forces in South Vietnam. America subjected the Ho Chi Minh Trail to extremely heavy bombing and three million bombs were dropped on Laos.

Severe communist losses during the 1968 Tet Offensive made it possible for the U.S. to withdraw many soldiers, a policy called "Vietnamization." South Vietnamese troops were trained and equipped to replace the Americans who left. By 1973, 95 percent of the American troops were gone.

A peace treaty was signed in Paris in January 1973 by all the parties, but fighting continued until 1975.

The Vietcong used mines and booby traps. Many of them were homemade. 
Although most traps were non-explosive, there were a few explosive traps which all used grenades. A trip wire was placed and if a soldier tripped over the wire, a grenade pin was pulled out and the grenade would blow and kill the soldier. 

Another style of trap was nicknamed “Venus Flytrap”. It had about eight barbs attached to a rectangular frame sitting on a small hole. The barbs were facing down so when the soldier’s leg got caught in it, it wouldn’t hurt until he pulled his out. When he pulled his leg out the barbs would rip through his leg. 

Another Vietcong trap was the Punji trap. Two wooden platforms were placed and covered with leaves to camouflaged it. There were spikes on the inside of the wood. When a soldier came along and walked on the wood, it caved in and the spikes would go through the soldier’s foot. These traps were the most common because they were the cheapest and very effective. They also were often contaminated so that the soldier would also become infected.

Besides hurting or killing people, these traps were good at causing fear and lowering soldier morale.

Although the traps were very effective and lethal, the Vietcong sometimes fell into their own trap. However, Ho Chi Minh had once said, "You can kill ten of my men for every one I kill of yours, but even at those odds you will lose and I will win". Even with some Vietcong falling into the traps, they still helped the Vietcong. 
Today, most of the traps are inactive but tourists visiting the Cu Chi tunnels are warned to stay on the paths in case they fall into an undiscovered trap. Replicas and recovered traps can be seen at the Cu Chi tunnels just outside of Ho Chi Minh City in Vietnam.




</doc>
<doc id="4538" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4538" title="Sahel">
Sahel

The Sahel is a narrow belt of land in West Africa. It is a strip of dry land about 5500 kilometers long and 450 kilometers wide. It lies at the southern edge of the Sahara Desert and is located between the dry desert land to the north and the forest areas to the south. The Sahel has a tropical semi-arid climate. The temperature is high throughout the year. There is little rainfall in the Sahel (300mm-600mm). It is concentrated during summer months and can be unreliable. It may be very dry in some years, especially if a large area of low pressure, which brings rain, is not carried North over the Sahel by strong winds.

The Sahel is the Arabic word for 'edge' or 'shore'.

The Sahel is facing a big problem, Desertification.

The distribution of rainfall in the Sahel region is uneven. The rainfall in the region has been below average since 1970. The Sahel is becoming drier on the whole. The problem of drought affects most of the countries. As a result, crops and animals die. There is no vegetation to protect the soil, which is then removed by flash floods and strong wind. This leads to soil erosion. Finally the desert spreads towards the surrounding areas.

With better medical services, the birth rate increases and the death rate decreases in the Sahel. As a result, the population in the Sahel is growing. To meet the ever increasing demand for firewood, a lot of trees have been cut down. More land has become barren. This is called deforestation. Because people farm intensively in order to grow more crops, the soil becomes dry and infertile. In the long run, no crops can be grown. We called this overcultivation. People keep many animals for food. However, the grass cannot support so many grazing animals. We called this overgrazing. Finally the desert spreads towards the surrounding areas.


</doc>
<doc id="4540" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4540" title="List of simple adjectives">
List of simple adjectives

This is a list of simple adjectives used in the English language.








</doc>
<doc id="4541" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4541" title="Chemical change">
Chemical change

A chemical change (chemical reaction) is a change of materials into other, new materials with different properties, and one or more new substances are formed. Burning of wood is a chemical change as new substances which cannot be changed back (e.g. carbon dioxide, water vapor) are formed. For example, if wood is burned in a fire place, there is not wood anymore but ash. Other examples include burning of a candle, rusting of iron, etc. Special details that describe how a chemical change takes place are called chemical properties. 

"Compare:" Physical change - The opposite of a chemical change is a physical change. Physical changes are a change in which no new substances are formed, and the substance which is changed is the same. For instance, if a stick of wood is broken, there is still a stick of wood; it is just broken. More examples include changes of shape, changes of states, passing electricity through a copper wire, breaking of wood, shattering of glass, pouring of water, etc. Special details which do not change in a substance without new substances being formed are called physical properties.


</doc>
<doc id="4542" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4542" title="Physical change">
Physical change

A physical change is a change in which no new substances are formed and most physical changes are reversible. Examples: changes of shape, changes of states, passing electricity through a copper wire. Special details which do not change in a substance without new substances being formed are called physical properties. e.g. change of water into ice or water vapor, change of density.Paraffin wax, which is solid before heating and liquid after heating. 
Some physical chages are melting, freezing and boiling. 


</doc>
<doc id="4546" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4546" title="Ronald Reagan">
Ronald Reagan

Ronald Wilson Reagan (; February 6, 1911 – June 5, 2004) was the 40th (1981-1989) President of the United States and the 33rd Governor of California. Reagan was born in Tampico, Illinois. Reagan was also an actor in films before entering politics. Reagan had a successful career in Hollywood as a second-rank leading man and appeared in 53 films. He was the oldest person elected President of the United States (69 years, 349 days). He is known as the "Great Communicator" because he was a good public speaker. Reagan still remains one of the most popular presidents in American history.

Ronald "Dutch" Reagan was born on February 6, 1911 to Jack and Nelle Reagan. He was the younger of their two sons. His brother's name was Neil. His father was a Roman Catholic, and his mother was a Protestant. While Ronald Reagan was a child, his family moved to different places in Illinois. His family was very poor and Ronald did not have much as a child because they lived through the Great Depression. In high school Reagan loved to act. He loved athletics and became a life guard who saved 77 lives.

After Reagan finished college in 1932, he became a sports announcer at WHO. He was known for being good at recreating baseball games and making them interesting. At this time all they would get is the scores so it would have been very hard for someone to come up with what happened in the game. He was fired for not telling people who the sponsors were but was quickly re-hired because they could not find anyone as good as him to re-create the baseball games. He would send some money back to his parents to help them out because it was the Great Depression.

Reagan became a somewhat famous actor, featuring in movies such as King's Row. After enjoying moderate success in the film industry, he joined the military to fight in World War II. After the war, he never matched his previous success in acting, but since he was a good speaker, Reagan was hired to make speeches for General Electric.

Reagan was very active in politics near the end of his acting career. Although he used to be a Democrat who strongly supported the New Deal and admired Franklin Roosevelt, over time he became a conservative Republican because he felt the federal government had too much power and authority. He made a famous speech speaking out against socialized medicine (government ran health care). 

During the 1964 presidential election, Reagan supported Republican candidate Barry Goldwater by making a famous speech called "Time For A Choosing". In the speech he spoke against government programs and high taxes. Even though Goldwater did not win the election, Reagan gained popularity from it.

At the age of 54, Reagan ran as a Republican against the then governor, Pat Brown. When Reagan was elected governor he brought the state out of debt, made tougher water laws, and had the government give more money to the most poor. He ran for a second term and won. Reagan was a very popular governor. He served as the Governor of California from 1967 to 1975.

Reagan ran for president in 1972 (he was not nominated), again in 1976 (he was not nominated again), but his run for president in 1980 was successful. He was both nominated by the Republican Party and he defeated Democrat Jimmy Carter to become president.

Reagan believed that the government should be small, not big - this means that the government should not interfere in people's lives very much or interfere with what businesses do. He believed in supply-side economics, which was called Reaganomics and Voodoo economics (by his opposition) during his term. He lowered everybody's income taxes by 25% and cut spending in many government departments. He also lowered inflation from 14% to 4% and he vetoed 78 bills. Reagan's economic plan resulted in a bad economy during the year 1982, but the economy turned around in 1983, and the economy was the greatest it was since many years ago. He called it "morning in america" and was re-elected in 1984. 

In foreign policy, Reagan ended detente (the policy of being friendly to the Soviet Union) by ordering the largest peacetime military buildup in American history. The U.S. government had to borrow a lot of money to pay for it. He had many new weapons built and began research on a missile defense system which would destroy missiles to prevent a nuclear war from happening. The program was called SDI (Strategic Defense Initiative). He directed money to anti-communist movements all over the world that wanted to overthrow their communist government. He ordered multiple military operations including the invasion of Grenada and the Libya bombing. Reagan's reputation was badly hurt by the Iran-Contra Affair, but it eventually recovered.

In 1985, Mikhail Gorbachev became the new leader of the Soviet Union (which was in bad shape and soon to collapse). Reagan had many talks with him and they both became good friends. Near the end of his term, they both signed the INF treaty (which greatly reduced the amount of nuclear missiles in both countries).

Reagan, by public opinion, is one of the most popular American presidents. His legacy is strongly admired among many conservatives and Republicans. The legacy of his economic policies is still divided between people who believe that the government should be smaller and those who believe the government should take a more active role in regulating the economy. While some of his foreign policies were controversial, many credit Ronald Reagan for peacefully ending the Cold War.

Reagan's Tear Down This Wall speech was delivered at the Brandenburg Gate in what was then West Berlin, Germany on June 12, 1987. In the speech he expressed the desire of the western allies to make peace with the Soviet Union. Referring to the Soviet's SS-20 nuclear weapons, Reagan spoke of the possibility of "eliminating, for the first time, an entire class of nuclear weapons from the face of the earth." The title of this speech comes from a challenge delivered in the speech to then General Secretary of the USSR Gorbachev. Reagan challenged Gorbachev, if he was serious about peace, to remove open East Berlin and remove the restrictions on travel. Referring to the Brandenburg Gate and the Berlin Wall he said,

Audio and text of this speech is available here.

Reagan's Evil Empire speech was delivered to the National Association of Evangelicals in Orlando, Florida. It is his first recorded use of the phrase. Speaking about the nuclear arms race he depicted the Soviet Union as evil.

Audio and text of this speech is available here.

On 20 August 1981, Reagan was the honorable guest of Captain Dennis Brooks, commanding officer of the USS Constellation (CV-64). President Reagan arrived on the USS Constellation (CV-64) by helicopter. He spoke to the ship's crew, ate lunch with them and watched a United States Navy tactical display at sea. President Reagan then re-enlisted some US Navy personnel. He then was introduced to Special Agent Craig Goodwin of the Naval Investigative Service (NIS). He was the Special Agent who was on on board the USS Constellation (CV-64). He was later awarded one of the highest civilian medals for his intelligence work, the Meritorious Civilian Service Medal. 



</doc>
<doc id="4549" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4549" title="United Nations">
United Nations

The United Nations (UN) (French: Organisation des Nations unies (ONU) is an international organization. It was started after World War II with the idea of making a stronger version of the League of Nations. (The League had been supposed to stop wars from happening, but it failed.) Most nations are members of the UN and send people to the headquarters to hold meetings and pass resolutions (make decisions) about global issues.
The goals of the United Nations are:

After World War I, the nations of the world formed the League of Nations. This organization was a place where nations could talk through their differences calmly. However, some countries like Germany, Italy and Japan ignored the League and tried to solve their problems through war. Because members of the League of Nations did not want to go to war to protect other members, the League failed and the Second World War began.

During World War II, the Allied Powers often called themselves "the United Nations" (united against the Axis Powers). After the War, the winners formed a new organization for world peace. On 25th April 1945 in San Francisco, they decided on the name 'United Nations'. The UN was created on 24th October 1945 and its first meeting was held in January 1946. Since 1947 the 24th of October has been called 'United Nations Day'.

The main building for the United Nations is in New York City in the United States of America, but the UN also has important offices in Geneva (Switzerland), Nairobi (Kenya) and Vienna (Austria). The UN tries to be peaceful, but sometimes when talks do not work the UN, unlike the League of Nations, will fight too. In the 1950s the UN helped South Korea in a war against North Korea, and in the 1990s the UN helped to force Iraqi soldiers out of Kuwait. At other times, the UN has formed 'peacekeeping' forces. UN peacekeepers travel to troubled places in the world and try - sometimes successfully, sometimes not - to keep the peace. Today there are UN peacekeepers working in Afghanistan, Cyprus, Haiti, Liberia and several other countries.
Through a series of goals, resolutions and declarations adopted be member nations of the United Nations, the world has a set of commitments, actions and goals to stop and reverse the spread of HIV and scale up towards universal access to HIV prevention, treatment, care and support services.

The United Nations has set up six "organs":

Special agencies of the United Nations:

 The un`s first meeting was in january 1946



</doc>
<doc id="4554" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4554" title="List of historians">
List of historians

This is a list of historians.

The names are grouped by order of the historical period in which they were writing, which is not necessarily the same as the period in which they specialised.

Chroniclers and annalists, though they are not historians in the true sense, are also listed here for convenience.







</doc>
<doc id="4556" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4556" title="Zeami">
Zeami

Zeami Motokiyo (世阿弥 元清) also called Kanze Motokiyo (観世 元清), (1363 - 1443) was a Japanese actor and playwright. He wrote what Noh actors should do, and made Noh theater finer as an art form. Noh is a kind of Japanese musical drama. Zeami's books not only tell how actors should play their roles, but also talk about art and philosophy, based on the spiritual culture of Japan.

Zeami's father, Kan'ami, was also an actor and playwright. Kan'ami had his own theater and traveled with members. He taught Zeami his skills. This father and son were the most important persons for Noh theater, and they made the Noh what it is today.

When Kan'ami's company played for the Shogun of Japan, Ashikaga Yoshimitsu, the Shogun offered to let Zeami go to school with the princes for his arts. Zeami was a beautiful boy with a good voice, and Yoshimitsu loved his beauty and talent. After Zeami followed his father and did his work to be the leader of his theater, he continued to play and change his style into what Noh is today. A mixture of ways to use the voice and ways to move, this style has been interesting for the Japanese for hundreds of years.


</doc>
<doc id="4558" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4558" title="Marco Polo">
Marco Polo

Marco Polo (1254 - January 8 1324) was an Italian trader and explorer. He was one of the first Europeans to explore east Asia. Many other explorers, including Christopher Columbus, looked up to him.

He went on a 24-year trip to China with his father and uncle during the Mongol Dynasty.

As Marco Polo's mother died when he was born he grew up in Venice with his father Niccolo Polo, who took him on his first journey to Cathey (China). His family was a group of well-known merchants, not explorers.

He started his travels at the age of 17 leaving Venice on a boat that went through the Mediterranean Sea, Ayas, Tabriz and Kerman. Then he travelled across Asia getting as far as Beijing. On the way there he had to go over mountains and through terrible deserts. Across hot burning lands and places where the cold was horrible. He served in Khans court for 17 years and left the Far East and returned to Venice by sea. There was sickness on board and 600 passengers and crew died and some say pirates attacked.

Some scholars believe that while Marco Polo did go to China, did not go to all of the other places described in his book. He brought noodles back from China and the Italians formed all new sizes and shapes and called it pasta.

Soon after Marco Polo returned from his journeys he fought in a war against Genoa, got captured and put in prison, When he was in prison he became friendly with a prisoner, Rusticello, who was a writer of romances and novels. Marco told the writer about all his adventures. Rusticello wrote down his words which led Marco to the creation of a famous book called "The travels of Marco Polo", and became famous throughout Europe. They found his stories to be very interesting and strange as western people did not know much about the Eastern world.

Marco Polo’s nickname was Marco IL Milione standing for a million lies as the Venetians thought he was lying about his travels.


</doc>
<doc id="4561" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4561" title="Herpes zoster">
Herpes zoster

Herpes zoster (also known as Shingles or Zona) is a disease in humans. The same virus that causes chickenpox also causes shingles. The symptoms are pain and a rash with blisters. 

Shingles is a viral disease produced by the varicella zoster virus (VZV), the same virus that causes chicken pox. Its symptoms include pain and a blistering rash that occurs along the nerves that contain dormant virus. You can not catch shingles, however, you can catch chicken pox through direct contact with someone who has shingles, by touching the area of the rash. Most people who get shingles are old. It sometimes infects younger people, or people with a weakened immune system. Stress may trigger shingles. The disease starts with tingling, itchiness, or pain on an infected person's skin. After a few days, the disease causes a blistering rash. This rash may be on the trunk or face. The rash grows into small blisters filled with fluid. These blisters dry out and crust over for several days. The rash causes anything from mild itching to extreme pain. The rash stays in one region of the body.

The shingles virus is contagious from person to person only by direct contact. For this reason, persons with shingles are advised to limit contact with those who are not immune to chicken pox, those with increased risk are young children and pregnant women. Contracting chickenpox when one is pregnant can be dangerous to the unborn child.

If people have had chickenpox, they cannot get chickenpox from someone else again. However, it is thought that contact with a shingles patient may trigger a person's own dormant chickenpox virus to become shingles.

Doctors recommend antiviral drugs, steroids, antidepressants, anticonvulsants, and topical agents to treat shingles. The antiviral drugs acyclovir, valacyclovir, and famcyclovir can reduce the severity of shingles.

Shingles can be very painful and itchy. It is not very dangerous to healthy people, and it usually ends without major problems. The rash and pain last 3 to 5 weeks. Sometimes, serious problems like temporary, partial facial paralysis, ear damage, or
encephalitis may occur. Persons with shingles on the upper half of the face need immediate medical attention: the virus may cause serious damage to the eyes. Most people who have shingles have only one attack of the disease in their lifetime. However, people with AIDS, cancer or weak immune systems may have multiple attacks.



</doc>
<doc id="4570" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4570" title="A Brief History of Time">
A Brief History of Time

A Brief History of Time (1988) is a book written by the scientist and mathematician Stephen Hawking. This book is about physics, or the study of laws that predict how things work in the universe. 
It is also about cosmology, or how we see the universe and how the universe exists.

In this book, Stephen Hawking talks about many theories (or ideas) in physics. Some of the things that he talks about are the history of physics, gravity, how light moves in the universe, space-time, elementary particles (very small objects that make up things in the universe), black holes, the Big Bang (the theory that the universe started from one point), and time travel (the idea that travel can be done to the past and to the future.)

There are two other versions of this book: The "Illustrated A Brief History of Time" and "A Briefer History of Time". The Illustrated A Brief History of Time has pictures to help explain its ideas. It was also updated because new information was found. A Briefer History of Time is shorter than the first version and was also updated.

This book is very popular and well-known. This book was on the "London Sunday Times" bestseller list for over 4 years.

In the first part of the book, Hawking talks about the history of physics. He talks about the ideas of philosophers such as Aristotle and Ptolemy. Aristotle, unlike many other people of his time, thought that the Earth was round. He also thought that the sun and stars went around the Earth. Ptolemy also thought about how the sun and stars were located in the universe. He made a planetary model that described Aristole's thinking. Today, it is known that the opposite is true; the earth goes around the sun. The Arisotle/Ptolemy ideas about the locations of the stars and sun was disproved (or proved to not be true) in 1609. The person who first thought of the idea about the Earth going around the sun was Nicholas Copernicus. Galileo Galilei and Johannes Kepler, two other scientists, helped to prove that Copernicus's idea was right. They looked at how the moons of some planets moved in the sky, and they used this to prove Copernicus right. Issac Newton also wrote a book about gravity, which helped to prove Copernicus's idea right.

Hawking also talks a little about the other topics (things) in the book.

In this chapter, Stephen Hawking talks about space and time. He describes the motion of planets moving around the sun and how gravity works between the planets and the sun. He also talks about the ideas of absolute rest and absolute position. These ideas are about the thought that events stay in place over a period of time. This was found not to be true by Newton's laws of gravity. The idea of "absolute rest" did not work when objects move very fast (at the speed of light, or light speed). 

The speed of light was found out in 1676 by the Danish astronomer Ole Christensen Roemer. The speed of light was found to be very fast, but at a finite speed. However, scientists found a problem when they tried to say that light always traveled at the same speed. The scientists created a new idea, called the "ether", which tried to explain light's speed.

Also in this chapter, Stephen Hawking talks about light. He says that events can be described by "light ". The top of the light cone tells where the light from the event will travel. The bottom tells where the light was in the past. The center of the light cone is the event. Besides light cones, Stephen Hawking also talks about how light can bend. When light goes past a big thing, like a star, the light changes direction because the star has a lot of gravity.

After talking about light, Stephen Hawking talks about time in Einstein's theory of relativity. One that Einstein's theory makes is that time will go by slower when something is near big things, like the Earth. However, when something is farther away from the big thing, time will go by faster. Stephen Hawking used the idea of two twins (two people who are the same-looking) living at different places to describe his idea. If one of the twins went to live on a high place (such as a mountain), and another twin went to live at a lower place (such as near the sea), the twin who went to live on the mountain would be a little bit older than the twin who went to live at the sea.

In this chapter, Stephen Hawking talks about the expanding universe. This means he believes the universe is getting bigger over time. One of the things he uses to explain his idea is the "Doppler shift". The Doppler shift happens when something moves toward or away from another object. There are two types of things that happen in Doppler shift - "red shifting" and "blue shifting". Red shifting happens when something is moving away from us. This is down to the wavelength of the visible light reaching us increasing, and the frequency decreasing, which shifts the visible light towards the red/infa-red end of the electromagnetic spectrum. Red-shift is linked to the belief that the universe is expanding as the wavelength of the light is increasing, almost as if stretched as planets and galaxies move away from us, which shares similarities to that of the doppler effect, involving sound waves. Blue shifting happens when something is moving toward us, the opposite process of red-shift, in which the wavelength decreases and frequency increases, shifting the light towards the blue end of the spectrum. A scientist named Edwin Hubble found that many stars are red shifted and are moving away from us. Stephen Hawking uses the Doppler shift to explain that the universe is getting bigger. The beginning of the universe is thought to have happened through something called the "Big Bang". The Big Bang was a very big explosion that created the universe.

This chapter is about the "uncertainty principle". The uncertainty principle says that the speed and the position (or where something is) of a particle cannot be found at the same time. To find where a particle is, scientists shine light at the particle. If a high frequency light is used, the light can find the position more accurately but the particle's speed will be unknown (because the light will change the speed of the particle). If a lower frequency light is used, the light can find the speed more accurately but the particle's position will be unknown. The uncertainty principle disproved the idea of a theory that was deterministic, or something that would predict everything in the future.
How light behaves is also talked more about in this chapter. Some theories say that light acts like particles even though it really is made of waves; one theory that says this is Planck's quantum hypothesis. A different theory also says that light waves also act like particles; a theory that says this is Heisenberg's uncertainty principle.
Light waves have "crests" and "troughs". The highest point of a wave is the crest, and the lowest part of the wave is a trough. Sometimes more than one of these waves can with each other - the crests and the troughs line up. This is called "light interference". When light waves interfere with each other, this can make many colors. An example of this is the colors in soap bubbles.

Quarks and other elementary particles (very small things) are the topic of this chapter. 

Quarks are very small things that make up everything we see (matter). There are six different "flavors" of quarks: the up quark, down quark, strange quark, charmed quark, bottom quark, and top quark. Quarks also have three "colors": red, green, and blue. There are also anti-quarks, which are the opposite of the regular quarks. In total, there are 18 different types of regular quarks, and 18 different types of antiquarks. Quarks are known as the "building blocks of matter" because they are the smallest thing that make up all the matter in the universe. 
All particles (for example, the quarks) have something called "spin". The "spin" of a particle shows us what a particle looks like from different directions. For example, a particle of spin 0 looks the same from every direction. A particle of spin 1 looks different in every direction, unless the particle is spun completely around (spun 360 degrees). Stephen Hawking's example of a particle of spin 1 is an arrow. A particle of spin two needs to be turned around halfway (or 180 degrees) to look the same. The example given in the book is of a double-headed arrow. There are two groups of particles in the universe: particles with a spin of 1/2, and particles with a spin of 0, 1, or 2. All of these particles follow "Pauli's exclusion principle". Pauli's exclusion principle says that particles cannot be in the same place or have the same speed. If Pauli's exclusion principle did not exist, then everything in the universe would look the same, like a roughly uniform and dense "soup".
Particles with a spin of 0, 1, or 2 move force from one particle to another. Some examples of these particles are "virtual gravitons" and "virtual photons". Virtual gravitons have a spin of 2 and they represent the force of gravity. This means that when gravity affects two things, gravitons move to and from the two things. Virtual photons have a spin of 1 and represent electromagnetic forces (or the force that holds atoms together).

Besides the force of gravity and the electromagnetic forces, there are weak and strong nuclear forces. "Weak nuclear forces" are the forces that cause radioactivity, or when matter emits energy. Weak nuclear force works on particles with a spin of 1/2. "Strong nuclear forces" are the forces that keep the quarks in a neutron and a proton together, and keeps the protons and neutrons together in an atom. The particle that carries the strong nuclear force is thought to be a gluon. The gluon is a particle with a spin of 1. The gluon holds together quarks to form protons and neutrons. However, the gluon only holds together quarks that are three different colors. This makes the end product have no color. This is called "confinement".

Some scientists have tried to make a theory that combines the electromagnetic force, the weak nuclear force, and the strong nuclear force. This theory is called a "grand unified theory" (or a GUT). This theory tries to explain these forces in one big unified way or theory.

Black holes are talked about in this chapter. Black holes are stars that have collapsed into one very small point. This small point is called a "singularity". Black holes suck things into its center because its gravity is very strong. Some of the things it can suck in are light and stars. Only very large stars, called "supergiants", are big enough to become a black hole. The star must be one and a half times the mass of the sun or larger to turn into a black hole. This number is called the "Chandrasekhar limit". If the mass of a star is less than the Chandrasekhar limit, it will not turn into a black hole; instead, it will turn into a different, smaller type of star. The boundary of the black hole is called the "event horizon". If something is in the event horizon, it will never get out of the black hole.

Black holes can be shaped differently. Some black holes are perfectly spherical - like a ball. Other black holes bulge in the middle. Black holes will be spherical if they do not rotate. Black holes will bulge in the middle if they rotate.

Black holes are difficult to find because they do not let out any light. They can be found when black holes suck in other stars. When black holes suck in other stars, the black hole lets out X-rays, which can be seen by telescopes (an object that can see things very far away).

In this chapter, Stephen Hawking talks about his bet with another scientist, Kip Thorne. Stephen Hawking bet that black holes did not exist, because he did not want his work on black holes to be wasted. He lost the bet.

This chapter explains more about black holes. 

Stephen Hawking realized that the event horizon of a black hole could only get bigger, not smaller. The area of the event horizon of a black hole gets bigger whenever something falls into the black hole. He also realized that when two black holes combine, the size of the new event horizon is greater than or equal to the sum of the event horizons of the two other black holes. This means that a black hole's event horizon can never get smaller.

Disorder, also known as "entropy", is related to black holes. There is a scientific law that has to do with entropy. This law is called the "second law of thermodynamics", and it says that entropy (or disorder) will always increase in an isolated system (for example, the universe). The relation between the amount of entropy in a black hole and the size of the black hole's event horizon was first thought of by a research student (Jacob Bekenstein) and proven by Stephen Hawking. Stephen Hawking's calculations said that black holes emit radiation. This was strange, because it was already said that nothing can escape from a black hole's event horizon.

This problem was solved when the idea of pairs of "virtual particles" was thought of. One of the pair of particles would fall into the black hole, and the other would escape. This would look like the black hole was emitting particles. This idea seemed strange at first, but many people accepted it after a while.

How the universe started and how it might end is talked about in this chapter.

Most scientists believe that the universe started in an explosion called the Big Bang. The model for this is called the "hot big bang model". When the universe starts getting bigger, the things inside of it also begin to get cooler. When the universe was first beginning, it was infinitely hot. The temperature of the universe cooled and the things inside the universe began to clump together.

Stephen Hawking also talks about how the universe could have been. For example, if the universe formed and then collapsed quickly, there would not be enough time for life to form. Another example would be a universe that expanded too quickly. If a universe expanded too quickly, it would become almost empty. The idea of many universes is called the "anthropic principle".

Inflationary models are also discussed in this chapter, and so is the idea of a theory that unifies quantum mechanics and gravity.

Each particle has many histories. This idea is known as Feynman's theory of sum over histories. A theory that unifies quantum mechanics and gravity should have Feynman's theory in it. To find the chance that a particle will pass through a point, the waves of each particle needs to be added up. These waves happen in imaginary time. Imaginary numbers, when multiplied by themselves, make a negative number. For example, 2i X 2i = -4.







</doc>
<doc id="4579" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4579" title="Alexander Graham Bell">
Alexander Graham Bell

Alexander Graham Bell (March 3, 1847 - August 2, 1922) was a teacher, scientist, and inventor. He was the founder of the Bell Telephone Company.

Bell was born in Edinburgh, Scotland. His family was known for teaching people how to speak English clearly (elocution). Both his grandfather, Alexander Bell, and his father, Alexander Melville Bell, taught elocution. His father wrote often about this and is most known for his invention and writings of Visible Speech. In his writings he explained ways of teaching people who were deaf and unable to speak. It also showed how these people could learn to speak words by watching their lips and reading what other people were saying.

Alexander Graham Bell went to the Royal High School of Edinburgh. He graduated at the age of fourteen. At the age of sixteen, he got a job as a student and teacher of elocution and music in Weston House Academy, at Elgin in Morayshire. He spent the next year at the University of Edinburgh. While still in Scotland, he became more interested in the science of sound (acoustics). He hoped to help his deaf mother. From 1866 to 1867, he was a teacher at Somersetshire College in Bath, Somerset. 

In 1870 when he was 23 years old, he moved with his family to Canada where they settled at Brantford, Ontario. Bell began to study communication machines. He made a piano that could be heard far away by using electricity. In 1871 he went with his father to Montreal, Quebec in Canada, where he took a job teaching about "visible speech". His father was asked to teach about it at a large school for deaf mutes in Boston, Massachusetts, but instead he gave the job to his son. The younger Bell began teaching there in 1871. Alexander Graham Bell soon became famous in the United States for this important work. He published many writings about it in Washington, D.C.. Because of this work, thousands of deaf mutes in America are now able to speak, even though they cannot hear.

In 1876, Bell was the first inventor to patent the telephone, and he helped start the Bell Telephone Company with others in July 1877. In 1879, this company joined with the New England Telephone Company to form the National Bell Telephone Company. In 1880, they formed the American Bell Telephone Company, and in 1885, American Telephone and Telegraph Company (AT&T), still a large company today. Along with Thomas Edison, Bell formed the Oriental Telephone Company on January 25, 1881.

Bell married Mabel Hubbard on July 11, 1877. He died at his home near Baddeck, Nova Scotia in 1922.

Bell's genius is seen in part by the eighteen patents granted in his name alone and the twelve that he shared with others. These included fifteen for the telephone and telegraph, four for the photophone, one for the phonograph, five for aerial vehicles, four for hydroairplanes, and two for a selenium cell. In 1888, he was one of the original members of the National Geographic Society and became its second president.

He was the recipient of many honors.

His past experience made him ready to work more with sound and electricity. He began his studies in 1874 with a musical telegraph, in which he used an electric circuit and a magnet to make an iron reed or tongue vibrate. One day, it was found that a reed failed to respond to the current. Mr. Bell desired his assistant, who was at the other end of the line, to pluck the reed, thinking it had stuck to the magnet. His assistant, Thomas Watson complied, and to his surprise, Bell heard the corresponding reed at his end of the line vibrate and sound the same - without any electric current to power it. A few experiments soon showed that his reed had been set in vibration by the changes in the magnetic field that the moving reed produced in the line. This discovery led him to stop using the electric battery current. His idea was that, since the circuit was never broken, all the complex vibrations of speech might be converted into currents, which in turn would reproduce the speech at a distance.

Bell, with his assistant, devised a receiver, consisting of a stretched film or drum with a bit of magnetised iron attached to its middle, and free to vibrate in front of the pole of an electromagnet in circuit with the line. This apparatus was completed on June 2, 1875. On July 7th, he instructed his assistant to make a second receiver which could be used with the first, and a few days later they were tried together, at each end of the line, which ran from a room in the inventor's house at Boston to the cellar underneath. Bell, in the room, held one instrument in his hands, while Watson in the cellar listened at the other. The inventor spoke into his instrument, ""Do you understand what I say?"" and Mr. Watson rushed back into the upstairs and answered ""Yes."" The first successful two-way telephone call was not made until March 10, 1876 when Bell spoke into his device, "Mr. Watson, come here, I want to see you." and Watson answered back. The first long distance telephone call was made on August 10, 1876 by Bell from the family home in Brantford, Ontario to his assistant located in Paris, Ontario, some 16 km (10 mi.) away.

On March 7, 1876, the U.S. Patent Office gave him patent #174465 for the "telephone".

After that, Bell continued his experiments in communication, which led to the invention of the photophone – which sent sound on a beam of light. Bell worked with Charles Sumner Tainter. In his paper on the photophone, Bell gave credit to A. C. Browne of London with his discovery in 1878. Bell and Tainter, however, were the first to perform a successful experiment. It was not an easy task, as they had to produce selenium cells with the desired properties themselves.

In one experiment in Washington, D.C., the sender and the receiver were placed in different buildings some 830 ft. (about 250 meters) apart. The sender had a mirror directing sunlight onto the mouthpiece, where the light beam was changed by a vibrating mirror. It was focused by a lens and sent at the receiver, which was a curved mirror with the selenium cells in the focus and a headphone attached. With this setup, Bell and Tainter succeeded in voice communication by lighbeams.

The photophone was patented on December 18, 1880. However, since the light beam was not shielded in any way against external interference, the quality of communication was not always good, and it only worked within line-of-sight. It is still considered a forerunner of the much later fiber optic technology, which is based on the same ideas, but which removed those limits.

Bell is also credited with the invention of an improved metal detector in 1881 that made sounds when it was near metal. The device was quickly put together in an attempt to find the bullet in the body of U.S. President James Garfield. The metal detector worked, but did not find the bullet because of the metal bedframe the President was lying on. Bell gave a full description of his experiments in a paper read before the "American Association for the Advancement of Science" in August, 1882.

Bell was an active supporter of the eugenics movement in the United States. He was the honorary president of the "Second International Congress of Eugenics" held at the American Museum of Natural History in New York in 1921. He did not want deaf people to be allowed to teach in schools for the deaf. He was also against the use of sign language. These things mean that he is not appreciated by some deaf people in the present day.



</doc>
<doc id="4582" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4582" title="Heinrich Rudolf Hertz">
Heinrich Rudolf Hertz

Heinrich Rudolf Hertz (February 22, 1857 - January 1, 1894) was a German physicist. He was the first man who discovered radio waves in 1888. He also proved that light is a kind of electromagnetic waves. The unit for frequency is named after him.


</doc>
<doc id="4583" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4583" title="1850">
1850





</doc>
<doc id="4584" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4584" title="1869">
1869






</doc>
<doc id="4586" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4586" title="1621">
1621



</doc>
<doc id="4587" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4587" title="1619">
1619



</doc>
<doc id="4588" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4588" title="1687">
1687

Year 1687 was a common year that started on a Wednesday when using the Gregorian calendar.






</doc>
<doc id="4589" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4589" title="1822">
1822



</doc>
<doc id="4590" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4590" title="1824">
1824



</doc>
<doc id="4591" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4591" title="1826">
1826





</doc>
<doc id="4592" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4592" title="1827">
1827



</doc>
<doc id="4593" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4593" title="1815">
1815





</doc>
<doc id="4594" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4594" title="Deep house">
Deep house

Deep house is a type of house music. It has influences from disco music and jazz music. The BPM of deep house is usually 100 - 128. 


</doc>
<doc id="4596" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4596" title="Cytokine">
Cytokine

Cytokines are signaling proteins which the body makes. They help to control the immune system and fight disease. 

Cytokines are small proteins which carry signals locally between cells, and have an effect on other cells. They are a category of signalling molecules. They are proteins, peptides, or glycoproteins. The term cytokine encompasses a large and diverse family of polypeptide regulators that are produced widely throughout the body by many groups of cells.

Some well-known kinds include histamine, prostaglandin and interleukins. Cytokines can be detected using the ELISA and ELISPOT techniques.


</doc>
<doc id="4597" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4597" title="Bristol">
Bristol

Bristol is a city in the United Kingdom. It is home to nearly 500,000 people. The River Avon runs through it to the Severn estuary.

It is between the counties of Gloucestershire and Somerset. In 1373, King Edward the Third ordered that it should be a county itself forever. However it lost county status in 1974, the year after its 600-year celebrations, becoming the largest district within the new Avon county. Avon was never popular and was abolished in 1996, when county status returned to Bristol, which became a unitary council.

The Bristol name means "the place where the bridge is" in Old English. It has been a port for 800 years, but now ships are too big to reach it. It has a new seaport at Avonmouth.

It has many historic churches and other buildings. The Clifton Suspension Bridge crosses high above the river.

Bristol was a centre for the slave trade.
Bristol was badly damaged during World War II. It now has many new factories and offices. The Concorde supersonic airliner was made here.
It is also the birthplace of the music genre trip hop, with 3 trip hop bands originating there; Massive Attack, Portishead (named after a North Somerset town) and Tricky.


</doc>
<doc id="4598" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4598" title="List of towns in England">
List of towns in England

This is a link page for towns and cities in England. In England, Wales and Northern Ireland, a town is any settlement which has received a charter of incorporation, more commonly known as a town charter, approved by the monarch. For convenience, cities have also been listed and are marked in bold.

Abingdon, Accrington, Acton, Adlington, Alcester, Aldeburgh, Aldershot, Aldridge, Alford, Alfreton, Alnwick, Alsager, Alston, Alton, Altrincham, Amble, Amersham, Amesbury, Ampthill, Andover, Appleby-in-Westmorland, Arundel, Ashbourne, Ashburton, Ashby-de-la-Zouch, Ashford, Ashington, Ashton-in-Makerfield, Ashton-under-Lyne, Askern, Aspatria, Atherstone, Attleborough, Axbridge, Axminster, Aylesbury, Aylsham

Bacup, Bakewell, Baldock, Banbury, Barking, Barnard Castle, Barnet, Barnoldswick, Barnsley, Barnstaple, Barnt Green, Barrow-in-Furness, Barton-upon-Humber, Basildon, Basingstoke, Bath, Batley, Battle, Bawtry, Beaconsfield, Beaminster, Bebington, Beccles, Bedale, Bedford, Bedlington, Bedworth, Beeston, Belper, Bentham, Berkhamsted, Berwick-upon-Tweed, Beverley, Bewdley, Bexhill-on-Sea, Bicester, Biddulph, Bideford, Biggleswade, Billericay, Bilston, Bingham, Birmingham, Bishop Auckland, Bishop's Castle, Bishop's Stortford, Bishop's Waltham, Blackburn, Blackpool, Blandford Forum, Bletchley, Blyth, Bodmin, Bognor Regis, Bollington, Bolsover, Bolton, Borehamwood, Boston, Bottesford, Bourne, Bournemouth, Brackley, Bracknell, Bradford, Bradford-on-Avon, Bradley Stoke, Bradninch, Braintree, Brentford, Brentwood, Bridgnorth, Bridgwater, Bridlington, Bridport, Brierley Hill, Brigg, Brighouse, Brightlingsea, Brighton, Bristol, Brixham, Broadstairs, Bromley, Bromsgrove, Bromyard, Brownhills, Buckfastleigh, Buckingham, Bude, Budleigh Salterton, Bungay, Buntingford, Burford, Burgess Hill, Burnham-on-Crouch, Burnham-on-Sea, Burnley, Burntwood, Burton Latimer, Burton-upon-Trent, Bury, Bury St Edmunds, Buxton

Caistor, Calne, Camberley, Camborne, Cambridge, Camelford, Cannock, Canterbury, Carlisle, Carnforth, Carterton, Castle Cary, Castleford, Chadderton, Chagford, Chard, Charlbury, Chatham, Chatteris, Chelmsford, Cheltenham, Chesham, Cheshunt, Chester, Chesterfield, Chester-le-Street, Chichester, Chippenham, Chipping Campden, Chipping Norton, Chipping Ongar, Chipping Sodbury, Chorley, Christchurch, Church Stretton, Cinderford, Cirencester, Clacton-on-Sea, Cleckheaton, Cleethorpes, Clevedon, Clitheroe, Clun, Coalville, Cockermouth, Coggeshall, Colchester, Coleford, Colne, Congleton, Conisbrough, Corbridge, Corby, Cotgrave, Coventry, Cowes, Cramlington, Crawley, Crayford, Crediton, Crewe, Crewkerne, Cromer, Crowborough, Crowle, Crowthorne, Croydon, Cuckfield, Cullompton

Dagenham, Darley Dale, Darlington, Dartford, Dartmouth, Darwen, Daventry, Dawlish, Deal, Denton, Derby, Dereham, Desborough, Devizes, Dewsbury, Didcot, 
Dinnington, Diss, Doncaster, Dorchester, Dorking, Dover, Downham Market, Driffield, Dronfield, Droitwich Spa, Droylsden, Dudley, Dukinfield, Dunstable, Durham, Dursley

Ealing, Earley, Easingwold, Eastbourne, East Grinstead, East Ham, Eastleigh, Eastwood, Edenbridge, Egham, Ellesmere, Ellesmere Port, Ely, Enfield, Epping, Epsom, Epworth, Erith, Esher, Eton, Evesham, Exeter, Exmouth, Eye

Failsworth, Fairford, Fakenham, Falmouth, Fareham, Faringdon, Farnborough, Farnham, Farnworth, Faversham, Featherstone, Felixstowe, Fenny Stratford, Ferndown, Ferryhill, Filey, Filton, Fleet, Fleetwood, Flitwick, Folkestone, Fordingbridge, Fordwich, Fowey, Framlingham, Frinton-on-Sea, Frodsham, Frome

Gainsborough, Gateshead, Gillingham, Gillingham, Glastonbury, Glossop, Gloucester, Godalming, Godmanchester, Goole, Gosport, Grange-over-Sands, Grantham, Gravesend, Grays, Great Dunmow, Great Torrington, Great Yarmouth, Grimsby, Guildford, Guisborough

Hackney, Hadleigh, Hailsham, Halesworth, Halewood, Halifax, Halstead, Haltwhistle, Harlow, Harpenden, Harrogate, Harrow, Hartlepool, Harwich, Haslemere, Hastings, Hatfield, Havant, Haverhill, Hawley, Hayle, Haywards Heath, Heanor, Heathfield, Hebden Bridge, Hedon, Helston, Hemel Hempstead, Hemsworth, Henley-in-Arden, Henley-on-Thames, Hendon, Hereford, Herne Bay, Hertford, Hessle, Heswall, Hetton-le-Hole, Heywood, Hexham, Higham Ferrers, Highworth, High Wycombe, Hinckley, Hitchin, Hoddesdon, Holmfirth, Holsworthy, Honiton, Horley, Horncastle, Hornsea, Horsham, Horwich, Houghton-le-Spring, Hounslow, Hoylake, Hove Hucknall, Huddersfield, Hugh Town, Hungerford, Hunstanton, Huntingdon, Hyde, Hythe

Ilchester, Ilford, Ilfracombe, Ilkeston, Ilkley, Ilminster, Ipswich, Irthlingborough, Ivybridge

Jarrow

Keighley, Kempston, Kendal, Kenilworth, Kesgrave, Keswick, Kettering, Keynsham, Kidderminster, Kidsgrove, Killingworth, Kimberley, Kingsbridge, King's Lynn, Kingston-upon-Hull, Kingston-upon-Thames, Kington, Kirkby, Kirkby Lonsdale, Kirkham, Knaresborough, Knottingley, Knutsford

Lancaster, Launceston, Leatherhead, Leamington Spa, Lechlade, Ledbury, Leeds, Leek, Leicester, Leighton Buzzard, Leiston, Leominster, Letchworth, Lewes, Lewisham, Leyland, Leyton, Lichfield, Lincoln, Liskeard, Littlehampton, Liverpool, Lizard, London, Long Eaton, Longridge, Looe, Lostwithiel, Loughborough, Loughton, Louth, Lowestoft, Ludlow, Luton, Lutterworth, Lydd, Lydney, Lyme Regis, Lymington, Lynton, Lytchett Minster, Lytham St Annes

Mablethorpe, Macclesfield, Maghull, Maidenhead, Maidstone, Maldon, Malmesbury, Maltby, Malton, Malvern, Manchester, Manningtree, Mansfield, March, Margate, Market Deeping, Market Drayton, Market Harborough, Market Rasen, Market Weighton, Marlborough, Marlow, Maryport, Matlock, Melksham, Melton Mowbray, Mexborough, Middleham, Middlesbrough, Middleton, Middlewich, Midhurst, Midsomer Norton, Milton Keynes, Minehead, Morecambe, Moretonhampstead, Moreton-in-Marsh, Morley, Morpeth, Much Wenlock

Nailsea, Nailsworth, Nantwich, Needham Market, Neston, Newark-on-Trent, Newbiggin-by-the-Sea, Newbury, Newcastle-under-Lyme, Newcastle upon Tyne, Newent, Newhaven, Newmarket, New Mills, New Milton, Newport, Newport, Shropshire, Newport Pagnell, Newquay, New Romney, Newton Abbot, Newton Aycliffe, Newton-le-Willows, Normanton, Northallerton, Northam, Northampton, North Walsham, Northwich, Norton Radstock, Norwich, Nottingham, Nuneaton

Oakham, Okehampton, Oldbury, Oldham, Ollerton, Olney, Ormskirk, Orpington, Ossett, Oswestry, Otley, Ottery St Mary, Oundle, Oxford

Paddock Wood, Padstow, Paignton, Painswick, Peacehaven, Penistone, Penrith, Penryn, Penzance, Pershore, Peterborough, Peterlee, Petersfield, Petworth, Pickering, Plymouth, Pocklington, Pontefract, Polegate, Poltimore, Poole, Portishead, Portland, Portslade, Portsmouth, Potters Bar, Potton, Poulton-le-Fylde, Prescot, Preston, Princes Risborough, Prudhoe, Pudsey

Queenborough

Ramsgate, Raunds, Rayleigh, Reading, Redcar, Redditch, Redhill, Redruth, Reigate, Retford, Richmond, Richmond-upon-Thames, Rickmansworth, Ringwood, Ripley, Ripon, Rochdale, Rochester, Rochford, Romford, Romsey, Ross-on-Wye, Rothbury, Rotherham, Rothwell, Rowley Regis, Royston, Rugby, Rugeley, Runcorn, Rushden, Ryde, Rye

Saffron Walden, St Albans, St Austell, St Blazey, St Columb Major, St Helens, St Ives, Cambridgeshire, St Ives, Cornwall, St Neots, Salcombe, Sale, Salford, Salisbury, Saltash, Saltburn-by-the-Sea, Sandbach, Sandhurst, Sandown, Sandwich, Sandy, Sawbridgeworth, Saxmundham, Scarborough, Scunthorpe, Seaford, Seaton, Sedgefield, Selby, Selsey, Settle, Sevenoaks, Shaftesbury, Shanklin, Sheerness, Sheffield, Shepshed, Shepton Mallet, Sherborne, Sheringham, Shildon, Shipston-on-Stour, Shoreham-by-Sea, Shrewsbury, Sidmouth, Sittingbourne, Skegness, Skelmersdale, Skipton, Sleaford, Slough, Smethwick, Snodland, Soham, Solihull, Somerton, Southall, Southam, Southampton, Southborough, Southend-on-Sea, South Molton, Southport, Southsea, South Shields, Southwell, Southwold, South Woodham Ferrers, Spalding, Spennymoor, Spilsby, Stafford, Staines, Stainforth, Stalybridge, Stamford, Stanley, Stapleford, Staunton, Staveley, Stevenage, Stockport, Stocksbridge, Stockton-on-Tees, Stoke-on-Trent, Stone, Stony Stratford, Stotfield, Stourbridge, Stourport-on-Severn, Stowmarket, Stow-on-the-Wold, Stratford-upon-Avon, Streatham, Street, Strood, Stroud, Sudbury, Sunderland, Sutton, Sutton Coldfield, Sutton-in-Ashfield, Swadlincote, Swaffham, Swanage, Swanley, Swindon, Swinton

Tadcaster, Tadley, Tamworth, Taunton, Tavistock, Teignmouth, Telford, Tenbury Wells, Tenterden, Tetbury, Tewkesbury, Thame, Thatcham, Thaxted, Thetford, Thirsk, Thong, Thornaby, Thornbury, Thorne, Tickhill, Tilbury, Tipton, Tiverton, Todmorden, Tonbridge, Torpoint, Torquay, Totnes, Tottenham, Totton, Towcester, Tring, Trowbridge, Truro, Tunbridge Wells, Twickenham

Uckfield, Ulverston, Uppingham, Upton-upon-Severn, Uttoxeter, Uxbridge

Ventnor, Verwood

Wadebridge, Wadhurst, Wakefield, Wallasey, Wallingford, Walmer, Walsall, Waltham Abbey, Waltham Cross, Walthamstow, Walton-on-Thames, Walton-on-the-Naze, Wandsworth, Wantage, Ware, Wareham, Warminster, Warrington, Warwick, Washington, Watchet, Watford, Wath-upon-Dearne, Watton, Wednesbury, Wellingborough, Wellington, Wells, Wells-next-the-Sea, Welwyn Garden City, Wem, Wendover, West Bromwich, Westbury, Westerham, West Ham, Westhoughton, West Kirby, West Mersea, Westminster, Weston-super-Mare, Westward Ho!, Wetherby, Weybridge, Weymouth, Whaley Bridge, Whiston, Whitby, Whitchurch, Whitehaven, Whitley Bay, Whitnash, Whitstable, Whitworth, Wickford, Widnes, Wigan, Wigston, Willenhall, Wimbledon, Wimborne Minster, Wincanton, Winchcombe, Winchelsea, Winchester, Windermere, Winsford, Winslow, Wisbech, Witham, Withernsea, Witney, Wivenhoe, Woburn, Woking, Wokingham, Wolverhampton, Wombwell, Woodbridge, Woodstock, Wooler, Woolwich, Wootton Bassett, Worcester, Workington, Worksop, Worthing, Wotton-under-Edge, Wycombe, Wymondham

Yarm, Yarmouth, Yate, Yateley, Yeadon, Yeovil, York, Yoxall



</doc>
<doc id="4599" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4599" title="1858">
1858



</doc>
<doc id="4600" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4600" title="1899">
1899




</doc>
<doc id="4602" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4602" title="Bright Eyes (band)">
Bright Eyes (band)

Bright Eyes is an American indie rock music band. The people in the band are Conor Oberst, a singer-songwriter; Mike Mogis, a musician and producer; and other friends and session musicians from Omaha, Nebraska, USA.

Oberst's singing style and the words to the songs are called desperate or on the verge of tears. Many people think his songs are always about himself, but Oberst has said that they are not. For example, one song, "Padraic My Prince", tells the fictional story of a mother drowning her son in a bathtub. In interviews, Oberst has said that he sings about such things to make rich emotions.




</doc>
<doc id="4603" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4603" title="Honeycomb">
Honeycomb

A honeycomb is a container made by bees out of wax that they produce. The bees make a honeycomb as a place to keep their honey. Bees make honey from nectar that they collect from flowers. After bees collect nectar from flowers, and make it into honey, the bees then put the honey in the small six sided areas of the honeycomb. Each hexagonal section tessellates with the rest. 

Honeycomb wax can be used for making soap and candles. Some people eat honey that is still in the honeycomb. 


</doc>
<doc id="4606" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4606" title="Greek language">
Greek language

The Greek language is an Indo-European language. It is the official language of Greece (Hellas) and Cyprus.
It was first spoken in Greece and was also once spoken along the coast of Asia Minor (now a part of Turkey) and in southern Italy. It was also widely used in Western Asia and Northern Africa at one time. In Greek, the language is called Ελληνικά (elliniká).

Greeks write their language using the Greek alphabet. The Latin alphabet (used to write English and many other languages) came from the Greek alphabet. Many other alphabets around the world also came from the Greek one, such as the Cyrillic alphabet. The Greeks got the idea of using an alphabet from the Phoenicians.

Greek has an unbroken history of being a written language for over 3,000 years. This is longer than any other Indo-European language spoken today. Over 15 million people in the world speak Greek now. These speakers mostly live in Greece and Cyprus, but there are also people in other countries around the world who speak the language. This is largely because people left Greece and emigrated, meaning they moved to other countries. Countries like the United States and Argentina have small Greek populations.




</doc>
<doc id="4608" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4608" title="Kami-shibai">
Kami-shibai

Kami-shibai (Japanese: 紙芝居) is a storytelling performance with picture cards, and is a traditional Japanese entertainment for children. In Japanese "Kami" means paper and "shibai" means drama or enternainment. The performer tells a story and shows pictures from scene to scene. Kami-shibai is a bidirectional media which is comprised of actions and reactions between a performer and audiences. With the spread of television, kami-shibai went out of date. 


</doc>
<doc id="4609" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4609" title="Murasaki Shikibu">
Murasaki Shikibu

Murasaki Shikibu (紫 式部 973? - 1025? or d.992?) was a novelist, poet, and servant of the imperial court during the Heian period of Japan. She is well known as the author of "The Tale of Genji", written around year 1000. It is one of the earliest novels in Japanese. 


</doc>
<doc id="4612" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4612" title="Pepsin">
Pepsin

Pepsin is a kind of enzyme. It acts on proteins in the stomach. It works best at a pH of about 1.5. It will not work at a pH above 6. 

It was the first animal enzyme to be discovered. Theodor Schwann discovered it in 1836.

Pepsin is used to make cheese. The brand name Pepsi comes from pepsin.


</doc>
<doc id="4613" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4613" title="PH">
PH

pH (potential of Hydrogen) is a scale of acidity from 0 to 14. It tells how acidic or alkaline a substance is. 
More acidic solutions have lower pH. More alkaline solutions have higher pH. Substances which are not acidic or alkaline (neutral) usually have a pH of 7.
Acids have a pH less than 7. Alkalis have a pH greater than 7. 

There are a lot of ways for finding the pH of something. One way is to use litmus paper. The pH paper is able to tell how strong the chemical is, whether it is a stronger acid or a stronger base.

pH is a measure of the concentration of protons (H) in a solution. S.P.L. Sørensen introduced this concept in 1909. The p stands for the German "potenz", meaning power or concentration, and the H for the hydrogen ion (H).

The formula for calculating pH is:

[H] indicates the concentration of H ions (also written [HO], the equal concentration of hydronium ions), measured in moles per litre (also known as molarity).

Most substances have a pH in the range 0 to 14, although extremely acidic or basic substances may have pH < 0, or pH > 14.

Basic substances have, instead of Hydrogen ions, a concentration of Hydroxide ions (OH).

Neutralisation can be summed up by the formula:



</doc>
<doc id="4614" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4614" title="Tapeworm">
Tapeworm

Tapeworms are the class Cestoda of segmented flatworms (Platyhelminthes). They are parasitic, which means that they need another larger creature as a host. Tapeworms live inside the intestines of vertebrate animals. This includes humans. When a vertebrate has a tapeworm, they may lose weight and become weaker.

Tapeworms can be up to 30 or 36 feet (10–12 metres) long. They eat by absorbing material directly through their epidermis (outside layer). The head of a tapeworm has four suckers and two rings of hooks. The body of a tapeworm is in segments (pieces that are like each other). Each segment can produce eggs. Little segments of the tapeworm sometimes break off and pass out through the stool of the host, with the eggs. Little segments of its body fall off. They go out of the host body, and are eaten by the next host, which is another type of vertebrate.

Tapeworms are hermaphrodite, with both sexes. Cross-fertilization occurs between two tapeworms in the same intestine. They have a life cycle with a secondary or intermediate host. For example, human tapeworms have cows or pigs as intermediate hosts. The 'definitive' host (humans in this case) is the one where fertilization takes place.


</doc>
<doc id="4616" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4616" title="Omnivore">
Omnivore

Omnivores are animals that actively seek out both plants and animals to supply nutrition. Omni means all. Grizzly bears are classic omnivores, eating plants and berries, but hunting prey and salmon when available. Other examples are:




</doc>
<doc id="4618" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4618" title="Herbivore">
Herbivore

Herbivores are animals that eat plants. They are "herbivorous" animals.

Humans are omnivores, because they eat meat as well as vegetable matter. People who eat mostly plants are usually called vegetarians. 

Herbivores (such as deer, elephants, horses) have teeth that are adapted to grind vegetable tissue. Many animals that eat fruit and leaves sometimes eat other parts of plants, for example roots and seeds. Usually, such animals cannot chew or digest meat. But some herbivorous animals will eat eggs and occasionally other animal protein. 

Some herbivores can be classified as "frugivores", because they eat mainly fruit; or "browsers", which eat mostly leaves. Animals that eat mostly grass are "grazing" animals.

The diets of some herbivorous animals change with the seasons. In the temperate zones of the Earth, some seasons are hot and some are cold, so different plants are available at different times of the year. 

Plant cell walls are mostly made up of cellulose. No herbivore can digest cellulose by itself. They all make use of gut flora, some of which produce an enzyme called cellulase. This is an example of symbiosis.

According to the theory of predator-prey interactions, the relationship between herbivores and plants is cyclic. When prey (plants) are numerous their predators (herbivores) increase in numbers, reducing the plant population, which in turn causes herbivore number to decline. The prey population eventually recovers, starting a new cycle. This suggests that the population of the herbivore fluctuates around the carrying capacity of the food source, in this case the plant. 

There will always be pockets of plants not found by herbivores. This is important for specialist herbivores which feed on only one species of plant: it prevents these specialists from wiping out their food source. Eating a second plant type helps herbivores’ populations stabilize. Alternating between two or more plant types provides population stability for the herbivore, while the populations of the plants oscillate. When an invasive herbivore or plant enters the system, the balance is thrown off and the diversity can change or even collapse.

In some ways it is easier to be an herbivorous animal than a carnivorous (meat-eating) animal. Carnivorous animals have to find and catch the animals that they eat, and sometimes the animals that they want to eat fight them. Herbivorous animals have to find the plants that they want to eat, but they do not have to catch them. Many plants have defences against herbivores, such as spines, toxins (poisons), or a bad taste. There are many more herbivorous animals living in the world than carnivorous animals.




</doc>
<doc id="4624" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4624" title="Hindi language">
Hindi language

Hindi is the most commonly spoken language in India. It is the fifth most spoken language in the world with about 182 million native speakers in 1998. The script used in writing Hindi is Devanāgarī. 

Hindi is widely written, spoken and understood in north India and most other places in India. In 1997, a survey found that 66% of Indians can speak Hindi. The most common form of Hindi is known as "Hindustani". It has taken words from the Dravidian languages of South India, many words from the Persian, Arabic, Turkish, English, and Portuguese languages. Hindustani language is almost the same as Urdu, the most commonly spoken language in Pakistan; the difference is that Urdu is written in the Arabic alphabet from right to left. 

Some other dialects of Hindi are: Avadhi, Braj, Bhojpuri, Bundeli, Bagheli, Chhattisgarhi, Dogri and Marwari. 
Hindi has developed from Sanskrit, the ancient language of India. Hindi started to develop in the 7th century as "Apabhramsha", but became pretty stable by the 10th century. 
Some famous Hindi poets are Tulsidas and Kabir.
Hindi is also spoken with regional accents like Haryanvi, Rajasthani, and Bengali.
In the past few years a new Hindi language (with unwritten grammar) has emerged from Mumbai. It is being spread by Hindi films.It is becoming very popular with younger generation. 


</doc>
<doc id="4625" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4625" title="1870">
1870





</doc>
<doc id="4626" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4626" title="1871">
1871





</doc>
<doc id="4627" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4627" title="1882">
1882






</doc>
<doc id="4628" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4628" title="1941">
1941







</doc>
<doc id="4629" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4629" title="1945">
1945

Year 1945 was a year that started on a Monday. It is well known as the end of World War II.






</doc>
<doc id="4633" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4633" title="Ludwig van Beethoven">
Ludwig van Beethoven

Ludwig van Beethoven (baptized December 17, 1770 in Bonn – March 26, 1827 in Vienna) was a German composer. He wrote classical music for the piano, orchestras and different groups of instruments. His best-known works are his third ("Eroica"), fifth , sixth ("Pastorale") and ninth ("Choral") symphonies, the eighth ("Pathetique") and fourteenth ("Moonlight") piano sonatas, two of his latter piano concertos, his opera "Fidelio", and also the piano piece "Für Elise". When he was a young man, he was a talented pianist. Beethoven was popular with the rich and important people in Vienna, Austria, where he lived. 

In 1801, however, he began to lose his hearing. His deafness became worse. In 1817, he was completely deaf. Although he could no longer play in concerts, he continued to compose. During this time he composed some of his greatest works. He is said to be one of the greatest classical composers who has ever lived. 

He moved to Vienna in 1792 and lived there for the rest of his life. He never married.

Very little is known about Beethoven’s childhood. He was baptized on December 17, 1770 and was probably born a few days before that. Beethoven's parents were Johann van Beethoven (1740 in Bonn – December 18, 1792) and Maria Magdalena Keverich (1744 in Ehrenbreitstein – July 17, 1787). Magdalena's father, Johann Heinrich Keverich, had been Chef at the court of the Archbishopric of Trier at Festung Ehrenbreitstein fortress opposite to Koblenz. His father was a fairly unimportant musician who worked at the court of the Elector of Cologne. This court was in Bonn and it was here that he lived until he was a young man. His father gave him his first lessons in piano and violin. Beethoven was a child prodigy like Mozart, but while Mozart as a little boy was taken all over Europe by his father, Beethoven never traveled until he was 17. By that time, his piano teacher was a man called Neefe who had learned the piano from Carl Philipp Emanuel Bach, the son of Johann Sebastian Bach. Neefe said to the Elector that the young Beethoven should be given the chance to travel, so he was allowed to go to Vienna. There, he seemed to have had one or two lessons from Mozart, but then Beethoven got a letter saying that his mother was dying, so he hurried back to Bonn. Soon his mother died, and Beethoven had to help to look after the family because his father had become an alcoholic. Beethoven played the viola in the orchestra of the Elector, he started to compose, and made many friends. Some of these friends were musicians and others were very important people, many of them were aristocrats who would be able to help him in his career.

In 1792, the Elector let Beethoven travel to Vienna again. He expected him to return after a while. However, Beethoven never left Vienna. He stayed there for the rest of his life. He would have loved to have had some more composition lessons from Mozart, but Mozart had just died, so he had lessons from Haydn instead. Haydn was a good teacher, but a year later he went off to England. Therefore, Beethoven took lessons from a man called Albrechtsberger who was not famous like Haydn. He was a good teacher too and he made him write lots of technical exercises. He showed him how to write advanced counterpoint and fugues. This helped him to be a great composer.

Beethoven wanted to become famous as a pianist and composer, so he started to get to know important, aristocratic people. Some of these people had already heard him in Bonn when they had traveled there, so his name was becoming known in Vienna. It also helped that he could say he was the pupil of the famous Joseph Haydn. There were a lot of aristocratic people in Vienna who liked music, and many had their own private orchestras. Some of them started to give Beethoven places to live when the Elector of Bonn stopped sending him money in 1794. Beethoven started to perform in private houses, and he became known for his improvisations. In 1795 he performed one of his piano concertos at a concert. He also had his first publication (his opus 1). This was a group of three Piano Trios. Haydn had heard them at a private concert a year before and had advised Beethoven not to publish the third one. However, he did publish it, and that was the one which became the most successful. His opus 2 was a group of three piano sonatas which he played at the court of his friend Prince Lichnowsky. When he published them he dedicated them to Haydn.

Beethoven was starting to become famous, travelling to places like Prague and Pressburg. He wrote much chamber music. He was, perhaps, a little jealous of the success that Haydn had with his latest symphonies he had written for London. In 1800 he gave his first public concert with his own music. He conducted his First Symphony as well as the Septet. By now several publishers were trying to persuade him to let them publish his new works. Beethoven was becoming famous as a composer. And during this period Beethoven produced his most famous piano sonata: No. 14, in C sharp minor, nicknamed, "Moonlight". This was written for his girlfriend, 16-year-old Giulietta Giulietti. However, he was far from happy because he realized that he was starting to become deaf. And when he asked for Giulietta's marriage, her parents refused and married her to another 20-year-old man instead.

Beethoven seems to have tried to forget these bad thoughts by working very hard. He composed a lot more music, including his Third Symphony, called the "Eroica". Originally he gave it the title "Bonaparte" in honour of Napoleon whom he admired. But when Napoleon crowned himself emperor in 1804, Beethoven began to think that he was just a tyrant who wanted a lot of power. He went to the table where the score of the symphony was lying and tore up the title page. Beethoven stayed in Vienna that year, working hard at an opera and giving piano lessons to Josephine von Brunsvik to whom he wrote passionate letters. She was a young widow with four children. It is impossible to know quite what her feelings were for Beethoven, but socially she belonged in higher society and probably thought that a wild musician was not a suitable husband. In the end she married a Baron, but this marriage, like her first one, was not happy either.

In 1805 Beethoven wrote his only opera. The next spring it had two performances but was then not performed again for another eight years. Beethoven had made several changes to the opera which became known as "Fidelio". The overture that he had written for the 1806 performance is now known as "Leonore 3" and is usually performed separately at concerts. The opera is a “rescue” opera, a typical French kind of opera describing a man who is imprisoned and rescued by his lover who disguises herself as a man and manages to get into the prison.

Beethoven continued to write compositions: a Violin Concerto, symphonies, piano concertos, string quartets and chamber music. Two of his greatest symphonies were produced in 1806: Symphony No. 5 and Symphony No. 6 "Pastorale". The first one was known for its dark and deep tone, especially in its first movement. The second was famous for its depicting of a garden city. He also wrote Piano Concerto No. 4 and Piano Concerto No. 5 "Emperor. He earned money by pleasing the aristocrats, dedicating works to them in return for fees, and by selling his music to publishers. Occasionally he earned money from concerts. It was not a regular income. He would have liked the job of Kapellmeister to the emperor. He was not able to get this, but in 1809 three rich aristocrats: the Archduke Rodolph, Prince Lobkowitz and Prince Kinsky gave him an income for the rest of his life on condition that he stayed in Vienna. This meant that Beethoven did not have to worry so much about money. He was asked to write music for "Egmont", a play by Goethe. The overture is very often performed as a concert piece. Beethoven very much wanted to meet Goethe. The two great men met in Teplitz. Goethe later described Beethoven as a rather wild-mannered man who made life difficult for himself by his cross attitude to the world. Beethoven admired several women, including one to whom he wrote a passionate letter. She is known as the “Immortal Beloved”, but no one knows who she was. Beethoven seems to have become deeply depressed because he never found true happiness in love.

In a letter dated June 29, 1801 Beethoven told a friend in Bonn about a terrible secret he had for some time. He knew that he was becoming deaf. For some time he had spells of fever and stomach pains. A young man does not expect to become deaf, but now he was starting to admit it to himself. He was finding it hard to hear what people were saying. Just at the moment when he was starting to become known as one of the greatest of all composers, it was a terrible blow to realize that he was losing his hearing. In 1802, he stayed for a time in Heiligenstadt which is now a suburb of Vienna but at that time it was outside the city. There he wrote a famous letter which is known as the "Heiligenstadt Testament". It is dated October 6 and told about his rising frustration at his deafness. He asks people to forgive him if he cannot hear what they are saying. He said that he had often thought of suicide, but that he had so much music in his head which had to be written down that he decided to continue his life. This very emotional letter was found amongst his papers after his death. It was never sent to anyone.

By 1814, Beethoven had reached the height of his fame. He was thought of as the greatest composer by the Viennese people and he was often invited by royal people to their palaces. It was the year in which he played his famous Piano Trio Op. 97 "The Archduke". That was the last time he played the piano in public. His deafness was making it impossible to continue.

Beethoven had many problems when his brother Caspar Carl died, leaving a 9-year-old son. The boy’s mother may have been incapable of looking after him, but Beethoven had to prove this in a court of law. For several years he looked after his nephew, but it was a difficult relationship and it involved a lot of legal letters and quarrels with people. In 1826, Karl tried to shoot himself. He survived, but people persuaded Beethoven to stop being his guardian. Karl went into the army.

The last years were unhappy years for Beethoven. During this time he composed very little. Then, in 1817, he recovered and wrote his last two symphonies, a mass called "Missa Solemnis", his last five piano sonatas, and a group of string quartets which were so modern and difficult that very few people at the time understood the music. Nowadays, people think they are the greatest works ever written for string quartet.

His Ninth Symphony is called the "Choral" Symphony because there is a choir and soloists in the last movement. At the time people did not understand this either, because a symphony is normally a work for orchestra, not a work with singers. Beethoven chose the words of a poem by the German poet Friedrich Schiller: "An die Freude" ("Ode to Joy"). It is all about living together in peace and harmony, so that it sends an important message to people. This is why it has been chosen in recent years as the National Anthem for the European Union. The Ninth Symphony was performed at a concert on May 7, 1824. After the scherzo movement the audience applauded enthusiastically, but Beethoven could not hear the applause and one of the singers had to turn him round so that he could see that people were clapping.

Beethoven died on March 26, 1827. About 10,000 people came onto the streets for his funeral. The famous poet Franz Grillparzer wrote the funeral speech. One of the torchbearers was Franz Schubert. Schubert died the next year. In 1888 Beethoven’s and Schubert’s remains were moved to another cemetery in Vienna and were placed side by side.

Beethoven’s music is usually divided into three periods: Early, Middle and Late. Most composers who live a long time develop as they get older and change their way of composing. Of course, these changes in style are not sudden, but they are quite a good way of understanding the different periods of his composing life.

His first period includes the works he wrote in his youth in Bonn, and his early days in Vienna up to about 1803. His middle period starts with the Eroica Symphony and includes most of his orchestral works. His last period includes the Ninth Symphony and the late string quartets.

Beethoven is probably the most famous of all composers, and the most written about. He had a wild personality and this was something that the Romantics in the 19th century always expected from great artists. The Romantics thought that the artist was somehow a person with exaggerated qualities who was not like normal people. Beethoven had a very strong personality. He lived in the time of the French Revolution and had strong views on independence and ways of living free from tyranny. This made him a hero in many people’s eyes.

His music was so famous that many composers in the 19th century found it quite hard to compose because they thought they would be compared to him. For example, Johannes Brahms, took a long time to write his First Symphony. He thought that everyone was expecting him to be the next Beethoven. It was only towards the end of the 19th century that Gustav Mahler wrote several symphonies which include singing, although he does this very differently to Beethoven.




</doc>
<doc id="4634" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4634" title="Roald Amundsen">
Roald Amundsen

Roald Engelbregt Gravning Amundsen was a Norwegian man who explored the Arctic and the South Pole. Amundsen was born 16 July 1872- He disappeared in June 1928 while taking part in a rescue mission. Probably he died 18 June 1928.

Amundsen was the first man to reach the South Pole. On 19 December 1911, he came to the South Pole together with his men. The Royal Navy Captain Robert Falcon Scott came 35 days later.

Amundsen was also the first man known to travel the Northwest Passage.


</doc>
<doc id="4635" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4635" title="Christopher Columbus">
Christopher Columbus

Christopher Columbus was a trader and explorer. He was born in Genoa, Italy in the year 1451. He died on May 20, 1506 in Valladolid. He wrote that he went to sea at the age of 14. He piloted four voyages to the Bahamas believing he had reached the Indies.

Columbus is often considered the first European person to have discovered the Americas when he landed in the Bahamas in 1492. Many people doubt this for several reasons. One of these is that though the Caribbean is often considered part of North America, it is not on the American mainland. Another is that some believe that America was discovered by the Viking Leif Ericson around 1000 AD. Still others doubt the idea of "discovery" of America at all, as Native Americans had been living there for thousands of years before Columbus. 

While he did not actually discover the Americas, he discovered the Bahamas, close to the Americas. He was once called the first European to find out because people already lived at the Americas, though it is known now that the Vikings did this earlier.

Columbus sailed the Atlantic Ocean because he was hoping to find a shorter, safer way to China and India. He wanted to bring back spices and gold for the King and Queen of Spain: Isabella I of Castile and Ferdinand II of Aragon. He knew that the world was round but he did not know how large it was. He had heard that Marco Polo had found a sea to the east of China and he believed that it must be the same as sea to the west of Europe. He did not really know about the Pacific Ocean and The Americas, and that the Atlantic Ocean did not go all the way to China. 

When he found some islands at the end of his voyage, he thought he had reached the East Indies when in fact he had landed on an island in the Bahamas. That is why he named the people living there "Indians". In all, he made four voyages to America. Colombia is also named after him.

There is disagreement on where Columbus came from. Many people think that he was born in Genoa. Experts have studied clues to Columbus' birthplace, but no final answer has been found.

He was arrested in Santo Domingo on August 23, 1500 and sent to Spain in chains in October 1500. Released December 12, 1500 and summoned to court. 


</doc>
<doc id="4639" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4639" title="GNU General Public License">
GNU General Public License

The GNU General Public License (GPL) is a computer software copyleft license. This license lets the user of the software use a program in many of the same ways as if it were public domain. They can use it, change it, and copy it. They can also sell or give away copies of the program with or without any changes they made to it. The license lets them do this as long as they agree to follow the terms of the license. The GPL was created by Richard Stallman. The current version is version 3, created in 2007, although some software still uses version 2, created in 1991.

There are two main terms to the license. Both apply to giving the program away or selling it. 

If the user does not agree to follow the GPL, they can still use the software under copyright laws. They can use it and make copies or changes to it for themselves, but they can not give it away or sell it. They also can not change the license.




</doc>
<doc id="4641" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4641" title="Triangle (disambiguation)">
Triangle (disambiguation)

In geometry, a triangle is the flat shape formed by joining three points (not in a straight line) with straight line segments. A triangle is a three sided polygon.

In music, a triangle is a musical instrument that is made from a metal tube. It is in the shape of a triangle. It is open at one corner, and when it is hit with a metal stick, it makes a sound.


</doc>
<doc id="4642" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4642" title="Square (geometry)">
Square (geometry)

A square is a shape with four equal sides and four corners that are all right angles (90 degrees). The diagonals of a square also cross at right angles. The angle between any diagonal and a side of a square is 45 degrees. A square has rotational symmetry of four. It has four lines of regular symmetry.

A square is a type of rectangle with all sides of equal length. However note that while a square is a type of rectangle, a rectangle does not necessarily need to be a square.

A square is also the 2-dimensional analogue of a cube.



</doc>
<doc id="4643" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4643" title="Template:CompactTOC2">
Template:CompactTOC2


</doc>
<doc id="4645" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4645" title="Computer hardware">
Computer hardware

Computer hardware or hardware means the fixed parts that make up a computer.

Some examples include:

Hardware needs software to tell it what to do. Without software, the hardware can not be used.


</doc>
<doc id="4646" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4646" title="Meat">
Meat

Meat is animal tissue used as food. Most often is used to describe skeletal muscle and fat that is found with it. Types of meat include beef and veal from cattle, pork, ham and bacon from pigs, mutton from sheep, "venison" from deer and poultry from chickens, ducks and turkeys. The word meat is also used for sausages and for non-muscle organs which are used for food, for example liver, brain, and kidneys. Eggs may also be included.

In the meat processing industry, (in some countries) the word "meat" is to mean only the flesh of mammalian species such as pigs, cattle, etc. but does not include fish, poultry, and eggs. 

Meat is an important part of the diet of many people because it contains protein. Protein helps the growth and healing of a body and gives energy. Meat is a "high-protein" food, but costs more than other foods like bread and vegetables. People who cannot afford meat, or who do not like to eat it need to find other ways to get enough protein in their diet. Beans and certain nuts are also high in protein. People that choose not to eat meat are called vegetarians, and those who do not eat any animal product are known as vegans.

Animals such as members of the cat family that mainly eat animals are called carnivores. 

Red meat is darker-coloured meat, different from white meat, or lighter-coloured meat. Some raw meat can make humans sick.


</doc>
<doc id="4647" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4647" title="Anders Celsius">
Anders Celsius

Anders Celsius (November 27, 1701 - April 25, 1744) was a Swedish astronomer. Celsius was born in Uppsala in Sweden. He developed the Celsius temperature scale as the international temperature standard when he worked on meteorology (a science about weather conditions). One of his good friends Gabriel Fahrenheit invented the Fahrenheit scale for the thermometer. 


</doc>
<doc id="4648" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4648" title="Tuvalu">
Tuvalu

Tuvalu is a small island country in the Pacific Ocean. It used to be called Ellice Islands; it was part of Gilbert and Ellice Islands. It is a monarchy.

Tuvalu is getting smaller. If the sea level keeps rising at the same rate, this country will be covered by water in about 50 years.

The most important language spoken in Tuvalu is Tuvaluan. although Nuian is spoken on the island of Nui.

The United States and Tuvalu signed a treaty of friendship in 1979, when the USA gave up its claim to the islands of Funafuti, Nukefetau, Nukulaelae, and Nurakita.

Tuvalu is made up of 9 islands: 

Tuvalu has four reef islands and five true atolls. The atolls have only 26km land. Tuvalu is the fourth smallest country in the world. The land is very low lying and the coral atolls are narrow. Funafuti is the largest atoll of the islands and atolls. It has many islets around a central lagoon. This is about 25.1 kilometres (15.6 mi) (N–S) by 18.4 kilometres (11.4 mi) (W-E), centred on 179°7’E and 8°30’S. A

The highest height is above sea level, which gives Tuvalu the second-lowest highest elevation of any country (after the Maldives). Because of this, the islands that make up Tuvalu are threatened by any sea level rise. If this happens, the people will have to go to New Zealand, Niue or the Fijian island of Kioa. Tuvalu is also affected by what is known as a king tide, which can raise the sea level higher than a normal high tide.


</doc>
<doc id="4649" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4649" title="Java">
Java

Java (Indonesian: Jawa) is one of the islands of Indonesia. 
The area is 132,000 square km. It is the world's 13th largest island. 124 million people live there. 
The capital city of Indonesia, Jakarta, is in Java.

The climate of the island is warm and wet. The northern coast of the island is low-lying. The soil is fertile. It is an important area for growing crops in Indonesia.


</doc>
<doc id="4651" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4651" title="James Watt">
James Watt

James Watt (January 19, 1736 - August 19, 1819) was a Scottish mathematician and engineer. He did not invent the first steam engine, but he did modify it to work better. There were other patented steam engines (such as the Savery and Newcomen steam engines) in use by the time Watt started his work on them. His major contribution is in developing the modern form of the steam engine. The Watt steam engine is credited for driving the Industrial Revolution of the 18th and 19th centuries.James Watt was a brilliant engineer and he also transformed the Newcomen engine.

Today, most people honor him by naming a unit of power, the watt, after him. 

James Watt was born on 19 January 1736 in Greenock, Renfrewshire, a seaport on the Firth of Clyde. His father was a shipwright, ship owner and contractor, and served as the town's chief baillie, while his mother, Agnes Muirhead, came from a distinguished family and was well educated. Both were Presbyterians and strong Covenanters. Watt's grandfather, Thomas Watt, was a taught mathematics and baillie to the Baron of Cartsburn. Watt did not go to school every day. At first, he was mostly schooled at home by his mother but later he attended Greenock grammar school. He exhibited great manual dexterity and an aptitude for mathematics, although Latin and Greek failed to interest him, and he absorbed the legends and lore of the Scottish people.

"Note: This link may not be simple."


</doc>
<doc id="4652" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4652" title="1267">
1267



</doc>
<doc id="4653" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4653" title="Michelangelo">
Michelangelo

Michelangelo di Lodovico Buonarroti Simoni (6 March 1475 – 18 February 1564), known as Michelangelo, was an Italian Renaissance painter, sculptor, architect, poet, and engineer. Along with Leonardo da Vinci, he is often called a "Renaissance man" which means that he had great talent in many areas. 

Michelangelo lived an extremely busy life, creating a great number of artworks. Some of Michelangelo's works are among the most famous that have ever been made. They include two very famous marble statues, "the Pieta" in Saint Peter's Basilica and "David" which once stood in a piazza in Florence but is now in the Accademia Gallery. His most famous paintings are huge frescos, the Sistine Chapel Ceiling and the "Last Judgement". His most famous work of architecture is the east end and dome of Saint Peter's Basilica.

A lot is known about Michelangelo's life because he left many letters, poems and journals. Because he was so famous, he became the very first artist to have his biography (story of his life) published while he was still living. His biographer, Giorgio Vasari, said that he was the greatest artist of the Renaissance. He was sometimes called "Il Divino" ("the divine one"). 
Other artists said that he had "terribilità", (his works were so grand and full of strong emotion that they were scary). Many other artists who saw his work tried to have the same emotional quality. From this idea of "terribilità" came a style of art called Mannerism.

Michelangelo was born on 6 March 1475 in Caprese near Arezzo, Tuscany. His father was Lodovico di Leonardo di Buonarroti di Simoni, and his mother was Francesca di Neri del Miniato di Siena. The Buonarrottis were a banking family from Florence. They claimed they were descended from the noble Countess Matilda of Canossa. Michelangelo's father had lost most of the bank’s money, so he worked for the local government in the town of Chiusi. When Michelangelo was a baby, the family moved back to Florence. Because he was sickly, Michelangelo was sent to live on a small farm with a stonecutter and his wife and family. The stonecutter worked at a marble quarry owned by Michelangelo's father. Many years later Michelangelo said that the two things that had helped him to be a good artist were being born in the gentle countryside of Arezzo and being raised in a house where, along with his nurse's milk, he was given the training to use a chisel and hammer. His mother died when he was only seven.

Michelangelo’s father then brought him back to Florence and sent him to study with a tutor, Francesco da Urbino. Michelangelo was not interested in his school lessons. He explored the great churches of the city, and drew copies of the frescos that he saw there. When he was thirteen, he was apprenticed to the painter Domenico Ghirlandaio. Ghirlandaio had a large busy studio. He had wealthy patrons who worked for the Medici. He painted frescos in their family chapels. Michelangelo was able to learn the art of fresco painting very well, from Ghirlandaio. In a large workshop such as Ghirlandaio’s, artists would have been working in all sorts of different media, including sculpture, metalwork and painting altarpieces. Michelangelo would have learnt about all these things. When Michelangelo was only fourteen, his father persuaded Ghirlandaio to pay his apprentice as an artist, which was highly unusual at the time.

The richest, most powerful family in Florence were the Medici. They had an academy where some of the most famous philosophers, poets, and artists met to share their ideas. The Medici family were important patrons of the arts. In 1489, Lorenzo de' Medici, the head of the family, asked Ghirlandaio to send his two best pupils to the academy. Michelangelo was one of the students chosen and he attended the academy from 1490 to 1492. He heard the teaching and discussion of Marsilio Ficino, Pico della Mirandola and Angelo Poliziano. The philosophy that they taught was called Humanism. It was based on the philosophy of the ancient Greek Plato. Michelangelo’s ideas and his art were influenced by these teachings. 

Michelangelo and another young sculptor called Pietro Torrigiano studied sculpture under Bertoldo di Giovanni. Michelangelo had an argument with Torrigiano, who punched him on the nose so that it was badly broken and spoilt his appearance for the rest of his life. Michelangelo sculpted some reliefs (flat panels with raised figures on them). One was ‘’the Battle of the Centaurs’’ which was made for Lorenzo de Medici.

In 1492, Michelangelo’s patron, Lorenzo de' Medici died. This brought about a big change in Michelangelo’s life. He went back to live at his father’s house. Michelangelo asked the prior at the Church of Santo Spirito to allow him to study the anatomy of the bodies of people who had died at the church’s hospital. In 1493, as a “thank-you” gift to the prior, Michelangelo carved a large wooden Crucifix which still hangs in the church. In January 1494, there were very heavy snowfalls. Lorenzo de’ Medici’s son, Piero de Medici commissioned Michelangelo to make a snow statue. So Michelangelo began to work for the Medici again. 

In 1494, a new leader rose up in Florence. He was a Dominican friar called Savonarola. His strong preaching caused people to burn their books, throw away their jewellery and chase the wealthy families out of the city. The Medici had to go. For Michelangelo, it was a good time to travel. He stayed for a while in Venice, then moved to Bologna. In Bologna he soon got work sculpting three figures for the big marble Shrine of Saint Dominic. When things calmed down in Florence, Michelangelo returned and worked for another member of the Medici family, Lorenzo di Pierfrancesco de' Medici. 

Michelangelo made a marble statue of Cupid asleep. Lorenzo di Pierfrancesco told Michelangelo that it looked just like a real Ancient Roman statue and said that if he made it dirty and knocked a few chips off, someone would pay a lot of money for it. Lorenzo sold it to a Cardinal who discovered that it was a fraud. He thought that Michelangelo’s work was so good that he told the pope about it. The pope then invited Michelangelo to go to Rome and work for him. 

Michelangelo arrived in Rome 25 June 1496 at the age of 21. He lived near the church of Santa Maria di Loreto on the Gianicolo hill. 

In 1496 he got an important “commission” (he was given a paid job) from Cardinal Raffaele Riario. The Cardinal wanted Michelangelo to make a marble statue, larger than life-size, of Bacchus, the Ancient Roman God of wine. Michelangelo worked hard at the statue. He carved Bacchus as a young man who was quite drunk, and looked as if he was staggering as he raised his cup to make a toast. The cardinal did not like the drunken Bacchus and would not pay for it. A banker called Jacopo Galli bought it for his garden.

Michelangelo’s next important commission was from the French Ambassador who asked him to make a statue of the Virgin Mary mourning over the dead body of her son Jesus. This type of artwork, either a painting or a statue, is called by the Italian name “Pieta” (say: “Pe-ay-ta”). Michelangelo’s Pieta is the most famous Pieta that has ever been made. It is now in Saint Peter's Basilica and is visited by thousands of people every day. Giorgio Vasari wrote: "It is a miracle that a shapeless block of stone could have been carved away to make something so perfect that even nature could hardly have made it better, using real human flesh."

In 1499 Michelangelo returned to Florence. The priest Savonarola had made so many people angry that he had been put to death in 1498. Life in Florence started to return to normal. Many years earlier the Guild of Woolworkers had commissioned some artists to make statues of the heroes of the city. A sculptor called Agostino di Duccio had started carving a huge statue of David, the hero of the Bible story of David and Goliath. For 40 years the Guild of Woolworkers owned the huge block of marble, with the statue hardly begun. In 1501 they commissioned the young Michelangelo to carve it. It took him three years to complete.

Once again Michelangelo made a statue that became world-famous. The statue shows a young man, naked in the way that statues of ancient gods were made, just pausing for a moment and looking with fierce eyes at the huge soldier Goliath that he is about to kill. The statue is 5.17 meter (17 ft) tall. It was placed in the piazza (public square) outside the Palazzo Vecchio where the town council met. After many years, the statue was put into an art gallery, the Accademia. A copy now stands in the piazza.

In 1505 Michelangelo was invited to Rome by the newly elected Pope Julius II. Pope Julius was an old man. He wanted Michelangelo to design a grand tomb. It was to stand inside a church and have many carved figures which were to include several slaves to hold up part of the tomb and Old Testament prophets to sit in niches (openings in the walls). Michelangelo started work. He made a magnificent statue of Moses which is now in the Church of S. Pietro in Vincoli (St Peter in Chains) in Rome. Many people go to look at this statue. The slaves were only partly carved. Four of them are now in the Accademia in Florence. The rest of the great plan was unfinished. 

The main reason that Pope Julius' tomb was not finished was that the Pope had an idea for another artwork. The Sistine Chapel near St. Peter's Basilica had its walls painted by some famous artists from Florence. The Pope decided that Michelangelo should paint the ceiling. Michelangelo did not want to. He said that he was not a painter. But the Pope bullied Michelangelo until he agreed to do it. He told the Pope that he would do it "for God" and that he would only do it if the Pope let him paint it "in his own way". 

The chapel was long and wide. Its curved ceiling was held up by twelve fan-shaped pieces of wall called "pendentives". Pope Julius told Michelangelo to paint one of the twelve apostles of Jesus on each pendentive. Michelangelo started to do this. Then he got a different idea and scraped off the work that he had done. Instead of apostles he painted twelve prophets. Seven of them were men from the Old Testament but the other five were women and did not come from the Bible. They were five prophets from the Classical world. Like the prophets in the Bible, they had all told people about the birth of Jesus. 

On the middle of the ceiling, instead of painting a starry sky, Michelangelo painted scenes from the Bible telling the story of Creation and the downfall of humanity. The most famous scene is the picture of God creating Adam. The ceiling was so famous that many artists tried to copy the way that Michelangelo had arranged and painted the figures.

In 1513 Pope Julius II died. The next pope was Pope Leo X, a member of the Medici family. He gave Michelangelo several jobs in Florence, including designing a the Medici Chapel to hold the tombs of his family members. Although not all the tombs were built, Michelangelo finished seven large statues including a "Madonna and Child". His pupils later completed completed the chapel. 

In 1527, the people of Florence became angry at the Medici for acting like princes. That was not the right way for a family to act, in a city that was a republic. The people threw the Medici out, but the Medici came back with an army and took over the city. Michelangelo was so upset at the behaviour of the Medici that he left his beloved city and never went back. 

Pope Clement VII called Michelangelo back to the Sistine Chapel to paint the wall behind the altar with a huge scene of "The Last Judgement". He worked on it from 1534 to 1541. At the centre it shows Jesus, surrounded by saints, sitting in judgement over the people of the Earth. To the left, people are rising from their graves and many are welcomed into Heaven. To the right, other people are being sent to Hell where they are dragged down by demons. It is a huge painting with many figures in it. 

Like Adam and Eve on the ceiling, all the figures were shown naked. Some of the cardinals in the church said that it was wicked to paint saints, including the Virgin Mary, with no clothes on. They called Michelangelo "the painter of rude bits". There was a long argument about this because some people said that God had created everyone naked, so clothes would not be needed in Heaven. After Michelangelo's death another artist, Daniele da Volterra was called in to paint drapes on the figures. For the rest of his life he was known as "the painter of pants".

In 1546, when Michelangelo was his seventies, he was given one of his most important jobs. The old St Peter's Basilica had been partly demolished and a new one designed by Bramante. But many architects had worked on it and it was still just at the beginning stages. Michelangelo was made the architect. He immediately improved the plan, had important parts made much stronger, and designed a huge dome, taller than any other dome in the world. He died before it was completed, but he left drawings and models so that the next architect, Giacomo della Porta, could finish what he had started. The dome of St. Peter's Basilica still stands as one of the greatest monuments of Christianity, and as a symbol of the city of Rome. 

When Michelangelo died, his body was taken back to Florence and buried in the Basilica of Santa Croce (Church of the Holy Cross). On his tomb sit three mourning figures who symbolize Architecture, Painting and Sculpture.





</doc>
<doc id="4654" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4654" title="Leonardo da Vinci">
Leonardo da Vinci

Leonardo Da Vinci (15 April 1452 – 2 May 1519) was an Italian Renaissance genius. He was good at many things, but was most famous as a painter. He was also a scientist, a mathematician, an engineer, an inventor, an anatomist, a sculptor, an architect, a botanist, a musician and writer. 
Leonardo was curious about everything in nature. He wanted to know how everything worked. He was very good at studying, designing and making all sorts of interesting things. 

Many people think that Leonardo was one of the greatest painters of all time. Many people think that he was the most talented person ever to have lived. The art historian Helen Gardner said that no-one has ever been quite like him because he was interested in so many things that he seems to have had the mind of a giant, and yet what he was like as a person is still a mystery. 

Leonardo was born at Vinci which is a small town near Florence, in Italy. He was trained to be an artist by the sculptor and painter Verrocchio. He spent most of his life working for rich Italian noblemen. In his last years, he lived in a beautiful home given to him by the King of France. 

Leonardo could do all sorts of clever things, but he was most famous as a painter. Two of his pictures are among the best-known paintings in the world: the "Mona Lisa" and "the Last Supper". He did many drawings. The best-known drawing is "the Vitruvian Man". It is so well known that even Homer Simpson and Garfield have been drawn in a square and a circle to look like the drawing. Leonardo was always thinking of new inventions. Most of his inventions were never made. However, we know his ideas, because he kept notebooks and wrote and drew in them very often. Some of the ideas that he thought of were a helicopter, a tank, a calculator, a robot and solar power. 

Leonardo was born on 18 April 1452, in the Tuscan hill town of Vinci, in the valley of the Arno River. His grandfather, Ser Antonio, wrote down the details of the birth. Leonardo's parents were not married. His father was a lawyer, Messer Piero Fruosino di Antonio da Vinci. His mother, Caterina, was a servant. She may have been a slave from the Middle East. Leonardo's full name was "Leonardo di ser Piero da Vinci", which means "Leonardo, the son of Messer (Mister) Piero from Vinci". 

Leonardo spent his first five years living in a farm house with his mother. Then he lived at Vinci with his father, his father's wife Albiera, his grandparents and uncle, Francesco. When Leonardo grew up, he only wrote down two things about his childhood. He remembered that when he was lying outside in his cradle a large bird flew from the sky and hovered over him. Its tail feathers brushed his face. Leonardo's other important memory was how he found a cave while exploring in the mountains. He was terrified that some great monster might be hiding there. But he was also very excited and curious to find out what was inside. 

Leonardo started painting while he was still a boy. Giorgio Vasari wrote about Leonardo's life shortly after his death. He tells many interesting stories about how clever Leonardo was. He says that Leonardo painted a round wooden shield with a picture of snakes spitting fire. Messer Piero took his son's painting to Florence and sold it to an art dealer.

In 1466, when Leonardo was fourteen, his father took him to Florence, to be an apprentice to the artist Verrocchio. 

Florence was a very exciting place for a young person who wanted to be an artist. Many famous artists had lived in Florence, starting with Cimabue and Giotto in the 1200s. Everywhere a person looked there were famous and beautiful artworks. The huge cathedral had an enormous new dome. The church of St John had doors that gleamed with gold and were said to be the most beautiful doors in the world. Another church had statues all around it by the most famous sculptors, including one by Leonardo's teacher Verrocchio. 

If an artist was lucky, they would find a rich patron who would buy lots of their paintings. The richest family in Florence were the Medici. They had built themselves the finest palace in Florence, and liked buying paintings, statues and other beautiful things. They were also interested in the study of literature and philosophy. Many young artists hope to get work from the Medici and their friends.

Verrocchio had a big workshop that was one of the busiest in Florence. Leonardo was learning to be an artist, so he had to learn drawing, painting, sculpting and model making. While he was at the workshop, he was able to learn all sorts of other useful skills: chemistry, metallurgy, metal working, plaster casting, leather working, mechanics and carpentry. 

Leonardo was not the only young painter at Verrocchio's workshop. Many other painters were trained there, or often visited. Some of them later became famous: Ghirlandaio, Perugino and Botticelli. These artists were all just a few years older than Leonardo. 

Vasari tells an interesting story from this time of Leonardo's life. Verrocchio was painting a large picture of "the Baptism of Christ". He gave Leonardo the job of painting one of the angels holding Jesus' robe on the left side of the picture. Vasari said that Leonardo painted the angel so beautifully that Verrocchio put down his brush and never painted again. When the painting is examined closely it is possible to see that many other parts of the picture, such as the rocks, the brown stream and the background may have been painted by Leonardo as well. Verrocchio made a bronze statue of "David" at this time. It is believed that he used Leonardo as his model. 

In about 1472, when he was twenty, Leonardo joined the Guild of St Luke, an organisation of artists and doctors of medicine. Even after his father set him up in his own workshop, Leonardo still enjoyed working at Verrocchio's workshop. Leonardo's earliest known work is a drawing in pen and ink of the Arno River valley. It has the date 5 August 1473. It is now in the Uffizi Gallery. 

When Vasari writes about Leonardo, he uses words like "noble", "generous", "graceful" and "beautiful". Vasari tells us that as an adult Leonardo was a tall handsome man. He was so strong that he could bend horseshoes with his bare hands. His voice was so beautiful that it charmed everyone that heard it. Almost everyone wanted to be his friend. He loved animals, was a vegetarian and would buy birds at the market and set them free. 

Very little is known about Leonardo's life and work between 1472 and 1481. He was probably busy in Florence. In 1478, he had an important commission to paint an altarpiece for the Monks of San Donato a Scopeto. The painting was to be the "Adoration of the Magi" ("The Three Wise Men"). The painting was never finished because Leonardo was sent away to Milan.

Leonardo was a very talented musician. In 1482, he made a silver lyre (a musical instrument) in the shape of a horse's head. At that time there was a new ruler in the city of Milan, in the north of Italy. Duke Ludovico il Moro was making other rulers nervous. Lorenzo Medici sent Leonardo to Milan as an ambassador. Lorenzo de' Medici wanted Leonardo to give Ludovico the lyre as a present from him. Leonardo wrote a letter to the Duke of Milan, telling him about all the clever and useful things that he could do, like making war machines. He wrote in the letter that he could "also paint". Leonardo did not know at the time that it was for painting that he would be mostly remembered. Leonardo stayed in Milan and worked for the Duke between 1482 and 1499. Part of his work was to design festivals and carnival processions. In Leonardo's note books are drawings of theatre costumes, amazing helmets and scenes that might be for the theatre. 

Leonardo, like most other well-known artists of his time, had servants, young students and older assistants in his workshop. One of his young students was a boy whose name was Gian Giacomo Caprotti da Oreno. He was a handsome boy with beautiful long golden curls. He looked perfect as a artist's model for an angel. But he was such a difficult and dishonest boy that Leonardo called him "Salai" or "Salaino" which means "the little devil". Leonardo wrote in his notebook that Salai was very greedy, that he was a liar and that he had stolen things from the house at least five times. Salai stayed in Leonardo's household for thirty years as a pupil and a servant. 

Leonardo's most important work for Duke Ludovico was to make a huge statue of the previous ruler, Francesco Sforza, on horseback. He started with the horse. After studying horses and drawing designs, he made a huge horse of clay. It was called the "Gran Cavallo". It was going to be cast in bronze. It was going to be the biggest bronze horse that had been made for more than a thousand years. Unfortunately, the bronze horse was never made. In 1494, Ludovico gave the bronze to be made into cannons because the French army was invading Milan. The huge clay horse was still standing when the French army invaded again in 1499. This time it was used for target practice and was completely destroyed.

While Leonardo was working for Duke Ludovico, he had two important painting commissions. One was to do an oil painting to go in a big altarpiece for the Confraternity of the Immaculate Conception. Leonardo did the painting twice. He left one with the monks in Milan, and took the other painting to France where it is now in the Louvre Museum. The paintings are both called "the Virgin of the Rocks". They show a scene of the Virgin Mary and the child Jesus in a rocky mysterious landscape. Mary and Jesus are meeting with John the Baptist. There is a story (which is not in the Bible but is part of Christian tradition) about how the baby John and the baby Jesus met on the road to Egypt. In this scene John is praying and the baby Jesus raises his hand to bless John. The paintings have a strange eerie light with soft deep shadows. In the background is a lake and mountains in the mist. No painting like this had ever been done before.

Leonardo's other important painting in Milan is even more famous. It is the "Last Supper". The painting shows the last meal shared by Jesus with his disciples, before his capture and death. Leonardo chose to paint the moment when Jesus has said "one of you will betray me". Leonardo tells the story of the surprise and upset that this caused to the twelve followers of Jesus. He tells the story through the actions and faces of the people in the painting. Some of them are talking, some of them have stood up, some are raising their hands in horror. 

The novelist Matteo Bandello saw Leonardo at work. Bandello wrote that on some days he would paint from morning till night without stopping to eat. Then for three or four days he would not paint at all. He would often just stand and look at the painting. Vasari said that the prior of the convent was very annoyed. He asked Ludovico to tell Leonardo to work faster. Vasari said that Leonardo was worried because he did not think that he could paint the face of Jesus well enough. Leonardo told the Duke that he might use the face of the prior as his model for Judas, the traitor.

When it was finished, everyone that saw it said that the painting was a masterpiece. But Leonardo had not used proper fresco for the painting. He had used tempera over gesso, which is not usually used for wall painting. Soon the painting started to grow mold and flake off the wall. In a hundred years it was "completely ruined".
Even though in some places the paint has fallen right off the wall, the painting is so popular that it is printed and copied more that any other religious painting in the world.

In 1499, Ludovico il Moro was overthrown. Leonardo left Milan with his servant Salai and a friend, Luca Pacioli, who was a mathematician. They went to Venice. Leonardo worked as a military architect and engineer. Because Venice is a city on many islands, Leonardo tried to think of ways to defend the city from a naval attack. 

In 1500, Leonardo went back to Florence, taking his "household" of servants and apprentices with him. The monks from the monastery of "The Holy Annunciation" gave Leonardo a home and a large workshop. In 2005, some buildings which were used by the Department of Military Geography were being restored. The restorers discovered that part of the building was Leonardo's studio.

Leonardo started work on a new painting. He drew a large "cartoon". (This means: a drawing that is a plan for the painting.) The cartoon showed the Virgin Mary sitting on the knee of her mother, St Anne. Mary holds the baby Jesus in her arms. Jesus stretches out his hands to his young cousin John the Baptist. Vasari says that everyone was so amazed by the beautiful drawing that "men and women, young and old" came in large groups to see it "as if they were attending a great festival". The drawing is now in the National Gallery, London. Even though it is old and faded and is kept in a dark room, people go to the gallery to sit in front of it every day. Like many of Leonardo's projects, the painting was never done.

In 1502 and 1503, Leonardo worked for a powerful noble called Cesare Borgia, who was the son of Pope Alexander VI. He travelled around Italy with Borgia, as a military architect and engineer. Late in 1503, Leonardo returned to Florence. He rejoined the Guild of St Luke. He was given a very important commission. The Signoria (Town Council) of the City of Florence wanted two large frescos painted on the walls of the most important room of the Signoria Palace. They chose the two most famous painters, Leonardo da Vinci and Michelangelo. Michelangelo was to paint "the Battle of Cascina".

Leonardo began the project by studying and drawing the faces of angry men and fighting horses. These drawings can still be seen in his notebooks. But unfortunately, this was to be another failure for Leonardo. When he painted the picture on the wall, instead of using fresco, he mixed the paints with oil. The paint would not dry. Leonardo lit some fires to dry it, and the painting melted. We have some idea what the painting was like, because Peter Paul Rubens drew a copy of the middle part. After a time, the town council covered it up and got somebody else to paint the wall. Michelangelo did not finish his painting either, because the Pope called him to Rome.

While Leonardo was working at his studio in Florence, he painted the most famous portrait that has ever been painted, "the Mona Lisa" The Mona Lisa took from 1503 to 1519. It is a small picture, painted in oil paint on a wooden panel. It shows the face, upper body and hands of a woman. She is very plainly dressed. For a portrait, a woman would usually put on her best clothes and jewellery. Mona Lisa has a dark dress and a fine black veil over her head. Leonardo often left symbols in his paintings that give clues about the person. The unusual thing about this picture is the smile. The smile is the clue to her name: Mona Lisa Giacondo. Giacondo means "the joking one". (Mona is short for Madonna which means "My Lady".)

The reason why the painting is so famous is that it seems to be full of mystery. Mona Lisa's eyes look out at the viewer. But no-one can guess what she is thinking. Her eyes and her mouth seem to be smiling. This is very unusual in a portrait painting. Most people in portraits look very serious. It is hard to tell what Mona Lisa's exact expression is. When a person wants to read another person's feelings, they look at the corners of their mouth and eyes. But Leonardo has painted soft shadows in the corners of Mona Lisa's mouth and eyes, to disguise her expression. The soft shadows are also found on the sides of her face, her neck and hands. The way that Leonardo uses shadow is called "sfumato" (which is an Italian word for "smoke"). Vasari said that the picture was so beautifully painted that every other artist who looked at it thought that they could never paint so well.

In 1506, Leonardo went back to Milan with his pupils, and lived in his own house in Porta Orientale. Some of the pupils became painters: Bernardino Luini, Giovanni Antonio Boltraffio and Marco D'Oggione. D'Oggione made several copies of the "Last Supper". Luini made a copy of "the Virgin of the Rocks". Boltraffio (and the others) painted many Madonna and Child pictures which can still be seen in art galleries and churches. One of pupils was a young nobleman called Count Francesco Melzi. Melzi never became a very good painter, but he loved Leonardo and stayed with him until the day he died. 

In September 1513 Leonardo went to Rome and lived there until 1516. He lived in the Vatican. The three greatest painters of the High Renaissance, Leonardo, Michelangelo and Raphael were all working in Rome at the same time. Even though their names are often said together as if they were friends, they were not. Leonardo at this time was in his sixties, Michelangelo was middle-aged. He was not friendly to either Leonardo or Raphael. Raphael was a very clever young painter who learnt a lot by looking at the pictures painted by Leonardo and Michelangelo. But neither of them was ever his teacher. 

In October 1515, King Francis I of France captured Milan. On December 19, there was a meeting of Francis I and Pope Leo X, in Bologna. Leonardo went to the meeting with Pope Leo. 
Leonardo made an amazing toy to entertain King Francis. It was a life-sized mechanical lion that could walk. It had doors in its chest which opened, and a bunch of lilies came out. Lilies were the royal symbol of the French Kings.

In 1516, Francis I invited Leonardo to go to France with him. He gave Leonardo a beautiful house called "Clos Lucé" (sometimes called "Cloux"). It is near the king's palace, Chateau Amboise. Leonardo spent the last three years of his life at Clos Lucé, with his faithful friend and apprentice, Count Melzi. The king gave Leonardo a pension of 10,000 scudi. One of the last paintings that Leonardo did was a picture of "John the Baptist". His model was Salai, with his beautiful long curling hair. 

When Leonardo was dying, he asked for a priest to come, so that he could make his confession and receive Holy Communion.
Leonardo died at Clos Lucé, on May 2, 1519. King Francis had become a close friend. Vasari says that the King held Leonardo's head in his arms as he died. In his will, he asked that sixty beggars should follow his casket in procession. He was buried in the Chapel of the Chateau Amboise. 

Leonardo had never married and had no children of his own. In his will, he left his money, his books and most of his paintings to Count Melzi. Leonardo also remembered his other pupil Salai and his servant Battista di Vilussis, who each received half of Leonardo's vineyards near Milan. Leonardo's left to his serving woman a black cloak with a fur edge. Salai was the owner of Leonardo's most famous oil painting, the "Mona Lisa". He still owned it a few years later when he died, after fighting in a duel.

King Francis said: "There had never been another man born in the world who knew as much as Leonardo, not so much about painting, sculpture and architecture, as that he was a very great philosopher."

Leonardo did not paint very many pictures. But he drew hundreds of quick sketches, plans, maps and detailed drawings. This is the way that he recorded all the interesting things that he saw, studied and thought about. 

Some of Leonardo's drawings are "studies" for paintings. In these drawings Leonardo planned the things he was going to paint. Some studies are plans for whole paintings. One of these paintings is the large beautiful drawing of the Madonna and Child with St Anne and St John the Baptist that is now in the National Gallery, London.

Many of the studies show "details" that Leonardo wanted to get just right. One study shows a very detailed perspective drawing of the ruined buildings in the background of the painting of the Magi. Other studies show hands, faces, drapery, plants, horses and babies.
The earliest drawing by Leonardo that has a date on it, is a "Landscape of the Arno Valley", 1473, which shows the river, the mountains, Montelupo Castle and the farmlands beyond it in great detail.

 
Leonardo studied things all his life. He did not go to university to study. He studied by looking at things in the world around him. He looked at things to see how they were made and how they worked. He drew the things that he saw and the discoveries that he made into his notebooks, and made notes about them. Many of his notebooks are now in museums. There are 13,000 pages of notes and drawings. Many of these are scientific studies. 

Leonardo's notebooks are hard to read because he wrote backwards in "mirror writing". Some people think that perhaps he was trying to keep his work secret. This is not true. Leonardo wrote (and sometimes drew) with his left hand. In those days pens were made from a quill (a large feather) that was cut with a pen-knife on the end. It is hard for a left-handed person to write with a quill in the ordinary way, but quite easy to write backwards. 

It is likely that Leonardo planned to publish the studies in his notebooks. He organized many pages carefully, with one study taking up the front and back of each page. There is a page with drawings and writing about the human heart and a page about the womb and the fetus. One page shows drawings of the muscles of a shoulder and another page shows how an arm works. 

The notebooks were not published in Leonardo's lifetime. After he died, they were divided between different people who had known him. They are nearly all in museums or libraries such as Windsor Castle, the Louvre, and the British Library. The Biblioteca Ambrosiana (a library) in Milan has the twelve-volume "Codex Atlanticus".

Some of the things that Leonardo studied are: 

Many of the drawings and notes in Leonardo's notebooks are designs, plans and inventions. 

Some of the things that Leonardo designed are: 





</doc>
<doc id="4655" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4655" title="1844">
1844






</doc>
<doc id="4656" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4656" title="1902">
1902

1902 (MCMII) was a common year starting on Wednesday of the Gregorian calendar.






</doc>
<doc id="4657" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4657" title="1895">
1895




</doc>
<doc id="4658" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4658" title="1796">
1796




</doc>
<doc id="4659" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4659" title="1879">
1879





</doc>
<doc id="4660" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4660" title="1769">
1769




</doc>
<doc id="4661" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4661" title="1807">
1807



</doc>
<doc id="4662" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4662" title="1885">
1885





</doc>
<doc id="4663" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4663" title="1837">
1837



</doc>
<doc id="4665" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4665" title="Platinum">
Platinum

Platinum is a soft, heavy, white metal. It is a precious metal and not a common metal. It usually costs more than gold.

In chemistry, platinum is element number 78. It has an atomic weight of 195 a.m.u.. The symbol for platinum is Pt, from Spanish "platina" meaning "little silver".

Platinum is very malleable and ductile, which means it can be hammered into thin sheets and it can be pulled into wire. Platinum is very stable. Acids do not affect platinum. In the nineties lots and lots of urban people began wearing platinum as opposed to gold. White gold never became popular amongst America's urban population, thus Platinum originated the whole bling bling revolution.

The most common use of Platinum is in a vehicle catalytic converter.


</doc>
<doc id="4666" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4666" title="List of rocks">
List of rocks

Sorted by name; initial letter means Igneous, Sedimentary or Metamorphic rocks.



</doc>
<doc id="4667" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4667" title="List of minerals">
List of minerals

This is a list of minerals.





























</doc>
<doc id="4668" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4668" title="Minerals">
Minerals

Minerals are substances that are formed naturally in the Earth. 

Minerals are usually solid, inorganic, have a crystal structure, and happen naturally by geological processes. 

The study of minerals is called mineralogy.

A mineral can be made of single chemical element or more usually a compound. There are over 4,000 types of known minerals. Two common minerals are quartz and feldspar.

A mineral is a substance that usually

One recent definition is:
Alternatively, a mineral is one listed as such by the International Mineralogical Association.

Minerals are different from rocks. A mineral is a chemical compound with a given composition and a defined crystal structure. A rock is a mixture of one or several minerals, in varying proportions.

A rock has only two of the characteristics minerals have–it is a solid and it forms naturally. A rock usually contains two or more types of minerals. Two samples of the same type of rock may have different kinds of minerals in them. Minerals are always made up of the same materials in nearly the same proportions. A ruby is a mineral. Therefore, a ruby found in India has similar makeup as a ruby found in Australia.

Minerals are formed by natural processes. A few substances with the same chemical composition as minerals can be produced by living creatures as part of their shells or bones. The shells of molluscs are composed of either calcite or aragonite, or both.

Traditionally, chemicals produced by living things are not considered minerals. However, it is difficult to see why an organic substance should not be called a mineral if its chemical nature "and" its crystalline structure is identical with its inorganic twin. This issue is now under debate: see Railsback part II.

Minerals form in many ways. The mineral halite, which is used as table salt, forms when water evaporates in a hot, shallow part of the ocean, leaving behind the salt it contained. Many types of minerals are made when molten rock, or magma cools and turns into a solid. Talc, a mineral that can be used to make baby powder, forms deep in Earth as high pressure and temperature causes changes in solid rock.

A mineral is a solid—that is, it has a definite volume and a rough shape. Volume refers to the amount of space an object takes up. For example a golf ball has a smaller volume than a baseball, and a baseball has a smaller volume than a basketball.
A substance that is a liquid or a gas is not a mineral. However, in some cases its solid form is a mineral. For instance, liquid water is not a mineral, but ice is.

These properties are used most often:

The particles of ice that make up frost have smooth, flat surfaces. These flat surfaces form because of the arrangement of atoms in the ice, which is a mineral. Such an internal arrangement is a characteristic of minerals. It is the structure of a crystal, a solid in which the atoms are arranged in an orderly, repeating three-dimensional pattern. 

Each mineral has its own type of crystal structure. In some cases, two minerals have the same chemical composition but different crystal structures. For example, both diamond and graphite consist of just one element—carbon. But the arrangements of the carbon atoms in these two minerals are not the same, so they have different crystal structures and very different properties. Diamonds are extremely hard and have a brilliant sparkle. Graphite is soft, gray, and dull. 

In nature, a perfect crystal is rare. Most crystals have imperfect shapes because their growth was limited by other crystals forming next to them.

Each mineral has a definite chemical makeup: it consists of a specific combination of atoms of certain elements. An element is a substance that contains only one type of atom.

Scientists can classify minerals into groups on the basis of their chemical makeup. Though there are thousands of different minerals, only about 30 are common in Earth's crust. These 30 minerals make up most rocks in the crust. For that reason, they are called rock-forming minerals. 

The most common group is the silicates. All the minerals in this group contain oxygen and silicon—the two most common elements in Earth's crust—joined together. They may include other elements such as aluminium, magnesium, iron and calcium. Quartz, feldspar, and mica are common silicates.

The second most common group of rock-forming minerals is the carbonates. All the minerals in this group contain carbon and oxygen joined together. Calcite, which is common in seashells, is a carbonate mineral. There are many other mineral groups. The mineral group known as oxides contains the minerals from which most metals, such as tin and copper, are refined. An oxide consists of an element, usually a metal, joined to oxygen. This group includes haematite, a source of iron.

These contain the sulphate group SO. Sulphates commonly form in evaporites where highly salty waters slowly evaporate, allowing sulfates and halides to precipitate where the water evaporates. Sulphates also occur where hot waters are forced through the rock, as with geysers.

People use minerals for many everyday purposes. Every time people turn on a microwave oven or a TV, minerals are being used. The copper in the wires that carry electricity to the object is a mineral. Table salt or halite, is another mineral that people use in their everyday life. 



</doc>
<doc id="4669" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4669" title="Craft">
Craft

Craft is about making things with one's own hands and skills. The different types of crafts can be put in groups according to the material being used. In the Middle Ages the most common materials were metal, wood or clay.

A craftsman is a person who has the knowledge and skills of a craft. When they have a lot of experience they may be called a master craftsman. If they are young people learning a craft they are called an apprentice



</doc>
<doc id="4678" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4678" title="Kim Jong-il">
Kim Jong-il

Kim Jong-il, birth name Yuri Irsenovich Kim (According to Soviet records) (, February 16, 1941 – December 17, 2011) was the Supreme Leader of Democratic People's Republic of Korea (North Korea) from the time of his father's death in 1994 until his own death in 2011. He was the son of Kim Il-Sŏng. Official North Korean propaganda says he was born on Mount Paektu (a holy mountain in Korea) however most historians think that he was born near Chabarowsk in the Soviet Union. Inside North Korea, it was the law that no one could try to replace him as leader of the country. He was sometimes referred to as the "Dear Leader", but this was not an official title. His official title was "Chairman of the National Defense Commission of North Korea", "Supreme Commander of the Korean People's Army" and "General Secretary of the Workers' Party of Korea". Many people in North Korea were imprisoned or killed for speaking out against the Kim regime. Almost everyone in North Korea wore a small pin with a picture of Kim Jŏng-Il or Kim Il-Sŏng on it.

The North Korean government told people of his death through the state media on December 19, 2011. It was said that he had died two days earlier of "physical and mental over-work".

Kim was a Stalinist. He believed in the North Korean Communist philosophy of Juche (self-reliance). He was afraid to travel on aeroplanes and traveled only on trains. He was well known for his love of movies and luxury goods, especially caviar and Hennessey brand cognac, even though North Korea was one of the poorest countries in the world. Former United States Secretary of State Madeleine Albright once gave Kim a present of a basketball signed by Michael Jordan when he visited North Korea because Kim is a fan of the National Basketball Association and of Michael Jordan.



</doc>
<doc id="4679" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4679" title="Silver">
Silver

Silver (symbol Ag) is a chemical element. In chemistry, silver is element 47, a transition metal. It has an atomic weight of 107.86 a.m.u. Its symbol is Ag, from the Latin word for silver, "argentum".

Silver is a soft metal. It is also a precious metal. When it is used in money or in jewellery, it is often mixed with gold or some other metal to make it harder. It is bluish-white. It reflects light very well. It is a very good conductor of electricity. It is considered a precious metal. Silver is very malleable, and ductile, which means it can be pulled into wire or hammered into thin sheets. Silver is one of the only words in the English language that does not rhyme with any other word. Silver coins and bars can be bought and sold at coin shops around the world.

It is not reactive. It does not dissolve in most acids. Nitric acid dissolves it, though, to make silver nitrate. It does react with strong oxidizing agents like potassium dichromate or potassium permanganate. It does not corrode easily. It only corrodes when there is hydrogen sulfide in the air. Then, it forms a black coating known as tarnish. 

Silver exists in the +1 oxidation state as an ion, in compounds such as silver(I) oxide. A few compounds exist in the +2 oxidation state, but they are very strong oxidizing agents. Silver compounds can be gray, black, brown, or white. Silver compounds are disinfectants.

Silver can be found as a metal. Silver can be found with copper, lead, or gold in rocks. The rocks are found mostly in Canada, Mexico, Peru, and the United States. Peru produces the most silver. Silver is also in chemical compounds. Acanthite is a silver ore that is a silver compound.

Silver is extracted from the earth in several ways. It is normally gotten from electrolysis.

Silver has been used for many thousands of years by people all over the world, for jewellery, as money, and many other things. It is called a white metal even though it looks grey. The word silver is also used to talk about this colour or shade of grey. Silver is also used for utensils. It may be used to fill teeth in dentistry as an amalgam. Silver is used as a catalyst. 
Silver compounds are disinfectants. It can kill bacteria and has other useful properties. It is used in the silver oxide battery. They are also used in photographic film. They can also be used to reduce odors in clothes. Some silver compounds are used in creams that help burns heal. 

Silver has been around for thousands of years. It was normally considered second to gold in value. Romans used silver as money. The symbol Ag is from the Latin name for silver, "argentum". Silver was also used to prevent infections and decay.

Silver is not a large danger to humans. Silver compounds are toxic. They make the skin turn blue. Some can be carcinogens. Colloidal silver, a common homeopathic remedy, is not toxic in normal amounts, but it does not do much.
Silver, because is depleting, is actually more valuable than gold. The silver saved up in the world is running out very quickly because more of it has been used each year than the amount mined in each year since 1990. Companies that use silver have benefitted from speculators who sell promises to deliver silver that does not exist, keeping prices artificially low. This is called naked short selling. The amount owed is more than all the silver in the world. The price of silver could go very high when the stored silver runs out and investors start asking for their metal back, instead of taking more I.O.U.'s.

Silver is 18 US dollars per troy ounce as of June 2010.

Silver increased to 28 US dollars per troy ounce as of December 2010.


</doc>
<doc id="4681" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4681" title="Pope">
Pope

"This article is about Popes in general. For the current Pope, see Pope Benedict XVI."

The Pope is the head of Catholic Church. The current Pope is Benedict XVI; he was born in Germany. The previous Pope, John Paul II died on April 2, 2005 at 9:15/21:15 vatican time

Popes are elected by under 80 Cardinals of the Catholic Church. Once they are elected they hold the position until they die or resign. Usually they do not resign, though; the last pope who resigned was Pope Gregory XII in 1415 because of political pressure. After a Pope is elected, the pope chooses a different name. Everyone is told the new name when the Habemus Papam is read out. The current pope (Benedict XVI) was called Joseph Ratzinger before he became a pope.

In the Middle Ages, the Pope had a lot of political power. This is no longer the case.

The name "Pope" comes from the Greek word "pappas", meaning "father". Catholics believe that when making statements "ex cathedra", that is official statements teaching about faith and morals, the Pope is "infallible" - which means God will not allow his followers to be misled by allowing their leader to make a wrong statement. Only two of any Pope's statements have been "ex cathedra". 

The Pope is also the head of state of the Vatican City, a tiny country in the city of Rome, Italy whose only purpose is to run the Roman Catholic Church. Popes today travel to many countries around the world preaching. The Pope is the only person in the world who is the leader of a political state and a religion at the same time.

The Pope wears a big hat called a mitre and holds a staff called a crosier.

Some recent Popes, and the time they were Pope:

During parts of the Middle Ages, the French kings had a lot of influence in Europe. For this reason, seven popes (and two anti-popes) lived in Avignon, rather than Rome. This was from 1309 to 1377. During that time the popes were known for their greed and corruption. These popes were allies of France; the enemies of France were also their enemies.
The Bishops of Rome who lived in Avignon were:

Two antipopes were based in Avignon as well:

Antipopes were people that were elected by small groups, because they did not like the official choice. 
Catherine of Siena could convince pope Gregory XI to move back to Rome. Unfortunately, he died shortly after moving. The cardinals then elected Urban VI to be the next pope. The French cardinals did not recognise this election as legitimate. They declared the papal see as vacant; which led to the Western Schism. The Shism lasted until the Council of Constance in 1417. During this time, there was a pope in Rome, an Antipope in Avignon, and for some time, a second antipope. Each of the three was recognised as legitimate pope by different European powers. This led to a big split in the church as a whole. The council elected Pope Martin V as a new pope, recognised by all parties.


</doc>
<doc id="4685" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4685" title="San Andreas Fault">
San Andreas Fault

The San Andreas Fault is a dextral (moving right) strike-slip fault. It marks the boundary between the North American Plate on the east and the Pacific Plate on the west. The fault was the cause of the 1906 San Francisco earthquake. It first appeared about 20 million years ago. 

The San Andreas Fault is composed of a zone several miles wide which incorporates multiple strands. The main active strand currently runs on and off-shore between Cape Mendocino and the Sea of Cortez. From Cape Mendocino, it runs offshore to Tomales Bay. Then it goes southward through Bolinas Lagoon, just west of the San Francisco Peninsula, to come onshore again at Daly City, through the hills of the Peninsula. Crystal Springs reservoir is formed by the fault itself. 

In the Santa Cruz mountains, it bends slightly eastward. This is the site of the 1989 Loma Prieta Earthquake. The fault continues south through the historic mission at San Juan Bautista and through the town of Hollister (where active creep can be seen to offset sidewalks and even houses). The Transverse Ranges north of Santa Barbara are formed by compression. Strands of the fault snake under the Los Angeles Basin. From there it connects into the active spreading under the Sea of Cortez.

The San Andreas fault was discovered by Andrew Lawson in 1895, who famously climbed into the faulted serpentinite well where the south tower of the Golden Gate Bridge was being poured. In spite of the extreme deformation of the serpentinite, Lawson declared the bridge perfectly safe. The events of the 1906 San Francisco earthquake would seem to support his conclusion: the ruptured strand was not the one he observed in the footprint of the bridge.


</doc>
<doc id="4689" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4689" title="Void (astronomy)">
Void (astronomy)

In astronomy, voids are the empty spaces between filaments. Both filaments and Voids are one of the largest-scale structures in the Universe. There are no or few galaxies in voids. Most voids have a diameter of 11 to 150 Mpc. 
Especially large voids are the empty spaces without many superclusters. 
These voids are sometimes called supervoids.

A 1994 official counting (""The structure of the Universe traced by rich clusters of galaxies."", see References) lists a total of 27 supervoids with a distance of up to 740 Mpc. Some of supervoids chosen from the list are given below.




</doc>
<doc id="4690" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4690" title="Computer mouse">
Computer mouse

A computer mouse is used to tell a computer what to do, including moving the cursor and choosing things on the screen. 

It got its name because the wire coming out of the end of the first computer mice reminded people of the tail of a real mouse. Many mice today are wireless and use batteries.
When Silicon Valley was being reclaimed in California, Douglas Engelbart, a researcher of Stanford institute, wanted to find a way to make using computers easier. In those days, using a computer was very hard because they were large machines. Everything had to be typed in by hand, and there was no way to alter things if you made a mistake. 

After studying and designing for a long time, Engelbart succeeded in inventing an input device which he named 'XY index'. 

At first, it needed two hands to use, but it was changed so that only one hand was needed to use it. This is the mouse that we use today. 

The mouse was used with Macintosh of Apple Inc. when it came out in 1984. Microsoft Windows also used the mouse when it came out, so over time computer mice became used with many computers.

On most computers, the user can move the mouse to move the cursor in the same direction. If there is something on the screen that the user wants to choose, he can move the cursor over it and "click" the mouse button. The right mouse button is used to open menus that are different depending on where the cursor is. The other mouse buttons can do different things, depending on the software. A mouse can have 1 to 6 buttons to click, but most mice have two or three. Most mice also have a "scroll wheel" -- a small wheel found between the two main mouse buttons. The user can move the wheel up or down to "scroll" through things like a website or folder, which means to move it up or down on the screen, or he or she can click the wheel down like another button.



</doc>
<doc id="4693" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4693" title="Metallurgy">
Metallurgy

Metallurgy is the study of metals. Alloys are also studied. People who study metals are called "metallurgists".

The rocks are made of a metal with oxygen, called an oxide. Separating the oxygen off the metal is called smelting This is done with chemistry or electricity. It happens often in very high temperature. This is the first step in metallurgy. A rock containing enough metal to be profitable is called "ore".

Iron is smelted from iron ore in large reactors called blast furnaces. A blast furnace is a tall vertical structure which is fed with coke, iron ore and limestone. When hot air is blown in the blast furnace, the coke will burn and reduce the oxygen off the ore, producing bare iron and carbon dioxide. The limestone will bind off any remaining bedrock. The iron melts in the hot temperature and is tapped off in liquid phase at the bottom. It is then worked into steel. The limestone and bedrock form a compound called slag. It can be used for making bricks, concrete or road topping.

Aluminum is smelted in electric ovens called electric arc furnaces. The aluminum ore is poured on the bottom of the furnace and electric current is led through the ore. The temperature rises so high that the oxygen separates, leaving metallic aluminum.

Copper is poured on naked flame which burns off sulfur and other impurities, leaving raw copper. The copper is then electrolyzed (that is: separated by electric current) in big pools, which contain water solution called electrolyte. An electric current is led in the pool, and all copper will gather on the electrode called cathode.

Another part of metallurgy is making parts from metals. These parts must be made so they will not break when they are used. Metallurgists work to make the metal good when they are used. Sometimes the metal must be strong. Other times it must be tough (not easily broken). The metallurgist must follow directions when making the part to know what metal to use. Steel has a low cost, but rusts. Choosing a good metal is sometimes hard.

A metal starts as a block, called an ingot. Metallurgists must know how to make a metal part from an ingot. Parts are made from ingots different ways. When a big hammer is used, it is called forging. To make thin metals, a metal is put between two rolls and moved, called rolling.

When a metal part is made hot, the metal moves farther than when it is cold. Most metal parts are made hot, to make moving metal easier. This is hot work.

Two metal parts can be put together with much heat. This is called welding. Iron is easy to weld.

Metallurgists use many tools to know what to do to the metal. The most useful is the microscope. The microscope gives much information about the way the metal moves. Metals are sometimes pulled until they break. This is the tension test. Some useful information can be gotten from this test.


</doc>
<doc id="4700" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4700" title="Fixed-wing aircraft">
Fixed-wing aircraft

A fixed-wing aircraft, more often called an aeroplane or airplane is a kind of aircraft. An aircraft is a machine that can fly, but is heavier than air. Fixed-wing aircraft are sometimes called just planes. All fixed-wing aircraft have wings. Gliders are fixed-wing aircraft that do not have engines. 

A steam-powered unmanned fixed-wing aircraft, that weighed 9 lbs., was built by John Stringfellow, in Chard, Somerset, England in 1848. It could fly by itself without needing to be dropped from high up. There were gliders before this, but they had to fly by being pushed off a building or hill.

The first man who flew (that is: took off, steered and landed) a motor-powered fixed wing aircraft was Orville Wright in 1903 in Kitty Hawk, North Carolina, USA.

Today, fixed-wing aircraft fly between many cities all over the world, bringing people and cargo. Big cities usually have an international airport, which is the place where fixed-wing aircraft can land and take off safely. Some large cities like New York City and London have more than one airport. Two large makers of fixed-wing aircraft are Airbus and Boeing.

Advances in technology have made fixed-wing aircraft more efficient in recent years. Things like winglets and more efficient turbofans have helped to do this.

The first aircraft for war bombing was used in Libya in 1911 by Italy against the Ottoman Empire. Some fixed-wing aircraft are used by air forces to defend countries. These fixed-wing aircraft may use guns or missiles for combat with other aircraft, or they may drop bombs on ground targets.

Fixed-wing aircraft allow people to travel longer distances, and faster than ships or trains. Aircraft can fly from New York to London in about 7 hours. It would take one week or more on a ship.

Airplanes are also used by the military to see many things on the ground easily. This is called surveillance or reconnaissance. Often, fixed-wing aircraft will take photographs as well, which can be used for military planning later.

Fixed-wing aircraft have long been used for moving people from place to place, for things like holidays.

Sometimes, people are scared to fly. They may think that the plane could crash, or hijacked by terrorists. However, statistics show that riding in a plane is safer than driving in a car. The September 11, 2001 attacks helped spread this fear of flying.


</doc>
<doc id="4701" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4701" title="Aircraft">
Aircraft

An aircraft is a flying machine. There are many different kinds of aircraft.

Some aircraft keep in the sky by moving air over their wings. Examples are aeroplanes, helicopters, and gliders. Some aircraft keep in the sky by floating. Examples are balloons and airships.

Most aircraft use engine power. Examples are aeroplanes, helicopters, and airships. A few aircraft use no power. Examples are gliders and balloons.
A few aircraft use muscle power.

Big aeroplanes for transporting people are called "airliners". Airliners fly at more than 850 km/h (530 mph). Less than 100 years ago, the quickest ships needed more than seven days to travel across the Atlantic Ocean because it is 4,800 km (3,000 miles) wide. Now airliners need less than seven hours to travel across the Atlantic Ocean. Airliners are the quickest way to travel. Airliners can fly over mountains and bad weather. Airliners have complex technology to make them fly quickly, safely, and for less money. 

Fighting aircraft fly at 3,200 km/h (2,000 mph). 

The person who drives an aircraft is called the pilot.



</doc>
<doc id="4702" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4702" title="Victoria, British Columbia">
Victoria, British Columbia

Victoria is the capital city of the province of British Columbia, Canada. It is named after Queen Victoria.

Over 350,000 people live in the Victoria area. Many people work for the government or in tourism. It is warmer than other Canadian cities in the winter, so many Canadians move there when they retire.

Victoria is on Vancouver Island. Most people travel there by boat (ferry) from Vancouver, or from Washington State. Victoria has three ferry docks and an airport.

Victoria has one of the mildest climates in Canada, with gardens blooming year round.

If you visit Victoria, see the beautiful Butchart Gardens and the Royal British Columbia Museum. Some of the best-known buildings are the government buildings and the Empress Hotel; both are by the Inner Harbour.

The first people to live in the area were the Coast Salish native people. People from England built Fort Victoria in 1843. Victoria became a city in 1862.

18,000 students study at the University of Victoria. Other people study at Camosun College, Royal Roads University, University Canada West, Victoria College of Art, and the Canadian College of Performing Arts. Students from all over the world study at Pearson College, near Victoria.

The Canadian navy has ships in a part of the city called Esquimalt.

Some of the parks include Beacon Hill Park, East Sooke Park, Mount Work Park, and Mount Douglas Park.

There are many flowers in Victoria; it is called the "city of gardens." There is a lot of rain but little snow.

Some well-known people from Victoria are:

The Victoria area is made up of 13 parts. Four of them make up Greater Victoria:

Three of them make up the Saanich Peninsula:

The others make up the Western Communities:


</doc>
<doc id="4705" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4705" title="Suez Canal">
Suez Canal

The Suez Canal (Arabic: قناة السويس, "Qanā al-Suways", French: "Le Canal de Suez") is a canal in Egypt. It lies west of the Sinai Peninsula. The canal is 163 km long (101 miles) and, at its narrowest point, 300 m wide (984 ft). It runs between Port Said ("Būr Sa'īd") on the Mediterranean Sea, and Suez ("al-Suways") on the Red Sea. It was built by a French company. The canal was started in 1859 and finished in 1869.

The canal allows boats/ships to travel from Europe to Asia without having to go the way around Africa. It was built to go from Egypt to the Indian Ocean.

The canal consists of two parts, north and south of the Great Bitter Lake.

The Suez Canal was first built over 2,000 years ago.

In 1859, the Suez Canal was built again, by the Universal Suez Ship Canal Company, and took 10 years to build. The first ship to pass through the canal did so on 17 February 1867; Giuseppe Verdi wrote the famous opera Aida for this ceremony. 

The canal made it possible to easily transport goods across the world. The canal also allowed Europeans to travel to East Africa, and this area was soon controlled by European powers.

The success of the Suez Canal encouraged the French to try to build the Panama Canal. But they did not finish it. The Panama Canal was finished later.

After the Six Day War in 1967, the canal remained closed until June 5, 1975. A UN peacekeeping force has been stationed in the Sinai Peninsula since 1974, to avoid more wars.

About 15,000 ships pass through the canal each year, which is about 14% of world shipping. Each ship takes up to 16 hours to cross the canal.


</doc>
<doc id="4706" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4706" title="Canal">
Canal

A canal is a waterway made by humans. In the 1800s and 1900s, canals were built as a way of transporting heavy goods in barges. Canals usually connect lakes, rivers, or oceans. Some canals allow boats to pass. Others are used for irrigation. The Panama Canal is a famous canal that connects the Atlantic Ocean with the Pacific Ocean. They are inforced with clay or concrete on the sides.


</doc>
<doc id="4707" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4707" title="Mars (mythology)">
Mars (mythology)

Mars is the God of War in Roman mythology. Mars is the son of Juno. Mars is the father of Romulus and Remus. The planet Mars, and the month March are named after him. He was the god of war,murder and bloodshed



</doc>
<doc id="4708" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4708" title="Cessna">
Cessna

Cessna is a company that makes airplanes. They are located in Wichita, Kansas in the United States. They make small aircraft that can hold 2 to 4 people.




</doc>
<doc id="4710" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4710" title="Clothing">
Clothing

Clothing is an item which is made to cover part of the human body. The torso (body) can be covered by a (shirt), arms by sleeves, legs by (pants, jeans, or skirt), the hands by (gloves), feet by (socks and shoes, sandals, boots) and the head by (hats). Clothing is made from many materials, such as cotton, wool, or polyester fabrics and leather. In cold climates, people also wear heavy, thick coats such as trenchcoats.

Almost all humans wear clothing. Clothing protects the human body from the hot sun and high temperatures in warm tropical countries (such as Cuba). Clothing such as thick wool coats and boots keeps the human body warm in very cold temperatures (such as in the Canadian arctic). As well, clothing protects people from insects that might hurt a person if his or her body is not covered up. Clothing is also worn for decoration, as a fashion (clothing). People from different cultures wear different clothing, and have different beliefs and customs about what type of clothing should be worn.
For many people, clothing is a status symbol. It also helps people project an image. Often, clothing is a form of self expression. Adults in different social or work situations present different views of themselves by the clothes they wear. Young people have an entirely different form of dress to express their personalities. Often people will simply follow popular fashion styles so that they will fit in. Clothing is far more than just a means to protect our bodies.

People also decorate their bodies with makeup or perfume, and they also cut or change the hair on their heads and faces. They might also go in for body modification: tattoos, scarifications, and body piercings. But makeup and tattoos are not kinds of clothing.

Things that are carried and not worn, like purses, canes, and umbrellas, are called accessories, but they are not kinds of clothing, either. Jewelry and eyeglasses are also accessories that are put on the body. Nail Polish is also put on the finger tips and can be translated as makeup.

Clothing is often made of:



</doc>
<doc id="4711" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4711" title="Shoe">
Shoe

A shoe is a type of footwear. Shoes come in pairs, with one shoe for each foot. A shoe is also an item of clothing.

There are many different types of shoes. One type of shoe is Trainers. Their main purpose is to make running, walking, or jogging easier by making the weight of the shoe lighter and the sole of the shoe softer. Slippers are a kind of indoor shoe. They are often worn when it is cold.

People usually wear shoes in public. They are worn for hygiene, style, and comfort.


</doc>
<doc id="4712" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4712" title="Footwear">
Footwear

Footwear is an item of clothing made by humans that covers and protects the foot, including the soles of the feet. Footware allows people to walk on rough surfaces such as gravel roads without hurting their feet. Some types of footwear such as boots help to keep people's feet dry, or help to keep people's feet warm in cold weather.








People in many countries make their own footwear by hand, using simple tools. A simple pair of sandals can be made by hand cutting a foot-shaped sole out of a thick, flexible material such as rubber. Next, straps of fabric, rope or leather can be added with a needle and thread. A simple pair of boots can be made by hand by using animal hide with fur, and sewing it with strong thread.

Many people wear footwear that is made in a factory. The machines in shoe factories and boot factories can make footwear much more quickly than people who are making footwear by hand with a needle and thread. 


</doc>
<doc id="4713" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4713" title="Café">
Café

A cafe is a type of restaurant which usually serves coffee and snacks. The term "cafe" comes from French, and means "coffee".

You can read newspapers and magazines there, or chat with other customers about current topics. It is known as a place where information can be exchanged. 

A cafe is sometimes called a coffeehouse or a coffee shop in English, a café in French, Spanish, and Portuguese and a caffè in Italian. It shares some of the characteristics of a bar, and some of the characteristics of a restaurant, but it is different from a cafeteria, which is a type of restaurant where customers can choose from many dishes on a serving line. In some countries, cafes more closely resemble restaurants, offering a range of hot meals, and possibly being licensed to serve alcohol. British cafes however, do not sell alcohol.
In the Netherlands, cannabis-selling cafes face an uncertain future under a planned new law banning smoking in public places. The cafes, which attract millions of tourists each year, allow customers to buy marijuana over the counter and openly smoke it. In the United States, donut shops are also popular places to drink coffee and hang out.

A new type of cafe, known as the Internet cafe, was introduced in the 1990s, . The spread of modern-style cafes to many places, urban and rural, went hand in hand with computers. Computers and Internet access in a contemporary atmosphere created a youthful, modern public space, compared to the traditional bars, or old-fashioned diners that they replaced. Nowadays, many cafes offer wireless Internet or have computers customers can use, just as they offer telephones and newspapers.


</doc>
<doc id="4714" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4714" title="Jazz">
Jazz

Jazz is a type of music which was invented in the United States. Jazz music combines African-American music with European music. A great example of jazz can be heard at http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VbzvElL5opY .

Some common jazz instruments include the saxophone, trumpet, piano, double bass, and drums.

It is difficult to give an exact definition for "jazz". One important part of jazz is "improvisation", which means the person playing is making music up as they go along. If a jazz band is playing a song, the song may have several solos where one player will improvise while the rest of the band, except for the rhythm section (such as the piano, bass, or drums), does not play.
Another Great Example of Jazz in 5/4 is http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=REkZgaESH3Y

Jazz started in the United States in the early 20th century. Jazz music has musical influences from the African slaves who were taken from Africa to work in the plantations of the southern United States, such as "call and response" songs and blue notes. These influences were indirect, through earlier musical forms such as ragtime. Also, jazz has musical styles from European music, as well as the brass and stringed instruments and (sometimes) the use of musical notation.

There have been different types of jazz over the year. In the 1920s, there was New Orleans-style jazz and Dixieland jazz was also popular. In the 1930s, there was swing jazz, which was also called big band jazz. In the 1940s, bebop became a major type of jazz, with fast songs and complex harmony. Large jazz bands, which are called big bands, were also popular in the 1940s. Big bands usually have 5 saxophone players, 4 or 5 trumpet players, 4 trombone players, a piano player or guitar player, an acoustic bass player, a drummer, and sometimes a singer. In the 1950s, there was hard bop jazz. In the 1960s, there was modern jazz and free jazz. In the 1970s, jazz fusion, began to blended jazz music with rock music.


</doc>
<doc id="4715" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4715" title="Coffee">
Coffee

Coffee is a plant and the name of the drink that is made from this plant. The coffee plant is a bush or tree that can grow up to ten meters (about 32 feet) high, but is usually cut shorter. Coffee plants originally grew in Africa, and now also grow in South America, Central America and Southeast Asia. They are an important crop for the economies of many countries. 

The drink is made from the seeds of the coffee plant, called coffee beans. Coffee is usually served hot, and is a popular drink in many countries. Coffee contains a chemical called caffeine, a mild drug that keeps people awake. 

To make a drink from coffee beans, the beans must first be specially prepared by roasting. The beans are usually roasted a short time after they are picked. This dries them out, makes them last longer, and makes them ready to be packed. Before the beans are made into a drink, they are ground (crushed into tiny pieces in a coffee mill). When the ground coffee is placed into boiling water, the flavour and dark brown colour of the beans goes into the water. Making coffee is called brewing coffee. There are several different ways that coffee can be brewed.

There are two main types of coffee plant. The "Coffea Arabica", the most common. Most of the world's coffee is made from Arabica beans, and the "Coffea Robusta", which is easier to grow in places where Arabica will not grow. 

Robusta is cheaper and has more caffeine than Arabica and it is used in many commercial coffee products. But Robusta tastes bitter and acidic, so people only drink it with other things. Better quality Robustas are in some espresso blends. 

In the past, people gave names to new Arabica coffees from the port they came from. The two oldest Arabica coffees are "Mocha" and "Java". Today, names are more specific. They tell us the country, region, and sometimes even the property where they come from.

Some sorts of coffee taste better if the beans are "aged". This means that after they are picked, the beans are kept from three to eight years. This "aging" gives the coffee a less acidic taste. Coffee that has been aged is often mixed or "blended" with other coffee that is not aged.

"Roasting" is one of the important stages in making coffee beans into coffee. When a coffee bean is roasted, it grows nearly two times bigger and changes from green to yellow to brown. 

The length of time that the coffee beans are roasted makes the coffee taste different. Some types of coffee, such as Mocha and Java, are roasted for a short time. It is easy to tell from the flavour where the coffee is from. When coffee is roasted for a long time, it is harder to tell the different types apart. Green coffee beans can be bought and roasted at home in the oven.

Before the coffee is made into a drink, it is "ground" in a small grinding machine called a "coffee mill". The coffee mill breaks the beans into very small pieces. Coffee is turned into a drink in several different ways. For some ways of making coffee, such as "espresso" it is best to have the coffee ground into fine powder but for other types of coffee-making, such as "filtered coffee", the coffee is in larger pieces to stop it going through the filter. Finely ground coffee makes a stronger taste. 

Coffee is made into a drink by putting the coffee into boiling water. This is called "brewing" coffee. 
There are many ways to brew coffee. Four of the most popular are:






"Instant coffee" is a very quick way to make a cup of coffee to drink. It is made in a factory and sold in jars or packets. First, strong coffee is made using ground coffee and boiling water. Then, the coffee grounds are filtered out. The coffee liquid is dried out until nothing is left except granules (little crunchy pieces), or fine powder. This is then put into jars or packets. As soon as a spoonful of "instant coffee" is added to boiling water, it dissolves in the water to make coffee to drink. The taste can be very different from fresh coffee. Part of the reason for the different taste is that "Robusta" coffee beans are usually used for making instant coffee. Robusta coffee beans do not cost as much as "Arabica".

The United States buys the most coffee; Germany is next. People in Sweden drink the most coffee for each person. In Canada, the United States and Europe, some restaurants sell mainly coffee; they are referred to as "cafés" or "coffeehouses". Cafés often sell food, but the type of food is different from one country to another.

In some countries, for example, those in northern Europe, people like having coffee parties. At these parties, people have coffee and cake.

In many countries, people drink coffee at work; in the United States and England, for example, people drink it in the morning. In other countries, such as Mexico, people drink it in the evening to help them stay awake.

Coffee contains the drug caffeine. Caffeine is a mild which helps to keep people awake. Caffeine, like many drugs, can be addictive and can cause health problems. 

Some studies have looked at the health risks of coffee. In February 2003, there was a study in Denmark of 18,478 women to find out if coffee had an effect on pregnancy and birth. It was found that if a woman drank between four and seven cups of coffee a day, it did not seem to make a big change to the number of babies that were born dead, (stillborn). But the women in the study who drank eight or more cups of coffee a day had three times as much chance of having a stillborn baby.

For this, and other reasons, some people drink coffee substitutes instead.



</doc>
<doc id="4716" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4716" title="Beef">
Beef

Beef is a type of meat. Beef comes from cows. There are different kinds of beef. Beef is quite popular in Argentina and the United States. Beef derives from the German word 'beife', meaning grazing beast. In the faith of Hinduism, it is forbidden to eat beef. Although Sikhs can eat beef, Sikhs in India do not eat beef out of respect for Hindus.

Beef can also mean a rivalry or feud between people in slang.




</doc>
<doc id="4717" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4717" title="Hyaena">
Hyaena

Hyaenas (sometimes 'Hyena') are mammals. They are the family Hyaenidae, in the order Carnivora. They live in Africa, and in west and south Asia. In the past they had a much wider distribution. Now there are two subfamilies with four species.

Although Hyaenas look much like canids, they are actually in the suborder Feliformia, the same as cats and mongoose. Hyaena walk much like bears because their front legs are longer than their back. The Brown and Striped Hyaena have striped fur with a mane covering their neck. The Spotted Hyaena's fur is shorter and spotted, instead of striped. The Spotted Hyaena's mane is reversed forward, instead of back, like the other species. Hyaenas are known to have one of the world's strongest bites. Its function is to crush bone.

Hyenas, particularly Spotted Hyenas, are intelligent creatures. They work together very well and are very cooperative. They have very strategic hunting methods and work to steal and protect it from other predators. Hyenas main targets are Zebras and Wildebeests. Their main rival is the Lion. If a lioness is eating a kill, a group of three Hyenas can take her down but they can not take down a male lion.



</doc>
<doc id="4718" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4718" title="Table salt">
Table salt

Table salt, often called "cooking salt" or just "salt", is widely used in cooking to add flavor to food. 

It is a compound of two chemical elements, "sodium" (symbol: Na) and "chlorine" (Cl). This is why it has the chemical name "sodium chloride" (symbol: NaCl).

In history, salt was very expensive. Salt was used to keep food from going bad. It was even used as money in some places.

Crystals of sodium chloride are almost perfect cubes. 



</doc>
<doc id="4719" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4719" title="Silk">
Silk

Silk is a natural fiber made by the silk worm larvae. Silk is often used to make cloth. The cloth can be made into clothes, rugs, bedding, or can be used to write or paint on. Silk fibers are very strong. In the past, silk was used to make parachutes.

In history, silk came from China and was very expensive.

Most spiders make a natural fiber that is also called silk. 
Silk that is emitted by the silk worm consists of two main proteins, sericin and fibroin. Fibroin is the structural center of the silk. Serecin is the sticky material surrounding it. Fibroin is made up of the amino acids Gly-Ser-Gly-Ala-Gly-Ala and forms beta pleated sheets. Hydrogen bonds form between chains, and side chains form above and below the plane of the hydrogen bond network.

The high proportion (50%) of glycine (which is a small amino acid) allows tight packing. Tight packing makes the fibers strong and resistant to breaking. The tensile strength is due to the many interseeded hydrogen bonds. When silk is stretched, the force is applied to these many bonds, and they do not break.

Silk is resistant to most mineral acids, except for sulfuric acid, which dissolves it. Perspiration makes silk yellow.


</doc>
<doc id="4726" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4726" title="The Beatles">
The Beatles

The Beatles were an English rock band, started in Liverpool, England in 1960. They were, and still are, one of the most successful and influential bands in the history of modern music. The Beatles used parts of many music genres through their career, including classical, psychedelic rock and pop music.

The members of the band were John Lennon (rhythm guitar, keyboards), Paul McCartney (bass guitar, keyboards), George Harrison (lead guitar, sitar) and Ringo Starr (drums, percussion).

Brian Epstein was their manager. George Martin produced all of their albums and singles except for the album "Let it Be", which was produced by the famous 1960s producer Phil Spector. Almost all of their music was recorded at Abbey Road Studios in London.

Starting in 1957, John Lennon and several of his friends played in a British band called the Quarrymen. Over the next few years, the members of the band changed, and by 1960, the band was called The Beatles. They did not have their first hit until 1962. In November 1962 their song, 'Please Please Me', reached the number 1 position on the British charts. This was the first of a record 15 British number 1 singles. They first came to the United States in 1964. They were met at the airport by thousands of screaming American teenagers. The Beatles were so popular that they were attacked by screaming fans everywhere they went around the world. The effect they had on their fans was known as 'Beatlemania'. The Beatles made their first live American television appearance on The Ed Sullivan Show on 9 February 1964. About 74 million viewers — about half of the American population — watched the group perform on the show. Beatles songs soon filled the top 5 places on the American top 40 chart - a record that has never been matched.

After the Beatles became so popular in the United States, other British bands, such as the Rolling Stones, the Animals, the Kinks and Gerry and the Pacemakers had songs become hits there as well. So many British bands became popular after the Beatles' success that this time became known in America as the "British Invasion".

Towards the mid 1960s, The Beatles became bolder with their style of music. This largely started in 1965, with the release of the album "Rubber Soul", and hit a peak in 1967 with the release of "Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band", which was named as the greatest album of all time by Rolling Stone Magazine. They were also named the most influential artists of all time by Rolling Stone magazine, because their music, clothing style, and attitudes shaped much of what was popular among young people in the 1960s. 

The Beatles became so popular that no regular concert venue was big enough for their concerts. This led to them playing the first ever stadium rock concert at Shea Stadium in America, to around 50,000 people. The Beatles stopped touring and playing live music in 1966 because they were sick of audiences screaming so loudly that their music could not be heard. They were also tired of the pressures of touring. Among other things, they were so popular that thousands of people would gather outside the hotels they stayed in day and night meaning that they could never leave their rooms unless they were playing a concert.

The Beatles broke up in 1970 because of the pressures of fame and each member becoming more independent both in their personal lives and musically. In 1973 the two-disc sets "1962-1966" (the "Red Album") and "1967-1970" "(the "Blue Album") were released. These were both re-released on CD in 1993.

The band was still very popular all over the world after they broke up. According to the "Guinness Book of World Records", they are the highest-selling recording artists ever. They have sold more than one billion records, including albums and singles. Their music is still important and still influences many musicians. Musicians today perform cover versions of Beatles' songs, and people everywhere still listen to their music. Their song 'Yesterday' is one of the most popular songs for other artists to sing. It is also the song that has been played the most on radio ever.

The Beatles made thirteen albums and twenty-six singles together. They also started their own record label, Apple Records. They made two movies, "A Hard Day's Night" and "Help!", where they appeared as actors. Later they made "Magical Mystery Tour", a television special. "Yellow Submarine" was a cartoon movie based on their music. "Let It Be" showed them working on a new album.

After the Beatles broke up in 1969, all four members started their own solo careers.

John Lennon became a famous peace activist in the late 1960s and early 1970s. He wrote successful songs including "Give Peace a Chance", "Imagine", and "Happy Christmas (War is Over)". John Lennon was murdered on December 8, 1980 outside his home in New York. Part of Central Park in New York and an airport in Liverpool are named in his honor.

The other three Beatles got together in the 1990s to make two new records. They used demo recordings of two John Lennon songs and added their own new parts. Producer Jeff Lynne helped them so all four members could appear on the songs. The songs were "Free As A Bird" and "Real Love". Both were top 5 hits in the U.K. in 1995 and 1996. 

Paul McCartney started the band "Wings" with his wife Linda. In 1977 his song, "Mull of Kintyre", became the biggest selling single in British history. It sold even more copies than the Beatles' singles. Paul McCartney was knighted in 1997.

George Harrison and Ringo Starr had early success as solo artists but were less successful later on. George formed the group "The Travelling Wilburys" in the 80s with other rock legends Bob Dylan, Roy Orbison, Tom Petty, and Jeff Lynne. George Harrison died of cancer on November 29, 2001. Ringo still tours the world with his "All Starr Band".



They also sold many singles (45s).










</doc>
<doc id="4727" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4727" title="MediaWiki:Monobook.css">
MediaWiki:Monobook.css

/* Display of "From Wikipedia" line */
 display: inline;

 display:none;

/* On Special:Allpages and Watchlist: Make redirects show in green (redirect is already in italic by default) */
.allpagesredirect a,
.watchlistredir a {
color:green;

li.GA {

li.FA {

/* topicon div */

div.topicon {

 position: absolute;

/* Remove bullets when there are multiple edit page warnings */

ul.permissions-errors > li {
ul.permissions-errors {

</doc>
<doc id="4733" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4733" title="Reincarnation">
Reincarnation

Reincarnation is the name of the idea that people are born in another body after they die. Many Hindus, Jainists, Celtic pagans, Buddhists, and people who follow some African religions believe in reincarnation. Carnate means “of flesh”, and reincarnate means to “reenter the flesh".

The belief is held (with variations in details) by people of almost all major religions except Islam and Christianity, although between 20 and 30 percent of Christians in western countries also believe in reincarnation. 

Ethnologists have documented the belief among nearly all the traditional religions of ethnic groups in Africa, North and South America, and Australia/Oceania. The tribes of north-west North America continue to believe in reincarnation despite negative attitudes towards it on the part of Christian missionaries and churches.

 Hindus believe in reincarnation, the process where the soul repeatedly takes on a physical body through being born on Earth. Ancient scriptures of Hinduism teach that the soul, or immortal “self”, takes birth time and time again. The soul survives and continues its long journey until it is one with God. Hindus believe that the soul never dies, but inhabits one body after another during its evolutionary journey guided by karma. Karma (literally: action) is the sum of one's actions, and the force that determines one's next reincarnation. 

The soul evolves from immaturity to spiritual illumination. Therefore, each reincarnating soul chooses a home and a family which can best fulfill its next step of learning and maturation. Each life on Earth is similar to a class in school. Maturation of the soul on Earth means fulfilling its worldly desires, which can only be experienced through a body. 

At death the soul leaves the physical body. But the soul does not die. It lives on in a subtle body called the astral body. The astral body exists in a nonphysical dimension called the astral plane. Here the soul continues to have experiences until it is born again in another physical body as a baby.

After many lifetimes of following dharma (right way of living), the soul is fully matured in love, wisdom and knowledge of God. There is no longer a need for physical birth, for all lessons have been learned, all karmas fulfilled. When all desire has vanished, the person will not be born again anymore.

Ian Stevenson found that the best research evidence supporting the belief in reincarnation comes from the cases of young children who, typically between the ages of 2 and 5, make statements about a previous life they claim to have had before being born. Some 35 per cent of the children also have birthmarks or birth defects which often correspond to injuries or illness experienced by the deceased person who the subject remembers. Medical documents have confirmed this correspondence in more than forty cases.



</doc>
<doc id="4734" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4734" title="Philosopher">
Philosopher

A philosopher is a person who works, studies, or is an expert in philosophy. The word, "philosopher", comes from the Greek language and literally means "friend of wisdom."


</doc>
<doc id="4738" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4738" title="EBay">
EBay

eBay is a website. It is a place for online auctions. Anybody can sell almost anything they want there. People can buy many things there as well.

People have to send what they sell themselves, usually using mail. They can transfer the money in any way they want. A lot of people use PayPal to transfer the money. PayPal is owned by the same people as eBay. Margaret Whitman is the current CEO of the company.

eBay was started in 1995 by Pierre Omidyar. It was first called "Auctionweb". The name 'eBay' came later when he tried to register a domain name for his planned name "EchoBay". It was already taken so he shortened the name to 'eBay'.

Millions of items are bought on eBay every day. It is very cheap to list an item on eBay. Many people look at others' items because they are interested in them.



</doc>
<doc id="4739" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4739" title="Gerhard Schröder">
Gerhard Schröder

"For the older CDU politician and former Minister of Defence, see Gerhard Schröder (CDU)"

Gerhard Schröder was Chancellor of Germany from 1998 to 2005.

He was born on 7 April 1944 in Mossenberg North Rhine-Westphalia.
After school he learned retail sales in a Lemgo from 1958 to 1961.
After that he made his abitur (highest school exam in Germany) in Bielefeld. Then he studied law in Göttingen.
After that he worked as a lawyer.

He joined the Social Democratic Party of Germany in 1963 and became chairman of its youth organisation in 1978.
In 1986 he became a member of the State Parliament of Lower Saxony.
In 1990 he was elected as Prime-Minister of Lower Saxony.

He became the chancellor of Germany in 1998. After elections in 2005, he was replaced by Angela Merkel. He is a member of the SPD (Social Democratic Party of Germany).


</doc>
<doc id="4740" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4740" title="Melbourne">
Melbourne

Melbourne is the second largest city in Australia. It is the capital of Victoria, which is a state in the south-east of Australia. The population of Melbourne is 3,806,092.

Melbourne is a multicultural city (it welcomes people and cultures from all over the world). It is famous for its trams (small short trains). The centre of Melbourne is around a river called the Yarra River. Melbourne also has many big parks and gardens and some beaches.

There are many things to do in Melbourne. Visitors in Melbourne can go to museums, look at art, eat food at restaurants, go to shops, and go to many large sport events. 

There is a lot of industry (factories) and commerce (buying and selling) in Melbourne. Many of Australia's largest companies and many large companies from other countries work there. It is home to Australia's largest seaport. There are a number of universities (the University of Melbourne, Monash University, Deakin University, Victoria University, La Trobe University, RMIT University, Swinburne University and the Australian Catholic University). Much of Australia's automotive (car) industry is there, for example the engine maker "Holden", and "Ford" and "Toyota" car builders.

Melbourne was founded in 1835 by John Batman and John Pascoe Fawkner. In 1851, some people found gold near Melbourne. Melbourne grew very quickly because people came from all over the world to look for gold. At the end of the 19th century, Melbourne was called "Marvellous Melbourne" ("marvellous" means "wonderful"). Melbourne was the biggest and most important city in Australia for many years, but now Sydney is bigger. The first Australian government was in Melbourne from 1901 until 1927 when it moved to Canberra.

Many people from different countries live in Melbourne. In fact 43% of the people living in Melbourne were born outside Australia or have parents from another country. All together people from 233 countries live in Melbourne and people with 116 different religions.

Melbourne has six sister cities. They are:


</doc>
<doc id="4741" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4741" title="Victoria">
Victoria

The word Victoria is a woman's name. In Wikipedia, it can mean:


</doc>
<doc id="4742" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4742" title="Canberra">
Canberra

Canberra is the capital city of Australia. There are 340 800 people who live there. It doesn’t belong to a state but it is in the Australian Capital Territory (ACT).

Canberra was started in 1913 and in the middle of the city is Lake Burley-Griffin . This lake was created especially for the city. There was a competition to design the new capital city of Australia. The competition was won by an architect from Chicago in the United States of America. His name was Walter Burley Griffin. Griffin designed his triangular town as a garden town, so its size expanded over a big area. But as Canberra grew larger and larger, the lake was no longer in the middle of the town, but the people who are in charge of planning the city make sure Canberra is as close to Griffin's original plan as possible. Canberra has a size in area nearly as big as Berlin, but the number of people who live there is much smaller.

Before Canberra was founded, Australia’s two most important cities, Sydney and Melbourne, were arguing which city should be the capital of the continent. First Melbourne was elected the capital, but in 1908 there was a vote. The result: an area of 2400 square kilometers was given to the country by New South Wales to build Canberra in. This was the place, 300 kilometers away from Sydney and with a distance of 650 kilometers to Melbourne, where a few years later Canberra was built.

The name Canberra is pronounced in various ways and most commonly now as "CAN-brugh" making it sound almost an English name - Canborough ! Some say "CAN-buh-ruh" ; a small number of people may pronounce it "can-BEAR-ruh" ; at an earlier time "can-BERR-a" was very common and that form is still heard although often looked down upon as ignorant and incorrect. But while now an uncommon pronunciation it may be closest to the original name and pronunciation. In the 19th century a farming property on the Limestone Plains was named "Canberry" (or "Camberry") and some think this name is derived in turn from the name of the local tribe - the Ngambri or Kamberra or Camberri people. (Others have suggested the name is derived from an Aboriginal word meaning "meeting place").
Tourists who visit Canberra come to see the many national monuments and other famous sights. Some places to visit are the Government House, Parliament House , the High Court of Australia, the Australian War Memorial, the National Gallery of Australia, The Royal Australian Mint, Telstra Tower, the National Library of Australia, and the National Museum of Australia.


</doc>
<doc id="4743" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4743" title="Sydney">
Sydney

Sydney is a city on the east coast of Australia. Sydney is the capital city of New South Wales. About four million people live in Sydney which makes it the biggest city in Australia. Sydney started in 1788, when the Captain Arthur Phillip brought the First Fleet to settle in Australia. The settlers were mostly convicts from crowded prisons in England and Ireland, with a group of soldiers to guard them.

In Sydney, there are many famous buildings: the Sydney Opera House and the Sydney Harbour Bridge. Sydney has a big harbour and lots of beaches. The most famous beach is Bondi Beach, some other beaches are Coogee Beach. Famous parts of the harbour are Darling Harbour and Circular Quay.
The most famous sports ground in Sydney is Stadium Australia (now Telstra Stadium) because it was built for the 2000 Summer Olympics. Another stadium in Sydney is the Sydney Cricket Ground (SCG).

Sydney has lots of things to see and do. These include visiting Taronga Zoo (a park for animals), eating food, looking at art or watching sports (like cricket or football) or walking down George Street which has many nice shops. Sydney also has some of Australia's best shopping. Lots of people go to Sydney for the big party at New Year's Eve with fireworks over the harbour.




</doc>
<doc id="4746" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4746" title="Greenhouse effect">
Greenhouse effect

The greenhouse effect occurs when certain gases in the atmosphere (the air around the Earth) trap infrared radiation. This effect makes the planet warmer, like a greenhouse keeps its inside temperature warmer.

The greenhouse effect is caused by greenhouse gases; the most important greenhouse gases in Earth's atmosphere are: water vapor, carbon dioxide, and methane. When there is more greenhouse gas in the air, the air holds more heat. This is why more greenhouse gases cause global warming. 

The greenhouse effect is normal. It is important for life on Earth. Without the greenhouse effect, the Earth's average temperature would be around -18 or -19 degrees Celsius (0 or 1 degrees Fahrenheit). Because of the greenhouse effect, the Earth's actual average temperature is 14 degrees Celsius (57 degrees Fahrenheit). 

The problem is that recently, the greenhouse effect has become stronger. Scientists believe this is because humans have been using large amounts of fossil fuels, which release carbon dioxide when they are burned. Since carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas, it has caused the planet to warm over the past 150 years.

About ten thousand years ago, before people started burning large amounts of fossil fuels, there was 260 to 280 parts per million (ppm) of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. In September 2011, the figure was 389 ppm. Most scientists say that have 350 ppm or less is safe for the environment for species on the planet can adapt to this level. At a higher level, there are severe problems for animal and marine life that are already being seen today such as ocean acidification.

The greenhouse effect was first proposed by Joseph Fourier in 1824. Mars, Venus and other planets with atmospheres also have greenhouse effects. The effect on Venus is especially strong. This is why Venus is hotter than Mercury, even though Mercury is closer to the sun. 



</doc>
<doc id="4749" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4749" title="World War">
World War

A World War is a war in which most of the countries in the world fight or help. 

There have been two World Wars so far, World War I and World War II. 

After World War II, many people were afraid that a World War III might start, probably between the United States and the countries of Europe, on one side, and the Soviet Union, and maybe China, on the other side. After World War II, countries had many powerful weapons, including jet bomber airplanes that could carry many powerful bombs fast and far, nuclear weapons (or atomic weapons) which could destroy many buildings and kill many people instantly, and missiles which could carry nuclear weapons to other countries very fast. 

This time when many people were afraid that World War III might start was called the Cold War. After the fall of the Soviet Union, people were not as afraid that World War III might begin. However, many countries still have powerful weapons, and still could use them. 

Albert Einstein said, "I don't know what weapons countries might use to fight World War III, but wars after that will be fought with sticks and stones" -- because World war III would be so big that it would probably destroy civilization.


</doc>
<doc id="4751" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4751" title="European">
European

European may mean:


</doc>
<doc id="4753" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4753" title="Ionizing radiation">
Ionizing radiation

Ionizing radiation is a process in physics where something sends out particles or waves that can ionize an atom or molecule through atomic interactions. 

The strength of ionizing radiation depends on the energy of the individual particles or waves, and not a function of the number of particles or waves present. 

There are several types of ionizing radiation, including:

Some radiation can go through the human body and other objects. Usually when people use the term radiation, they are talking specifically about potentially harmful types of ionizing radiation. If something produces this sort of radiation, we can say it is "radioactive". 

There is a little radiation all around us all the time, which people's bodies are used to, but larger amounts of radiation can make people sick or kill them. Natural radiation is produced by some chemical elements, such as uranium, and by stars and other things in outer space. Some things that are radioactive only stay radioactive for much less than a second. Other things can stay radioactive for thousands of years. 

People can also make radiation because of small traces of Carbon-14 in them. Some of the machines that make radiation are called cyclotrons, linear accelerators and particle accelerators. Scientists use these machines to make radiation so they can study it. X-ray machines make radiation so doctors can see the inside of the human body and help people. Nuclear weapons (atomic weapons) make a huge amount of radiation very fast, in order to destroy buildings and kill people.

Nuclear reactors are used to make electricity. They make a lot of radiation, but the reactors are built carefully to keep the radiation inside the reactor. But many people are afraid that if there were a problem with the reactor, the radiation could escape into the environment, harming or killing many animals and people. Also, the parts of the reactor stay radioactive, and can kill people, for hundreds or thousands of years, so people are not sure where they can keep parts of old reactors safely away from people.



</doc>
<doc id="4757" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4757" title="Click">
Click

Click is an onomatopoeia. It is sometimes used to indicate pressing the button on a computer mouse.


</doc>
<doc id="4759" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4759" title="Buzz Aldrin">
Buzz Aldrin

Dr. Edwin Eugene "Buzz" Aldrin, Jr., retired Colonel (born January 20, 1930) is an American pilot and astronaut. He was the second human to walk on the Moon (after Neil Armstrong) during the Apollo 11 mission. He was 39 when he set foot on the moon. He earned a Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering from the military academy West Point in 1951. After graduate and postgraduate studies, he received a Doctorate of Science in Astronautics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in 1963. He received an honorary Doctorate of Science from Gustavus-Adolphus-College in 1967.

Aldrin left NASA in March 1972. He has been married three times: to Joan Archer, to Beverly Zile, and to his current wife, Lois Driggs Cannon. He had three children with Joan, named James, Janice and Andrew. He married his current wife (Lois) on Valentine's Day, 1988.


</doc>
<doc id="4760" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4760" title="Tuberculosis">
Tuberculosis

Tuberculosis (also known as TB, formerly consumption) is an infectious disease caused by bacteria which make 10% of people get sick who catch it. People who suffer from tuberculosis generally cough a lot and have trouble breathing. They feel pain in their chest. They also feel very tired. Unless they get medicine, half of the sick have died (5% who catch it).

Throughout history, many millions of people have died of tuberculosis. In the early 1900s, it was still called "consumption" because it seemed people were consumed from inside. The oldest signs of tuberculosis that have been found are in the spines of Egyptian mummies which date to 2400 BC. Nowadays, the diseases can be treated with anti-biotic drugs for several months. However, many people still die from this disease every year, particularly in countries where there is a shortage of food.

Tuberculosis is caused by a bacterium called "Mycobacterium tuberculosis". Its symptoms include a long-lasting bad cough, pain in the chest, coughing up blood or "sputum" (gooey saliva)., weakness and tiredness, weight loss, being not hungry, chills, fever, and sweating at night. 

TB is contagious, which means it can be spread from person to person. The disease is carried on the tiny droplets of water that come out of a person's lungs when they breathe. If the person who has TB coughs, sneezes or spits without covering their mouth, they spread the bacteria more widely. People become infected by breathing in the droplets spread by an infected person. If a person lives with someone who has TB, there is a 22% chance that they will also be infected with the disease. 
Many people have TB in their system, but they do not know it because it is not making them sick. This is called "latent" tuberculosis. If a person becomes infected with TB, there is a 90% chance that it will be a latent TB infection, meaning that they will not become sick or infect other people. However, there is a 10% chance that the latent TB infection will turn into Active Tuberculosis Disease at some time in the person's life. People who have a latent TB infection can not spread the disease to other people. The disease only becomes infectious when the person becomes sick. 

The most common type of tuberculosis is an infection of the lungs. This is called Pulmonary Tuberculosis. This type affects 75% of TB patients. There is another form called Miliary Tuberculosis that causes lesions (infections or scars) on the lungs, which are shaped like little seeds of millet (a type of grain). This type of infection spreads to the heart and then to other organs such as the liver and brain. This most commonly affects people with conditions such as HIV, as well as small children. Tuberculosis can also affect the bones and the skin, and other organs.


During the late 20th century, in developed countries, doctors had very good success is controlling this disease. But the disease continues to spread in countries where there are many poor people without enough food. In 2004, the World Health Organization said there were 14.6 million people sick with the disease, there were 8.9 million new cases, and 1.6 million deaths. 

In developed countries there is now a larger number of people sick with tuberculosis because of HIV/AIDS, substance and taking "immunosuppressive" drugs to treat some other illness. (Immuno-suppressant means something that stops the person's system from fighting disease.)

Another big problem is that there are now new "strains" of tuberculosis which are resistant to the usual drugs that doctors use to treat it. About 20% of new cases are resistant to drugs. In 1993, the World Health Organization declared that tuberculosis was a global health emergency.




</doc>
<doc id="4761" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4761" title="American">
American

The word American is used to mean a person or a thing from any country in any of the Americas - North America, Central America, or South America. In English, the most common use of this word is to mean a person or a thing from the United States. 

Even though the islands in the Caribbean Sea are close to the Americas, people who speak English do not usually use the word "American" for people or things from these islands. 

A Native American is someone who is mostly descended from the people who lived in the Americas before the Europeans arrived. Native Americans are also called First Nations and "Indians".

There is no language "American". Some important languages used in the Americas are English, French, Portuguese, and Spanish. Some people still use the Native American languages.


</doc>
<doc id="4772" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4772" title="Grain">
Grain

Grain is the seeds of some special kinds of grass. These grains are also called cereals. People grow different kinds of grain as food. The different kinds of grain are perhaps one of the most important foods in the world. 

Some kinds of grain are:
87% of all grain grown by farmers around the world is maize. Grains contain carbohydrates that people can eat. In poorer countries, grains are a large part of the food supply. In richer countries, they are still important as food, but not as important as in poorer countries. Growing grain uses a lot of water. About 1,000 tons of water is needed to grow one ton of grain.

Many different foods are made from different types of grain. Grain is often ground into a powder called flour. Flour can be made into breads, cakes, or noodles.

Different kinds of beer are made from barley malt, wheat, and other grains.

Tortillas are made from a special flour of maize (corn) called "masa".


</doc>
<doc id="4774" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4774" title="Clause">
Clause

A clause is a part of a sentence. Each clause has only one main verb. "I love you" is a sentence which has only one clause. "I love you and I will always love you" is a sentence which has two clauses. The two clauses are "I love you" and "I will always love you". These clauses are joined together by the word "and" (a conjunction).

Two clauses can be joined with a pronoun. For example: "I live in London, which is in England". Here, "I live in London" is the first clause, and "which is in England" is the second clause. The word "which" is a pronoun which takes the place of "London". It joins the two clauses.

A sentence can contain many clauses. But sentences with fewer clauses are easier to understand.

A subordinating clause is one which is dependent on the main clause (the primary clause). The main clause makes sense on its own. However, the subordinating clause does not. E.g. "I love you" makes perfect sense left on its own. However, "and always will", does not.


</doc>
<doc id="4775" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4775" title="Marxism">
Marxism

Marxism is the name for a set of political and economic ideas. The base of these ideas comes from the works of Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels. They have had a lot of influence in many countries. Very often, both authors are named, as it is difficult to say which of the two wrote what piece of the theory.
From Marxist thought, other political views came to be, such as Social Democracy and Reformist Socialism (both believe that the ideas that Marx and Engels portrayed can be achieved through what Marx called 'Bourgeois Democracy.')

Many Marxists say that modern "Communism" is not Communism at all. That nations such as Russia, The People's Republic of China, Venezuela, Cuba, and Vietnam are different forms of Capitalism, often with heavily "nationalized" industries. One of the biggest proponents of these ideas in Marxist thought was Tony Cliff, who wrote that states like the U.S.S.R and Communist China (before 1980) were "State-Capitalist." Not all Communists, Socialists or Marxists agree on this question, but many hardened Marxists generally agree that Socialism is workers' democratic control over economic decisions and social justice, while production is based on what people need, and that Socialism will wither away into Communism when Capitalism is defeated. With that idea in mind, Marxists have a tendency to discredit most of the listed regimes. 

Modern Communism claims to be based on Marxist ideas, but many Marxists disagree about whether Communist countries have understood Marxism correctly. 

Marxism says that people in the world are organized into different groups or classes based on their relationship to how things are made. Most people are called "workers" because they work in factories or offices or farms for money. They belong to the "working class" (or "proletariat"). Another group, who are not as big as the working class are "capitalists", because they own the factories, land and buildings that the workers have to work in and also own all of the tools the workers have to use. Marx calls Capitalists the "Ruling Class" because they live off of the work of all the workers. He also says that the Capitalists own the government, army and courts. In Marxist views, Capital is the "means of production" and money which the Capitalist can invest in different places of business so that they can "profit" or gain more Capital.

Most workers work for companies owned by Capitalists or "Petit-bourgeois" (small business owners). The capitalist pays a wage to the worker in exchange for the worker's time. The capitalist has bought a period of time from the worker which the worker must then use to labor for the Capitalist, which according to marxist economic thinking is the only thing that can create value in a commodity, and then exploits the time of the worker as much as they can. The capitalist amasses capital by paying the worker less wealth than they make for the Capitalist. Marx says that commodities (pieces of merchandise) have a twofold nature. On the one hand, they are "use-value". Use-value means they are useful, that is, they have the capacity of satisfying a human need. On the other hand, they are "exchange-value", because someone could trade a quantity of them for a determined quantity of another commodity. For example: if a nail is traded for 2 boot laces, the exchange value of a single nail is 2 boot laces. Finally, "Labor Value" or Value, is determined by the amount of labor needed to create a product. Value is created by adding work to something. A product's value is determined by the average work needed to create the product for the market. Value can be described as the amount of labor time used to create a commodity.

As an example: Peter and Bob and Carl are all shoe makers. It takes Peter half a day to make 20 shoes, and it takes Bob half a day to make 20 shoes and it takes Carl half a day to make 20 shoes. The average labor-time to make the shoes is half a day, and that means each shoe contains half a day's labor value.

Peter, Bob and Carl now work for James. James owns a shoe factory that can make 60 shoes in half a day. Between Peter, Bob and Carl, 60 shoes are made. Peter, Bob and Carl are paid only as much as they need to live at socially accepted standards. Peter, Bob and Carl each get 20 dollars a day in wages, however James sells the shoes for 2 dollars each. 120$ is made and James pays the workers (Peter, Bob and Carl) their wages. The remaining wealth is called "Profit" or "Surplus Value." In other words, Peter, Bob and Carl earn enough to provide for themselves within half of their working day. The rest of the day they are creating profit for their boss, James, which is called Surplus Value.

It is this Surplus Value, or Profit, which Marxism thinks as an exploitation of labor. This exploitation allows the smaller class (Capitalists) to live without laboring, while the bigger class (Workers) have to work for the Capitalists to survive.

Marxism says that Factories, tools and work places cannot create new value on their own. Similar to how a blue berry bush has no value on its own. That value can only be created with the use of labor. For example, someone spends a day picking blue berries. Those blue berries are now able to be traded or eaten because of the invested labor time to pick them.

Marxist thinking claims that Capitalists and Workers are in a constant state of struggle, which they call "Materialist Dialectic." Marxism says that in order for Capitalists to generate profit quickly, and to maximise their rate of profit, they have to exploit the workers as much as possible, and lower their wages as much as possible. Workers, on the other hand, have to struggle to keep their wages up, to keep the "rate of exploitation" low, so that they can live more peaceful lives. This is what Marxism calls "Class Struggle" where Workers and their Bosses fight against each other to gain for themselves.

Marxists think that all of written human history has been divided by economic classes. They think that the progression of history has been pushed forward by class struggle. Marxism says that it is from this struggle that Capitalism was born and that it is from this struggle that Communism (or Socialism) will be born. For example: Feudal Society (a society controlled by feudal Lords and Nobles) rested its Ruling Class on the labor of peasants (farmers). But, as peasants demanded more and more for themselves small shopkeepers and tradespeople began to appear. Many of these people appeared in Guilds as well, and eventually began to employ workers to independently accumulate wealth. It was this historical progression that created Capitalists/Capitalism.

In the same way, Marxism says that Capitalism will give way to Communism, as the struggle of the workers becomes more and more revolutionary.

The core of Marxist thinking is called Materialism. Materialism is a philosophical view that says that communities develop from the "ground up": that the "higher" qualities of culture (Art, Manners, Customs, Religions, etc.) are actually founded on the "lower" or simpler qualities of life (abundance of resources like food and shelter, who has money and what they have to do to get it, who is allowed to work and who is forced to work, etc.). 

Changes in the higher qualities of culture (sometimes called the "Superstructure") are often linked to changes in the lower qualities of life (sometimes called the "Base"). One example is that in the Medieval period, "honor" or duty to one's superiors was seen as very important; today, in Western countries, ambition or being someone who works hard for their own goals is seen as more important—this is because in the Medieval period, people worked their entire lives under lords who depended on them not only for work but for war; today, people work on a more individual basis, and our society operates by letting some people move up from being poor to rich (though this is still very hard). In this case, what is seen as good depends on how the rulers get value out of their workers.

Marxism recognizes that in earlier time periods, we lived first under rulers who owned everything, then we lived under lords who owned land with workers who lived on them, and that we currently live under governments that allow many people to own property (though still organized in a way that robs many people of their labor and rights). Eventually, Marxists believe that we will move to a society where everyone owns everything in common—this will be known as Socialism.

In other words, human progression has been based on genetic evolution and social evolution, that human society has always been based on the economic forces that human beings can control. For Marxism, this means that the "mode of production" dictates the form each society will take. It is this idea that brings Marxists to believe that the current capacity to produce means human beings can move beyond the conflicts of Class society.

Dialectic. A dialectic is an argument or conflict between different groups. The different groups or classes have their own objective/material interests and needs.

Dialectical materialism is the idea that the history of humans is the history of conflict between classes. Different classes with different interests argue or fight each other. Social change is the result. 

Many Marxists believe that there will always be revolts and, with the right conditions, revolutions. In these revolutions, the workers will fight the capitalists and will (eventually) win. During this process, they will set up a Socialist "workers' state" (a form of government that is the workers' themselves organised as the rulers of society) that will serve as a temporary state (the state, Marxists believe, is an organisation of one class to suppress another class, the Socialist state is created to suppress the Capitalist Class or what they call the exploiting class) until all capitalist-countries have been defeated and all classes have been abolished. Marxists believe that if the working class makes itself the ruling class and destroys the objective basis for class society (private property, or what Marx called "Bourgeois Property," relations) there will be a "classless society" - a society where no social groups are in conflict and there is no government anymore, and the state will be dismantled, organically, and it will be a borderless world with world-wide communes and worker-organisation of production based on needs instead of profits.


</doc>
<doc id="4779" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4779" title="Sacred">
Sacred

People use the word sacred for something that a religion says is special or important. 

Most religions have sacred books that tell about their religion. For Christians this book is called the Bible. Muslim peoples have another book, they call the Qur'an. Jews call their book the Torah.

Most religions have sacred places that are important to their religion.

The City of Jerusalem is considered "sacred" by world's major religions of Judaism, Christianity and Islam, for example. Another example might be the city of Mecca which is "sacred" in Islam.


</doc>
<doc id="4781" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4781" title="Zürich City">
Zürich City

Zürich (in German "Zürich") is a city in Switzerland. Zürich is also a canton in Switzerland.

Zürich is the biggest city in Switzerland. The city has about 366.000 people living in it. It is at the north end of the Lake of Zürich. The city of Zürich is placed in the "canton Zürich". The canton of Zürich is the biggest canton of Switzerland, by the number of people living in it. Over 1,220,000 people live there. (About 1 million people live in the agglomeration of the city). The city was founded (first built) by the Romans. The Canton joined Switzerland in 1351.

In the city of Zürich, most of the people work in the commerce part of the economy. There are many banks in Zürich. The headquarter of the FIFA (Fédération Internationale de Football Association) is also in Zürich.

In Kloten, a small part of Zürich, is the biggest airport of Switzerland.
The airport is called "Flughafen Zürich" (IATA: ZRH) in German.


</doc>
<doc id="4782" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4782" title="Translation">
Translation

Translation means to copy writing or speech from one language into a different language.

The people who do translation are called translators. A translator who is copying a book into another language may use a language dictionary to find out how a word is written in another language. A translator who works with the spoken word is also called an interpreter.

In computer technology translation from a programming language to a machine language is called compiling. There are free translators on the internet.


</doc>
<doc id="4783" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4783" title="Astronaut">
Astronaut

An astronaut or cosmonaut is a person who goes into outer space. Countries friendly to the Soviet Union always said cosmonaut, countries friendly to the United States said astronaut.

Astronauts are also called "taikonauts" in China or "spationaute" in France. 

The first person to go into space was a Russian from the Soviet Union , his name was Yuri Gagarin. This happened on April 12, 1961.

The first and second persons to walk on the Moon were the Americans Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin. This happened on July 20, 1969. 

No astronauts have gone to the moon since 1972. No people have visited any other planets yet.

Astronauts used to go into space on the Space Shuttle and the Soyuz spacecraft, but now they only go on the Soyuz. Several countries have worked together to build an International Space Station so people can stay and work in space for long periods of time.


</doc>
<doc id="4788" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4788" title="Hacker">
Hacker

A hacker is someone who likes to do new things with computers.

One wrong meaning of the word "hacker" is "someone who tries to get into another person's computer using computer software such as Trojan horse programs, computer viruses, and worms that can hurt other people's computers". The correct name for a person doing these illegal things is "cracker", but many news stories use "hacker" even though it is wrong.

The older meaning of the word "hacker" is "someone who knows a lot about computers, and likes to do new and different or hard-to-do things with them". This meaning of the word hacker is usually a compliment. Another meaning of "hacker" is someone who can change or program something, like how people can change or program a Furby to say something insulting or humorous.


</doc>
<doc id="4790" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4790" title="Broadcasting">
Broadcasting

In communications, such as radio and television, broadcasting means sending information such as television shows or music electronically to a large audience. The information is sent through the air in radio waves,through a wire, or by a satellite, and then the television viewers or radio listeners pick up the signal using their television sets and radio receivers (modules). Gugliemo Marconi invented wireless telegraphy (based on air signal), in December 1901 he transmitted first radio signals across the Atlantic Ocean, however it was Nikola Tesla who developed first radio concept.

Many countries have public broadcasters, which get funding from the government to broadcast television shows and radio programs. Examples of public broadcasters include the BBC in Britain, NHK in Japan, and the CBC in Canada. 

In the US, the public broadcaster is called PBS. It is different than the other public broadcasters such as BBC, NHK and CBC, because the PBS gets a lot of its funding (money) from donations by viewers and listeners. Public broadcasters make programs that the private companies are not interested in making, such as educational children's shows, documentaries, and public affairs shows about current issues.

As well, there are private broadcasting companies. These are companies that broadcast television and radio programs. To make money, private broadcasting companies sell advertisements called commercials. 

A third type of broadcaster is community broadcasters. There are community television stations and community radio stations.

Community television stations are often provided on cable networks. Community television stations usually have shows about local issues and community events. Some community television stations film and broadcast community cultural activities, such as musical performances or town hall meetings. 

Community radio stations play music and have public affairs shows about community issues. Community radio stations are usually small organizations that are run by volunteers. Community radio stations often get their funding (money) from local governments, local universities, and from donations by listeners. Some community radio stations also have poetry readings by local poets, or performances by local musicians or singers. 

Broadcasting can also mean sending a message to many users on a computer network at the exact same time, or sending a message from one computer to many other computers, giving information about itself, such as its name and location.

Sending information to a small selected group is called "narrowcasting".


</doc>
<doc id="4793" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4793" title="Socialism">
Socialism

Socialism is an economic and political system where the use of property and capital (money) is used for the common good. According to socialists, the wealth of a society should be shared, and everyone in it shall have everything they need. Individual rights and needs cannot be more important than the needs of everyone. Although socialist ideas go back in history to Plato, the word "socialism" was first used in Britain in the 1820's. Louis Blanc described socialism as being “from each according to his ability, to each according to his needs.”

Socialism is an economic or governmental system in which the public, or the state, owns or runs important industries. Its goal is to have the industries make money which can be used for the benefit of everyone. It wants to give workers some control over their work places. When economic planning is applied extensively, it is referred to as "communism", although communism as used by Karl Marx had a different meaning originally.

Social Democracy is a form of socialism that tries to mix parts of socialism with capitalism. Much of the time the people, when social democracy is practiced as a form of government, collectively (as a group) contribute money or other goods for the benefit of the entire community. An example of this would be America's fire departments, which rely on taxes paid by the people to maintain equipment and staff for the benefit of the community, should something catch on fire. Some social democratic countries have a higher income tax for people with high incomes, called a "progressive tax". This tax, and other measures, helps to reduce the gap between rich and poor within a nation.

In many countries that practice social democracy, industries are subsidized and/or partially controlled by the government. For example, education, health care or public transportation are some industries that might be owned/maintained by the government or people in a socialist system. For the most part, people working in these industries are paid by the government, with money paid by the people as taxes.

Another kind of Socialism is "Collectivization." In this system, money and goods are shared more equally among the people, with the government in control. In theory, this system results in the divide between classes shrinking, with the poorest of a nation's people getting better looked after while the richest make sacrifices in terms of higher taxes and regulation of business. Of course, socialism as it is commonly practiced differs in many ways from communism (See "The History of Socialism and Communism", later in the article.)

Today, many democratic socialists, especially in Western Europe, want industries to be guided jointly (together) by representatives of shareholders as well as the workers working together in what is known as an industrial democracy because both groups have interests in the success of the enterprise. This would be a more direct democratic way of organizing rather than control by central government. Trade unions and/or workers councils would represent the interests of the employees.

Many countries view Socialism in different ways. Social Democracy, for example, a Democratic form of Socialism, is the most common kind of government in the world. Socialist International is an organization dedicated to the cause of promoting socialist ideals, and has ties with many Socialist parties, especially Social Democratic ones.

A Welshman, Robert Owen, was the first socialist. His followers began calling themselves socialists in 1841. He is still regarded as a pioneer of the Cooperative Movement in Britain. He said that workers should own the companies they worked for. The workers would then share the profits among themselves. He set up a new model factory in New Lanark, Scotland. 

Many socialist political parties were formed during the 19th century and early part of the 20th century. Left Wing political parties are generally newer than Right Wing ones.

At first, the words "socialism" and "communism" meant almost the same thing. Today, they usually mean different things. Most non-communist people say "communism" when they mean the Marxist and Leninist ideas of Russia's Bolshevik party. Marx said that socialism can be used as a period of working towards Communism. However, many non-Communists do not recognize the difference and use the term "Communist country" to refer to a socialist state, though socialists would never use the term. Others call this 'State Socialism,' to distinguish it from the communist goal that does not need a state or any form of government. To non-communists, the word 'socialism' is now mostly used for attempts to come close to this goal in a democratic state.

After World War I, the collapse of the Second International and the Russian Revolution, socialism was split into two ways. Some socialists followed Lenin and were called Communists. Others believed in Parliamentary socialism and were called social democrats. Social democrats disagreed very strongly with communists. They had supported their Bourgeois Governments at the outbreak of the War and became 'establishment' Parties of the ruling class.

Today, there are still many different forms of Socialism, and some do not agree with others.



</doc>
<doc id="4794" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4794" title="Leninism">
Leninism

Vladimir Lenin was a Russian Marxist. He had a set of political ideas based on Marxism. Lenin's development of Marxism has become known as Leninism.

These ideas include:




</doc>
<doc id="4796" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4796" title="Bolshevik">
Bolshevik

A Bolshevik was a Russian Communist.

The Russian Social Democratic Workers Party was a Marxist political party. In 1903 at the Party Congress members disagreed with each other. The Party ended up dividing into two groups, the Bolsheviks and the Mensheviks. They were called Bolsheviks because it means "those who are more." Vladimir Ilyich Lenin was the leader of the Bolshevik group. The more moderate group, the Mensheviks (meaning "those of the minority") were led by Julius Martov. Although the Bolsheviks were called "those who are more", before 1917 there were more Mensheviks. Many of Lenin's opponents were afraid that he liked to control things too much.

In 1905 the Bolshevik group became a separate political party, the RSDLP(b) the 'b' in brackets standing for 'Bolshevik'. 

After the February Revolution, some of the Mensheviks took positions in the Provisional Government. Lenin said socialists must oppose the Provisional Government. The government began to falter and Lenin started to have more authority. Because of this, many Mensheviks joined the Bolsheviks.

The Bolsheviks led the October Revolution in Russia in 1917. They said they created the world's first Workers State. Soon, however, the government started to control what people could say and killed many people who opposed them. The Mensheviks opposed the government led by the Bolsheviks. Many ended up in prison or were killed. After that, they opposed the Bolsheviks from outside Russia, in exile. 

After the Revolution, the Bolshevik Party was called the Russian Communist Party.


</doc>
<doc id="4797" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4797" title="Saddam Hussein">
Saddam Hussein

Saddam Hussein Abd al-Majid al-Tikriti (April 28 1937 - December 30 2006), was the President of Iraq, from July 16 1979 to April 9 2003, when he was removed from his position during the War in Iraq led by the United States.

Saddam Hussein was born in the village of Al-Awja, in the Tikrit in Iraq. He never knew his father, Hussein 'Abd al-Majid, who disappeared five months before Saddam was born. Shortly before Saddam was born, Saddam's twelve-year-old brother died of cancer, leaving his mother very depressed in the final months of the pregnancy. She tried to kill herself near the end of the pregnancy and did not want to care for Saddam when he was born. Saddam was sent to the family of an uncle, Khairallah Tulfah, until he was three.

At ten, Saddam ran away from the family to return to live with his uncle, who was a devout Sunni Muslim, in Baghdad. According to Saddam, in 1957, at the age of 20, Saddam became part of the Ba'ath Party. The Ba'ath party is an Arab group that supports socialism.

A year after Saddam had joined the Ba'ath party, army officers led by General Abdul Karim Qassim got rid of Faisal II of Iraq. The Ba'athists opposed the new regime, and in 1959, Saddam was involved in the attempted murder of Prime Minister Qassim. Saddam was shot in the leg, but managed to get away to Syria, later he moved to Egypt. He was sentenced to death. In exile he attended the University of Cairo law school.

Army officers, including some with the Ba'ath party, came to power in Iraq in a military coup in 1963. However, the new regime was kicked out quickly. Saddam returned to Iraq, but was imprisoned in 1964 when an anti-Ba'ath group led by Abdul Rahman Arif took power. He escaped from jail in 1967 and became one of the leading members of the party.

In 1976 Saddam was appointed as a general in the Iraqi army. He quickly became the most important person of the regime. He slowly began to gain more power over Iraq's government and the Ba'ath party. As Iraq's weak and old President Ahmed Hassan al-Bakr became more unable to do the duties of his office, Saddam began to become an larger important role as the head of the Iraqi government. He soon became the creator of Iraq's foreign policy and represented the nation in all diplomatic situations. 

In 1979 Iran's Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi was overthrown by the Islamic Revolution,giving way to an Islamic republic led by the Ayatollah Khomeini. The influence of revolutionary Shi'ite Islam grew in the region, particularly in countries with large Shi'ite populations, especially Iraq. Saddam was afraid that radical Islamic ideas that would go against his leadership were quickly spreading inside his country among most of the Shi'ite people.

There had also been a rivalry between Saddam and Khomeini since the 1970s. Khomeini, having been exiled from Iran in 1964, began living in Iraq, at the Shi'ite holy city of An Najaf. There, he became involved himself with Iraqi Shi'ites and got a strong religious and political following throughout the world. Under pressure from the Shah, who had agreed to a rapprochement between Iraq and Iran in 1975, Saddam agreed to kick Khomeini out in 1978. After the Islamic Revolution, Khomeini thought defeating Saddam's government may have been the second most imporatnt thing to do, only behind keeping his power in Iran.

After Khomeini gained power, small battles between Iraq and revolutionary Iran happened for ten months. They were fought over who controlled the disputed Shatt al-Arab waterway, which divides the two countries. Iraq and Iran entered into warfare on September 22, 1980. The pretext for war with Iran was this territorial dispute, but the war was more likely an attempt by Saddam, helped by both the United States and the Soviet Union, to have Iraq stop radical revolutions like in Iran from spreading any further.

In the first days of the war, there was heavy ground fighting around major ports as Iraq launched an attack on Iran's oil-rich, Arab-populated province of Khuzestan. After making some gains, Iraq's troops began to suffer losses from human-wave attacks by Iran. By 1982 Iraq was looking to end the war.

During the war, Iraq used chemical weapons against Iranian forces and Kurdish separatists. On March 16, 1988 Iraqi troops, on orders from Saddam to stop a Kurdish uprising, attacked the Kurdish town of Halabjah with a mix of poison gas and nerve agents killing 5000 people, mostly women and children. 

Saddam reached out to other Arab governments for cash and political help. The Iranians, hoping to bring down Saddam's non-religious government and start a Shi'ite rebellion in Iraq, refused a cease-fire until 1988.

The eight-year war ended in a tie. There were hundreds of thousands of casualties. Perhaps 1.7 million died on both sides. Both economies, previously healthy and expanding, were left in ruins.

Saddam was also stuck with a debt of roughly $75 billion. Borrowing money from the U.S. was making Iraq into its client state, embarrassing a strongman who had sought to define and dominate Arab nationalism. Saddam also borrowed a large amount of money from other Arab states during the 1980s to fight Iran. Faced with rebuilding Iraq's infrastructure, Saddam desperately sought out cash once again, this time for postwar reconstruction.

Saddam was pressuring Kuwait to forgive its share of his debt, some $30 billion. He argued that since the struggle with Iran had been fought for the benefit of the other Persian Gulf Arab states as much as for Iraq that a share of Iraqi debt should be forgiven. 

Saddam had pushed oil-exporting countries to raise oil prices and cut back production, but on top of Kuwaiti refusals to do so, Kuwait helped spearhead OPEC's opposition to the production cuts that Saddam had requested. Kuwait was pumping large amounts of oil, and keeping prices low, when Iraq needed to sell high-priced oil from its wells to pay off a huge debt.

The fact that Kuwait had so much oil made the region even more tense. Even though Kuwait had fewer people, it had about as much oil in reserve as Iraq. Together, Iraq and Kuwait had 20 percent of the world's known oil reserves.

The Kuwaiti monarchy made Saddam even angrier by drilling oil out of Iraqi wells. At the time, Saddam's regime was not thought to be disliked by most of the world. Saddam complained about the drilling to the U.S. State Department. Although this had gone on for years, Saddam now needed oil money to get rid of a looming economic crisis. Saddam still had an experienced and well-equipped army, which he used to influence regional affairs. He later ordered troops to the Iraq-Kuwait border.

As Iraq-Kuwait relations rapidly grew worse, Saddam was getting conflicting information about how the U.S. would respond to an invasion. Washington had been taking measures to start a good relationship with Iraq for roughly a decade. The Reagan administration gave Saddam roughly $40 billion worth of arms in the 1980s to fight Iran, nearly all of it on credit. The U.S. also sent billions of dollars of food and arms to Saddam to keep him from forming a strong alliance with the Soviets.

The U.S. ambassador to Iraq, April Glaspie, met with Saddam in a meeting on July 25, where the Iraqi leader said he wanted to keep talks going. U.S. officials attempted to maintain a conciliatory line with Iraq, indicating that while Bush and Baker did not want force to be used, they would not take any position on the Iraqi-Kuwait dispute and did not want to become involved. Later, Iraq and Kuwait then met for a final negotiation session, which failed. Saddam then sent his troops into Kuwait.

In August 2, 1990, Saddam invaded and Kuwait, thus making an international crisis. The invasion of Kuwait gave Iraq, with its own substantial oil fields, control of 20 percent of the Persian Gulf oil. The U.S. helped Saddam Hussein in the war with Iran, but with Iraq's take over of the oil-rich emirate of Kuwait in August of 1990 the United States led a United Nations attempt that drove Saddam from Kuwait in February 1991.

Cooperation between the United States and the Soviet Union made it possible for resolutions to pass in the United Nations Security Council and gave Iraq a deadline to leave Kuwait.

Saddam ignored the Security Council deadline. Helped by the Security Council, a U.S.-led coalition launched missile attacks on Iraq, January 16, 1991. The United States and a group of allies it had hastily rounded up, including Egypt, Syria and Saudi Arabia, made Saddam's army move from Kuwait in January 1991. ("see" Gulf War).

Israel, though subjected to attack by Iraqi missiles, refrained from retaliating in order not to anger Arab states into leaving the coalition. But Saddam had focused attention on the Palestinian problem by promising to make his forces leave from Kuwait if Israel would leave the occupied territories in the West Bank, the Golan Heights, and the Gaza Strip. Saddam's proposal further split the Arab world, pitting U.S.- and Western-supported Arab states against the Palestinians.

175,000 Iraqis were taken prisoner and the dead were estimated to be 85,000. As part of the cease-fire agreement, Iraq agreed to get rid of all poison gas and germ weapons and allow UN observers to inspect the sites.

All of the different religions and the violence of the war that this had created, caused after-war rebellions. After the war, fighting between Shi'ite Muslims, Kurds, and dissident military units was bad. This was a problem to Saddam's rule. Saddam acted by stopping all rebellions in their tracks, especially in the North.

The United States did not help the rebellions, although they had wanted Iraqis to rise up against Saddam. Turkey - a friend of the US - was against Kurdish independence, which would have stopped the fighting. This was because the Saudis and old-fashioned Arab states were afraid of a change like what happened in Iran with the Shiites. Saddam survived these problems that happened right after the war. He was then left completely in control of Iraq. The country never recovered from the Gulf War, economically or with the army. Hussein often showed his "proof" that Iraq had won the Gulf War, and the USA had lost. This made Saddam popular in many parts of the Arab world.

Saddam liked to show himself as a strict Muslim. This was to calm down the religious parts of the society. Some parts of the Sharia law were brought back. This included the 2001 law imposing the death penalty for homosexuality. The phrase "Allahu Akbar" (""God is great""), in Saddam's handwriting, was added to the Iraq national flag.

Relations between the United States and Iraq remained tense after the Gulf War. The U.S. launched a missile attacked aimed at Iraq's intelligence headquarters in Baghdad June 26, 1993, believing evidence that Iraq had sponsored a plot to kill former President George Bush.

The UN placed a trade embargo on Iraq, blocking Iraqi oil exports. This caused hardship in Iraq and almost destroyed the Iraqi economy and state infrastructure. Only smuggling across the Syrian border, and humanitarian aid kept Iraq from crisis. Later, limited amounts of income from the United Nations oil-for-food program started flowing into Iraq. On December 9, 1996 the United Nations allowed Baghdad to begin selling limited amounts of oil for food and medicine.

U.S. officials continued to accuse Saddam of violating the terms of the Gulf War's cease fire, by developing weapons of mass destruction and other banned weaponry, and violating the UN-imposed sanctions and "no fly zones." Isolated military strikes by U.S. and British forces continued on Iraq, the largest being Operation Desert Fox in 1998.
After two years of intermittent activity, U.S. and British warplanes struck harder at sites near Baghdad in February, 2001.

Saddam's base of Tikriti tribesmen, family members, and other supporters was divided after the war, and in the following years, adding to the regime's increasingly repressive and arbitrary nature. Domestic repression inside Iraq grew worse, and Saddam's sons, Uday Hussein and Qusay Hussein, became increasingly powerful and carried out a private reign of terror. They likely had a leading hand when, in August 1995, two of Saddam Hussein's sons-in-law, who held high positions in the Iraqi military, defected to Jordan. Both were killed after returning to Iraq the following February.

The main reason for the invasion was the claim by the Bush administration that Saddam has WMD.
He was seen as a major threat to Western allies such as oil-rich Saudi Arabia and Israel, to Western oil supplies from the Persian Gulf states, and to Middle East stability generally. Bush's successor, U.S. President Bill Clinton (1993-2001), maintained sanctions and made occasional air strikes in the "Iraqi no-fly zones" or other restrictions, in the hope that Saddam would be overthrown by his many political enemies.

The domestic political equation changed in the U.S. after the September 11, 2001 attacks, which added to the influence of the neoconservative faction in the presidential administration and throughout Washington. In his January 2002 state-of-the-union message to Congress, George W. Bush (the son of George H.W. Bush) spoke of an "axis of evil" comprising Iran, North Korea, and Iraq.

As the war was looming on February 24, 2003, Saddam Hussein talked with CBS News anchor Dan Rather for more than three hours—his first interview with a U.S. reporter in over a decade. CBS aired the taped interview later that week.

The Iraqi government and military collapsed in three weeks of the beginning of the U.S.-led 2003 invasion of Iraq on March 20. The United States made at least two attempts to kill Saddam with targeted air strikes, but both failed to hit their target. By the beginning of April Coalition forces had much of Iraq. The resistance of the much-weakened Iraqi Army either crumbled or shifted to guerrilla tactics, and it appeared that Saddam had lost control of Iraq. He was last seen in a video which showed him in the Baghdad suburbs surrounded by supporters. When Baghdad fell to the Coalition on April 9, Saddam was nowhere to be found.

Saddam was also accused by the Bush administration of being part of Al Qaeda. That has never been proven and there is no evidence Saddam ever had any ties. People in the Bush administration, including the Vice President Dick Cheney will forever claim otherwise. Mostly to justify the largely perceived illegal invasion.

Even when Baghdad was taken over, and most of the fighting had stopped, people still did not know where Saddam was. For a few weeks, some people said they saw Saddam, and some videotapes of Saddam talking came out, but still nobody knows if they were true or not.

Although Saddam was placed at the top of the "most-wanted list," he could not be found, even when the other leaders of the Iraqi regime were arrested. His sons and political heirs, Uday and Qusay, were killed in July 2003 in a clash with U.S. forces after a tip from an Iraqi.

On December 14, 2003, the Islamic Republic News Agency (IRNA) of Iran first reported that Saddam Hussein had been arrested. These reports were soon confirmed by other members of the Governing Council, by U.S. military sources, and by British Prime Minister Tony Blair. In a press conference in Baghdad, shortly afterwards, the U.S. Civil Administrator in Iraq Paul Bremer officially announced the capture of Saddam by saying, "Ladies and gentlemen, we got him!" He was found at around 8:30 PM Iraqi time on December 13, in an underground "spider hole" at a farmhouse in ad-Dawr near his home town Tikrit, in what was called Operation Red Dawn.

The first photos taken of Saddam after the soldiers found him did not look like the photos taken when he was president of Iraq. He had grown long hair and a long beard. Later on, he cut off his hair and beard. The DNA tests came back and showed that he really was Saddam Hussein. People who talked with him after the soldiers found him said he was healthy, and wanted to talk to people and do what they told him to do. Paul Bremer said that Saddam would have a trial, but that he did not know yet what kind of trial. 

The Iraqi Special Tribunal was in charge of Saddam Hussein's trial, and the trials of some people that helped him to be president of Iraq.

In November, 2006 Saddam Hussein was found guilty of 148 murders, and on December 30, 2006, he was put to death. The hanging, recorded by officials of the government, and secretly recorded by a member of the witnesses with a cell phone camera - with sound - showed Saddam being calm, as he was prepared for his final moments. Both witnesses and exectutioners could be heard teasing him as the rope was placed on his head, and he was put on the trap door. He was in the middle of a prayer, when the trap door beneath him opened, and his life ended. Later, pictures and live video of Saddam's taunting and execution, of his dead corpse were shown on many Internet sites.

Saddam had been married three times. His first marriage was to his first cousin Sajida Talfah. This union with the eldest daughter of Khairallah Talfah, Saddam's uncle, produced two sons, (Uday Saddam Hussein and Qusay Hussein) and three daughters, Rana, Raghad and Hala. Sajida was put under house arrest in early 1997, along with daughters Raghad and Rana, because of suspicions of their involvement in an attempted assassination on Uday in December 12, 1996. General Adnan Khairallah Tuffah, who was Sajida's brother and Saddam Hussein's boyhood friend, was allegedly executed because of his growing popularity.

Saddam Hussein also married two other women: Samira Shahbandar, whom he married in 1986 after forcing her husband to divorce her (she is said to be his favourite wife), and Nidal al-Hamdani, the general manager of the Solar Energy Research Center in the Council of Scientific Research, whose husband apparently was also persuaded to divorce his wife. 

In August 1995, Rana and her husband Hussein Kamel al Majid and Raghad and her husband, Saddam Kamel Majid, defected to Jordan, taking their children with them. They returned to Iraq when they received assurances that Saddam Hussein would pardon them. Within three days of their return in February 1996, both of the Majid brothers were executed.

Saddam's daughter Hala is married to Jamal Mustafa, the deputy head of Iraq's Tribal Affairs Office. Neither has been known to be involved in politics. Another cousin was Ali Hassan al-Majid, also known in the United States as "Chemical Ali," who was accused of ordering the use of poison gas in 1988. 

Saddam was scheduled to die on Thursday night, December 28, 2006. Because of last minute legal appeals in the American federal court, Saddam's execution came about 40 hours later. Saddam Hussein was hanged on December 30, 2006, at 6:05 AM, Iraqi time. Saddam refused to wear a hood. The execution was performed by the Shiites. He was pronounced dead at 6:10 AM Baghdad time. Baghdad had curfews on those days, policy regulation required people to be off the streets by evening. His motionless body was allowed to dangle on the rope for about 10 minutes. Many Shiites danced around his corpse.



</doc>
<doc id="4801" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4801" title="Template:PD-USGov">
Template:PD-USGov


</doc>
<doc id="4804" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4804" title="List of traditional star names">
List of traditional star names

This is a list of traditional names for stars, mostly from Arabic and Latin.

To find out more about any of these stars, you can look them up in the SIMBAD international database:




</doc>
<doc id="4805" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4805" title="List of tectonic plates">
List of tectonic plates

This is a list of tectonic plates of Earth.







</doc>
<doc id="4806" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4806" title="List of oil fields">
List of oil fields

This list of oil fields includes major fields of the past and present.



</doc>
<doc id="4807" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4807" title="Anarchism">
Anarchism

Anarchism is a political belief that is against authority, believing that people can organize themselves without needing state or a government in power. Anarchists also believe that participation should never be forced by other people.

Anarchism is "a cluster of doctrines and attitudes centered on the belief that government is both harmful and unnecessary." The term "anarchism" derives from the Greek ("without archons," which means "without rulers", not "without laws"; it is also occasionally translated as "without government"). 

In the common language, the word "anarchy" is often used to describe chaos or anomie. However, anarchists usually do not promote this. Rather, they define "anarchy" as a way of relations between people. They believe that, once put into place, these relations work on their own.

Individual freedom, voluntary association, and opposition to the state are important beliefs of anarchism. There are also big differences between anarchist philosophies on things like whether violence can be used to bring anarchy; the best type of economy; the relationship between technology and hierarchy; the idea of equality; and the usefulness of some organization. 

There are many anarchists who reject capitalism and support socialism (but in another sense, without a totalitarian state or power), they are called anarcho-socialists. Also, there are some people called anarcho-capitalists who oppose governments, but support capitalism (but in another sense, neither corporatist government nor state capitalism) and reject socialism. Other anarchists say that they are not really anarchists. Finally, there are "anarchists without adjectives" who hold that because people will be free in an anarchy to pursue voluntarily any economic structures they want (including communes, worker co-ops, and capitalist-owned firms).



</doc>
<doc id="4809" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4809" title="List of countries by area">
List of countries by area

Here is a list of the countries of the world in order of size.

The list includes the world and the oceans (rank nrs. 1,2,3,4,5,7), Antarctica (nr. 8), the Spratly Islands (claimed by various countries; nr 256) and the 259 countries and dependencies which are also listed above.


</doc>
<doc id="4810" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4810" title="List of countries by continents">
List of countries by continents

Countries listed by continent and their capitals:

Eurafrasia is a continent in the three-continent system and includes Africa, Asia and Europe.

Africa is a continent in the systems with 5 or more continents.

Eurasia is a continent in the 5 continent systems, called simply Asia in one of them.

Asia is a continent in the 5 continent systems (but includes Europe in one of them) and those with 6 or more continents.


Europe is a continent in one of the 6 continent systems and the 7 continent system. In other systems it is part of Asia, Eurasia or Eurafrasia.

America is a continent in the 4, 5 and one of the 6 continent systems.

North America is a continent in the 7 continent system.


South America is a continent in the seven continent system. In other systems it is part of America.


Several terms are in use to describe the region comprising Australia and the nations of the Pacific Ocean. The term "Oceania" is usually preferred, and this is the term in use by the United Nations. The term "Pacific Islands" generally excludes the islands of New Zealand, and the continent of Australia. The indigenous Māori of New Zealand are a Polynesian people.

Historically the region was called Australasia, although this often meant just Australia, New Zealand and sometimes Papua New Guinea. The term gives special emphasis to Australia and is falling out of favour.

The countries are listed below according to their UN classification:





These are other countries and islands.
For more, visit http://www.nationsonline.org/oneworld/countries_of_the_world.htm



</doc>
<doc id="4811" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4811" title="List of countries by official languages">
List of countries by official languages

Afrikaans:

Albanian:

Arabic:

Armenian:

Assamese:

Azeri: 

Bahasa Indonesia:

Bulgarian:

Bengali:

Catalan:

Cree

Chipewyan

Croatian

Danish

Dari:

Dogrib/Tli Cho

Dutch:

Dzongkha:

English:

Fijian

Filipino:

Finnish:

French:

German:


Greek (Hellenic): 

Gwich'in:

Haitian Creole is an official language of:

Hebrew:

Hindi

Hungarian:

Inuktitut:

Inuvialuktun

Irish is the first official language of:

Italian:

Japanese:

Kazakh:

Khmer:

Korean:

Lao:

Latin:

Latvian:

Lithuanian:

Malay:

Maltese:

Māori:

Mandarin Chinese:

Moldovan "(asserted by nationalists to be distinct from Romanian; most linguists remain skeptical):"

Motu:

Ndebele:

Nepali:

Northern Sotho:

Occitan:

Pashtu:

Persian:

Polish:

Portuguese:

Romanian:

Rhaeto-Romansh:

Russian:

Sardinian is a partially official language of:

Serbian:

Sinhala:

Slavey:

Slovene:

Sotho:

Spanish:

Swahili:

Swazi:

Swedish:

Tamil:

Tok Pisin:

Tsonga:

Tswana:

Turkish:

Ukrainian:

Urdu:

Venda:

Vietnamese:

Welsh:

Xhosa:

Zulu:

Aranese:

Assamese:

Basque:

Bengali:

Chipewyan:

Cree:

Dhivehi:

Dogrib:

Frisian:

Galician:
" NOTE: Whether Galician is in fact a language, or a dialect of Portuguese, is a matter of debate among linguists.

Gwich'in:

Gujarati:

Hawaiian is an official language in:

Inuvialuktun:

Kannada:

Kashmiri:

Kurdish:

Malayalam:

Marathi:

Oriya:

Punjabi:

Rusyn

Sanskrit:

Sindhi:

Slavey:

Telugu:

Xhosa:

Zulu:



</doc>
<doc id="4812" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4812" title="List of countries by population">
List of countries by population

This is a list of countries by population. This page has the name of almost every country in the world. There is a number to the right of every country's name. This number shows how many people live in the country. Countries with the most people are at the top. Countries with the least people are at the bottom. 

This list comes from a book called "CIA World Factbook 2005". 

Also see: List of countries, List of countries by area, List of countries by population density, List of countries by continent, List of most populous nations by 2025, List of countries by date of nationhood, Thirty most populous cities in the world



</doc>
<doc id="4813" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4813" title="List of oil-producing nations">
List of oil-producing nations

This is a partial list of states that extract crude oil from oil wells.









</doc>
<doc id="4817" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4817" title="Forests in the United Kingdom">
Forests in the United Kingdom

This is a list of forests in the United Kingdom.

















</doc>
<doc id="4818" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4818" title="List of prime numbers">
List of prime numbers

This page contains a list of the first 120 prime numbers. It also contains lists of the first few prime numbers of different kinds.

3, 7, 31, 127, 8191, 131071, 524287, 2147483647, 2305843009213693951

As of 2003, these are the only known Fermat primes.

3, 5, 17, 257, 65537

2, 3, 5, 11, 23, 29, 41, 53, 83, 89, 113, 131, 173, 179, 191, 233, 239, 251, 281, 293, 359, 419, 431, 443, 491, 509, 593, 641, 653, 659, 683, 719, 743, 761, 809, 911, 953

As of 2003, these are the only known Wilson primes.

5, 13, 563 

As of 2003, these are the only known Wolstenholme primes.

16843, 2124679 

2, 3, 5, 7, 23, 719, 5039, 39916801, 479001599, 87178291199 

5, 7, 29, 31, 211, 2309, 2311, 30029 

2, 3, 5, 7, 11, 101, 131, 151, 181, 191, 313, 353, 373, 383, 727, 757, 787, 797, 919, 929, 10301, 10501, 10601, 11311, 11411, 12421, 12721, 12821, 13331, 13831, 13931, 14341, 14741, 15451, 15551, 16061, 16361, 16561, 16661, 17471, 17971, 18181, 18481, 19391, 19891, 19991

Cuban primes of the form (x - y) / (x - y), x is y + 1:

Cuban primes of the form (x - y) / (x - y), x is y + 2:

5, 13, 41, 61, 113, 181

3 7 13 31 37 43 67 73 79 127 151 163 193 211 223 241 283 307 331 349 367 409 421 433 463 487 541 577 601 613 619 631 643 673 727 739 769 787 823 883 937 991 997 1009 1021 1039 1087 1093 1117 1123 1201 1231 1249 1291 1303 1459 1471 1543 1567 1579 1597 1663 1693 1723 1777 1801 1831 1879 1933 1987 2053 2083 2113 2221 2239 2251 2281 2311 2467 2473 2557 2593 2647 2671 2689 2797 2851 2887 2953 2971 3037 3049 3109 3121 3163 3187 3229 3259 3301 3307 3313 




</doc>
<doc id="4819" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4819" title="List of publishers">
List of publishers

This is a list of publishers in English.










</doc>
<doc id="4821" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4821" title="ΜCLinux">
ΜCLinux

µCLinux is an operating system for small computers inside integrated circuits (chips). The system is based on the Linux operating system in many ways. Apart from the rather big size of Linux, µCLinux is much smaller and not as packed with features as Linux. It finds uses in many places, mostly dealing with sensor and data-gathering of different sorts.

Thanks to its compact nature, it can easily be transferred over slow connections. Yet it is a stable and robust system distributed as an open source program.


</doc>
<doc id="4822" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4822" title="UNIX">
UNIX

UNIX is a computer operating system. It was developed during the late 1960s at Bell Labs. It was made by Ken Thompson, Dennis Ritchie, Douglas McIlroy, and others. The system is a multiuser and multiprocessing system. This means that it can do many things at the same time. Also, many people can use it at the same time. It also is network oriented; which means that it is meant to operate in a network of computers. Security is also very important in UNIX, because of the multiuser idea, but also the networked environment it is found in.

Many ideas that were in UNIX were new. Other operating systems copied them. Today, there are many operating systems that have some of the ideas of UNIX in them. For this reason, some people talk about a "UNIX philosophy" of doing things. One of these systems with many of the UNIX ideas in it, is called Linux. Linux does not use code from UNIX, it only shares some of the ideas. Therefore Linux is not a UNIX operating system. Instead it is called "UNIX-like".

There can be many different users in a UNIX-like operating system. Most of them have a personal area where they can put things. This is called a user account.

The main method of interacting with a UNIX system is the command line interface. Users run commands and programs by typing them at the command line. This is an extremely powerful and flexible way of working, because it allows things to be done automatically, and is still used by most UNIX users and administrators.

A graphical user interface usually used by UNIX systems is the X Window System. The X Window System is only a shell of a graphical interface. It is made of many protocols. The X Window System itself does not provide decorations for windows or controls to the user to move and resize windows. This is handled by a window manager or desktop manager.

Some of the popular desktop environments and window managers are:


Like most other graphical user interfaces, they use windows, dialog boxes, support the use of a computer mouse and are designed to be easy to use.

There are many thousands of programs available for the X Window System. Programs like word processors and spreadsheets are available including free and open-source software.

Today, there are two kinds of operating systems that look like Unix. The first group contains all those that have common kernel code with the original, developed at Bell Labs, later AT&T. This includes the commercial Unix variants, like Solaris, AIX or Mac OS X. The free ones do usually have BSD in their name, like FreeBSD, OpenBSD and NetBSD. The other group is based on the Linux Kernel (computer science). It does not have common code with the original UNIX. To avoid this controversy, many people therefore speak about "Unix and Unix-like systems".

As to the applications; most can be made to run on either Unix or Linux. KDE and GNOME were developed for Linux, and later ported to the commercial Unix variants.



</doc>
<doc id="4826" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4826" title="Signature">
Signature

A signature is a special way that people write their name to imply that they agree to something which is written. 

A signature is usually used by people to sign letters they have written, cheques to show that they agree to the payment of some money, petitions to show their support for views, and contracts. The way people sign things are different in different countries. In the UK most people have a signature which is just made from writing their name in their own handwriting, but in Côte d'Ivoire for example, young adults spend many months practicing fancy signatures which are hard to copy and not readable.

People who cannot write often mark a signature of a cross. 

Hundreds of years ago rich people used sealing wax to make an impression of their signet rings next to or instead of a signature. This was called their "seal", which is where the term "seal of approval" comes from. Some formal documents still carry an official wax seal. For example, if a coat of arms is registered with the College of Heralds the registration document carries a wax seal.

Sometimes one finds a form where the person is asked to both 


</doc>
<doc id="4828" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4828" title="Cocoa">
Cocoa

Cocoa is the seed of the cacao tree. 

The seed contains a lot of fat, and is used to produce cocoa butter. Cocoa butter is then used to produce chocolate.

Most people will know "Cocoa" as a ground powder they use to produce chocolate.

Chocolate and cocoa are made from the beans of the cacao tree. The tree might have first come from the foothills of the Andes Mountains near the Amazon River and the Orinoco River in South America. The tree was brought to Central America by the ancient Mayas, and was grown in Mexico by the Toltecs and later by the Aztecs.

Cocoa was an important product in Pre-Columbian Mesoamerica. People who told the story of the conquest of Mexico by Hernán Cortés said that when Moctezuma II, emperor of the Aztecs, ate dinner he took no other drink than chocolate, served in a golden goblet and eaten with a golden spoon. Flavored with vanilla and spices, his chocolate was whipped into a froth that dissolved in the mouth. No less than 50 pitchers of the drink were prepared for the emperor each day, and 2000 more for nobles of his court.

Chocolate was brought to Europe by the Spaniards and became a popular drink by 1700. They also brought the cacao tree to the West Indies and the Philippines. It was used in alchemical processes, where it was known as Black Bean.

The cacao plant was first given its name by Swedish natural scientist Carl von Linné (1707-1778), who called it "theobroma cacao" or "food of the gods".

A pod has a rough leathery rind about 3 cm (1¼ inch) thick. It is filled with slimy pinkish pulp, sweet but inedible, enclosing from 30 to 50 large almond-like seeds or "beans" that are fairly soft and pinkish or purplish in color. As soon as they ripen, the pods are removed with a curved knife on a long pole, opened with a machete, and left to dry until taken to fermentation.

Then the beans are removed and piled in heaps, bins, or on grates where, during several days of "sweating", the thick pulp ferments until it thins and trickles off. The quality of the beans, which originally have a strong bitter taste, depends upon this sweating. If it is overdone they may be ruined; if underdone they have a flavor like raw potatoes and are susceptible to mildew.

Then the beans are spread out, constantly raked over, and dried. On large plantations this is done on huge trays, either outdoors by sunshine or in sheds by artificial heat. However, thousands of tons from smaller producers are dried on small trays or on cowhides. Finally, the beans are trodden and shuffled about (often using bare human feet) and sometimes, during this process red clay mixed with water is sprinkled over the beans to obtain a finer color, polish, and protection against molds during shipment to factories in the United States, the Netherlands, United Kingdom, and other countries. About 3,000,000 tonnes of cocoa are grown each year. The Netherlands is the leading cocoa processing country, followed by the U.S.

Uses of cocoa are numerous. It may be used in cakes, creams, drinks, toppings.

Besides its use as a food, science has discovered that cocoa is beneficial for health. Cocoa has nearly twice the anti-cancer antioxidants of red wine, and up to three times those found in green tea.



</doc>
<doc id="4831" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4831" title="Côte d'Ivoire">
Côte d'Ivoire

The Republic of (; ), commonly known in English as Ivory Coast, is a country in West Africa. People who live there speak French. It used to be called the Ivory Coast. Some people in the USA still call it this, but it is not the official name. 

Coffee, cocoa, bananas, and rubber are all sold from here.

From the 1960s to the mid-1980s, Cote d'Ivoire was managed well by the government. There was one president for this time. The economic growth and development of the country were among the best in the world.

After the mid-1980s the country became hard to live in. The cost of coffee and cocoa went down so people could not make as much money. The first president died, and a civil war took place. Today it relies on smaller crops.

The capital of Côte d'Ivoire is Yamoussoukro; its biggest city is Abidjan.


</doc>
<doc id="4834" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4834" title="Luke McCormick">
Luke McCormick

Luke McCormick is an English football player. He was born August 15, 1983 in Coventry, England. He is a goalkeeper. He plays for the English football team Plymouth Argyle.

In the 2003/04 season, McCormick played when Romain Larrieu could not. Larrieu injured his knee. McCormick played instead. Plymouth Argyle beat Stockport County on 24 January 2004. The score was 2-0. In this match McCormick set a new club record of seven "clean sheets" in a row. A clean sheet is a game where the other side gets no goals.

McCormick was voted the most promising player of the 2003/04 season by Plymouth Argyle fans.

On June 7, 2008. McCormick was arrested on suspicion for killing two people by dangerous driving. Subsequently he was released by Plymouth Arygle and was jailed for seven years on October 6, 2008 but could be out in three and a half years. 

140||0||8||0||7||0||155||0
140||0||8||0||7||0||155||0


</doc>
<doc id="4836" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4836" title="Template:QD">
Template:QD


</doc>
<doc id="4841" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4841" title="God paradox">
God paradox

The God paradox is a problem in philosophy. The problem is explained here:

This problem is a paradox because:

The God paradox is a good example of a philosophical problem. This section has some responses to the paradox.

This response says that God can do only logical things. God can do everything that makes sense. If you talk about a mountain that is "too heavy to lift," then it would not make sense if anything could lift it. This is because saying a mountain is "too heavy to lift" means that the mountain cannot be lifted by anything. This does not mean that God is too weak to lift very heavy mountains. God cannot lift an "unliftable" mountain because that would not make sense. He also cannot create an "unliftable" mountain because that also would not make sense, if God can lift everything. God could still lift any mountain that is not defined as "cannot be lifted." For example, God can make a mountain as heavy as he wants, but he cannot make a round square.

Some people disagree. They think that God can do things that are illogical. This is another way of saying that one cannot apply "logical/illogical" to God at all.
People who believe this either do not believe we can know God at all (agnosticism, or "not knowing") or that we can only use what God has told us to know about Him (I can only read the Bible or other book to know about God, because science, philosophy, and logic cannot be applied to God).

God is beyond limitation. His strength is infinite. If He chooses to create a mountain that is too heavy for Him to lift he would simultaneously become strong enough to lift it. To ask if the creation of such a mountain is possible is to attempt putting a limitation on the limitless.

In analytical philosophy, problems can be solved by breaking it into smaller pieces. One solves each of the small problems.

Let us see how one can use this for the God Paradox. The paradox is:
If one changes this question to a sentence, it becomes:
We can make this even more simple. First we must see that because God can do anything: 
Now we can write the sentence as these facts:
Facts 1, 2 and 3 must always be true. Now we must see if fact 4 is true or false:
If 4 is true "or" false, fact 1 is disproved. Illustrating God paradox does make sense, or that omnipotence (being able to do anything) is impossible.

This rather simple language of logic (Primitive) does indeed rely on 1,2 and 3 all being true, therefore 4 must be true, if it is false then either 1,2 or 3 must also be false.

These references were taken from the English article. They may not be simple to understand.


</doc>
<doc id="4843" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4843" title="Libertarianism">
Libertarianism

"This page is about free-market individualism. Some people (especially in Europe and Latin America) use the word" libertarianism "to refer to "libertarian socialism" (see anarchism)"

Libertarianism is an idea in ethics and politics. The word comes from the word "liberty", and people who believe in libertarianism believe in individual people having as much liberty as possible. It also leads libertarians to want to limit government power as much as possible. People who believe in libertarianism are called libertarians.

Libertarianism grew out of liberalism as a movement in the 1800s. Many of the beliefs of libertarianism are similar to the beliefs in classical liberalism. It also has roots in anarchism and the Austrian School of economics.

Libertarians often oppose slavery, rape, theft, murder, and all other examples of initiated violence. 

Libertarians believe that no person can justly own or control the body of another person, what they call "self-ownership" or "individual sovereignty." In simple words, every person has a right to control her or his own body.

In the 1800s, libertarians like William Lloyd Garrison, Frederick Douglass, and Lysander Spooner were all abolitionists. Abolitionists were people who wanted to end slavery right away.

Garrison based his opposition to slavery on the idea of self-ownership. Since you have a natural right to control your own body, no one else has any right to steal that control from you. Garrison and Douglass both called slave masters "man stealers."

If you have a right to control your own body, then no one has a right to start violence (or force) against you.

Some libertarians believe that all violence is unjust. These libertarians are often called "anarcho-pacifists". Robert LeFevre was a libertarian who rejected all violence. However, most libertarians believe that there are some ways violence can be justified.

One thing that justifies violence is self defence. If someone is violent towards you, you have a right to defend yourself with equal force.

The libertarian Murray N. Rothbard said that it would be wrong to kill someone for stealing a pack of gum. If you steal gum, this is an act of violence against the property owner. The owner has a right to use defensive violence to get the gum back, but killing the thief goes too far. That is too much force because it is not equal to the force used by the thief. Punishment must be equal to the crime.

Some libertarians believe that it is your moral duty to defend yourself and your property if you can. This belief is usually held by Objectivists. These people believe that pacifism is immoral. Most libertarians reject this view.

All libertarians believe that it is wrong to start violence against any person or against what he or she owns. They call this the "non-aggression principle."

Ownership is the right to control something. Property is the thing that you control.

Libertarians believe that property rights come from self-ownership. This means that because you have a right to control your own body, you also have a right to control what you make with it.

The English philosopher John Locke said that a person comes to own something by using it. So, if you turn an area that no-one else owns into a farm and use it, that area becomes your property. This is called the "homestead principle."

Libertarians also say that you can become a legitimate owner by receiving something as a gift or by trading it with someone for something they own. You do not become a legitimate owner by stealing. You also do not become a legitimate owner by simply "saying" you own something. If you have not "homesteaded" the thing or received it through trade or gift, you do not own it.

Libertarians are opposed to states (or governments) creating any "laws" that tell people what they can and cannot do with their own bodies. The only legitimate laws are laws that say a person may not start violence against other people or their legitimate property. All "laws" stopping people from doing nonviolent things should be repealed, according to libertarians. (These "laws" are usually called "victimless crimes" because there is no victim if there is no theft.)

In most countries, the state (or government) takes tax money from the people. All libertarians support cutting taxes back, and some libertarians believe the state should not take tax money at all. Libertarians think people can take care of the poor without the government. They believe that people should pay for the things that they want to use, but not have to pay for other things that they do not want. Tax evasion (refusal to pay taxes to the state) is a victimless crime. Libertarians would prefer to see taxation replaced with lotteries, user fees, and endowments.

Libertarians think everyone should be allowed to decide what is good or bad for her/his own body. Libertarians think if people want to drive cars without wearing seat belts, it is their own choice. They should not be forcibly stopped from doing that, not even by the state. If a person wants to donate all of her/his money to a charity, or waste it all gambling, that is also something she/he should decide for herself/himself. No one should be forcibly stopped from doing that, not even by the state. Libertarians even say that if adults want to use harmful drugs, they should be allowed to do that, even if it spoils their lives. It is the drug user's own choice because it is the drug user's own body. As long as the drug user does not start using violence against other people or their legitimate property, no one should use violence against the drug user or the drug user's legitimate property, not even the government.

Many libertarians also believe that families and friends should look after people so that they will not use drugs, drive without seat belts, or do other things that are dangerous for them. But no one can force others to do things that they do not want to do, or to stop them from doing nonviolent things that they want to do.

There are two basic types of libertarians. All libertarians fall into one of these two broad types.

Minarchists are libertarians who believe that society should have a state with very limited power. They typically believe that the only things the state should have are police and judges to make sure that people obey the laws. Some also believe in having a military to make sure that no one attacks the country. Some minarchists believe in having a small amount of taxation.

Two famous minarchist libertarians are Robert Nozick and Ayn Rand. Nozick believed that the only legitimate thing a state can do is have a police force. He called his legitimate state a "night-watchman state." Rand believed that the state should have police and judges, but that it should fund itself through lotteries and not through taxation.

Libertarian anarchists usually call themselves anarcho-capitalists, free-market anarchists, individualist anarchists, or just anarchists.

Libertarian anarchists do not believe the state is needed. They believe that people can organise their own lives and businesses. They want to replace the state with voluntary organisations, including charities, private companies, voluntary unions, and mutual aid societies. They also want to end all forced taxation.

They say that state police can be replaced with "DROs" (Dispute Resolution Organisations) or "private protection agencies." They also say that state judges can be replaced with "private arbitration."

The most famous libertarian anarchist was Murray N. Rothbard. Others include Lysander Spooner, Benjamin R. Tucker, and Linda & Morris Tannehill.

Most libertarians fall under one of the two types of libertarians listed above. But there are other types, too.











</doc>
<doc id="4846" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4846" title="Template:Colors">
Template:Colors

</div>


</doc>
<doc id="4853" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4853" title="Auction">
Auction

An auction is a place where people can buy or sell things. People say how much they will pay for something and the person who is willing to pay the most gets the thing.

The amount people will pay is called a bid. The person in charge of the auction is the auctioneer. He usually has a hammer which he will knock when he accepts a bid.

Some auctions only let you place one bid. Some let you change your bid if someone else bids higher. There is also another kind called a Dutch auction. In a Dutch auction the auctioneer starts off with a price that is much too high and gradually makes it lower until somebody makes a bid. That person will then buy the thing. 

Recently, people have also started to do auctions online. The most popular online auction place is EBay.

A common prank is to fake bid, where a person bids an amount and they do not actually pay it. This usually occurs when people bid simply to force others to bid higher, forcing them to lose more money in the process. Occasionally, the fake bidder is actually the highest bidder at which point they will promptly leave. Although generally frowned upon, fake biding is not considered illegall in many countries; however, legal action may be pursued against the perpetrators. 

Advantages of online auctions

1. No time constraints- convenience increment, bids can be placed at any time (24/7).
2. No geographical constraints- Sellers and bidders can participate from any part of the world so long as they have internet access. This reduces the costs of attending an auction.
3. Intensity of social interaction- The social interaction involved in bidding is very similar to gambling. Some bid primarily to play the game rather than buy the products or services.
4. Large number of bidders- due to the relatively low price, the broad scope of products and services available, the ease of access and the social benefits.
5. Large number of sellers- due to the large number of bidders, the relatively low prices, reduced selling costs and ease of access.

Disadvantages/Criticisms of online auctions

Auction sites, like garage sales, flea markets, classified ads and other independent sales venues, sometimes draw criminals wishing to sell stolen products.


</doc>
<doc id="4858" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4858" title="Roman Catholicism">
Roman Catholicism

Roman Catholicism (Catholic meaning 'universal') is the Christian denomination which claims to date back to the Apostles of two thousand years ago, centered in Rome, Italy, and led by the Bishops and the Pope (the Bishop of Rome) as their chief.

Like other Christians, Catholics believe a divine person, Jesus Christ is the Son of God. Catholics believe that because of his love for all people, Jesus Christ died so that all of us will live forever in heaven. The Catholic Church teaches that Catholics should follow the example of love Jesus Christ teaches; to love each other so much that one is even willing to die for another. Catholicism also recognizes the Triune God (the Trinity). This consists of the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit.

The leader of the Roman Catholic church is called the Pope, which literally means "father." Catholics say Jesus Christ established the Catholic Church, and appointed the first Pope, a person named Saint Peter, to lead all Christians. Over the next 2,000 years, different Popes have lead the church. The current Pope is called Benedict and he lives in a country called Vatican City, a very small country inside the city of Rome, Italy. In addition to the Roman Catholic Church, the Pope also leads the Eastern Catholic churches. Together with the Roman Catholic Church, they are known as the Catholic Church.

Catholics believe that some of the official statements that the Pope makes about their religion are true and cannot be proved incorrect, an idea called infallibility. Infallibility only occurs when the Pope is speaking "Ex Cathedra" which is Latin for "From the chair." The Pope is only infallible in matters of faith and morals.

Some of the traditional worship practices of Roman Catholics include making the sign of the cross, kneeling, bowing, and receiving the Eucharist during their worship ceremonies. Their main form of worship is called the Mass and is celebrated every day, and Catholics are required to attend on Sunday. They are also required to attend on Holy Days of obligation. In the United States, the Holy Days of Obligation are: Mary, Mother of God (January 1), The Assumption of Mary (August 15), The Immaculate Conception (of Mary) (December 8), The Ascension of Jesus (40 days after Easter), Christmas (December 25) and All Saints Day (November 1). These can be remembered by the following phrase: 3 for Mary, 2 for Jesus and 1 for all the saints. While these are all practices of Roman Catholics, other Christian churches also use many or all of these same practices. Catholics put more emphasis on the Virgin Mary (Jesus's mother) than other Christian sects, calling her the "Mother of God," "The Queen of Heaven," and praying to her regularly, as "Mediatrix of graces" at a level higher than the mediation of other saints.

The Catholic Church celebrates seven sacraments. A sacrament is "an outward sign instituted (started) by Christ to give grace." The seven sacraments are: Baptism, Confirmation, Reconciliation, Holy Matrimony (marriage), Holy Orders, Anointing of the Sick and the Most Holy Eucharist. The Eucharist is the most important of the sacraments, because Catholics believe that Jesus Christ becomes truly present in the form of bread and wine. This happens through transubstantiation which takes place in the Mass.

Catholics believe in the necessity of love, hope and faith- in order to gain salvation, but that these all come from grace (a supernatural gift of God that someone did nothing to deserve). This is different from the 16th century interpretation created by Luther. Catholics interpret the Bible (Christian religious book) by St. Augustine's rule, and by Tradition. Tradition is the records of the teachings of the early church, especially those before what was in the bible was finalized in the fourth century. (The acceptance of the gospels was already current in the 2nd century.) A basic rule for Catholics is that "Truth cannot contradict truth". They translated the Bible with this in mind. No interpretation of interpretable material can be accepted if it contradicts another revealed truth. The Bible is considered revealed.

Catholics, like Orthodox Christians, accept the Nicene Creed, a combination of the Council of Nicaea (A.D. 325) and the later Council of Constantinople (A.D. 382) as true:

"We believe in one God, the Father, the Almighty, maker of heaven and earth, of all that is seen and unseen. We believe in one Lord, Jesus Christ, the only Son of God, eternally begotten of the Father, God from God, Light from Light, true God from true God, begotten, not made, one in being with the Father. Through Him all things were made. For us men and our salvation He came down from heaven: by the power of the Holy Spirit, He was born of the Virgin Mary, and became man. For our sake He was crucified under Pontius Pilate; He suffered, died, and was buried. On the third day He rose again in fulfilment of the scriptures: He ascended into heaven and is seated at the right hand of the Father. He will come again in glory to judge the living and the dead, and his kingdom will have no end. We believe in the Holy Spirit, the Lord, the giver of life, who proceeds from the Father and the Son. With the Father and the Son, He is worshipped and glorified. He has spoken through the Prophets. We believe in one, holy, catholic, and apostolic Church. We acknowledge one baptism for the forgiveness of sins. We look for the resurrection of the dead, and the life of the world to come. Amen. ""
Nicene Creed, Catholic Prayers

Eastern Orthodox and Protestant people believe many of the same things. They disagree on the role of saints and the role of Mary (the mother of Jesus), on what a priest can do, and on how exactly God should be worshipped, among other things.




</doc>
<doc id="4860" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4860" title="Hong Kong">
Hong Kong

The Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (Chinese: 香港, pinyin: "Hong Kong", literally "Fragrant Port") is one of two Special Administrative Regions (SARs) of the PRC (the other is Macau). It is one of the richest and most highly developed places in the world. Hong Kong grew quicky in the decades after World War II and now has become a famous world class financial center.

Hong Kong is divided into 3 main parts:

Hong Kong was a British colony since 1842. In 1997, after the Handover, Hong Kong became a part of China.

Hong Kong is in a sub-tropical area, and has monsoon winds. It is cool and wet in winter (Jan-Mar), hot and rainy from spring through summer (Apr-Sep), and warm, sunny and dry in the autumn (Oct-Dec). The rainy season is from May until September. In summer and early autumn, there is a frequent threat of typhoons.

Hong Kong has just reached the 7-million-people population in 2009. Most of them are Chinese. They mainly speak Cantonese. Many people learn English as an additional language.

17 days of the year are public holidays in Hong Kong:

There are coins from 10 cents to 10 dollars; and bank-notes (paper money bills) from $10 to $1000. One American dollar is equal to about $7.75 in Hong Kong dollars, at the official bank exchange rate.


Here is a brief history of Hong Kong:
Around 4000 BC 
Around 3500 BC
Around 2000 BC
Around 500 BC
221 BC
220
1555 
1799
1800 

1839 
1841 
 January 26th, 1841- 
August 1841 
1860 
1888
1898 
1900s
1920s-1930s
1933-1934
1941

December 8th, 1941-
December 25, 1941
August 1945
1949
1950
1953
1955
1983
1984
1990
1997
July 1st, 1997
1998
June 2002
2003 
March 10th, 2005

Hong Kong has two media companies, Television Broadcasts Limited (TVB) and Asia Television Limited (ATV). They are business rivals.



</doc>
<doc id="4862" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4862" title="Blitzkrieg">
Blitzkrieg

Blitzkrieg is a German word which means "lightning war".

In a "blitzkrieg" the attacking armies move very quickly, and are helped by tanks and by aircraft. Enemy slower moving units are overrun or surrounded. They are often captured with little fighting. Often the slower units might not be ready to fight when they are captured.

It was used by the German army in World War II during the invasions of Poland, France, and the Soviet Union.

The Blitz refers to the German bombing of Britain, especially London, during World War II, which destroyed over a million homes and killed over 40,000 people. The bombing was supposed to quickly destroy industry and morale (happiness) and make it easier for the German Army to invade.

Towards the end of the war the Allies learned to defeat German blitzkrieg attacks by attacking the sides of the attackers with reserve forces.


</doc>
<doc id="4863" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4863" title="Tank">
Tank

A Tank is an armoured combat vehicle, typically armed with a large cannon and a few machine guns.

The first tanks were used by the British during World War I as a way of attacking enemy trenches. They were called tanks to trick the Germans into thinking they were water carriers for areas where water was hard to move or find in large amounts.

A tank is covered in thick armour to protect it from enemy weapons. Tanks have tracks that wrap around its wheels to spread out its weight and let it cross rough ground. Most tanks have a powerful gun and one or more machine guns. 

A tank's crew is normaly 3-5 men, a driver, commander and gunner always present, usualy a loader who handles the ammunition for the main gun (so the gunner doesn't have to take his eye off the sights and loose the target) and in WWII some had a man responsible for the radio.

Tanks became a main weapon during World War II, where battles between great numbers of tanks were fought, especially between the Germans and the Soviet Union. Well-known World War II tanks were the German Panzer IV, Panther and Tigers, Soviet T-34 (produced in the largets numbers of any tank of the war and second most ever), British Matilda, Churchill and Cromwell, and American M4 Sherman (second most produced tank of the war) and Stuart tanks. There where also many plans for very big and powerful tanks called super heavy tanks but these where decided to be of little use as their huge weight would have made moving them very hard and they would have been easy targets for very large weapons that could easily destroy them.

Old tanks are often modified for other uses like carrying soldiers or bridges. Combat engineers use special tank-based vehicles, for example minesweeper tanks or bridge-layer tanks.

The tank is a major part of all large armies today.

Modern tanks are all of the 'Main Battle Tank' type. Comopared to older types MBTs are very heavy (Russian MBTS being in the area of 40 tonnes and Western around 60t) with a 120mm (western) or 125mm(Russian) calibre cannon and 2-3 machine guns.


</doc>
<doc id="4864" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4864" title="Edinburgh">
Edinburgh

Edinburgh (Scottish Gaelic: "Dùn Èideann") is the capital city and second largest city in Scotland. Edinburgh lies on the east coast, where the River Forth flows into the sea. 

The central part is Edinburgh Castle, at the top of a steep hill. The castle has a military display every year, called a "tattoo", where soldiers show their skills at marching and competitions, and there are brass bands and bands of bagpipes.

Edinburgh has a very large festival every year, where thousands of performers come to put on shows. The Edinburgh International Festival takes place in August and September. At the same time there is the Edinburgh Fringe. The shows are of all kinds, and range from large ones with famous people, to very small ones by new or unknown actors.

The city is served by Edinburgh Airport, and Haymarket and Waverley railway stations.

The city's main football teams are Heart of Midlothian F.C. and Hibernian F.C. Murrayfield stadium in the city is the home of the Scottish national rugby team.

The serial novel 44 Scotland Street by Alexander McCall Smith took place in New Town, Edinburgh.

Edinburgh is twinned with:

Edinburgh has lots of important buildings. The Balmoral Hotel was opened on 15 October 1902 and designed by W. Hamilton Beattie. Saint Giles' Cathedral was built in Mediaeval times. There was a big fire there in 1385. The Royal Museum was designed by architect Francis Fowke and built between 1861 and 1888. Its sister museum, the Museum of Scotland, was designed by Benson and Forsyth in 1998. Holyrood Palace was once the home of the Scottish kings, and is open to the public.


</doc>
<doc id="4866" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4866" title="Head of state">
Head of state

The head of state of a country is its highest leader. However, the head of state may not have very much real power.

In a modern republic the head of state is a president, usually elected by the people or by a parliament. In a monarchy the head of state is the king or queen. Some countries have different systems - for example the head of state of the Vatican City is the Pope.

In a modern monarchy the head of state usually has little real power. Instead the most powerful person is the head of government. This is usually the leader of the political party that wins the most seats in an election. In these cases the king is considered to be the leader of the country, but must always take the decisions that the head of government advises them to make. The king or queen carries out national ceremonies. The United Kingdom works like this, with the Prime Minister heading the government.

A president may be the most powerful person in the country. This is true in the United States. However sometimes there is a head of government as well as a president. The president then acts very much like a king or queen, leaving the real decisions to the head of government. The Republic of Ireland works like this. 

In older times and some modern countries the head of state has absolute power.


</doc>
<doc id="4868" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4868" title="Vladimir Lenin">
Vladimir Lenin

Vladimir Ilyich Ulyanov, better known as (Ленин)) (April 22, 1870 - January 21, 1924) was a Russian lawyer, revolutionary, and the leader of the Bolshevik party and of the October Revolution. He was the first leader of the USSR and the Communist government that took over Russia in 1917. Lenin's ideas became known as Leninism.

Lenin was born on April 22, 1870 in the town of Simbirsk in the Russian Empire. His mother was a schoolteacher and his father was an education official (technically, his father's job made him and his family noblemen).

Lenin was good in school and learned the Latin and Greek languages. In 1887, he was thrown out of Kazan State University because he protested against the Tsar who was the king of the Russian Empire. He continued to read books and study ideas by himself, and in 1891 he got a license to become a lawyer.

In the same year that Lenin was expelled from University, his brother Alexander was hanged for his part in a bomb plot to kill Tsar Alexander III, and their sister Anna was sent to Tatarstan. This made Lenin furious, and he promised to get revenge for his brother's death.
While he learned about law in St. Petersburg he learned about the writings of Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels, who were both philosophers from Germany. Karl Marx's thoughts were called Marxism. To talk or write about Marxism like it was a good thing was illegal in Russia, and Lenin was arrested for that and sent to prison in Siberia. This punishment was harsh because Siberia is known for being very cold and isolated, and almost impossible to escape.

In July 1898, when he was still in Siberia, Lenin married Nadezhda Krupskaya. In 1899 he wrote a book he called "The Development of Capitalism in Russia". In 1900, Lenin was set free from prison and allowed to go back home. He then traveled around Europe. He began to publish a Marxist newspaper called "Iskra", the Russian word for "spark" or "lightning". He also became an important member of the Russian Social Democratic Labour Party, or RSDLP.

In 1903, Lenin had a major argument with another leader of the party, Julius Martov, which divided the party in two. Lenin wanted a strict system where power would only be given to the government. Martov disagreed, and wanted the government to give power to ordinary people. People who agreed with Martov were called Mensheviks (meaning "the minority"). The people who agreed with Lenin were called Bolsheviks ("the majority").

In 1907 he traveled around Europe again, and visited many socialist meetings and events. During World War I he lived in big European cities like London, Paris and Geneva. At the beginning of the war, a big left-wing meeting called the Second International included the Bolsheviks. The meeting shut down when a lot of the groups argued whether or not to support the war. Lenin and the Bolsheviks were one of only a few groups who were against the war because of their Marxist ideas.

In 1917, people started rumors that Lenin had got money from the Germans. That made him look bad because a lot of Russians had died fighting Germany in the war. The rumors were so bad he was afraid he could get arrested or even killed. He left Russia and went to Finland, a country right next to Russia, where he could hide and carry on with his work on Communism.

After Tsar Nicholas II gave up his throne during the February Revolution, Lenin went back to Russia where he was still a very important Bolshevik leader. He wrote that he wanted a revolution by ordinary workers to overthrow the government that had replaced Nicholas.

In October 1917, the Bolsheviks, led by Lenin and Trotsky, headed the Petrograd Soviet and other Soviets all over Russia in a revolution against Kerensky's government, which was known as the October Revolution. They won, and announced that Russia was a Communist country. In November, Lenin was chosen as its leader.

Because Lenin wanted an end to World War I in Russia, he signed the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk with Germany in February 1918. While the treaty ended the attack by Germany, Russia lost a lot of land that it used for farming.

The treaty also made Germany's other enemies angry, and together with Russian people who supported the Tsar or Kerensky's government, they attacked Russia. Lenin made rules that as much food as possible was to be given to Communist soldiers in Russia's new Red Army. This meant that they won the war, but ordinary people were starving, and many died of hunger or disease.

After the war, Lenin brought in the New Economic Policy to try and make things better for the country. Some private enterprise was allowed, but not much. Businessmen, known as nepmen, could only own small industries, not factories.

After a woman named Fanny Kaplan shot Lenin in 1918, he started having strokes—In May and December 1922 (both of which he recovered from), in March 1923 (which paralyzed him and left him unable to speak), and in January 1924 which killed him. Just before he died, Lenin had wanted to get rid of Stalin because he thought he was dangerous to the country and the government.

The city of St. Petersburg had been renamed Petrograd by the Tsar in 1914, but was renamed Leningrad in memory of Lenin in 1924. When the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991 Leningrad was again named St. Petersburg, which it remains to this today.

Before Lenin died, he said he wished to be buried beside his mother. When he died, Stalin and his communists let the people in Russia look at his body. Because people kept coming they decided not to bury him, and preserved his body instead. A building was built in Red Square, Moscow over the body so that people could see it. It is called the Lenin Mausoleum. Many Russians and tourists still go there to see his body today.


</doc>
<doc id="4874" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4874" title="Disease">
Disease

A disease or medical condition is an abnormality of the body or mind that causes pain and discomfort, dysfunction, distress, or death to the person afflicted or those in contact with the person. The term is sometimes used broadly to include injuries, disabilities, disorders, syndromes, infections, symptoms, deviant behaviors, and atypical variations of structure and function, while in other contexts these may be considered separate categories. Literally, a disease refers to the invasion of the body by pathogens . 

One of the most common cause of disease is poor sanitation and lack of clean water. Many deadly diseases in tropical areas are spread by the mosquito. The mosquito is called a vector. There are many kinds of vector other than mosquito, examples are snails, ticks,etc. A disease can be caused by many things. A person can be infected by infectious agents like bacteria or viruses or fungus. Disease can also be caused by eating spoiled foods. There are small germs in spoiled foods that can cause diseases. Sometimes the germs produce chemicals or toxins which causes the disease. Some people are born with 'genetic diseases.' These are diseases because of an error or mutation in a person's DNA. An example of a mutation is cancer. Living or working in an unhealthy environment can also be a cause for diseases. Diseases are more common in older people.
Some diseases can be helped with medicine. Some disease is helped by surgery. Not every disease can be helped with medicine or surgery, though. Some diseases must be treated during the whole life; they are "chronic" diseases. An example is diabetes. Diabetes can be treated (made better) but it can not yet be cured (made to totally go away.) People who usually treat diseases are called doctors or physicians.

Some diseases that are common or very bad are tested for even in people who are healthy. If these diseases are found early they can be treated before they cause problems. An example would be checking a woman for cervical cancer with a test called a pap smear. If cervical cancer is found early it can be fixed. If it is found later it usually causes death. Another example is immunizaion. The basic principle is to make the body ready for a disease. The body has its own defence against disease called the immune system. One special characteristic of the immune system is its ability to remember. If a person had been sick before and had recovered, the mmune system prduce a substance called antibodies which fight the disease if it comes back to the person. The antibody is specific to a particular disease or antigen. An example of this is measles which is a virus. A person usually a child who had never been sick with measles is given a milder form of the virus, this cause the immune sytem to produce antibodies against the measle virus. If this person is exposed to the measle virus in the future, the person's immune system will remember and will fight the measle virus.

For general prevention to be useful, it needs to look at diseases that have special characteristics:



</doc>
<doc id="4886" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4886" title="Template:Continents of the world">
Template:Continents of the world


</doc>
<doc id="4887" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4887" title="Carbon">
Carbon

Carbon is a very important chemical element, with a chemical symbol of C. All life on Earth is made from it. Carbon has atomic mass 12 and atomic number 6. It is non-metallic, meaning that it is not a metal.

Carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen, and some other elements like sulfur and phosphorus together form most life on earth (see Organic chemistry and List of biologically important elements). Carbon forms a very large number of organic compounds because it can form strong bonds with itself and with other elements. Because of the amounts of carbon living things have, all organic things are considered "carbon-based". Also, each carbon atom can form 4 single covalent bonds. Many carbon atoms linked together with hydrogen atoms form plastic. Also, Carbon is the only element that can form long chain-shaped molecules. When iron is heated up with carbon, hard steel is formed.

The name of carbon comes from Latin "carbo", meaning charcoal. In many foreign languages the words for carbon, coal and charcoal are synonyms.

Carbon in nature is found in three forms called allotropes: diamond, graphite, and fullerenes. Graphite, with clay, is in pencils. It is very soft. The carbon atoms in it make rings, which are on top of each other and slide very easily. Diamonds are the hardest natural mineral. Fullerenes are a "soccer ball" shape of carbon. They are mostly of interest to science. A special, man-made, tube-shaped allotrope of carbon is the carbon nanotube. Carbon nanotubes are very hard, so they might be used in armor. Nanotubes might be useful in nanotechnology. There are 10 million known carbon compounds.

A whole type of Chemistry, organic chemistry, is about carbon and its compounds. Carbon makes many types of compounds. "Hydrocarbons" are molecules with carbon and hydrogen. Methane, Propane, and many other fuels are hydrocarbons. Many of the substances that people use daily are organic compounds.

A radioactive isotope of carbon, carbon-14, can be used to figure out how old some objects are or when something died. As long as something is on the surface of the earth and taking in carbon, the amount of carbon-14 stays the same. When an object stops taking in carbon, the carbon-14 amount goes down. Because the "half-life" (how long it takes for half of a radioactive isotope to go away) of carbon-14 is 5730 years, scientists can see how old the object is by how much carbon-14 is left.

Carbon is in many places in the universe. It was first made in old stars. Carbon is the fourth most common element in the sun. Almost all of the atmosphere of Mars is Carbon dioxide.

It is important to the human body, and it is the second most common element in the human body, at 23% of all body weight. It is also a key part of many biological molecules (molecules used in life).

Graphite is in many areas, including Sri Lanka, Madagascar, and Russia. Diamonds are rare and are found largely in Africa. Carbon is also in some meteorites.




</doc>
<doc id="4889" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4889" title="Zazaki">
Zazaki

Zazaki is a language spoken in eastern Anatolia above the rivers Euphrates and Tigris. It belongs to the northwest-Iranian group of the Iranian language branch of the Indo-European language family. The Zaza language is related to Sangsarī, Māzandarānī, Tātī (Herzendī), Semnānī, Tāleshī, Kurdish, Persian and Balōchi. An exact indication of the number of Zaza speakers is unknown. 
Zaza is also a name that appears in the Bible, meaning "belonging to all" or "plenty". 



</doc>
<doc id="4891" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4891" title="Chemical reaction">
Chemical reaction

A chemical reaction happens when one or more chemicals are changed into one or more other chemicals. Examples:


Some reactions are very fast, and others are very slow. Some happen at different speeds, depending on temperature or other things. For example, wood does not react with air when it is cold, but if it is made hot enough, it will start to burn.

Some reactions give out energy. These are called "exothermic". In other reactions, energy is taken in. These are called "endothermic".


</doc>
<doc id="4892" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4892" title="Rectangle">
Rectangle

A rectangle is a shape with four sides and four corners. The corners are all right angles. It follows that the lengths of the pairs of sides opposite each other must be equal.

Tables, boxes, books, and paper look like rectangles.

A rectangle with all four sides equal in length is called a square.


</doc>
<doc id="4893" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4893" title="Trafalgar Square">
Trafalgar Square

Trafalgar Square is a famous place in the city of London, England. It is a large pedestrian square, bounded on three sides by roads. It serves as a refuge, and a major traffic intersection. It is visited by many tourists. Trafalgar Square is the heart of London. Very important roads go from the square: Whitehall goes to Parliament, the Mall goes to Buckingham Palace, and the Strand goes to the City of London. The square is also close to Covent Garden and Charing Cross station.

The square celebrates the Battle of Trafalgar, fought in 1805. It contains Nelson's Column, a statue of Lord Horatio Nelson mounted on a tall column, with four statues of lions around it, the column is 56 meters tall while the statue is 5 meters tall. The National Art Gallery is there.

Since it was first built people have been holding demonstrations in Trafalgar Square. Demonstrating in the square has often been banned.

Demonstrations were banned in March after Nelson's column was built. First Chartist meetings in the square were banned. Then all demonstrations were banned. The ban lasted until the 1880s, when the new Labour movement start to hold demonstrations. One group that did this was the Social Democratic Federation.

On "Black Monday", 6 February 1886, there was a major demonstration about unemployment which led to a riot in Pall Mall. There were demonstrations in the 1980s against South African apartheid. In 1990 there were riots against the Poll tax. In the 2000s there have been demonstrations against the Iraq war.

In recent years the square has become a gathering place for celebrations. When England won the Rugby World Cup in 2003 thousands of fans gathered in the square. This public festivities again happened when London won its bid to hold the 2012 Summer Olympic Games.

The Square was also scene to a large vigil held soon after the terrorist bombings in London on Thursday 7 July 2005.


</doc>
<doc id="4898" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4898" title="Official language">
Official language

An official language is a language that has special status in a country. Usually the government does its business in the official language. They are sometimes named in a country's constitution. Some countries, like Canada, have more than one. Other countries may not have an official language. Also the languages do not have to been a written language to be an official language. They can be a pidgin language (like in Papua New Guinea). They can also be a sign language (like in New Zealand).


</doc>
<doc id="4899" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4899" title="Cake">
Cake

A cake is a type of bread or a bread-like food. Many cakes are for dessert. Sometimes made to celebrate special occasions, like a birthday. There are many kinds of cakes. It can be baked in an oven like bread. Some savory cakes are made in a griddle or a frying pan. 

Cakes are made by carefully combining wet ingredients (like milk and eggs) together with dry ingredients (like sugar and flour) to make a batter which is then baked in an oven. This general process is known as the muffin method, because muffins are made this way, but they are usually simpler to make. 

Just like bread, cakes rise in the oven because of many thousands of air bubbles. As cakes and breads rise in the oven, the air bubbles expand. This is why the cake batter expands in the pan (often to twice its original size). There are two ways of forming the air bubbles, which create different types of cakes. Almost every kind of cake belongs to one of these families.

These cakes are made with butter or another fat, like vegetable shortening. The fat should not be a liquid or a solid at room temperature; it should feel like playdough. By mixing the sugar with the fat, one creates lots of tiny holes which are filled with very small air bubbles. Most birthday cakes are made this way. Cupcakes are also made this way.

Egg foam cakes are made by whipping egg whites (which have no fat at all) for a very long time with sugar to create a very delicate and light batter. These cakes are typically much taller, lighter and often spongier than creamed fat cakes. A common example of an egg foam cake is angelfood cake, which can be found at most grocery stores with bakeries. Chiffon cake is another good example.

After a cake has been baked and cooled for a while, some bakers add a frosting on top to make it look better. Sometimes people cut it in slices and fill those slices with more frosting, or a fruit filling. Birthday cakes are sometimes decorated with candles. Often cakes are topped with small pieces of fruit, such as raspberries.

A large, rich cake is often called by the French word for "cake": "gâteau" (plural: "gâteaux", both singular and plural pronounced "GA-toe"). It may have a lot of cream. 


</doc>
<doc id="4900" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4900" title="House">
House

A house is a building that is made for people to live in. It is a "permanent" building that is meant to stay standing. It is not a place to live that can be easily packed up and carried away like a tent, or moved like a caravan. If people live in the same house for more than a short stay, then they call it their "home".

Houses come in many different shapes and sizes. They may be as small as just one room, or they may have hundreds of rooms. They also come in many different shapes, and may have just one level or several different levels. A house is sometimes joined to other houses at the sides to make "row houses", but it is not part of a big building with lots of levels. That type of home is called an "apartment" or a "flat" or a "unit". One of the differences between a house and an apartment is that a house has a front door to the outside world, whereas the main door of an apartment usually opens onto a passage or landing that can be used by other people in the building.

Houses have a roof to keep off the rain and sun, and walls to keep out the wind and cold. They have window openings to let in light, and a floor. Houses of different countries look different to each other, because of different materials and different styles. 

A house is a building for people to live in. It is usually built for a family (parents and their children) to live in. Most modern houses have special areas or rooms for a person, or a family group to do the things that they need to live comfortably. A modern house has a place to cook food, a place to eat, places to sleep and a place to wash. These things are usually done in separate rooms, which are called the kitchen, the sitting room, the bedrooms, the bathroom, and the toilet (or lavatory). Many houses have a separate dining room for eating meals and a separate laundry where the clothes are washed. In some houses the toilet is in the bathroom, and in other houses it is separate. Many houses may also have a "study" or computer room and a "family room" where the children can play games and watch television. 

In some countries such as the United States, Canada, Australia and New Zealand many families live in a "detached house" which is separate from other buildings and surrounded by its own yard, but is close enough to town to have shops, good transport and entertainment nearby. In many other countries, including most of Europe, owning a house like this is something that only the richer families can afford, and is just a dream for most people. 

In many very poor countries, a lot of people live crowded in houses with only one room. They often have to share a toilet with many other families, and have to do the cooking outside. The house might be made of materials that can be found nearby like mud bricks and grass or from second-hand materials like corrugated iron and cardboard boxes. In many cities there are thousands of small houses crowded together with narrow alleys between them. 
A small house is often called a cottage. In England, where this word comes from, it is used to mean a house that has one main storey, with a second, lower storey of bedrooms which fit under the roof upstairs. Cottages are usually found in villages or in the countryside. They are nearly always built from material that can be found nearby. In many places the word cottage is used to mean a small old-fashioned house. In the United States the word cottage is often used to mean a small holiday home.

A semi-detached house is a building that has two houses side by side and covered over by just one big roof. Each house has a pathway to one side, leading from the front to the backyard. Semi-detached houses are very common in some cities, and can be single storey or several storeys high.

A rowhouse, which is sometimes called a "terrace house", (see the picture in the introduction) is a house that is part of a row of houses which are joined at the side walls. Many cities and towns have thousands of row houses because they are a good way to build lots of houses close together. Many row houses have two rooms downstairs and two rooms upstairs, with a kitchen or wash area out the back. Houses like this were built for poor factory workers and coal miners in many cities and towns. 

Rowhouses are not always small. Some cities have large beautiful rowhouses like the Royal Crescent which was built 200 years ago at Bath in England and is a famous example of Georgian architecture.

In some places, the word "bungalow" is used for any house that is all on one level. The word came from India and for a long time was used for a house that is built all on one level and has a verandah where people can sit or work outdoors, but under a shady roof. A bungalow often has a hall down the middle of the house to let the breeze blow through. Bungalows are often seen in countries with hot summers, in India, South East Asia, South Africa, parts of the United States, South America, Australia and New Zealand. In regions with flooding, a bungalow is often built up on wooden "stilts" or a high basement. In the 1800s, bungalows were nearly always built of wood, but from the 1920s it became fashionable to build them of brick as well. 

A farmhouse may look like a cottage, a bungalow or a mansion, but in many countries a farmhouse can look quite different to a house in a town, because, as well as having a place for people to live, it also has a place for animals. Three typical types of farmhouses are found. Many farm houses are long and have two doors. One door leads to the rooms used by the family. The other door opens into a stable for the cows, sheep and chickens. The stable part often has a loft where hay can be kept to feed the animals in the winter. Another type of farmhouse has two storeys with a big stable and storeroom underneath, with the rooms for the family on the upper floor. Another type of farmhouse has buildings such as the family house, the barn and the stable all joined together around a central courtyard. Old farmhouses of these three types can be found in many parts of Europe and Great Britain.

A mansion is a big grand house, usually with two storeys and sometimes more. A mansion often has beautiful architecture, and shows that the person for whom it was designed and built was rich. Mansions often have beautiful gardens. Sometimes a mansion does not belong to a private family, but to a town council, to a big business company, to a church or college and is a place for a person with an important job to live and to entertain guests. A mansion often has rooms which are not found in ordinary houses, such as a drawing room, a ballroom, a library and a music room. Mansions often need servants to help keep them in order and there are often special rooms where the servants do particular jobs such as cleaning the silver tableware. Well-known mansions are the White House in Washington, D.C. where the President of the United States lives and Mansion House in London where the Lord Mayor of London lives. 

A palace is a house that is very grand. Palaces are some of the most famous and beautiful houses in the world. 

They have often been built by people who were extremely rich, and who wanted to leave behind them a sign that their family was important. Some palaces have taken a long time to build. They have been changed and added to by different family members or changed by people from different families that have owned them over many hundreds of years. 

One of the best-known palaces in the world is Buckingham Palace where the monarch of England, who is currently Queen Elizabeth II, lives. The largest palace in the world is the Louvre which was built in Paris for the Kings of France. It now holds a famous art gallery.

Houses are usually built from types of material that can easily be made or bought near the place where the house is built. Because of this, old houses in different towns and different villages look quite different to each other, even in the same country. In modern times building materials can be transported easily and this means that a builder has much more choice about the types of material to use for a house. 

In many parts of the world, mud or clay are the main building materials. Clay is a type of soil that sticks together more strongly than most other types of soil. There are three main ways of building walls with mud and clay. 


Houses made of timber are found wherever there are, or there has once been big forests. Timber houses are also often found in seaside towns where the sea air makes brick and stone houses feel cold and damp. 




A well-known type of old-fashioned house is the "half-timbered" house. These are seen in the British Isles, France, and across northern Europe and the Alps. These houses date mainly from about 1200 to about 1800. 

In places where there is lots of stone, many houses are built of it. In many parts of the world, little cottages are built of stone. Many mansions and palaces are also built of stone. 


Modern houses are often made of "pre-fabricated" parts that are partly built in a factory, and are easy to put together at the site of the building.
Many different types of materials for making houses have been developed in the 20th century. 



</doc>
<doc id="4904" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4904" title="Gigabyte">
Gigabyte

A gigabyte (GB or "gig") is a unit of measurement in computers and similar electronic devices. At first it meant exactly 1 billion bytes, usually referring to the number of bytes in a computer hard drive. Its meaning gradually changed over time, so that today it is often used to mean 1,073,741,824 (2) bytes, especially when referring to the random access memory (RAM) of a modern computer. Now some people say a gigabyte should only be used to mean exactly 1 billion bytes, and that gibibyte is a better name for 1,073,741,824 bytes. In everyday use, people use "gigabyte" to mean 1,073,741,824 bytes when talking about computer memory and 1,000,000,000 bytes when talking about computer disk space.

This measurement is often used when measuring the capacity of computer memory, hard drives, or other storage devices.


</doc>
<doc id="4911" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4911" title="Sailor">
Sailor

A sailor is a person who works under a captain to sail a ship. Sailor is also the lowest rank in a navy.


</doc>
<doc id="4912" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4912" title="Farmer">
Farmer

A farmer is a person who grows crops and raises animals to be used as food. This has been a common job for people since the beginning of civilization.

The word "farmer" usually refers to a person who has a field, orchard, vineyard, or garden where food is grown. This food is eaten or sold after it is harvested. Farmers may also grow raw materials for industrial purposes. Some examples of raw materials that are used in this way are:
Some farmers also raise animals to be used for meat, milk, eggs or other things.



</doc>
<doc id="4913" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4913" title="Constellation">
Constellation

A constellation is a group of stars, usually in a recognizable shape or pattern. Together, the stars look like a picture. The word constellation comes from Latin: "con-", meaning together and "stella-" meaning stars.
Some examples of constellations are Ursa Major, Orion, and Andromeda.

People used constellations to tell the difference in the colors. Different places in the world may have different constellations, but today astronomy has a fixed set of 88 constellations. This set is based on the Greek set and later some southern constellations were added, for example Antlia - the air pump. Most constellations have names that come from Greek mythology, like Orion or Andromeda.

There are 12 constellations in the Zodiac. The Sun travels through the Zodiac once each year. There is also a thirteenth constellation Ophiuchus - the carrier of a serpent, which the Sun goes through. However, most people do not think that it is in the Zodiac.


No one is exactly sure who saw the first constellations


</doc>
