<doc id="266072" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266072" title="Scott Speed">
Scott Speed

Scott Andrew Speed (born January 24, 1983) is an American race car driver. He was a driver for the Toro Rosso Formula One team. He made his first F1 race start at the 2006 Bahrain Grand Prix. He was the first American to race in F1 since Michael Andretti in 1993. In 2008, Speed started racing in NASCAR. For 2009 and 2001, he drove the Red Bull Toyota Camry full time in the NASCAR Sprint Cup Series. Speed attempted to qualify for the 2011 Indianapolis 500, but did not make the race.

Speed started kart racing at the age of 10. He moved up to Formula series in 2001. He was a champion in "US Formula Russell". He drove in both the "US Barber Formula Dodge" and "US Star Mazda Series". Speed won the 'Red Bull Driver Search' program. In 2003 he drove for the ADR team in "British Formula Three". During that year he fell ill with ulcerative colitis, a form of inflammatory bowel disease. He returned to the United States for treatment.

2004 saw two championship titles for Speed. He won the "Formula Renault 2000 Eurocup" and later "German Formula Renault". This was despite his worsening colitis. This performance earned him a drive in the first season of GP2 Series for 2005. He ended the season third place in the driver championship standings behind Nico Rosberg and Heikki Kovalainen.

At the end of 2005, Speed drove the first three races of the new A1 Grand Prix series for "A1 Team USA".

In 2005 at the Canadian Grand Prix, Speed took part as a test driver for Red Bull Racing; becoming the first American driver to participate in a Formula One event since Michael Andretti's 1993 stint. He was also the test driver for the United States Grand Prix.

After the purchase of Minardi, Red Bull Racing announced the team would become Scuderia Toro Rosso. Speed and Vitantonio Liuzzi would be the drivers for the 2006 season.

In , Speed's first race was the Bahrain Grand Prix. His best finish of the season was a ninth place at the Australian Grand Prix. He would have finished Australia in the points, but had 25 seconds added to his race time for overtaking under yellow flags. At the United States Grand Prix he qualified a career best 13th. He was taken out of the race in a first-lap collision. 

Scott Speed's season was disappointing. He had equipment breakdowns and several crashes. He spun off the circuit in wet conditions at the European Grand Prix. That turned out to be his last race for the team. After the race, it was reported that he was involved in a physical altercation with team principal Franz Tost. Tost has since denied this. Speed also said that they wanted to get rid of both him and Liuzzi. Before the next race at Hungary, the team announced that he had been replaced by Sebastian Vettel.

To get ready for racing in NASCAR, Speed raced in the Automobile Racing Club of America (ARCA) series. he enter several races in 2007, and a full season in 2008. He drove the Red Bull-sponsored Toyota for Eddie Sharp Racing. Speed finished 5th in the points in 2008. 

During the finale of the 2008 ARCA season, Ricky Stenhouse Jr. hit Speed and sent him into the wall. This ended Speed chance at a good finish, and possibly a Championship. After repairs, Speed intentially ran his car into Stenhouse, sending both cars into the wall. Neither driver was injured. ARCA officials parked Speed for the day.

Speed made his Craftsman Truck Series debut at Atlanta Motor Speedway on March 7, 2008. He drove the Morgan-Dollar Motorsports #46 Cheverolet truck with Red Bull sponsorship. In his second race, he recorded his first Top 10 finish at Martinsville Speedway. He won his first career race on May 30 at Dover with Bill Davis Racing in a Toyota. On Sunday October 19, 2008, Scott Speed started his first Sprint Cup Series event at Martinsville Speedway. He finished in 30th place. He finished the Cup season in the #84 Red Bull Toyota Camry for the Red Bull Racing Team.

For the 2009 Sprint Cup season, Speed's car number was changed to #82. He won his first Rookie of the Race honor at the Daytona 500. Speed won the pole for the Sam’s Town 300 in his Nationwide Series debut on February 28, 2009. He also broke the track record with a speed of 182.45 mph and a lap time of 29.42 seconds.

For the 2010 Sprint Cup season, Speed was still in the #82 car. He had a disappointing season, with only two top ten finishes. At the end of the year, Red Bull Racing release Speed from his contract. This move was to make room for the return of Brian Vickers and the addition of Kasey Kahne. Vickers was returning after heart surgery. Kahne was signed for a one-year deal.

Within two weeks of leaving Red Bull Racing (RBR), Speed filed a lawsuit against the team for breach of contract. Breach of contract means that one person or group in the contract (RBR in this case) did not do the things they should have done. Speed is asking for $6.5 million US$ in the lawsuit. Speed alleges (says) that Red Bull significantly reduced its financial commitment to Speed's race team and was unable and/or unwilling to provide [Speed] with 'supporting equipment' satisfactory for a driver of [his] skill to [be] effective [to] compete in the NASCAR Sprint Cup Series Speed is claiming that Red Bull did not give his race team enough money or himself good enough race cars. Without the best race cars, it is hard to race at the same level as the top teams.

On July 28, 2011, Speed place a lien on RBR's property in Mooresville, North Carolina. The lien is for the race shop and the land it sits on. A lien is a legal tool to to keep RBR from selling the property. The property can be used to ensure a debt is paid. RBR purchased the property for about $3.3 million US$.

Speed attempted to qualify for the 2011 Indianapolis 500. He drove a car entered by Dragon Racing. He was having trouble finding enough speed in the car to qualify. Dragon Racing put Patrick Carpentier in the car to test it. Carpentier spun and crashed the car. Dragon did not have another car for Speed to use. Speed was unable to qualify for the race.

 Competed in less that 75% of the races. Not eligible to score championship points.

Speed currently resides in Mt. Holly, NC, where he lives with his wife Amanda Mathis.

His brother Alex currently races karts in America and is a 3 time Stars of Karting champion and a 3 time SKUSA Supernationals winner.



</doc>
<doc id="266080" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266080" title="CeBIT">
CeBIT

CeBIT is the name of an annual computer fair in Hanover, Germany. It is the worlds largest exhibition of this kind. CeBIT stand for "Centrum der Büroautomation und Informationstechnologie und Telekommunikation", German for "Centre of Office- and Information Technology and Telecommunication".

It takes place every year in spring on the "Messegelände", the large exhibition grounds of Hanover. From the 1950s until 1985 CeBit was a part of the Hanover fair ("Hanover-Messe"), a big industrial fair taking place every year in spring. From 1986 it exists as an independent fair.

In the 2000s the Cebit had about 500,000 visitors each year.


</doc>
<doc id="266105" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266105" title="Robert G. Edwards">
Robert G. Edwards

Robert Geoffrey Edwards (born 27 September 1925, Manchester) is a British scientist who won the 2010 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for his work in developing in vitro fertilisation (IVF). This method is sometimes called making "test tube babies". He began work on his ideas in the 1950's, and the first test tube baby, Louise Brown, was born on July 25, 1978. His research partner from 1968 was Patrick Steptoe (1913-1988). By 2010, more than 4 million babies had been born using the IVF method. 

Edwards served in the military in World War II. In 1948, after the war, Edwards went to study at the University of Wales, then to the University of Edinburgh in 1951, where he completed his PhD. His studies had been on how embyros developed in mice. He had a research position at the California Institute of Technology in 1957. In 1958 he returned to England and began work for the National Institute of Medical Research. While at the Institute he began to study human fertilisation. In 1962, he took a up a new job at the University of Glasgow, but in 1963 went to Cambridge University. In 1965 he went back to the US where he was a visiting scientist at John Hopkins University and later at the University of North Carolina. he returned to Cambridge and taught physiology from 1969.

While scientists had some success in fertilising rabbit eggs in a laboratory, Edwards soon discovered that the process for humans was quite different and much more complex. He spent many years studying the human egg, and how it could best be fertilised by sperm outside the body. He succeeded in fertilising an egg in 1969, but they did not develop. Patrick Steptoe was a British gynecologist who had done a lot of work using a laparoscope to investigate the ovaries. Using the laparoscope he was able to take eggs directly from the ovaries. Edwards was able to use these eggs and successfully fertilize them in a test tube, actually a cell culture dish. This discovery caused a lot of debate and discussions about whether this sort of study should be allowed to continue.

he developed in vitro fertilisation


</doc>
<doc id="266114" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266114" title="Theodore Sturgeon">
Theodore Sturgeon

Theodore Sturgeon (26 February 1918 — 8 May 1985) was an American science fiction author. 

He used a special writing style called "rhythmic prose". Prose writing tells a story, but rhythmic writing is often poetry. His prose text would fit into a standard poetry rhythm, or meter. This made subtle shift in mood. Usually the reader would not notice how the timing of the words changed their feeling.

His most famous novel is "More Than Human" (1953).

Sturgeon was born Edward Hamilton Waldo in Staten Island, New York in 1918. His name was legally changed at age eleven after his mother's divorce and remarriage to William Dicky ("Argylle") Sturgeon. "Theodore Sturgeon" is occasionally misidentified as a pseudonym; it was in fact his legal name.

He sold his first story in 1938 to the McClure Syndicate, which bought much of his early (non-fantastic) work; his first genre appearance was "Ether Breather" in "Astounding Science Fiction" a year later. At first he wrote mainly short stories, primarily for genre magazines such as "Astounding" and "Unknown", but also for general-interest publications such as "Argosy Magazine". He used the pen name "E. Waldo Hunter" when two of his stories ran in the same issue of "Astounding". A few of his early stories were signed "Theodore H. Sturgeon."

Sturgeon ghost-wrote an Ellery Queen mystery novel, "The Player on the Other Side" (Random House, 1963). This novel gained critical praise from critic H.R.F. Keating, who "had almost finished writing "Crime and Mystery: the 100 Best Books", in which I had included "The Player on the Other Side" ... placing the book squarely in the Queen canon" when he learned that it had been written by Sturgeon. Similarly, "William DeAndrea, author and ... winner of Mystery Writers of America awards, selecting his ten favorite mystery novels for the magazine "Armchair Detective", picked "The Player on the Other Side" as one of them. He said: 'This book changed my life ... and made a raving mystery fan (and therefore ultimately a mystery writer) out of me. ... The book must be 'one of the most skilful pastiches in the history of literature. An amazing piece of work, whomever did it'."

Sturgeon wrote the screenplays for the "" episodes "Shore Leave" (1966) and "Amok Time" (1967, later published as a "Fotonovel" in 1978). The latter is known for his invention of the pon farr, the Vulcan mating ritual, the first use of the sentence "Live long and prosper" and the first use of the Vulcan hand symbol. Sturgeon also wrote several episodes of "" that were never produced. One of these was notable for having first introduced the Prime Directive. He also wrote an episode of the Saturday morning show "Land of the Lost", "The Pylon Express", in 1975. Two of Sturgeon's stories were adapted for The New Twilight Zone. One, "A Saucer of Loneliness", was broadcast in 1986 and was dedicated to his memory. Another short story, "Yesterday was Monday", was the inspiration for the The New Twilight Zone episode A Matter of Minutes. His 1944 novella "Killdozer!" was the inspiration for the 1970s made-for-TV movie, Marvel comic book, and alternative rock band of the same name.

Although Sturgeon is well-known among readers of classic science-fiction anthologies (at the height of his popularity in the 1950s he was the most anthologized author alive) and much respected by critics (John Clute writes in "The Encyclopedia of Science Fiction": "His influence upon writers like Harlan Ellison and Samuel R. Delany was seminal, and in his life and work he was a powerful and generally liberating influence in post-WWII US sf"), he is not much known among the general public and won comparatively few awards (though it must be noted that his best work was published before the establishment and consolidation of the leading genre awards, while his later production was scarcer and weaker). He was listed as a primary influence of the much more famous Ray Bradbury. Kurt Vonnegut based his character Kilgore Trout on Theodore Sturgeon.

Sturgeon died on May 8, 1985, of lung fibrosis, in Eugene, Oregon. Sturgeon lived for several years in the neighboring city of Springfield.

In 1951, Sturgeon said something that is now known as Sturgeon's Law. He said, "Ninety percent of SF [science fiction] is crud, but then, ninety percent of "everything" is crud." At first, this was called Sturgeon's Revelation. Sturgeon has said that "Sturgeon's Law" was originally "Nothing is always absolutely so." However, the former statement is now widely referred to as Sturgeon's Law. He is also known for his strong support of critical thinking and challenging all normative assumptions: "Ask the next question." He represented this credo by the symbol of a Q with an arrow through it, an example of which he wore around his neck and used as part of his signature in the last 15 years of his life.


Movie producers hired Sturgeon under his own name to write novelisations of these movies based on their scripts:


Sturgeon published numerous short story collections during his lifetime, many drawing on his most prolific writing years of the 1940s and 1950s. 

Note that some reprints of these titles (especially paperback editions) may cut one or two stories from the line-up. Statistics herein refer to the original editions only. 

The following table includes sixteen volumes (one of them collecting western stories) where up to three stories (representing no more than half the book) were previously published in a Sturgeon collection.

The following 6 collections consisted entirely of reprints of previously collected material:

North Atlantic Books has been releasing the chronologically assembled "The Complete Short Stories of Theodore Sturgeon", edited by Paul Williams, since 1994. The series will run to 13 volumes, with the last appearing in 2010.

The currently available volumes include:

Sturgeon was best known for his short stories and novellas. The best known include:


Article on-line from 2007 in which Wina Sturgeon recalls watching Apollo landing with TS in 1969



</doc>
<doc id="266117" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266117" title="Battle of Britain">
Battle of Britain

The Battle of Britain is the name given to the air campaign waged by the German Air Force ("Luftwaffe") against Britain during the summer and autumn of 1940. 

The first objective of the campaign was to gain air superiority over the Royal Air Force (RAF), especially Fighter Command. 

The name comes from a famous speech delivered by Prime Minister Winston Churchill in the House of Commons: "The Battle of France is over. I expect the Battle of Britain is about to begin..." 

The Battle of Britain was the first major campaign to be fought entirely by air forces, and was also the largest and most sustained aerial bombing campaign to that date. 

From July 1940 coastal shipping convoys and shipping centres, such as Portsmouth, were the main targets. A month later the "Luftwaffe" shifted its attacks to RAF airfields and infrastructure (other useful war targets). As the battle progressed the "Luftwaffe" also targeted aircraft factories and ground infrastructure. 

Coastal radar stations were bombed, so that at one point only one radar mast was standing. The British used a back-up system of human observers to get information to the operational centres of Fighter Command. Most historians agree this part of the campaign went in Germany's favour.

Eventually the "Luftwaffe" switched to attacking population centres, such as towns and cities, as well as factories. After the RAF bombed Berlin, and German air force bases in France. Adolf Hitler withdrew his directive not to bomb population centres and ordered attacks on British cities. The attacks on civillians was terror bombing tactics designed to cause panic and damage morale. 

On 7 September 1940, a massive series of raids with nearly four hundred bombers and more than six hundred fighters targeted docks on the Thames in London, day and night. 

The RAF 11 Group rose to meet them, in greater numbers than the "Luftwaffe" expected. 12 Group's Big Wing took twenty minutes to gain formation, missing its intended target, but encountering another formation of bombers while still climbing. They returned, apologetic about their limited success, and blamed the delay on being requested too late. 

The "Luftwaffe" began to abandon their morning raids, with attacks on London starting late in the afternoon for 57 consecutive nights of attacks.

Fighter Command had been at its lowest ebb, short of men and machines, and the break from airfield attacks allowed them to recover. This meant that, week by week, the defenders were getting stronger, and the losses suffered by the Lufwaffe were growing.

On 15 September two massive waves of German attacks were decisively repulsed by the RAF, with every aircraft of 11 Group being used on that day. The total casualties on this critical day were 60 German and 26 RAF aircraft shot down. The German defeat caused Hitler to order, two days later, the "postponement" of preparations for the invasion of Britain. Henceforth, in the face of mounting losses in men, aircraft and the lack of adequate replacements, the "Luftwaffe" switched from daylight to night-time bombing.

On 27 September, a Junkers Ju 88 returning from a raid on London was shot down in Kent, the last action between British and foreign military forces on British mainland soil.

The keystone of the British defence was the detection, command, and control which ran the battle. This was the 'Dowding System', after its chief architect, Air Chief Marshal Sir Hugh Dowding, the leader of RAF Fighter Command.

The core of Dowding's system was the use of Radio Direction Finding (RDF, later called radar, for radio detection and ranging). Its use, plus by information by the Royal Observer Corps, was crucial. It allowed the RAF to intercept incoming German aircraft. Radar operators were linked via telephone (whose wires were laid deep underground with concrete anti-bomb protection) to an operational centre. This centre was Fighter Command control at Bentley Priory. During the Battle several Coastal Command and Fleet Air Arm units came under Fighter Command control.

The "Luftwaffe"'s Messerschmitt Bf 109E and 110C squared up against the RAF's workhorse Hurricane Mk I and the less numerous Spitfire Mk I. The Bf 109E had a better climb rate and was 10 to 30 mph faster than the Hurricane, depending on altitude. In September 1940 the more powerful Mk IIa series 1 Hurricanes started entering service although only in small numbers. This version was capable of a maximum speed of 342 mph, some 25 to 30 mph faster than the Mk I.

The performance of the Spitfire over Dunkirk came as a surprise, although the German pilots retained a strong belief that the 109 was the superior fighter. However, the Bf 109E had a much larger turning circle than either the Hurricane or the Spitfire. The two British fighters were equipped with eight Browning 303 machine guns, while most Bf 109Es had two machine guns and two wing cannons. The Bf 109E and the Spitfire were superior to each other in key areas; for instance, at some altitudes, the Bf 109 could out-climb the British fighter.

The failure of Nazi Germany to achieve its objectives of destroying Britain's air defences, or forcing Britain to negotiate an armistice or an outright surrender, is considered its first major defeat and one of the crucial turning points in the war. 

If Germany had gained air superiority, Adolf Hitler might have launched Operation Sea Lion, a planned amphibious and airborne invasion of Britain.


</doc>
<doc id="266137" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266137" title="Thermite">
Thermite

Thermite is an incendiary mixture. It is not an explosive, but can burn very fast and very hot.

It is made of an oxide of a less reactive metal mixed with a more reactive metal. One of the most common mixtures is iron(III) oxide-aluminium. The iron(III) oxide oxidizes the aluminium, being reduced to iron in the process. The aluminium is oxidized to aluminium oxide. 

Many other metal oxides and metals can be used for thermite. Some metals that can be used are boron, magnesium, calcium, titanium, zinc, or silicon. Some metal oxides that can be used are copper(II) oxide, chromium(III) oxide, iron(II,III) oxide, manganese(IV) oxide, silicon dioxide, boron trioxide, or lead(II,IV) oxide. A metal cannot be used with its metal oxide. The metal has to be more reactive than the metal in the oxide, or the thermite will not work. 

The reaction for an aluminium-iron(III) oxide thermite is this:

It is difficult to ignite thermite. It needs to be very hot. Ribbons of magnesium metal are used. A mixture of potassium permanganate and glycerin can be used to ignite thermite. It can be ignited by a flint lighter or a child's sparkler. It can be mixed with sulfur to make thermate, which makes it easier to melt the iron. 

Contrary to popular opinion, metals can burn. They need to be powdered, though, or they will conduct the heat away too fast to start a fire. 

The thermite ("thermit") reaction was discovered in 1893. German chemist Hans Goldschmidt patented it in 1895. People called it the "Goldschmidt reaction" or "Goldschmidt process". Goldschmidt was trying to make very pure metals without the use of carbon in smelting. He soon discovered the value of thermite in welding. It started to be used in the early 1900's to weld train tracks.

Thermite is used for welding railroad rails together. It is also used to make some metals. Chromium can be made by a thermite reaction between chromium(III) oxide and aluminium. The first uranium was made by a thermite. It is also used to weld wires together.
Thermite was used in the military as an incendiary weapon. It is mainly used to destroy buildings and equipment as it melts the metal easily. Barium nitrate can be added to thermite to make an easier-burning mixture. This mixture is used in the military. People dropped thousands of little bomblets containing thermite on cities, starting fires everywhere.

We may also use this because fireworks use it to explode.

Thermite is not safe to make at home. It releases ultraviolet light which can damage the eyes. It also makes a very hot flame that can melt iron. It is extremely difficult to extinguish. Streams of molten iron can flow out of a thermite mixture, igniting everything around it. Some metals can boil and burst into flames when placed in thermite, such as zinc. If it is preheated then ignited, thermite can burn very fast, releasing a huge amount of heat and light. If it is dropped in water it can boil water very fast, making an explosion. Dropping it on ice can make the ice explode.


</doc>
<doc id="266147" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266147" title="Boulder, Colorado">
Boulder, Colorado

Boulder is a city in Colorado. Its population is 94,268 in the city. It is 293,161 in the city area. It has the main campus of the University of Colorado. It is one of the most liberal cities in Colorado. It is the 11th largest city in Colorado. It was settled by Europeans around 1860. The housing is priced higher than other areas around this area. Boulder Creek is the main stream in the city. There are mountains called the Flatirons to the west of the city. It has dry, moderate summers and comfortable winters. Sometimes a lot of snow falls. There are many hiking trails around the area. Rock climbing is popular.


</doc>
<doc id="266155" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266155" title="Meta-Wiki">
Meta-Wiki

Meta Wiki(or Wikimedia Meta or simply Meta) is a wiki which holds information for all Wikimedia projects. Wikipedia has an interwiki link to Meta using m:.


</doc>
<doc id="266157" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266157" title="LED tube">
LED tube

LED is an electronic device that emits light when sufficient current flows throughout the object.

We know that in each diode there is a recombination of electrons and holes. This recombination of electrons and holes releases some energy which is invisible in most of the diodes but in some diodes it is visible in the from of light. When light is emitted on forward biasing of a P N junction than it is known as electroluminance. In this way, the frequency of emitted light from the diode may be in visible spectrum or in invisible spectrum. Emitted light from the diode can be divided into two parts, (i) light which is visible to humans and (ii) light which is invisible to humans. The frequency range visible to a normal man is 400nm (nanometers) to 700nm (nanometers). Light is generally coloured in this range. The waves of light with wavelengths below 400nm (nanometers) are known as ultraviolet and waves of light with length greater than 700nm are known as infrared. Light emitted from LED depends upon two factors,

Coloured LEDS are generally used as indicator and light source for photo detectors. Infrared and ultraviolet LEDS are used for transmitting invisible signals. These are also used for photo detectors in the form of invisible light source. In the remote control system infra red and ultraviolet LEDS are used generally. LEDS which are used generally have the current capacity of 20mA and maximum forward voltage capacity of 1.6V. LED emits light only when sufficient current flows through, it. On low current either no light or dim light will be received from the LED. Red coloured LEDS are used for warning yellow, green and orange coloured LEDS are used for other different purposes. If these are used in parallel with the speakers than they glows according to the signal. Now a days, computerized display board which are used for advertisement have LEDS. LEDS are also used in the graphic equalizer of a stereo audio system whenever it is to be used as supply indicator than a proper value resistance must be connected in series with it so that forward voltage and current can be controlled. Otherwise the LEDS will become defective.


</doc>
<doc id="266178" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266178" title="Osteoarthritis">
Osteoarthritis

Osteoarthritis normally affects older people: it is the disease where joints wear out. As the joint surface wears away, it sheds particles which stimulate the joint lining to produce fluid. This causes the knee to swell. When the joint "cartilage" wears away, the core of the bone becomes exposed. The exposed bone rubs against other exposed bone. 

Joints will be stiff and painful, and may be swollen. The pain may be worse after exercise. You may find you can't move the joint as much or as easily as before.


</doc>
<doc id="266191" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266191" title="Sergio Pérez">
Sergio Pérez

Sergio Pérez (born January 26, 1990 in Guadalajara, Jalisco), also known as "Checo" Pérez, is a Mexican racing driver. He currently lives in Berlin, Germany. Pérez will race for Sauber in the Formula One season.

Pérez competed in the United States-based Skip Barber National Championship in 2004. Pérez moved to Europe for 2005 to compete in the German Formula BMW ADAC series for two years. Pérez took part one round of the 2006–07 A1 Grand Prix season. 

Pérez moved to the British Formula Three Championship for 2007. He won the championship in the National Class. For the 2008 season, he compeated in the International Class and finished fourth in the drivers' standings.

Pérez drove for the Campos Grand Prix team in the 2008–09 GP2 Asia Series season, partnering Russian driver Vitaly Petrov. He is the first Mexican driver to compete at this level of motorsport since Giovanni Aloi took part in International Formula 3000 in 1990. He won his first GP2 Asia Series race at Sakhir, having started from the pole position. He added a second win at Losail, during the sprint race of the night meeting in Qatar.

He moved to Arden International for the main 2009 GP2 Series season, driving alongside Edoardo Mortara. Pérez finished twelfth in the standings. His best finish was a second at Valencia. In the off-season, he raced in two rounds of the 2009–10 GP2 Asia Series season for Barwa Addax. He also raced in the 2010 GP2 season with Barwa Addax. He has won four races, and lies second in the standings with two races to go.

On October 4, 2010, Sauber announced that Pérez will race for the team next season. He will partner with current driver Kamui Kobayashi and replace Nick Heidfeld. Sauber also announced a partnership with the Mexican telecom company Telmex.

During qualifying for the Monaco Grand Prix, Pérez had a bad crash. He received a concussion and spent the night in the hospital. Before the Canadian Grand Prix, he was medically checked and found to be okay. He was allowed to enter the Canadian GP. After Friday morning's practice, Pérez said he felt sick. It was decided that he would not drive the race car anymore that weekend. The team announced that Pedro de la Rosa would replace Pérez for the remainder of the weekend.

 Season in progress.

 Season in progress.



</doc>
<doc id="266196" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266196" title="Nimatullah Kassab Al-Hardini">
Nimatullah Kassab Al-Hardini

Nimatullah Kassab Al-Hardini (1808-1858) is a Catholic saint. He was a Lebanese Maronite father who living in Kfifane, Lebanon. He died in Kfifane on December 14, 1858. 

Nimatullah was canonized on May 16, 2004 by Pope John Paul II. He is remembered on December 14, the date of his death.



</doc>
<doc id="266199" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266199" title="Dos Equis">
Dos Equis

Dos Equis is a Mexican beer made by the Cuauhtémoc Moctezuma Brewery. It was originally called "Twentieth Century" (Siglo XX). It was first brewed by Wilhelm Hasse in 1897. 

It comes in two types. One is a special pale lager in green bottles. The other is an Amber lager in brown bottles

Dos Equis is well known in Mexico and the United States due to advertisements called "The Most Interesting Man in the World". This ads have actor Jonathan Goldsmith and a narrator telling of his amazing exploits.


</doc>
<doc id="266206" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266206" title="Berriew">
Berriew

Berriew () is a village in Powys, Wales. It is located on the Montgomeryshire Canal and the river Rhiw near the merge with the River Severn. The village has won several 'Best Kept Village' awards - although the scheme has now been stopped.

Situated outside the village on the way to Brooks/Bettws is the village bowling green which is used regularly. The village primary school is b the road leading to Castle Caereinion. 

Past the Talbot pub & restaurant is the Football pitch and tennis courts. There are two pubs in the village centre - the Talbot, mentioned above, and the Lion hotel. There is also the Horseshoes, a little way out of the village.

Glansevern Hall and Gardens are also near to the village.

The village post office at the corner shop, closed on Monday 20th October, 2008, and a new outreach service opened in the SPAR Stores shop also in the village a day later on the 21st October, 2008.

Berriew is the home of Berriew Football Club.

Mirror-artist and sculptor, Andrew Logan, bought the village squash courts and converted the building into The Andrew Logan Museum of Sculpture.

The church is dedicated to St.Beuno, supposidly born in the village.

Berriew has won this competition many times. It was first won in 1970.



</doc>
<doc id="266208" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266208" title="Category:Mexican athletes">
Category:Mexican athletes


</doc>
<doc id="266209" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266209" title="Roy Halladay">
Roy Halladay

Harry Leroy Halladay III (usually called Roy Halladay, born May 14, 1977), is a pitcher for the Philadelphia Phillies of Major League Baseball (MLB). He joined the Phillies in 2010 after pitching for the Toronto Blue Jays from 1998 to 2009.

Halladay has been chosen to the Major League Baseball All-Star Game seven times, and won the American League Cy Young Award in 2003. On May 29, 2010, Halladay threw a perfect game against the Florida Marlins. On October 6, 2010, in his first career MLB playoff game, he threw a no hitter against the Cincinnati Reds, allowing only one walk. Halladay won the 2010 National League Cy Young Award, and became one of five pitchers who have won Cy Young awards in both leagues.


</doc>
<doc id="266229" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266229" title="Pacifism">
Pacifism

Pacifism is when someone does not think war or violence is a good way to stop a fight or to get ahead of someone. Pacifism has been encouraged in the first days of people as a whole.

Compassion (or care) for all life, human and nonhuman, is central to Hinduism, Buddhism, which was founded by Siddhattha Gotama (or Buddha), and also Jainism, founded by Mahavira. Both the Buddha and Mahavira were by birth kshatriya, the varna (social order) of soldiers and officials.


</doc>
<doc id="266230" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266230" title="Microvenator">
Microvenator

Microvenator (meaning "small hunter") was a small, fast-moving, long-legged, meat-eating, bipedal dinosaur about 4 ft. (1.2 m) long, weighing perhaps 6.5-14 pounds (3-6.4 kg). This turkey-sized predator was an advanced theropod that lived during the early Cretaceous period, about 119 million to 113 million years ago, in what is now Montana (USA).


</doc>
<doc id="266231" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266231" title="A1 Grand Prix">
A1 Grand Prix

A1 Grand Prix (A1GP) was a 'single make' open wheel car auto racing series. It was different from most racing series. The drivers represented their nation as opposed to themselves or a team. The series was ratified by the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA). Races were held in the traditional Formula One off-season, winter the northern hemisphere. The seeries was founded by Sheikh Maktoum Hasher Maktoum Al Maktoum of Dubai in 2003. Tony Teixeira took control of the series in 2006, leading it to liquidation by 2009.

The concept was founded by Sheikh Maktoum Hasher Maktoum Al Maktoum of Dubai in 2003. Brian Menell and Tony Teixeira were appointed to run the sale of franchises. Thirty franchises were made available.

Twenty-five of the franchises were purchased for the 2005–06 A1 Grand Prix season. It began on 25 September 2005. The first race was the A1 Grand Prix of Nations Great Britain at the Brands Hatch circuit in the United Kingdom. The first season was planned for 12 rounds. Eash round was two races in a weekend. The Curitiba, Brazil in January 2006 was cancelled. Nelson Piquet, Jr. won the inaugural race of the series for A1 Team Brazil. A1 Team France were crowned the first-ever A1 Grand Prix world champions with 172 points. Switzerland were second with 121 points and A1 Team Great Britain third with 97 points.

The 2006–07 season started on 1 October 2006 at Circuit Park Zandvoort, and the last race at Brands Hatch on 29 April 2007. Team Germany won it with 128 points, 35 points lead ahead of Team New Zealand. 

The 2008–09 season saw the new "Powered by Ferrari" A1GP car. 

The opening of the 2009-10 season was canceled five days before practice was due to begin. Due to the series' financial problems, none of the scheduled races take place. The cars and series infrastructure were tied up in London. No comment was comming from A1GP. More races were cancelled. An announcement made on 5 November 2009 stating that the races in China and Malaysia would not be taking place.
The last race that was to be held in the season was the Dutch round. That race was change to a Superleague Formula race. This ended the hopes the season would start and also put the future of the series in doubt.

Each A1 Grand Prix team represented a nation. Drivers must have the same nationality as the team they drove for. The team car should also represent the country. The team owner, principal and crew, however, did not need to have the same nationality as the team.

Twenty-nine nations started one race in A1GP

A1 Grands Prix of Nations took place over a three-day period, from Friday to Sunday. A two-hour qualifying session took place on Saturday afternoon, and two races took place on Sunday. The driver selected for qualifying or for one of the races was required to have taken part in at least one practice session.

A1 Grand Prix qualifying determined the grid lineup for Sunday's races, the Sprint Race and the Main Race. The grid for the Sprint Race was set based on the cars' fastest time from either the first or the second session. The grid for the Feature Race was based on sessions three and four. 

The Sprint Race was held in the early afternoon. The race began from a rolling start, and it was a maximum of 24 minutes plus one additional lap.<ref name="New 08/09 Rules"></ref> Each team had to make one mandatory pit stop. 

The Feature Race was held mid-afternoon. The race began from a standing start, and was approximately 180 kilometres. The maximum time limit of 69 minutes plus one lap. Teams had to make two mandatory pit stops during the Feature Race.

During the pit stop, all four tires on the car had to be changed. Fuel was not allowed to be added to the car.

Drivers did not score points for themselves. The points earned went their national team. Teams could change drivers between rounds and still accumulate points to their score.

Points and cash prizes were awarded for the first ten places. In addition, one point was awarded to the team that set the fastest single lap time in either the Sprint or Main Race.

The A1GP formula provided a single "spec" car for each team. Each car was mechanically identical. It was designed to limit performance, reduce running costs, and prevent any one or number of teams gaining an advantage through better equipment. This provided field in which driver skill and team effort should become the primary factor for success. 

The cars were based on the Formula One Ferrari F2004 chassis. They used slick tyres from Michelin. The 4.5-litre Ferrari/Maserati V8 engine produced up to in "PowerBoost" mode.



</doc>
<doc id="266233" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266233" title="Prince of Persia">
Prince of Persia

Prince of Persia is the title of a series of video games and a movie that follow the adventures of a Persian Prince. They were created by Jordan Menchner.. Prince of Persia has been developed and published by several different companies. Prince of Persia and Prince of Persia 2: The Shadow and the Flame, were developed by Brøderbund. Later Ubisoft took over creating the development starting with the series Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time. The game platform has developed over the years from 2D animations to 3D worlds. The movie "Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time" was released by Disney in 2010.



</doc>
<doc id="266234" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266234" title="Adelaide Football Club">
Adelaide Football Club

The Adelaide Football Club, the Crows, is an Australian Rules Football team in the Australian Football League (AFL) based in Adelaide, South Australia. The club was formed by the South Australian National Football League as a joint team to represent South Australia in the AFL. The Crows played their first game on March 22 1991, against the Hawthorn Football Club which they won 155 to 69, in front of a crowd of 44,902 people. Its home ground is the AAMI Stadium in Adelaide, which it shares with the Port Adelaide Football Club. The Crows have won two AFL Premierships, in 1997 against St Kilda Football Club, and in 1998 against the North Melbourne Football Club.


</doc>
<doc id="266250" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266250" title="Carlton Football Club">
Carlton Football Club

The Carlton Football Club, the Blues, is an Australian Rules Football team that plays in the Australian Football League. It is based in the Melbourne suburb of Carlton. The club began in 1864, and its first home ground was a clearing in Melbourne's Royal Park. In its first season the Blues won only one game out of ten. In 1877, the club joined the Victorian Football Association, and then in 1897 it joined the Victorian Football League as one of its original teams. After using grounds in East Melbourne and Melbourne University, the club moved to its new football ground at Princess Park, Carlton in 1897. In 1908, the club added the letters CFC to its navy blue jumpers.



</doc>
<doc id="266254" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266254" title="Essendon Football Club">
Essendon Football Club

The Essendon Football Club, the Bombers, is an Australian Rules Football team which plays in the Australian Football League (AFL). The club began in 1872, and played its first game in 1873 against Carlton. In 1877, the team joined the Victorian Football Association.

Essendon was one of the original teams in the Victorian Football League (VFL) which began in 1897. The other teams were Collingwood, Fitzroy, Melbourne, St Kilda, Carlton, South Melbourne and Geelong). Its first home ground was the East Melbourne Cricket Ground, and at the end of the 1921 season the club moved to the Essndon Recreation Reserve, known as Windy Hill. In 200 the club moved its home ground to Etihad Stadium.


</doc>
<doc id="266262" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266262" title="James Naismith">
James Naismith

James Naismith (November 6, 1861 – November 28, 1939) was a Canadian and naturalized American sports coach and innovator. Naismith invented the sport of basketball in 1891. He is also said to have introduced the first football helmet. Naismith wrote the original basketball rulebook and started the University of Kansas basketball program. He lived to see basketball becaome an Olympic demonstration sport in 1904 and an official event at the 1936 Summer Olympics in Berlin.

He taught at the University of Kansas (KU) and was a part-time basketball coach from 1898 to 1907. He was also the Athletic Director for the Kansas Jayhawks, the sports teams at KU.

Naismith has been made a member of the Canadian Basketball Hall of Fame, the Canadian Olympic Hall of Fame, the Canadian Sports Hall of Fame, the Ontario Sports Legends Hall of Fame, the Ottawa Sports Hall of Fame, the McGill University Sports Hall of Fame, the Kansas State Sports Hall of Fame and the FIBA Hall of Fame. The Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame was named after him.

Naismith was born in 1861 in Ramsay Township (now Almonte, Ontario). His parents were both from Scotland. They met and married in Lanark County, Canada. Naismith was not good at school, but enjoyed farm work. He usually spent his days outside playing catch, hide and seek, or duck on a rock. This is old game in which a person guards a large stone from other players, who try to knock it down by throwing smaller stones at it. Naismith soon found that a soft lobbing throw was often much better than a straight hard throw in this game. This thought was later very important when he invented basketball. When he was nine, his parents died from typhoid fever. Naismith lived with his grandmother and his uncle for many years. He went to grade school at Bennies Corners near Almonte, then Almonte High School, and graduated in 1883.

In the same year, Naismith entered McGill University in Montreal. He was described as quite thin, 5 foot 10 ½ inches tall and weighing 168 pounds. He was a talented and quick-moving athlete who played for McGill in Canadian football, soccer and gymnastics. He also played center on the football team, where he wore the first football helmet. Naismith won many Wicksteed medals for outstanding gymnastics performances. Naismith earned a BA in Physical Education (1888) and a Diploma at the Presbyterian College in Montreal (1890). From 1891 on, Naismith taught physical education and became the first McGill director of athletics. He left Montreal to become a physical education teacher at the YMCA International Training School in Springfield, Massachusetts. Naismith is also a member of the Sigma Phi Epsilon Fraternity.

At Springfield YMCA, Naismith found teaching difficult. His class was restless and irritable because they had to stay inside in the winter. Dr. Luther Gulick, leader of the Springfield YMCA Physical Education, told Naismith to make up a game that could be played inside which would be a good "athletic distraction" in 14 days. Gulick said that it should not need too much room, help the athletes keep healthy, and was "fair for all players and not too rough."

Naismith was guided by three main thoughts. Firstly, he studied the most popular games of those times (rugby, lacrosse, soccer, football, hockey and baseball). He saw the danger of a small fast ball and decided that the big soft soccer ball was safest. Secondly, he saw that most physical contact happened while running with the ball, dribbling or hitting it. He decided that passing was the only legal option. Finally, Naismith further reduced body contact by making the goal unguardable, by putting it high above the player's heads. To score goals, he made players throw a soft lobbing shot that he had used in his old favorite game "duck on a rock". Naismith called this new game "Basket Ball" and put wrote down the 13 basic rules.

The first game of "Basket Ball" was played in December 1891. The teams had nine players, and used a soccer ball. The goals were a pair of peach baskets: "When Mr. Stubbins brot [sic] up the peach baskets to the gym I secured them on the inside of the railing of the gallery. This was about 10 feet from the floor, one at each end of the gymnasium. I then put the 13 rules on the bulletin board just behind the instructor's platform, secured a soccer ball and awaited the arrival of the class... The class did not show much enthusiasm but followed my lead... I then explained what they had to do to make goals, tossed the ball up between the two center men & tried to keep them somewhat near the rules. Most of the fouls were called for running with the ball, though tackling the man with the ball was not uncommon."

The first rules did not include what is now called dribbling. Since the ball could only be moved up the court with a pass, early players tossed the ball over their heads as they ran up court. Also, following each "goal" a jump ball was taken in the middle of the court. Both practices are no longer used in the rules of modern basketball.

By 1892, basketball had grown so popular on campus that Dennis Horkenbach (editor-in-chief of "The Triangle", the Springfield college newspaper) featured it in an article called "A New Game". There were calls name the new game "Naismith Ball", but Naismith refused. By 1893, basketball was introduced in other countries by the YMCA movement. From Springfield, Naismith went to Denver where he studied for a medical degree and in 1898 he joined the University of Kansas faculty at Lawrence, Kansas.

The University of Kansas started a men's basketball program in 1898, following Naismith's arrival. This was only six years after Naismith had invented the game. Naismith was employed as chapel director and physical education instructor. In these early days, most basketball games were played against nearby YMCA teams. The YMCA's across the nation played a very importnat part in the birth of basketball. Other common opponents were Haskell Indian Nations University and William Jewell College. With Naismith as coach, the team played only three current Big 12 schools: Nebraska (six times), Missouri (twice), and Kansas State (once). Naismith was, ironically, the only coach in the program's history to have a losing record (55–60). However, Naismith coached Forrest "Phog" Allen, who took over as coach at Kansas. Allen was also added to the Basketball Hall of Fame. When Allen became a coach himself and told him that he was going to coach basketball at Baker University in 1904, Naismith said to him: "You can't coach basketball; you just play it." Allen began a coaching career that would lead him to be known as "the Father of Basketball Coaching." During his time at Kansas, Allen coached Dean Smith (1952 National Championship team) and Adolph Rupp (1922 Helms Foundation National Championship team). When Dean Smith retired as head Basketball coach at North Carolina he had the most wins in college basketball history, second was Adolph Rupp (Kentucky) and third was Allen. The three coaches have joined Naismith as members of the Basketball Hall of Fame.

By the turn of the century, there were enough college teams in the east of the U.S. that the first games between different colleges could be played. Although his sport continuously grew, Naismith long regarded his game as a curiosity and preferred gymnastics and wrestling as better forms of physical education. However, basketball became a demonstration sport at the 1904 Games in St. Louis, USA. As the Basketball Hall of Fame reports, Naismith was not interested in self-promotion nor in the glory of competitive sports. Instead, he was more interested in his physical education career, receiving an honorary PE Masters degree in 1910, patrolled the Mexican border for four months in 1916 during World War I, travelled to France, published two books ("A Modern College" in 1911 and "Essence of a Healthy Life" in 1918) and became an American citizen in 1925.

In 1935, the National Association of Basketball Coaches (created by Naismith's pupil Phog Allen) collected money so that the 74-year old Naismith could witness the introduction of basketball into the official Olympic sports program of the 1936 Summer Olympic Games. There, Naismith handed out the medals to three North American teams; United States, for the Gold Medal, Canada, for the Silver Medal, and Mexico, for their Bronze medal win. During the Olympics, he was named the Honorary President of the International Basketball Federation. When Naismith returned he commented that seeing the game played by many nations was the greatest compensation he could have received for his invention. In 1937, Naismith played a role in the formation of the National Association of Intercollegiate Basketball, which later became the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics (NAIA).

In his later years, Naismith became Professor Emeritus in Kansas and retired in 1937 at the age of 76. Including his years as coach, Naismith served as athletic director and faculty at the school for a total of almost 40 years. Naismith died in 1939 after he suffered a fatal brain hemorrhage and was buried in Lawrence, Kansas. Posthumously, his masterwork "Basketball — its Origins and Development" was published in 1941. In Lawrence, Kansas, James Naismith has a road named in his honor, Naismith Drive, which runs in front of Allen Fieldhouse (the official address of Allen Fieldhouse is 1700 Naismith Drive), Kansas University's basketball arena. It is a separated, four-lane road that runs north and south from University Drive south to its end at 24th street, just south of the KU campus. The university also named the court in Allen Fieldhouse, "James Naismith Court" in his honor. Naismith Hall, a college residential dormitory, is located on the northeastern edge of 19th Street and Naismith Drive.

In 1898, Naismith became the first college basketball coach of the University of Kansas basketball team. His record of 55 wins and 60 losses, means he became the only Kansas coach to have a losing record. Nevertheless, Naismith has one of the greatest coaching legacies in basketball history, as he coached Basketball Hall of Fame coach Phog Allen, who himself coached Hall of Fame coaches Dean Smith, Adolph Rupp, and Ralph Miller at the University of Kansas.

The Naismith Memorial Hall of Fame in Springfield, Massachusetts, is named in Naismith's honor. He was the first member in 1959. The National Collegiate Athletic Association rewards its best players and coaches annually with the Naismith Awards, among them the Naismith College Player of the Year, the Naismith College Coach of the Year and the Naismith Prep Player of the Year. Women's basketball became an Olympic event in Montreal during the 1976 Summer Olympics. Naismith was also inducted into the Canadian Basketball Hall of Fame, the Canadian Olympic Hall of Fame, the Canadian Sports Hall of Fame, the Ontario Sports Legends Hall of Fame, the Ottawa Sports Hall of Fame, the McGill University Sports Hall of Fame, the Kansas State Sports Hall of Fame and the FIBA Hall of Fame.

Basketball is today played by more than 300 million people worldwide, making it one of the most popular team sports. In North America, basketball has produced some of the most-admired athletes of the 20th century. Polls conducted by ESPN and the Associated Press named basketball player Michael Jordan respectively first and second greatest North American athlete of the 20th century, and both polls featured fellow basketballers Wilt Chamberlain (of KU, like Naismith) and Bill Russell in the Top 20.

On June 20, 1894, Naismith married Maude E. Sherman from Springfield. The couple had five children: Margaret Mason (1895), Helen Carolyn (1897), John Edwin (1900), Maude Ann (1904) and James Sherman (1913). He was a member of the Pi Gamma Mu and Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternities, and regarding his spiritual beliefs, Naismith is remembered as a Freemason. Maude Naismith died in 1937, and on June 11, 1939, he married his second wife Florence Kincaid. Naismith suffered a major brain hemorrhage on November 19 the same year and died nine days later in his home located in Lawrence, Kansas. Naismith was 78 years old. Naismith is buried in Memorial Park Cemetery in Lawrence, KS.

During his lifetime, Naismith's education and academic positions held were as follows:



</doc>
<doc id="266264" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266264" title="Etihad Stadium">
Etihad Stadium

Etihad Stadium is a large sport and entertainment complex built in the Docklands area of Melbourne, Victoria. Since March 1, 2009, is has been named after Etihad Airways, the national airline of the United Arab Emirates. It has also been named the Docklands Stadium, Colonial Stadium and the Telstra Dome. The stadium opened on March 9, 2000 after two years of building and a cost of AU$450 million. Etihad Stadium has a large opening roof, and car parking underneath. It is joined to Southern Cross Railway Station by a footbridge.

The area of the playing surface is 19,000 m2. The roof, the largest opening roof in the Southern Hemisphere takes about 8 minutes to open or close.

The stadium is home to several Australian Football League clubs, including Carlton, North Melbourne, Essendon, St Kilda, and the Western Bulldogs. The Rugby World Cup was played at the ground in 2003.

The stadium is used for music concerts, and performers have included Andre Rieu, Bruce Springsteen, Green Day, Barbara Streisand, Bon Jovi and Ricky Martin.


</doc>
<doc id="266265" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266265" title="First Indochina War">
First Indochina War

The First Indochina War was fought in French Indochina from December 19, 1946, until August 1, 1954. Other names for the war are the French Indochina War, Anti-French War, Franco-Vietnamese War, Franco-Vietminh War, Indochina War, Dirty War in France, and Anti-French Resistance War in contemporary Vietnam. The war was fought between the French Union's French Far East Expeditionary Corps, led by France and supported by Emperor Bảo Đại's Vietnamese National Army on one side, and the Việt Minh, led by Hồ Chí Minh and Võ Nguyên Giáp on the other. Most of the fighting took place in Tonkin in Northern Vietnam, but the conflict spread over the entire country and also extended into the neighboring French Indochina protectorates of Laos and Cambodia.

The French reoccupied Indochina after the Second World War. The territory had been part of the Empire of Japan before. The Việt Minh launched a rebellion against the French authority. The first few years of the war involved a low-level rural insurgency against French authority. However, after the Chinese communists reached the Northern border of Vietnam in 1949, the conflict turned into a conventional war between two armies equipped with modern weapons supplied by the United States and the Soviet Union. 

French Union forces included colonial troops from the whole former empire (Moroccan, Algerian, Tunisian, Laotian, Cambodian, Vietnamese and Vietnamese ethnic minorities), French professional troops and units of the French Foreign Legion. The use of metropolitan recruits was forbidden by the governments to prevent the war from becoming even more unpopular at home. It was called the "dirty war" ("la sale guerre") by supporters of the Left in France and intellectuals (including Sartre) during the Henri Martin Affair in 1950.

The French had the stategy of pushing Việt Minh into attacking a well defended base in a remote part of the country at the end of the logistical trail. This strategy was validated at the Battle of Na San. The big problemsof the war was the lack of construction materials (especially concrete). Because of difficult terrain witohut roads, tanks could not be used, and providing air cover was difficult. This made it almost ipmossible to effectively defend the area.

After the war, the Geneva Conference on July 21, 1954, made a provisional division of Vietnam at the 17th parallel. The Việt Minh received control over the north, in a territory called Democratic Republic of Vietnam under Hồ Chí Minh. The area south of the 17th parallel was turned into State of Vietnam under Emperor Bảo Đại. This was done to prevent Hồ Chí Minh from gaining control of the entire country. A year later, Bảo Đại would be deposed by his prime minister, Ngô Đình Diệm, creating the Republic of Vietnam. Diem's refusal to enter into negotiations with North Vietnam about holding nationwide elections in 1956, as had been suggested by the Geneva Conference, would eventually lead to war breaking out again in South Vietnam in 1959 - the Second Indochina War.


</doc>
<doc id="266296" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266296" title="Nelson Piquet, Jr.">
Nelson Piquet, Jr.

Nelson Ângelo Tamsma Piquet Souto Maior (born 25 July 1985 in Heidelberg, West Germany), also known as Nelson Piquet Junior or Nelsinho Piquet, is a racing driver. He is the son of three-time Formula One world champion Nelson Piquet, one of Brazil's most successful F1 drivers. Piquet Junior currently drives part time in the Camping World Truck Series for Red Horse Racing.

Piquet Jr. raced in the GP2 Series in 2005 and 2006. He drove for the Renault Formula One team for the , before being dropped midway through the season. After losing his ride, it was revealed that he had crashed on purpose at the 2008 Singapore Grand Prix. The crash helped his team-mate, Fernando Alonso, win the race.

Piquet's parents separated soon after he was born. He lived in Monaco with his Dutch mother, Sylvia Tamsma, until he was eight years old. He then moved to Brazil with his father. "They kind of swapped me. My mother wanted me to get to know my father, she wanted me to know Brazil and the language, and she realised life in Brazil would be better for a child." Piquet has two sisters, Kelly and Julia, and four brothers, Geraldo, Laszlo, Pedro and Marco. He lived in Brasília and attended the American School of Brasília. When he was 16 years old, he decided to pursue his racing career full time.

Piquet's racing career started in 1993 in Brazilian karting. In 2001 when he moved to Formula Three Sudamericana. He raced in part of the 2001 season, and won the 2002 championship. In 2002 he also entered one race of the Brazilian Formula Renault series.

In 2003, Piquet moved to the UK and joined the British Formula Three Championship. He went on to finish the championship in third place with six wins, five podiums and eight pole positions. A test with the Williams Formula One team followed.

In 2004, Piquet won the British Formula Three Championship. He became the youngest driver to win the championship at 19 years and 2 months.

In 2005, Piquet took part in the A1 Grand Prix for A1 Team Brazil. He won both the Sprint and Main races at the 2005-06 A1 Grand Prix of Nations, Great Britain, the first ever A1 race. , He also set the fastest lap. He drove in the GP2 Series, winning his first race at Spa Francorchamps in Belgium, and tested for the BAR-Honda Formula 1 team.

In 2006, Piquet was second in the GP2 championship to Lewis Hamilton.

Throughout hes eary careet, Piquet was able to race for his own team. His father purchased the teams he raced for.

During the 2007 season he was the official test and reserve driver for the Renault Formula One team. For 2008 season Piquet was promoted to the Renault race team. He drove alongside returning double World Champion Fernando Alonso. 

The first race of the 2008 season in Australia saw Piquet start 21st and damage his car in a collision on the opening lap. He finally retired on lap 31. This was exactly the same result as his father achieved in his first race at the German Grand Prix. Piquet qualified in 10th for the Spanish Grand Prix his first top 10 qualifying position of his career. Piquet scored his first points in F1 with a 7th place finish at the French Grand Prix. He passed his team mate Alonso in the last few laps. At the German Grand Prix, finished in second place and his first podium finish.

Renault singed Piquet to a one year contract for the season. His first race, in 2009 at Australia ended on lap 24 with brake failure. China was another disappointment. He spun several times, requiring two new nose cones for his car. He finished 16th and last, two laps down, in what team manager Flavio Briatore described as a "very, very bad race". His best race of the year was a tenth place finish at Bahrain.

On 3 August 2009 Piquet confirmed that he had been dropped by Renault. He hit out hard at his former manager and team boss Briatore. He called him his 'executioner' and questioned Briatore's Formula One knowledge. Piquet also said the Renault boss favored teammate Fernando Alonso. Renault's test and reserve driver Romain Grosjean replaced Piquet for the rest of the season. 

After Piquet left the Renault F1 team, the media started making claims about Piquet. They said that had crashed his car on purpose at the Singapore Grand Prix. They said he did this to benefit team-mate Fernando Alonso. Alonso had made an early pit stop, and was far behind the leaders. Alonso went on to win the race. At the time, Piquet had said the crash as a simple mistake. 

Piquet told the FIA that it had been on purpose. He said had been asked by Renault team principal Flavio Briatore and engineer Pat Symonds to stage the crash. In return for his statement, Piquet was given immunity by the FIA. On 4 September 2009 Renault F1 was charged with conspiracy and race fixing. On 16 September, Renault announced they would not contest the charges, and that Briatore and team engineer Symonds had left the team. 

Piquet has received criticism from many in the F1 community. BBC F1 commentator Martin Brundle suggested that Piquet Jr. was now unemployable in Formula One, saying that no team or sponsor would want to be associated with the Piquet family. Piquet decided to move to NASCAR for 2010.

Piquet made his stock car debut in the ARCA RE/MAX Series at Daytona International Speedway. He has made several races in the NASCAR Camping World Truck Series. He drove one race for Red Horse Racing. In his first truck race, Piquet was managed to score a sixth place effort, the first Brazilian driver to finish in the top ten in the series history. Piquet announced that he would be competing in three races for Billy Ballew Motorsports. In August, he competed in the NASCAR Nationwide Series race at the Watkins Glen International road course. He finished seventh in his first start in the series.

 Includes points scored by other Team Brazil drivers.

() (Races in bold indicate pole position) (Races in "italics" indicate fastest lap) 



</doc>
<doc id="266298" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266298" title="Hoy">
Hoy

Hoy is one of the Orkney Islands.


</doc>
<doc id="266306" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266306" title="Battle of Pharsalus">
Battle of Pharsalus

The Battle of Pharsalus was the decisive battle of Caesar's Civil War. On 9 August 48 BC at Pharsalus in central Greece, Gaius Julius Caesar and his allies formed up opposite the army of the republic under the command of Gnaeus Pompeius Magnus ("Pompey the Great"). Pompey had the backing of a majority of senators, and his army significantly outnumbered the experienced Caesarian legions.

Although Pompey had a larger army, he knew that Caesar's troops were more experienced, and might win in a pitched battle. Instead, Pompey waited Caesar's troops out, attempting to starve them by cutting off Caesar's supply lines. Caesar made a near disastrous attack on Pompey's camp, and was forced to pull away to regroup.

Pompey did not immediately follow up on his success. An indecisive winter (49–48 BC) of blockade and siege followed. Pompey eventually pushed Caesar into Thessaly and, urged on by his senatorial allies, he confronted Caesar near Pharsalus. Pompey's allies disagreed with Pompey over whether to fight at Pharsalus. Pompey, who wanted to starve Caesar's soldiers, had his hand forced by his allies.

There was significant distance between the two armies, according to Caesar. Pompey ordered his men not to charge, but to wait until Caesar's legions came into close quarters. The idea was to tire Caesar's men before the battle started.

Seeing that Pompey's army was not advancing, Caesar's men, without orders, stopped to rest and regroup before continuing the charge. Caesar, in his history of the war, would praise his own men's discipline and experience, and questioned Pompey's decision not to charge.

When the lines joined, Labienus (Pompey's cavalry leader) ordered the cavalry to attack. At first they did well, then Caesar ordered his cavalry to withdraw. Light troops fiercely attacked Pompey's cavalry. The first line of the Pompeiian horse were panicked by the cohort's javelins and caused the entire cavalry to fall into disorder. When the cavalry retreated, Caesar's men slaughtered the light troops who supported them. They attacked Pompey's left flank and, rejoined by their cavalry, were able to get behind and attack Pompey's army from the rear. Caesar raised the pressure further by ordering his as yet uninvolved third line to relieve the front ranks. The remaining Pompeiian soldiers fled and soon the main battle was done.

Pompey retreated to his camp and ordered the garrison to defend it. Caesar urged his men to capture the enemy camp. They furiously attacked the walls. The Thracians and the other auxiliaries who were left in the camp defended bravely, but they were not able to fend off the enemy assault. Pompey fled with a group, claiming that he had been betrayed. Caesar had won his greatest victory, having lost only about 200 soldiers and 30 centurions .

Pompey fled from Pharsalus to Egypt, where he was assassinated on the order of Pharaoh Ptolemy XIII. Ptolemy XIII sent Pompey's head to Caesar in an effort to win his favor, but Caesar was not pleased with the gift. Pompey was the widower of Caesar's only daughter. Nor did Ptolemy take into account that Caesar was granting amnesty to many of the senators and their men, men who once considered him an enemy. 

The Battle of Pharsalus ended the wars of the First Triumvirate. The Roman Civil War, however, was not ended. Pompey's two sons and the Pompeian faction led now by Labienus, survived and fought their cause in the name of Pompey the Great. Caesar spent the next few years 'mopping up' remnants of the senatorial faction. After finally completing this task, he was assassinated in a conspiracy arranged by Brutus and Cassius.


</doc>
<doc id="266309" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266309" title="Battle of Philippi">
Battle of Philippi

The Battle of Philippi was the final battle in the Wars of the Second Triumvirate between the forces of Mark Antony and Octavian (the Triumvirate) against the forces of Julius Caesar's assassins Brutus and Cassius in 42 BC, at Philippi in the Roman province of Macedonia. The Second Triumvirate declared this civil war to avenge Julius Caesar's murder.

The battle consisted of two engagements in the plain west of the ancient city of Philippi. The first occurred on the first week of October; Brutus faced Octavian, while Antony's forces were up against those of Cassius. 

At first, Brutus pushed back Octavian and entered his legions' camp. But to the south, Cassius was defeated by Antony, and committed suicide after hearing a false report that Brutus had also failed. Brutus rallied Cassius' remaining troops and both sides ordered their army to retreat to their camps with their spoils. The battle was essentially a draw, but for Cassius' suicide. This deprived the Liberatores of their best commander.

A second encounter, on 23 October, finished off Brutus's forces, and he committed suicide in turn, leaving the triumvirate in control of the Roman Republic. The Battle of Philippi marked the highest point of Antony's career: at that time he was the most famous Roman general and the senior partner of the Second Triumvirate. Antony's life was defined in this moment.


</doc>
<doc id="266316" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266316" title="Healthy lifestyle">
Healthy lifestyle

A healthy lifestyle is one which helps to keep and improve people's health and well-being. Many governments and non-governmental organizations have made big efforts in healthy lifestyle and health promotion.

Healthy lifestyle is, mostly, associated with:



</doc>
<doc id="266321" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266321" title="Galileo thermometer">
Galileo thermometer

A Galileo thermometer or Galilean thermometer is a thermometer that uses the density of liquids to measure temperature. The thermometer was invented by Galileo Galilei, who had noticed that the density of a liquid changes with temperature. The thermometer is made of a glass container, filled with a liquid. Inside, there are other containers, usually with other liquids. When the temperature changes, so does the density of the "container" liquid. As a consequence, the smaller containers may fall to the floor, or rise to the surface.

Usually, such thermometers are calibrated, to either 2° or 1°. The temperature is then that of the bulb with the lowest temperature, floating above.


</doc>
<doc id="266326" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266326" title="Aristotle Onassis">
Aristotle Onassis

Aristotle Socrates Onassis (January 15, 1906 - March 15, 1975) was a prominent Greek shipping magnate and founder of Olympic Airways. 

Onassis was born in Smyrna (now Izmir), Turkey, in a prosperous family. He received a good education and became fluent in several languages. In 1922, when Turkey took possession of Smyrna, the Onassis family lost most of their fortune and had to flee to Greece. The following year, Onassis left for Argentina where he quickly established himself as a prominent businessman. 

He later began to invest in shipping and eventually acquired a large fleet of freighters which made him one of the richest man in the world. In 1957, he founded Olympic Airways. He converted one of his ships into a luxury yacht called "Christina", which he used to entertain famous people (artists, politicians, royalty, etc.). 

He married Athina Livanos (1926-1974) in 1946, with whom he had two children; Alexander (1948-1973) and Christina (1950-1988). In the late 1950s, he met diva Maria Callas and began a liaison with her that led to his divorce. In 1968, he startled the world by marrying Jacqueline Kennedy, the widow of slain President John F. Kennedy.

He died in Paris, France, from complications of myasthenia gravis. 


</doc>
<doc id="266341" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266341" title="Private equity">
Private equity

Private equity is investment in shares outside a stock exchange. 

Investors, often from instituions like funds, give a company money, and in turn buy part of that company. The most common types of private equity are: leveraged buyouts, venture capital, growth capital, distressed investments and mezzanine capital. 

In leveraged buyouts, investors buy the majority control of a mature company. In venture capital or growth capital investment, investors give money to start-up companies.


</doc>
<doc id="266349" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266349" title="The Heartbreakers">
The Heartbreakers

Johnny Thunders and the Heartbreakers, also known as The Heartbreakers, were an American rock band. They formed in New York in May 1975. They were one of the first punk rock bands. One of their most popular songs was called Chinese Rocks. Dee Dee Ramone and Richard Hell wrote this song about heroin in 1976.

Johnny Thunders (vocals/guitar) and Jerry Nolan (drums) had quit the New York Dolls. That same week Richard Hell (vocals/bass) was kicked out of Television. The three musicians joined to make the new band. After a few shows, Walter Lure (vocals/guitar) from a group called The Demons joined the band also. In 1976, Hell left group. He was replaced by Billy Rath. Hell went on to form his own band, The Voidoids.

The Heartbreakers came to Europe to tour just as the UK punk scene was growing. The Heartbreakers got many fans by playing in and around London. The Sex Pistols invited them to play first on the Anarchy Tour. Many things went wrong on this tour.

They soon signed a contract with Track Records. Their debut—and only—studio album, " L.A.M.F.", had all the Heartbreakers' popular live songs. Making and selling this album caused problems for the band. Some band members were angry about the poor quality of the sound. Several members of the band left at this point. The Heartbreakers reformed in 1979 for a few goodbye shows at Max's Kansas City with drummer Ty Stix replacing Nolan. These shows were recorded and became the album "Live at Max's Kansas City '79". The Heartbreakers' song, "London Boys", insulted the Sex Pistols. This was to answer the Sex Pistols' song "New York", that insulted the New York Dolls.

The band got back together sometimes to play at New York clubs until Johnny Thunders died in 1991. Jerry Nolan died in 1992. These live shows often had songs from the New York Dolls or from Thunders' solo career. Hell rarely plays music live, concentrating instead on writing and spoken-word performances. Lure became a stockbroker on Wall St. but still performs once in a while when he is not working at his regular job. In 2007 Lure went on a short European tour.




</doc>
<doc id="266352" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266352" title="We Pilot These Machines">
We Pilot These Machines

We Pilot These Machines is an indie pop and alternative rock band from Thousand Oaks, CA. Originally formed by vocalist David McInnes and Guitarist Reed Murray in 2009, the band released their debut, "The Wayfarer - EP" on October 4, 2010, which is notable for the involvement of Grammy Award-winning engineer Don Murray in its production. 

We Pilot These Machines draws from a wide range of musical influences including Radiohead and The Postal Service. Genre tends to vary by song, and elements from such styles as Dream pop, Electronica, Industrial and Jazz make appearances.




</doc>
<doc id="266357" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266357" title="Template:Animal Farm">
Template:Animal Farm


</doc>
<doc id="266360" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266360" title="Battle of Actium">
Battle of Actium

The Battle of Actium decided the final war of the Roman Republic. It was fought between the forces of Octavian and the combined forces of Mark Antony and Cleopatra. 

The battle took place on 2 September 31 BC, on the Ionian Sea near the Roman colony of Actium in Greece. Octavian's fleet was commanded by Agrippa, while Antony's fleet was supported by the ships of his lover, Queen Cleopatra of Egypt.

Octavian's victory enabled him to consolidate his power over Rome and its dominions. To that end, he adopted the title of Princeps ("first citizen"). As a result of the victory he was awarded the title of Augustus by the Roman Senate. 

As Augustus, he would keep the trappings of a restored Republican leader. However, historians view this as the end of the Roman Republic and the beginning of the Roman Empire.


</doc>
<doc id="266408" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266408" title="Template:Editcount/doc">
Template:Editcount/doc

To use this template, use
This links to the edit count for codice_1 like this: 
<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="266430" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266430" title="Rebecca St. James">
Rebecca St. James

Rebecca St. James is a Christian rock singer. She was born in 1977. She is signed to Forefront Records.


</doc>
<doc id="266444" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266444" title="License management">
License management

License Management is a supply chain function of an Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) through intellectual property.


</doc>
<doc id="266447" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266447" title="Semimetal">
Semimetal

A semimetal or a metalloid is a chemical element. It has some properties like a metal. Some properties are like a nonmetal. It might be shiny, but brittle. It might be dull, but conducts electricity. It might be very hard, but shiny. The most common semimetal is silicon. Silicon has electrical conductivity between metals and nonmetals. It is a semiconductor.

Polonium and astatine are semimetals, but they are radioactive and almost impossible and very dangerous to get.


</doc>
<doc id="266448" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266448" title="Photocell">
Photocell

A photocell, also known as a photoresistor, is a device that changes its electrical conductivity when light shines on it. In the picture, the electricity flows through the reddish part. Normally, when light shines on it, then more electricity flows through. When it is dark, almost no electricity flows through. Selenium can be used to make photocells, although some other chemicals can be used. 

Semiconductors are used to make photocells. When the light shines into the photocell, it "loosen"s the electrons, allowing them to flow and make an electrical current.



</doc>
<doc id="266450" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266450" title="Selenium dioxide">
Selenium dioxide

Selenium dioxide, also known as selenious oxide, selenous oxide, or selenium(IV) oxide, is a chemical compound. Its chemical formula is SeO. It contains selenium in its +4 oxidation state. It also contains oxide ions.

Selenium dioxide is a white solid. It dissolves in water to make selenous acid. It easily evaporates. The vapor smells like horseradish sauce. It can burn the nose. It reacts with bases to make selenites. 

Selenium dioxide can be made by burning selenium in air. It can also be made by reacting selenium with nitric acid or hydrogen peroxide. Another way to make it is to heat selenous acid. 

Selenium dioxide is very rare as a mineral. It only is in places where coal caught on fire and the selenides were oxidized to selenium dioxide.

Selenium dioxide is used in making organic compounds. Selenium dioxide is used as a coloring in glass. Cobalt in glass makes a blue color. When a little selenium dioxide is added, the glass becomes colorless. When more selenium dioxide is added, the glass becomes ruby red.

Selenium dioxide can dissolve in water to make toxic selenium compounds. Ingestion of any more than a very tiny amount can cause selenium poisoning. Selenium dioxide is a weak oxidizing agent and does not catch things on fire. 



</doc>
<doc id="266454" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266454" title="Selenium oxide">
Selenium oxide

Selenium oxide may refer to either of these chemical compounds:



</doc>
<doc id="266455" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266455" title="Selenium trioxide">
Selenium trioxide

Selenium trioxide, also known as selenium(VI) oxide and selenic oxide, is a chemical compound. Its chemical formula is SeO. It contains selenium in its +6 oxidation state. It also contains oxide ions.

Selenium trioxide is a white solid. It evaporates easily. It dissolves easily in water. It is not stable and breaks down to make selenium dioxide and oxygen when it is heated. It is a powerful oxidizing agent like all selenates. It dissolves in water to make selenic acid. 

It can be made by reacting potassium selenate with sulfur dioxide. It can also be made by dehydrating (removing the water from) selenic acid with a strong dessicant, like phosphorus(V) oxide.



</doc>
<doc id="266459" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266459" title="Selenide">
Selenide

Selenide is an ion. Its chemical formula is Se. Selenides are similar to sulfides. Selenides are reducing agents when pure. They are stronger reducing agents than sulfides. Selenide ores are the source of selenium. Selenides are normally mixed with sulfides. The selenide ion is unstable except in very basic conditions. Normally hydroselenide is made, which is HSe. In acidic conditions, hydrogen selenide gas is made.



</doc>
<doc id="266460" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266460" title="Hydroselenide">
Hydroselenide

Hydroselenide is an ion. Its chemical formula is HSe. Hydroselenides are normally made in neutral or slightly basic conditions. If it is very basic, selenides are made. If it is acidic, hydrogen selenide is made.



</doc>
<doc id="266461" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266461" title="Hydrogen selenide">
Hydrogen selenide

Hydrogen selenide, also known as hydroselenic acid, selenium hydride, or selane, is a chemical compound. Its chemical formula is HSe. It is an acid. It contains hydrogen and selenide ions.

Hydrogen selenide is a colorless gas that dissolves in water to make an acidic solution. It smells like rotten horseradish. It is very toxic. It burns easily, making selenium dioxide. It is similar to hydrogen sulfide, a gas that smells like rotten eggs. It is a strong reducing agent.

Hydrogen selenide can be made by hydrolysis of aluminium selenide. This reaction also makes aluminium hydroxide. It can be made by reacting hydrogen with powdered selenium at a high temperature. 

It can be used to add selenide ion to organic compounds. It can also be used to make selenium by reacting it with sulfur dioxide. This makes selenium, sulfur, and water.



</doc>
<doc id="266466" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266466" title="Aluminium selenide">
Aluminium selenide

Aluminium selenide, also known as aluminum selenide or aluminium(III) selenide, is a chemical compound. Its chemical formula is AlSe. It contains aluminium in its +3 oxidation state. It contains aluminium and selenide ions.

It reacts with water to make hydrogen selenide. It is a reducing agent and can burn to make aluminium oxide and selenium dioxide.

It is made by reacting selenium with aluminium powder at a high temperature.

It is used to make hydrogen selenide. 



</doc>
<doc id="266469" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266469" title="Sodium selenide">
Sodium selenide

Sodium selenide is a chemical compound. Its chemical formula is NaSe. It contains sodium and selenide ions.

Sodium selenide is a solid. It reacts with water to make a mixture of sodium hydroxide and sodium hydroselenide. It is a reducing agent. It is oxidized to a mixture of selenide and selenium, making an offwhite color. It is eventually oxidized to selenium dioxide. it reacts with acids to make hydrogen selenide gas. 

It is made by reacting selenium with a solution of sodium in liquid ammonia. 

Sodium selenide is used to react with some organic compounds. 



</doc>
<doc id="266471" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266471" title="Selenium monochloride">
Selenium monochloride

Selenium monochloride, also known as selenium(I) chloride or diselenium dichloride, is a chemical compound. Its chemical formula is SeCl. It contains selenium in its +1 oxidation state. It also contains chloride ions.

It is a reddish brown oily liquid. 

It can be made by reacting selenium, selenium dioxide, and hydrochloric acid. It can be made though by just reacting chlorine with selenium. Another way to make it is reacting oleum and hydrochloric acid with selenium. 

It can be used to add selenium to other chemical compounds.



</doc>
<doc id="266474" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266474" title="Selenite">
Selenite

Selenite is an ion. Its chemical formula is SeO. It makes the hydrogen selenite ion, HSO in neutral conditions. When in acidic conditions it makes selenous acid. They are normally made by heating metal oxides with selenium dioxide. An example would be sodium selenite. Selenites are weak oxidizing agents.



</doc>
<doc id="266475" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266475" title="Selenate">
Selenate

Selenate is an ion. Its chemical formula is SeO. They dissolve easily in water. They are strong oxidizing agents. In very acidic conditions, it makes selenic acid. Sodium selenate is an example.



</doc>
<doc id="266477" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266477" title="Selenic acid">
Selenic acid

Selenic acid is a chemical compound. It is an acid. Its chemical formul is HSeO. 

It is normally a colorless solution in water. It is a strong oxidizing agent. It can turn into selenium trioxide when dehydrated carefully. It is a very strong acid. It reacts with hydrochloric acid to make chlorine and selenous acid. It can dissolve gold to make gold selenate. When heated above 200°C, it releases oxygen and turns into selenous acid. It reacts with bases to make selenates.

Selenic acid is made by oxidation of selenium dioxide with hydrogen peroxide. It is hard to evaporate it, but when it is evaporated, it makes colorless crystals. It can be made by oxidation of selenous acid with a strong oxidizing agent, such as potassium permanganate, chlorine, or bromine. The HCl and HBr made as a byproduct can reduce the selenic acic to selenous acid again, though, so it has to be taken out. 

It can also be made by reacting selenium with chlorine in water.



</doc>
<doc id="266478" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266478" title="Selenous acid">
Selenous acid

Selenous acid, also known as selenious acid, is a chemical compound. Its chemical formula is HSO. It is an acid. It contains hydrogen and selenite ions.

Selenous acid is a weak acid. It can be heated to make selenium dioxide. It is more stable than sulfurous acid. It can be crystallized as a white solid. It is a weak oxidizing agent. It reacts with bases to make selenites.

It is made by dissolving selenium dioxide in water.

It is used in the bluing of steel. It is used in the making of organic compounds.

Selenous acid is very toxic. Just ingesting a small amount can kill you.



</doc>
<doc id="266483" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266483" title="Sodium selenate">
Sodium selenate

Sodium selenate is a chemical compound. Its chemical formula is NaSeO. It contains sodium and selenate ions.

Sodium selenate is a white solid. It is a strong oxidizing agent. It dissolves in water easily.

Sodium selenate is made by reacting sodium hydroxide with selenic acid.

Sodium selenate is used as a mineral supplement.

Sodium selenate is very toxic in amounts any more than a very tiny amount.



</doc>
<doc id="266485" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266485" title="Sodium selenite">
Sodium selenite

Sodium selenite is a chemical compound. Its chemical formula is NaSeO. It contains sodium and selenite ions.

Sodium selenite is a white solid. It dissolves in water. It is a weak oxidizing agent. It reacts with acids to make selenous acid. It can be oxidized by powerful oxidizing agents to make sodium selenate. 

It is made by reacting sodium hydroxide with selenium dioxide

Sodium selenite is used to add a pink color to glass. It is also used in some vitamin supplements. 

Eating of any more than a very tiny amount would give selenium poisoning. 



</doc>
<doc id="266486" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266486" title="Selenium compounds">
Selenium compounds

Selenium compounds are chemical compound that have selenium ions. Selenium exists in several oxidation states: -2, +1, +4, and +6. +4 is probably the most common, while -2 is most common in the earth.

Selenides are the most common -2 compounds. Selenides are strong reducing agents.


+4 compounds can exist in anions or cations.
Selenites are weak oxidizing agents.

+6 compounds can exist in anions or cations, too.
Selenates are powerful oxidizing agents.


</doc>
<doc id="266487" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266487" title="Selenium acid">
Selenium acid

Selenium acid can refer to three selenium acids:



</doc>
<doc id="266488" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266488" title="Selenium chloride">
Selenium chloride

Selenium chloride can refer to either of these chemical compounds:



</doc>
<doc id="266489" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266489" title="Selenium fluoride">
Selenium fluoride

Selenium fluoride can refer to either of these chemical compounds:



</doc>
<doc id="266490" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266490" title="Selenium hexafluoride">
Selenium hexafluoride

Selenium hexafluoride, also known as selenium(VI) fluoride, is a chemical compound. Its chemical formula is SeF. It contains selenium in its +6 oxidation state. It also contains fluoride ions.

Selenium hexafluoride is a colorless gas. It is much more reactive and toxic than sulfur hexafluoride. It has a bad odor.

Selenium hexafluoride is made by heating selenium and fluorine together.

This chemical compound has no uses. 



</doc>
<doc id="266493" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266493" title="Template:Municipalities of the district of Franches-Montagnes">
Template:Municipalities of the district of Franches-Montagnes

<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="266494" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266494" title="Selenium tetrafluoride">
Selenium tetrafluoride

Selenium tetrafluoride, also known as selenous fluoride and selenium(IV) fluoride, is a chemical compound. Its chemical formula is SeF. It contains selenium in its +4 oxidation state. It also contains fluoride ions.

It is a colorless liquid. It hydrolyses in water giving hydrofluoric acid and selenous acid. It is used to add fluoride to other chemical compounds. 

It is made by reacting selenium with a little fluorine. A lot of fluorine makes selenium hexafluoride. It can also be made by reacting sulfur tetrafluoride with selenium dioxide.

It is used to make adducts and some other chemical reactions like that.



</doc>
<doc id="266500" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266500" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Physics links">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Physics links

<div class="boilerplate metadata" style="background-color: #edeaff; padding: 0 10px 0 10px; border: 1px solid #8779DD;">
 () "has nominated this page for deletion for the reason:"


"Please discuss this deletion below, but keep in mind that and that there may be options that are not just "keep" or "delete", such as merging."

This request is due to close seven days after it was filed; that is on approx. Thursday, 14 October 2010 at 5:03 pm, although it may be closed more quickly due to .<br><br>


</doc>
<doc id="266509" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266509" title="Art Deco">
Art Deco

Art Deco is a style of decorative art, design and architecture from the mid-1920s to the mid-40s in Europe, the United States and other countries. It first came about in France in 1925. Art Deco followed another design style, Art Nouveau, which was influenced by organic plant-like forms.

Art Deco was one of the first styles of modern architecture. It was influenced by different styles and movements of the early 20th century, Neoclassical, Constructivism, Cubism, Modernism, and Futurism. It is also sometimes called Streamline Moderne. 

One idea behind art deco architecture was to apparently streamline buildings the same way you would streamline a car. The style was much more common in commercial buildings than in houses; many banks, schools, and libraries were built in this style. Most of the public buildings built by the Works Progress Administration during the Great Depression are in the Art Deco style. One of the most famous Art Deco buildings is the Chrysler Building in New York City, and another famous one is Bullock's Wilshire in Los Angeles. Many art deco buildings have elaborate terra cotta or murals inside them.


</doc>
<doc id="266512" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266512" title="Eydie Gormé">
Eydie Gormé

Eydie Gormé—birth name Edith Gormezano— was born August 16, 1928. Her husband, Steve Lawrence, sings with her, thereby making the duo "Steve and Eydie". Gormé herself has had some hit songs; one was "Blame it on the Bossa Nova".


</doc>
<doc id="266515" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266515" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/4 dimensions of classical music">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/4 dimensions of classical music

 "has nominated this page for deletion for the reason:"


"Please discuss this deletion below, but keep in mind that and that there may be options that are not just "keep" or "delete", such as merging."

Delete - personal essay. () 18:51, 7 October 2010 (UTC)

Delete -- ditto. () 18:55, 7 October 2010 (UTC)

Deleted Come on, this nonsense should be speedy deleted. We don't need to spend time talking about it. Rubbish gets canned. () 23:41, 8 October 2010 (UTC)
This request is due to close seven days after it was filed; that is on approx. Thursday, 14 October 2010 at 6:39 pm, although it may be closed more quickly due to .<br><br>


</doc>
<doc id="266521" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266521" title="The Andrews Sisters">
The Andrews Sisters

The Andrews Sisters were a singing group in the 1930s, the 1940s and the 1950s. Their names were Maxene, LaVerne and Patty. The only one now living is Patty Andrews. They broke up long ago, but their music is still played over certain radio stations in the United States. The Andrews Sisters were notable for their song "The Boogie Woogie Bugle Boy". That song was covered and recorded by multiple singers over the years.


</doc>
<doc id="266522" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266522" title="Intellectual disability">
Intellectual disability

Intellectual disability is a permanent condition. There are different definitions of what is considered an intellectual disability. In general, these
definitions consider two main factors:
The cause of such an illness usually lies in childhood, or in genetic disorders. Intellectual disability is different from dementia. In dementia, people forget things, and they lose skills they once had. People with an intellectual disability never learn those skills. 

There is currently no cure. Those affected can learn to cope and do many things, if they get enough support and are taught well. There are no specific drugs that can be taken to treat the condition. Many people with an intellectual disability have other health problems, for which they will be given specific drugs. As an example, autisic children with developmental delay may use anti-psychotics or mood stabilizers to help with behavior. Giving drugs to intellectual disability people needs to be monitored; side-effects often occur, and are wrongly diagnosed as problems with behaviour or as psychiatric problems.

The dignity and human rights are protected by the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities as well as other disabilities and equally like other persons without disabilities.


</doc>
<doc id="266537" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266537" title="Selenium tetrachloride">
Selenium tetrachloride

Selenium tetrachloride, also selenious chloride, selenous chloride, or selenium(IV) chloride, is a chemical compound. Its chemical formula is SeCl. It contains selenium in its +4 oxidation state. It also contains chloride ions. 

Selenium tetrachloride is a yellow or white solid. It evaporates easily. It reacts with water to make hydrochloric acid and selenous acid. It reacts with selenium dioxide to make selenium oxychloride, a mixture of selenium dioxide and selenium tetrachloride bonded together.

It is made by heating a mixture of selenium and chlorine. The selenium tetrachloride escapes as a gas. This can be used to purify selenium. Impure selenium can be placed in the flask, reacted with chlorine. Only selenium tetrachloride escapes. This is reduced to selenium again, making pure selenium. 

It is used to purify selenium. It is used to make other selenium compounds.



</doc>
<doc id="266539" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266539" title="Selenium disulfide">
Selenium disulfide

Selenium disulfide, also known as selenious disulfide, selenous disulfide, or selenium(IV) disulfide is a chemical compound. Its formula should be SeS. It contains selenium in its +4 oxidation state. It also contains sulfide ions. 

Selenium sulfide is a poorly known chemical compound. Sometimes it has more selenium, sometimes it has more sulfur. It is an orange solid.

Selenium sulfide can be made by heating selenium and sulfur. 

It is used to kill fungi that make dandruff in hair. It can also be used to treat fungal (from fungi) skin infections.



</doc>
<doc id="266572" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266572" title="Gaius Cassius Longinus">
Gaius Cassius Longinus

Gaius Cassius Longinus (before 85 BC – October 42 BC) was a Roman Senator, a leader of the plot to kill Julius Caesar, and the brother in-law of Brutus.

Little is known of Gaius Cassius's early life. He studied philosophy at Rhodes and became fluent in Greek. He was married to Tertulla, who was a half-sister of his co-conspirator, Brutus. They had one son.

Cassius's first office was as quaestor under Marcus Licinius Crassus in 53 BC, and he proved a good military leader. He travelled with Crassus to the province of Syria, and attempted to dissuade him from attacking Parthia, suggesting that they secure a base at the Euphrates. 

Crassus ignored Cassius and led the army into the Battle of Carrhae, during which he also ignored Cassius' plans for strengthening the Roman line. The result was the most famous Roman rout since the Second Punic War.

Cassius managed to save the remnants of the army with the help of Crassus' legate Gaius Octavius. Crassus was killed, but Cassius managed to escape with 500 cavalry and meet up with the surviving legionaries.

For two years afterwards, Cassius governed the province of Syria as Proquaestor, defending the border against Parthian incursions until the new proconsul arrived. The last incursion resulted in the death of the Parthian commander Osaces, and split the Parthian troops. Cicero, then governor of Cilicia, sent Cassius a note of congratulations for the victory.

Cassius returned to Rome two years later. The outbreak of the civil war between Julius Caesar and Pompey the Great saved Cassius from being brought to trial by his enemies for extortion in Syria. Cassius was elected Tribune of the Plebs in 49 BC, and threw in his lot with Pompey, fleeing Italy as Caesar crossed the Rubicon. He met Pompey in Greece, and was made commander of his fleet.

In 48 BC, Cassius sailed his ships to Sicilia where he attacked and burned a large part of Caesar's navy. He then proceeded to harass ships off the Italian coast. News of Pompey's defeat at the Battle of Pharsalus caused Cassius to head for the Hellespont. Cassius was overtaken by Caesar en route, and was forced to surrender unconditionally.

Caesar made Cassius a legate, employing him in the North Africa, but Cassius refused to join in the fight against Cato and Scipio in Africa, choosing instead to retire to Rome.

Cassius spent the next two years without office, and apparently tightened his friendship with Cicero. In 44 BC he became "praetor peregrinus" with the promise of the Syrian province for the ensuing year. The appointment of his junior, Brutus, as "praetor urbanus" deeply offended him.

Although Cassius was "the moving spirit" in the plot against Caesar, winning over the chief assassins, Brutus became their leader. On the Ides of March, 44 BC, Cassius urged on his fellow liberators and struck Caesar in the face. He and his fellow conspirators referred to themselves as the "Liberators" "(Liberatores)".

Although they succeeded in assassinating Caesar, the celebration was short-lived. Mark Antony seized power and turned the public against them. In letters written during 44 BC, Cicero frequently complains that Rome was still subjected to tyranny, because the "Liberators" had failed to kill Antony. According to some accounts, Cassius had wanted to kill Antony at the same time as Caesar, but was dissuaded by Brutus.

Cassius's reputation in the East made it easy to amass an army from other governors in the area. By this point the Senate had split with Antony and cast its lot with Cassius, making him as governor of Syria. Cassius was now secure enough to march on Egypt, but on the formation of the triumvirate, Brutus requested his assistance. Cassius quickly joined Brutus in Smyrna with most of his army, leaving his nephew behind to govern Syria.

The conspirators decided to attack the triumviri’s allies in Asia. Cassius set upon and sacked Rhodes, while Brutus did the same to Lycia. They regrouped the following year in Sardis, where their armies proclaimed them 'emperor'. They crossed the Hellespont, marched through Thrace, and encamped near Philippi in Macedon. 

Octavian (later known as Augustus) and Mark Antony soon arrived. Cassius planned to starve them out, by using his superior position in the country. However, they were forced into a pair of battles by Antony, in the Battle of Philippi. Brutus was successful against Octavian, and took his camp. Cassius, however, was defeated and overrun by Antony. Cassius, unaware of Brutus' victory, committed suicide. He was mourned by Brutus as "the Last of the Romans". Brutus, like Octavian, was not an experienced military commander and, ten days later, Antony completed the victory. Brutus also committed suicide.

"Among that select band of philosophers who have managed to change the world," writes David Sedley, "it would be hard to find a pair with a higher public profile than Brutus and Cassius — brothers-in-law, fellow-assassins, and Shakespearian heroes," adding that "it may not even be widely known that they "were" philosophers".

Cassius converted to the school of thought founded by Epicurus. Arnaldo Momigliano called Cassius' conversion a "conspicuous date in the history of Roman Epicureanism," a choice made not to enjoy the pleasures of the Garden, but to provide a philosophical justification for assassinating a tyrant.

The inconsistencies between traditional Epicureanism and an active approach to securing freedom could not be resolved, and during the Empire, the philosophy of political opposition tended to be Stoic. This circumstance, Momigliano argues, helps explain why historians of the Imperial era found Cassius more difficult to understand than Brutus, and less admirable.

In Dante's "Inferno", Cassius is one of three people deemed sinful enough to be chewed in one of the three mouths of Satan, in the very center of Hell, for all eternity, as a punishment for killing Julius Caesar. The other two are Brutus, his fellow conspirator, and Judas Iscariot, the Biblical betrayer of Jesus Christ. (Canto XXXIV) In Shakespeare's play "Julius Caesar" he is depicted as a ruthless manipulator. Caesar says of him, "Yon Cassius has a lean and hungry look; He thinks too much: such men are dangerous". (I. ii. 190-195)


</doc>
<doc id="266576" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266576" title="Braided river">
Braided river

A braided river is a network of small channels separated by islands that are often not fixed. They can be found in places where the river carries a lot of sediment, or when it quickly slows down and spreads out, like in a river delta.

Large braided river systems are found in only a few places around the world:

All these regions contain young mountains that face quick erosion.

Europe contains two braided rivers: the Narew, in Poland and Belarus, and the Tagliamento in northeastern Italy.


</doc>
<doc id="266591" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266591" title="Marcus Junius Brutus">
Marcus Junius Brutus

Marcus Junius Brutus (early June 85 BC – late October 42 BC), usually referred to as Brutus, was a politician of the late Roman Republic. He is best known for his leading role in the assassination of Julius Caesar.

Brutus' father was killed by Pompey the Great after he had taken part in the rebellion of Lepidus. His mother was the half-sister of Cato the Younger, and later became Julius Caesar's mistress. Some sources refer to the possibility of Caesar being his real father. His uncle adopted him in about 59 BC. 

Brutus held his uncle in high regard and his political career started when he became an assistant to Cato, during his governorship of Cyprus. During this time, he enriched himself by lending money at high rates of interest. He returned to Rome a rich man, where he married Claudia Pulchra. From his first appearance in the Senate, Brutus aligned with the Optimates (the conservative faction) against the First Triumvirate of Marcus Licinius Crassus, Gnaeus Pompeius Magnus and Gaius Julius Caesar.

When civil war broke out in 49 BC between Pompey and Caesar, Brutus followed his old enemy and present leader of the Optimates, Pompey. When the Battle of Pharsalus began, Caesar ordered his officers to take him prisoner if he gave himself up voluntarily, and if he persisted in fighting against capture, to let him alone and do him no violence. 

After the disaster of the Battle of Pharsalus, Brutus wrote to Caesar with apologies and Caesar immediately forgave him. Caesar then accepted him into his inner circle and made him governor of Gaul when he left for Africa in pursuit of Cato and Scipio. In 45 BC, Caesar nominated Brutus to serve as urban praetor for the following year.

Also, in June 45 BC, Brutus divorced his wife and married his first cousin, Porcia Catonis, Cato's daughter. According to Cicero the marriage caused a semi-scandal as Brutus failed to state a valid reason for his divorce from Claudia other than he wished to marry Porcia. The marriage also caused a rift between Brutus and his mother, who resented the affection Brutus had for Porcia.

Around this time, many senators began to fear Caesar's growing power following his appointment as Dictator for life. Brutus was persuaded into joining the conspiracy against Caesar by the other senators. Eventually, Brutus decided to move against Caesar: his wife was the only woman who knew about the plot.

The conspirators planned to carry out their plot on the Ides of March (March 15) that same year. On that day, Caesar was delayed going to the Senate because his wife tried to convince him not to go. The conspirators feared the plot had been found out. Brutus persisted, however, waiting for Caesar at the Senate, and allegedly still chose to remain even when a messenger brought him news that would otherwise have caused him to leave. When Caesar finally did come to the Senate, they attacked him. The conspirators attacked in such numbers that they even wounded one another. Brutus is said to have been wounded in the hand.

After the assassination, the Senate passed an amnesty on the assassins. This amnesty was proposed by Caesar's friend and co-consul Mark Antony. Nonetheless, uproar among the people caused Brutus and the conspirators to leave Rome. Brutus settled in Crete from 44 to 42 BC.

In 43 BC, after Octavian received his consulship from the Senate, one of his first actions was to have the people that had assassinated Julius Caesar declared murderers and enemies of the state. Cicero, angry at Octavian, wrote a letter to Brutus explaining that the forces of Octavian and Mark Antony were divided. Antony had laid siege to the province of Gaul, where he wanted the governorship. In response to this siege, Octavian rallied his troops and fought a series of battles in which Antony was defeated. Upon hearing that neither Antonius nor Octavian had an army big enough to defend Rome, Brutus rallied his troops, which totaled about 17 legions. 

When Octavian heard that Brutus was on his way to Rome, he made peace with Antony. Their armies, which together totaled about 19 legions, marched to meet Brutus and Cassius. The two sides met in two engagements known as the Battle of Philippi. The first was fought on 3 October 42 BC, in which Brutus defeated Octavian's forces. Cassius was defeated by Antony, and committed suicide, because he thought Brutus had also failed. 

The second engagement was fought on 23 October 42 BC and ended in Brutus' defeat. After the defeat, he fled into the nearby hills with only about four legions. Knowing his army had been defeated and that he would be captured, Brutus committed suicide. 

Antony, as a show of respect, ordered Brutus' body to be wrapped in his most expensive purple mantle (this was later stolen and Antony had the thief executed). Brutus was cremated, and his ashes were sent to his mother.


The well-known phrase "Et tu, Brute?" ("And you, Brutus?") is famous as Caesar's last utterance in Shakespeare's play "Julius Caesar". 


</doc>
<doc id="266594" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266594" title="Khaled Hosseini">
Khaled Hosseini

Khaled Hosseini is an writer who was born in Afghanistan but came to the US when he was fifteen years old. He is best known for his novel "The Kite Runner" which was first published in 2003.


</doc>
<doc id="266595" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266595" title="Mohsin Hamid">
Mohsin Hamid

Mohsin Hamid is a writer from Pakistan who is known for his novels "The Reluctant Fundamentalist" and "Moth Smoke".


</doc>
<doc id="266596" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266596" title="Police Camera Action!">
Police Camera Action!

Police Camera Action! is a reality TV show presented currently by Gethin Jones snd previously presented by Adrian Simpson and Alastair Stewart it's format is imposing sanctions on criminals who commit offences while filming them on camera in a documenty/reality TV fasion. It has been aired since 1994 based and mainly aire in the uk but also in Los Angeles?, it airs on ITV 1 however repeats can be seen on ITV 4 and Men & Motors.


</doc>
<doc id="266598" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266598" title="Panchayati raj">
Panchayati raj

The pachayati raj is a political system of decentralisation. It is mostly used in South Asia, in the countries India, Pakistan and Nepal. The idea behind it is to give power to local people.


</doc>
<doc id="266602" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266602" title="Template:Infobox currency">
Template:Infobox currency


</doc>
<doc id="266604" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266604" title="Category:Economy of India">
Category:Economy of India

The Category:Economy of India has pages about the economy of the nation of India.


</doc>
<doc id="266605" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266605" title="Indian rupee">
Indian rupee

The Indian rupee () (sign: ; code: INR) is the official currency of the Republic of India. The issuance of the currency is controlled by the Reserve Bank of India. Before July 2010, the rupee was abbreviated as "Rs". During the past 15 years, the value has ranged from $1 USD = 35–49 INR or 1 euro = 44–68 INR (see below: "Exchange rates").

The modern rupee is sub-divided into 100 "paise" (singular "paisa"). The coins have common values of 5, 10, 20, 25 and 50 paise, as well as 1, 2, 5 and 10 rupees. The bank notes are available in values of 1, 2, 5, 10, 20, 50, 100, 500 and 1000 rupees. The Indian rupee symbol () is an amalgam of both the Devanagari consonant "र" (Ra) and the Latin letter "R" without the vertical bar. The design was presented to the public by the government of India on 15 July 2010. Previously, the abbreviation "Rs" (or "Re") was used.

The word "rupee" is derived from the Sanskrit word रौप्य(raupya) meaning "silver" or "made of silver". Many Indian languages use this root word, for example, రూపాయి (rūpāyi) in Telugu, ரூபாய் (rūbāi) in Tamil, रुपया (rupayā) in Hindi, રૂપિયો (rupiyo) in Gujarati, ರೂಪಾಯಿ (rūpāyi) in Kannada and Tulu, രൂപ (rūpā) in Malayalam and रुपये (rupaye) in Marathi. However, in West Bengal, Tripura, Mizoram, Orissa, and Assam, the Indian rupee is officially known by names derived from the Sanskrit word टङ्क (Tanka) which means money. Thus, the rupee is called টাকা (Taka) in Bengali, টকা (tôka) in Assamese, and ଟଙ୍କା (Tanka) in Oriya and is written as such on Indian banknotes.

On March 5, 2009, the Government of India announced a contest to create a symbol for the rupee. During the 2010 Union budget of India, Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee mentioned that the proposed symbol would reflect and capture the Indian ethos and culture. Five symbols were shortlisted, and the Cabinet selected the definitive symbol created by D. Udaya Kumar on July 15, 2010. The symbol is derived from a combination of the Devanagari letter ‘र’ and English letter ‘R’. The parallel lines at the top (with white space between them) make an allusion to the tricolor and also depict an equality sign which symbolizes the nation's desire to reduce economic disparity. The Indian government has plans to adopt the symbol within six months in the country and globally within 18 to 24 months. Before the adoption of the symbol, the most commonly used symbols for the rupee were Rs, Re or if the text was in an Indian language, then an appropriate abbreviation in that language.

In Indian English, values at or above a hundred thousand Indian rupees are counted in terms of lakhs (one lakh = hundred thousand) and crores (one crore = ten million). For example, the amount 3,25,84,729.25 is read as three crores, twenty-five lakhs, eighty-four thousand, seven hundred and twenty-nine rupees and twenty-five paise. The use of million or billion, as is standard in American or British English, is not very common.

India was one of the earliest issuers of coins (circa 6th century BC). The first "rupee" is believed to have been introduced by Sher Shah Suri (1486–1545), based on a ratio of 40 copper pieces (paisa) per rupee. Among the earliest issues of paper rupees were those by the "Bank of Hindustan" (1770–1832), the "General Bank of Bengal and Bihar" (1773–75, established by Warren Hastings) and the "Bengal Bank" (1784–91), amongst others. Until 1815, the Madras Presidency also issued a currency based on the fanam, with 12 fanams equal to the rupee.

Historically, the rupee, derived from the Sanskrit word raupya, which means "silver", was a silver coin. This had severe consequences in the nineteenth century, when the strongest economies in the world were on the gold standard. The discovery of vast quantities of silver in the U.S. and various European colonies resulted in a decline in the relative value of silver to gold. Suddenly the standard currency of India could not buy as much from the outside world. This event was known as "the fall of the rupee".

India was not affected by the imperial order-in-council of 1825 that attempted to introduce the British sterling coinage to the British colonies. British India at that time was controlled by the British East India Company. The silver rupee continued as the currency of India throughout the entire period of the British Raj and beyond. In 1835, British India set itself firmly upon a mono-metallic silver standard based on the rupee. His decision was influenced by a letter, written in the year 1805, by Lord Liverpool that extolled the virtues of mono-metallism.

Following the Indian Mutiny in 1857, the British government took direct control of British India. Since 1851, gold sovereigns were being produced in large numbers at the Royal Mint branch in Sydney, New South Wales. In the year 1864 in an attempt to make the British gold sovereign become the 'imperial coin', the treasuries in Bombay and Calcutta were instructed to receive gold sovereigns. These gold sovereigns however never left the vaults. As was realized in the previous decade in Canada and the next year in Hong Kong, existing habits are not easy to replace. And just as the British government had finally given up any hopes of replacing the rupee in India with the pound sterling, they simultaneously realized, and for the same reasons, that they couldn't easily replace the silver dollar in the Straits Settlements with the Indian rupee, as had been the desire of the British East India Company.

Since the great silver crisis of 1873, a growing number of nations had been adopting the gold standard. In 1898, following the recommendations of the Indian Currency Committee, British India officially adopted the gold exchange standard by pegging the rupee to the British pound sterling at a fixed value of 1 shilling 4 pence (i.e., 15 rupees = 1 pound). In 1920, the actual silver value of the rupee was increased in value to 2 shillings (10 rupees = 1 pound). In British East Africa at this time, the decision was made to replace the rupee with a florin. No such opportunity was, however, taken in British India.

In 1927, the peg was once more reduced, this time to 18 pence (13⅓ rupees = 1 pound). This peg was maintained until 1966, when the rupee was devalued and pegged to the U.S. dollar at a rate of 7.5 rupees = 1 dollar (at the time, the rupee became equal to 11.4 British pence). This peg lasted until the U.S. dollar devalued in 1971.

The Indian rupee replaced the Danish Indian rupee in 1845, the French Indian rupee in 1954 and the Portuguese Indian escudo in 1961. Following independence in 1947, the Indian rupee replaced all the currencies of the previously autonomous states. Some of these states had issued rupees equal to those issued by the British (such as the Travancore rupee). Other currencies included the Hyderabad rupee and the Kutch kori. The nominal values during British rule (and the first decade of independence) were:


In 1957, decimalisation occurred, and the rupee was divided into 100 "naye paise" (Hindi for "new paise"). In 1964, the initial "naye" was dropped. Many still refer to 25, 50 and 75 paise as 4, 8 and 12 annas, respectively, not unlike the usage of "bit" in American English for ⅛ dollar.
In East Africa, Arabia, and Mesopotamia, the Rupee and its related coins were current at various times. The usage of the Rupee in East Africa extended from Somalia in the north, to as far south as Natal. In Mozambique, the British India rupees were overstamped. In Kenya, the British East Africa Company minted the rupee and its fractions as well as pice. The rise in the price of silver, immediately after the First World War, caused the rupee to rise in value to two shillings sterling. In 1920 in British East Africa, the opportunity was then taken to introduce a new florin coin, hence bringing the currency into line with sterling. Shortly after that, the Florin was split into two East African shillings. This assimilation to sterling did not however happen in British India itself. In Somalia the Italian colonial authority minted 'rupia' to the exact same standard, and called the pice 'besa'.

The Straits Settlements were originally an outlier of the British East India Company. The Spanish dollar had already taken hold in the Straits Settlements by the time the British arrived in the nineteenth century, however, the East India Company tried to introduce the rupee in its place. These attempts were resisted by the locals, and by 1867 when the British government took over direct control of the Straits Settlements from the East India Company, attempts to introduce the rupee were finally abandoned.

With Partition, the Pakistani rupee came into existence, initially using Indian coins and Indian currency notes simply overstamped with "Pakistan". In previous times, the Indian rupee was an official currency of other countries, including Aden, Oman, Kuwait, Bahrain, Qatar, the Trucial States, Kenya, Tanganyika, Uganda, the Seychelles, and Mauritius.

The Indian government introduced the Gulf rupee, also known as the Persian Gulf rupee (XPGR), as a replacement for the Indian rupee for circulation exclusively outside the country with the Reserve Bank of India [Amendment] Act, 1 May 1959. This creation of a separate currency was an attempt to reduce the strain put on India's foreign reserves by gold smuggling. After India devalued the rupee on 6 June 1966, those countries still using it – Oman, Qatar, and the Trucial States (which became the United Arab Emirates in 1971) – replaced the Gulf rupee with their own currencies. Kuwait and Bahrain had already done so in 1961 and 1965 respectively.

The Bhutanese ngultrum is pegged at par with the Indian rupee, and both currencies are accepted in Bhutan. The Indian rupee is also accepted in towns in Nepal which lie near the border with India. However, the Indian Rupee denominations of 500 and 1000 are banned in Nepal.

Officially, the Indian rupee has a market-set exchange rate. However, the RBI trades actively in the USD/INR currency market to impact effective exchange rates. Thus, the currency regime in place for the Indian rupee with respect to the US dollar is a "de facto" controlled exchange rate. This is sometimes called a "managed" float. Other rates such as the EUR/INR and INR/JPY have volatilities that are typical of floating exchange rates. It should be noted, however, that unlike China, successive administrations (through RBI, the central bank) have not followed a policy of "pegging" the INR to a specific foreign currency at a particular exchange rate. RBI intervention in currency markets is solely to deliver low "volatility" in the exchange rates, and not to take a "view" on the rate or direction of the Indian rupee in relation to other currencies.

Also affecting convertibility is a series of customs regulations restricting the import and export of rupees. Legally, foreign nationals are forbidden from importing or exporting rupees, while Indian nationals can import and export only up to 5000 rupees at a time, and the possession of 500 and 1000 rupee notes in Nepal is prohibited.

RBI also exercises a system of capital controls in addition to the intervention (through active trading) in the currency markets. On the current account, there are no currency conversion restrictions hindering buying or selling foreign exchange (though trade barriers do exist). On the capital account, foreign institutional investors have convertibility to bring money in and out of the country and buy securities (subject to certain quantitative restrictions). Local firms are able to take capital out of the country in order to expand globally. But local households are restricted in their ability to do global diversification. However, owing to an enormous expansion of the current account and the capital account, India is increasingly moving towards "de facto" full convertibility.

There is some confusion regarding the interchange of the currency with gold, but the system that India follows is that money cannot be exchanged for gold, in any circumstances or any situation. Money cannot be changed into gold by the RBI. This is because it will become difficult to handle it. India follows the same gold-interchange principle as Great Britain and America.




</doc>
<doc id="266606" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266606" title="Calcium compounds">
Calcium compounds

Calcium compounds are chemical compounds that have calcium ions in them. Calcium only is in one oxidation state, +2.



</doc>
<doc id="266610" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266610" title="Category:ISO standards">
Category:ISO standards

The Category:ISO standards has pages about standards set by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO).


</doc>
<doc id="266611" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266611" title="ISO 4217">
ISO 4217

ISO 4217 is the international standard describing three-letter codes (also known as the currency code) to define the names of currencies, as established by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO). The ISO 4217 code list is the common way in banking and business, all over the world, for defining different currencies. In many countries, the codes for the more common currencies are so well-known, by the general public, that exchange rates written in newspapers or posted in banks use only those codes to define the different currencies, instead of translated currency names or currency symbols. ISO 4217 codes are used on airline tickets and international train tickets to remove any uncertainty about the price.

The first two letters of the code are the two letters of ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 country codes (which are also used as the basis for national top-level domains on the Internet). The third letter is usually the initial of the currency itself. So Japan's currency code is JPY, "JP" for Japan and "Y" for yen. This eliminates the problem caused by the names "dollar, franc" and "pound" being used in dozens of different countries, each having significantly differing values. Also, if a currency is revalued, the currency code's last letter is changed to distinguish it from the old currency. In some cases, the third letter is the initial for "new" in that country's language, to distinguish it from an older currency that was revalued; the code sometimes outlasts the usage of the term "new" itself (for example, the code for the Mexican peso is MXN). Other changes can be seen, however; the Russian ruble, for example, changed from RUR to RUB, where the B comes from the third letter in the word "ruble".

There is also a three-digit code number assigned to each currency, in the same manner as there is also a three-digit code number assigned to each country as part of ISO 3166. This numeric code is usually the same as the ISO 3166-1 numeric code. For example, USD (United States dollar) has code 840 which is also the numeric code for the US (United States).

The standard also defines the relationship between the major currency unit and any minor currency unit. Often, the minor currency unit has a value that is 1/100 of the major unit, but 1/1000 is also common. Some currencies do not have any minor currency unit at all. In others, the major currency unit has so little value that the minor unit is no longer generally used (e.g. the Japanese "sen", 1/100th of a yen). This is indicated in the standard by the currency exponent. For example, USD has exponent 2, while JPY has exponent 0. Mauritania does not use a decimal division of units, setting 1 ouguiya (UM) = 5 khoums, and Madagascar has 1 ariary = 5 iraimbilanja.

ISO 4217 includes codes not only for currencies, but also for precious metals (gold, silver, palladium and platinum; by definition expressed per one troy ounce, as compared to "1 USD") and certain other entities used in international finance, e.g. Special Drawing Rights. There are also special codes allocated for testing purposes (XTS), and to indicate no currency transactions (XXX). These codes all begin with the letter "X". The precious metals use "X" plus the metal's chemical symbol; silver, for example, is XAG. ISO 3166 never assigns country codes beginning with "X", these codes being assigned for privately customized use only (reserved, never for official codes)—for instance, the ISO 3166-based NATO country codes (STANAG 1059, 9 edition) use "X" codes for imaginary exercise countries ranging from XXB for "Brownland" to XXR for "Redland", as well as for major commands such as XXE for SHAPE or XXS for SACLANT. Consequently, ISO 4217 can use "X" codes for non-country-specific currencies without risk of clashing with future country codes.

Supranational currencies, such as the East Caribbean dollar, the CFP franc, the CFA franc BEAC and the CFA franc BCEAO are normally also represented by codes beginning with an "X". The euro is represented by the code EUR (EU is included in the ISO 3166-1 reserved codes list to represent the European Union). The predecessor to the euro, the European Currency Unit (ECU), had the code XEU.

In 1973, the ISO Technical Committee 68 decided to develop codes for the representation of currencies and funds for use in any application of trade, commerce or banking. At the 17th session (February 1978) of the related UN/ECE Group of Experts agreed that the three-letter alphabetic codes for International Standard ISO 4217, "Codes for the representation of currencies and funds", would be suitable for use in international trade.

Over time, new currencies are created and old currencies are discontinued. Frequently, these changes are due to new governments (through war or a new constitution), treaties between countries standardizing on a currency, or revaluation of the currency due to excessive inflation. As a result, the list of codes must be updated from time to time. The ISO 4217 maintenance agency (MA), SIX Interbank Clearing, is responsible for maintaining the list of codes.

The following is a list of active codes of official ISO 4217 currency names.

The following is a list of active, unofficial codes that emulate the ISO 4217 format.

The US dollar actually has three codes assigned: USD, USS (same day) and USN (next day). According to UN/CEFACT recommendation 9, paragraphs 8-9 ECE/TRADE/203, 1996, available online:

A number of territories are not included in ISO 4217, because their currencies are: (a) not "per se" an independent currency but a variant of another currency, (b) a legal tender only issued as commemorative banknotes and/or coinage, or (c) a currency of an unrecognized or partially recognized state. These currencies are:

The following non-ISO codes are, however, sometimes used commercially:

A number of currencies were official ISO 4217 currency codes and currency names until their replacement by the euro or other currencies.

Note that the currency names used below may not match the currency names used in the ISO standard itself, but the codes do match.




</doc>
<doc id="266635" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266635" title="Calcium nitride">
Calcium nitride

Calcium nitride is a chemical compound. Its chemical formula is CaN. It contains calcium and nitride ions.

It is a red-brown solid. It reacts with water to make calcium hydroxide and ammonia. It reacts with hydrogen to make calcium hydroxide and calcium amide. 

It is made by burning calcium in nitrogen. It is also made when calcium burns in air.

It can be used as a source of the reactive nitride ion.



</doc>
<doc id="266636" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266636" title="Uthman ibn Affan">
Uthman ibn Affan

Uthman ibn Affan () was the fourth ruler of the Muslim Empire and one of the four righteous caliphs of Sunni Islam.

He was born in about the year 576 and was ruler for 12 years. During his time as ruler he conquered Khurasan and the regions of the west of the Arabian Peninsula. He also united the Muslim upon one uniform version of the Quran. He was well-known for marrying two of Muhammad's daughters, Ruqayyah and Umm Kulthum, both at different times. For this, he became known as "Dhu al-Nurayn", the "Possessor of Two Lights". He participated in both immigrations, first to Ethiopia and then to Medina.

He was attacked while in his house, although he did not defend himself out of fear of further trouble. He was killed while reading the Qur'an by Sudaan ibn Hamran on Friday, June 17, 656. He was more than 80 years old. 


</doc>
<doc id="266637" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266637" title="Calcium permanganate">
Calcium permanganate

Calcium permanganate is a chemical compound. Its chemical formula is Ca(MnO). It contains calcium and permanganate ions.

Calcium permanganate is a dark purple solid. It is a powerful oxidizing agent. It is similar to potassium permanganate. It can catch some organic chemicals like alcohol on fire. It can cause an explosion when mixed with sulfuric acid. This is because manganese(VII) oxide. 

It can be made by calcium oxide with manganese(IV) oxide and calcium nitrate. 

It might whiten teeth. It can be used as an oxidizing agent, although potassium permanganate is more common.



</doc>
<doc id="266638" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266638" title="Calcium nitrate">
Calcium nitrate

Calcium nitrate, also known as Norwegian saltpeter, is a chemical compound. Its chemical formula is Ca(NO). It contains calcium and nitrate ions.

Calcium nitrate is a colorless solid. It is an oxidizing agent. It absorbs water from the air. It decomposes to make nitrogen dioxide and calcium oxide when heated. 

Calcium nitrate is made by reacting calcium hydroxide or calcium carbonate with nitric acid. It is made when nitric acid reacts with calcium phosphate. It can be made by reacting ammonium nitrate and calcium hydroxide.

Calcium nitrate is used in fertilizers to add nitrogen to the soil. It can be complexed with urea to make a different nitrogen fertilizer. 



</doc>
<doc id="266641" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266641" title="Barbican station">
Barbican station

Barbican is a London Underground station serving the Barbican Centre in the City of London. It is on the Circle, Hammersmith & City and Metropolitan lines between Farringdon and Moorgate, in Travelcard Zone 1. The station was once called "Aldersgate Street". 

The station lies in an east-west aligned trench with cut-and-cover tunnels at either end. 


</doc>
<doc id="266643" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266643" title="Husky Harris">
Husky Harris

Windham Lawrence Rotunda (born May 23, 1987 in Brooksville, Florida) better known by his ring name Husky Harris, is a American professional wrestler currently signed to World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) and to the Raw brand where he is part of the stable, The Nexus. He was part of WWE NXT season 2 but was eliminated 5th.


</doc>
<doc id="266652" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266652" title="Terrestrial locomotion">
Terrestrial locomotion

Terrestrial locomotion has evolved as animals adapted from aquatic to terrestrial places. Movement on land makes different problems than that on water, with less friction instead being the effects of gravity.

There are three basic forms of movement found among land animals:

Movement on legs is the most common form of land movement. It is the simple form of movement of two big groups with many members, the vertebrates and the arthropods.

There are a number of land and amphibious limbless vertebrates and invertebrates. These animals, due to lack of legs, use their bodies to move. These movements are sometimes called to as "slithering" or "crawling".

Although animals have never have wheels for locomotion
, some animals will move by rolling their whole body.

The fastest terrestrial animal is the cheetah, which can get speeds of about 104 km/h (64 mph)..




</doc>
<doc id="266669" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266669" title="Category:Caliphs">
Category:Caliphs

This category contains the names of the caliphs of the Muslim Empire.


</doc>
<doc id="266670" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266670" title="Template:Userbox/doc">
Template:Userbox/doc

Use this template to create a userbox for display on a .

<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="266674" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266674" title="Strong acid">
Strong acid

In chemistry, a strong acid is an acid which ionises (splits) completely in a solution of water. It always loses a proton (A H when put in water. A weak acid does not always lose a proton, though; It can lose its proton, but not all the time They also have a very low pH, less than 7 (neutral). 

The six common strong acids are:

Almost strong acids include:


</doc>
<doc id="266675" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266675" title="Template:Nonfree">
Template:Nonfree


</doc>
<doc id="266683" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266683" title="MediaWiki:Blocklog-showlog">
MediaWiki:Blocklog-showlog

This user has been blocked before. 
The block log is shown below for reference:

</doc>
<doc id="266696" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266696" title="Kenyan olympic medalist">
Kenyan olympic medalist

The best of Kenya athletic power house they have proved to have a contingent that has dominated track by scooping gold medal in each and every race starting from 800m with both world and Olympic record holders. there is no question they have both quantity and quality for example they are on record for having won and set world record in all commonwealth games in 3000m triple chase since 1990 to date 
I do strongly stand behind that determination, destruction and domination that this elegant men and women have put forth 

Josh Riaga

The best of the best line up:












</doc>
<doc id="266697" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266697" title="Hamilton, New Zealand">
Hamilton, New Zealand

Hamilton is New Zealand's fourth largest city with a population of 140,700 people. It is the largest inland city in New Zealand and has an area of 98.6 square kilometres.


</doc>
<doc id="266699" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266699" title="Incubator (disambiguation)">
Incubator (disambiguation)

Incubator may refer to:



</doc>
<doc id="266704" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266704" title="Liu Xiaobo">
Liu Xiaobo

Liu Xiaobo is a Chinese intellectual, writer, and human rights activist and a political prisoner in the China.

He has been President of the Independent Chinese PEN Center since 2003. On 8 December 2008, police stopped Liu and held him because of his work with Charter 08. He was not actually arrested until 23 June 2009. The government accused him of encouraging people to turn against the state. He had a trial on 23 December 2009. On 25 December 2009, the court decided he must go to prison for eleven years. The court also took away his political rights for two years.

He won the Nobel Peace Prize on 8 October 2010, for "his long and non-violent struggle for fundamental human rights in China."This was during the fourth time Liu was in prison.

He is the first Chinese person to win a Nobel Prize while living in China. He is also the third person to win the Nobel Peace Prize while in prison or detention. The others were Germany's Carl von Ossietzky in 1935 and Myanmar's Aung San Suu Kyi in 1991. 

Liu was born in 1955 in Changchun, Jilin to an intellectual family. His father took him to the Inner Mongolia from 1969 to 1973 during the Down to the Countryside Movement. He worked in a village in Jilin province when he was 19 years old. He worked at a construction company after that.

In 1976, he studied at Jilin University and got a B.A. degree in literature in 1982. He earned an M.A. degree in 1984 from Beijing Normal University. Liu joined the faculty at Beijing Normal University after he graduated. He also received a Ph.D. degree there in 1988.

In the 1980s, his most important essays, "Critique on Choices - Dialogue with Le Zehou" and "Aesthetics and Human Freedom"' earned him fame in the academic field. The essay criticised a prominent Chinese thinker Li Zehou's philosophy.

Between 1988 and 1989, he was a visiting scholar at several universities outside of China, including Columbia University, the University of Oslo and the University of Hawaii.

During the 1989 Tiananmen Square protests he was in the United States but decided to go back to China to join the movement. He was later named as one of the "Four Junzis of Tiananman Square" by many Hong Kong- and Taiwan-based Chinese media.

Liu Xiaobo works to increase human rights. He has asked the Chinese government to be more open and honest about its actions. The Chinese government has brought him to police stations, arrested him, and sent him to prison many times for his peaceful political activities. The first time was for his actions in the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989. Organizations outside China have noticed Liu's human rights work and given him awards. In 2004, Reporters Without Borders honored Liu's human rights work, awarding him the Fondation de France Prize as a defender of press freedom.

In January 1991, Liu Xiaobo was convicted of "counter-revolutionary propaganda and incitement." However, the government did not give him any punishment as a criminal. In October 1996, he was ordered to serve three years of labour for "disturbing public order" by criticizing the Communist Party of China. In 2007, police took Liu for a short time and asked him about articles he had written. The articles were posted on websites hosted outside China.

Liu Xiaobo actively participated in the writing of Charter 08. Then, along with more than three hundred Chinese citizens, he signed "Charter 08". This was a manifesto, or statement of beliefs and principles. It was released on the 60th anniversary of the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (10 December 2008). They wrote it in the style of the Czechoslovak Charter 77 calling for greater freedom of expression, human rights, and free elections. As of May 2009, the Charter has collected over 8,600 signatures from Chinese of various walks of life.

Police took Liu Xiaobo away from his home late in the evening of 8 December 2008. This was two days before the official release of the Charter. Police also took away Zhang Zuhua at that time. He is another scholar who signed Charter 08. According to Zhang, the two men were taken by police because they thought Liu and Zhang were trying to get more people to sign the Charter. While Liu was kept alone in solitary confinement, he was not allowed to meet with his lawyer or family. He was allowed to eat lunch with his wife, Liu Xia, and two policemen on New Year's Day 2009. On 23 June 2009, an officer of the government in Beijing (the procuratorate) approved Liu Xiaobo's arrest on charges of "suspicion of inciting subversion of state power." This is a crime under Article 105 of the Law of the People's Republic of China. The Beijing Public Security Bureau (PSB) said in a press release that Liu had incited the subversion of state power and the overturn of the socialist system through methods such as spreading rumors and slander, using almost the exact words of Article 105. The Beijing PSB also said that Liu had "fully confessed."

On 1 December 2009, Beijing police transferred Liu's case to the procuratorate for investigation and processing; on 10 December, the procuratorate formally indicted Liu on charges of "inciting subversion of state power" and sent his lawyers, Shang Baojun and Ding Xikui, the indictment document. He was tried at Beijing No. 1 Intermediate Court on 23 December 2009. His wife was not permitted to watch the trial, but his brother-in-law was there. Diplomats from more than 12 countries – including the U.S., Britain, Canada, Sweden, Australia and New Zealand – were not allowed in the court. They could not watch the trial. Some diplomats stood outside the court during the whole trial. Gregory May, political officer at the U.S. Embassy, and Nicholas Weeks, first secretary of the Swedish Embassy were among the diplomats who waited outside.

On 25 December, Liu Xiaobo was sentenced to eleven years' imprisonment and two years' deprivation of political rights by the Beijing No. 2 Intermediate Court on charges of "inciting subversion of state power." According to Liu's family and counsel, he plans to fight this and ask for a new trial. The court said that Charter 08 was part of the evidence supporting his conviction.

In an article published in the "South China Morning Post", Liu argued that the government had broken the rules of China's constitution and of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights by convicting him and sending him to prison. He said that he had not spread rumors or said very bad things about other people. The government had made up many things when accusing him of subversion. He had not lied, nor had he hurt the reputations of other people. He had only spoken his point of view and values.

Many individuals, states, and organizations around the world asked the Chinese government to release Liu. The Chinese government said no and told people outside China not to become involved. 

On 11 December 2008, the United States Department of State called for Liu's release.
On 22 December 2008, an organization of scholars, writers, lawyers, and human rights workers wrote an open letter to ask the government to let Liu out of prison. On 21 January 2009, 300 international writers, including Salman Rushdie, Margaret Atwood, Ha Jin and Jung Chang, called for Liu's release in a statement put out through PEN. In March 2009 Liu Xiaobo was awarded with the Homo Homini Award by the One World Film Festival, organized by the People in Need foundation, for promoting freedom of speech, democratic principles and human rights.

In December 2009, the European Union and United States both officially asked the Chinese government to release of Liu Xiaobo without any special rules or conditions.

Before the court decision, China said that other nations should "respect China's judicial sovereignty and to not do things that will interfere in China's internal affairs."

Responding to the result in court, United Nations Human Rights Commissioner Navanethem Pillay expressed concern political rights in China becoming worse. German Chancellor Angela Merkel strongly criticized the verdict, stating "despite the great progress in other areas in the expression of views, I regret that the Chinese government still massively restricts press freedom." Canada and Switzerland also condemned the verdict. Taiwan President Ma Ying-jeou called on Beijing to "tolerate dissent". On 6 January 2010, former Czech president Václav Havel joined with other communist-era dissidents at the Chinese embassy in Prague to present a petition calling for Liu's release. On 22 January 2010, European Association for Chinese Studies sent an open letter to Hu Jintao on behalf of over 800 scholars from 36 countries calling for Liu's release.

On 18 January 2010, Liu was named by many people as a nominee (possible winner) of the 2010 Nobel Peace Prize. These included Václav Havel, the 14th Dalai Lama, André Glucksmann, Vartan Gregorian, and Desmond Tutu. China's Foreign Ministry spokesperson Ma Zhaoxu said that awarding the Nobel Peace Prize to Liu would be "totally wrong". Geir Lundestad, a secretary of the Nobel Committee, stated the award would not be influenced by Beijing's opposition. On 25 September 2010, "The New York Times" reported that a petition in support of the Nobel nomination was being circulated in China.

In September 2010 Václav Havel, Dana Němcová, and Václav Malý published an open letter in "The International Herald Tribune" calling for the award to be given to Liu. All three had been leaders of Czechoslovakia's Velvet Revolution. Soon after, people began signing a petition.

Freedom Now is a non-governmental organization and works as a lawyer for Liu Xiaobo outside China. On 6 October 2010, they publicly released a letter from 30 U.S. Members of Congress to President Barack Obama (the 2009 Nobel Peace Prize winner). This letter strongly asked President Obama to talk directly to Chinese President Hu Jintao at the G-20 Summit in November 2010. They wanted Obama to talk about Liu Xiaobo and another political prisoner named Gao Zhisheng .

On 8 October 2010 the Nobel Committee awarded Liu the Prize "for his long and non-violent struggle for fundamental human rights in China". The Norwegian Nobel Committee president Thorbjørn Jagland said the choice of Liu as the recipient of the prize had become clear early on in the process. The Chinese foreign ministry had already warned the Nobel committee not to give Liu the prize. They said that it would be against Nobel principles.

All news about the announcement of the award was immediately censored in China. Foreign news broadcasters including CNN and the BBC were immediately blocked after mentioning the award in China. Web searches for Liu Xiabo were immediately deleted and no information can be searched about him in China. The Chinese Foreign Ministry issued a statement that said, "The Nobel Peace Prize is meant to award individuals who promote international harmony and friendship, peace and disarmament. Liu Xiaobo is a criminal who has been sentenced by Chinese judicial departments for violating Chinese law. Awarding the peace to Liu runs completely counter to the principle of the award and is also a desecration of the Peace Prize." The state-run Xinhua News Agency later carried a report saying that awarding Liu Xiaobo the prize “defiles” (亵渎) Alfred Nobel's purpose of creating this prize and "may harm China-Norway relations". The spokeperson added that Liu had broken Chinese law and his "actions run contrary to the purpose of the Nobel Peace Prize."

Many world leaders congratulated Liu for the award. These included Jose Manuel Barroso, President of the European Commission, The British Foreign Secretary William Hague, US President Barack Obama, and The Dalai Lama.

The Chinese Foreign Ministry called the Norwegian ambassador to the People's Republic of China to the ministry on 8 October 2010. The Chinese gave the ambassador an official complaint against awarding the Nobel Peace Prize to Liu Xiaobo. The Norwegian foreign minister replied that the Chinese government complaint was not needed because the group of people who decide the Nobel Prize is independent from the Norwegian government. However, the Norwegian Nobel Committee that gives the peace prize is appointed by the Norwegian parliament.



He is married to Liu Xia, who lives in the couple's apartment in Beijing.



</doc>
<doc id="266707" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266707" title="Beijing Normal University">
Beijing Normal University

Beijing Normal University is the first normal university in China. It is in Beijing.


</doc>
<doc id="266709" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266709" title="Template:List collapsed">
Template:List collapsed


</doc>
<doc id="266710" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266710" title="University of Oslo">
University of Oslo

The University of Oslo (, ) is the oldest and largest university in Norway. It is in the Norwegian capital, Oslo.

The university began in 1811 as The Royal Frederick University (in Norwegian "Det Kongelige Frederiks Universitet" and in Latin "Universitas Regia Fredericiana"). The university was modelled after the recently established University of Berlin, and originally named after King Frederick of Denmark and Norway. In 1939 it changed to the name it has now.

The university has faculties of (Lutheran) Theology, Law, Medicine, Humanities, Mathematics and Natural Sciences, Dentistry, Social Sciences, and Education. The Faculty of Law is still located at the old campus on Karl Johans gate, near the National Theatre, the Royal Palace, and the Parliament. Most of the other faculties are at a modern campus area called Blindern. The Faculty of Medicine is split between several university hospitals in the Oslo area.

Currently the university has about 27,000 students and employs about 4,600 people.


</doc>
<doc id="266717" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266717" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Incubator (Wikimedia)">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Incubator (Wikimedia)

 "has nominated this page for deletion for the reason:"


"Please discuss this deletion below, but keep in mind that and that there may be options that are not just "keep" or "delete", such as merging."

This request is due to close seven days after it was filed; that is on approx. Saturday, 16 October 2010 at 9:54 am, although it may be closed more quickly due to .<br><br>



</doc>
<doc id="266718" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266718" title="Category:Places in Singapore">
Category:Places in Singapore

This category contains the different places(or regions) of Singapore.


</doc>
<doc id="266719" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266719" title="Central Region, Singapore">
Central Region, Singapore

The Central Region of Singapore is also known as the south of Singapore. It is a place where most commercial buildings are in. The Istana is also found in this area.

When Sir Stamford Raffles first arrived in Singapore in 1819, he signed a treaty with Tengku Abdul Rahman (the local Sultan) and Tengku Hussein (the Temmengong which became Sultan since he was the elder brother). The Sultan and Temmengong were paid money for allowing the British to set up a port in Singapore.

The British were given the southern part of Singapore to develop. Therefore, it was also recognised as the Central Region of Singapore, or also called Central Business District.

The Central Region of Singapore starts from the harbour all the way to Bishan as the north, Queenstown as the west and Marine Parade as the east. In total, it takes up 13,150 hectares of land area.

The Southern Islands are also part of the Central Region of Singapore.





</doc>
<doc id="266724" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266724" title="Tuas">
Tuas

Tuas is a region in the far west of the island of Singapore. It is not reachable by the Mass rapid transit (MRT) of Singapore. The nearest MRT station is Joo Koon.

Tuas is mainly an industrial estate like Jurong and the Tuas checkpoint (called the Tuas Second Link) is found there.


</doc>
<doc id="266743" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266743" title="Orchard Road">
Orchard Road

Orchard Road is a place in Singapore that is well known for having many shopping centres. It is in the middle of Singapore.

Orchard Road got its name from the nutmeg, pepper and fruit orchards that used to grow on both sides of the street. It only started to develop in the twentieth century.

Flash floods occurred at the road junction with Scotts Road on 16 June 2010 after 100mm of rain fell from 8 am to 11 am that morning, it is the worst flood at the junction since 1984. Shopping malls along Orchard Road like Lucky Plaza and Liat Towers were affected by the flood. The flood had caused some shopping mall and underground car parks to be under the water. Rescuers had to pull out about 70 passengers from cars and buses, as flooding closed down Orchard Road, which is lined with high-end shopping malls and tourist attractions. No one was hurt.

Orchard Road has the Istana at the southern end of the road, which is the official house for the President of Singapore.

The first shop was Tangs which was founded in 1934 and got its shop at Orchard Road in the 1950s. Orchard Road also has many well-known restaurants, coffee chains, cafés, nightclubs and hotels.




There are three major MRT stations around Orchard Road. They are Orchard, Somerset and Dhoby Ghaut stations. These three stations are important placces for commuters, locals, students and tourists who travel to the Orchard Road shopping and business district. However, due to the construction of ION Orchard, the entrance of the Orchard entrance has been moved underground below the upcoming mall. 

There are many bus services provided by SBS Transit and SMRT that go to Orchard Road. The major bus stops along Orchard Road are situated at:

Visitors can also travel to Orchard Road via taxi. There are taxi stands at Forum The Shopping Mall, all hotels, Lucky Plaza, Wisma Atria, Ngee Ann City, The Paragon, The Heeren Shops, Centrepoint Shopping Centre, next to Specialists' Shopping Centre and Plaza Singapura.

Visitors accessing Orchard Road by road usually enter from the west via Napier Road, before exiting Orchard Road at Bras Basah Road. Coming from the north, vehicles can enter via Bukit Timah Road and Scotts Road which leads into Orchard Road. From the south, vehicles can enter through Orchard Boulevard and Paterson Road.



</doc>
<doc id="266746" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266746" title="Template:Islands of Singapore">
Template:Islands of Singapore


</doc>
<doc id="266748" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266748" title="NewsBank">
NewsBank

NewsBank, Inc. is a worldwide information provider worldwide. It is a database of published documents. These documents include such items as newspapers, magazines, business journals, obituaries, and government documents. The documents are available online by the Internet. The service is available through many public libraries, colleges and universities, and government and military libraries.

NewsBank has content from more than 2,000 newspaper titles. NewsBank's Readex division offers digital editions of American historical collections to colleges and universities. Collections of historical and modern documents, publications and records to are available to Genealogists to research family histories.


</doc>
<doc id="266761" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266761" title="Bonnie Wright">
Bonnie Wright

Bonnie Francesca Wright (born 17 February 1991) is an English actress who is most known for playing "Ginny Weasley" in Harry Potter films.


</doc>
<doc id="266775" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266775" title="William Calley">
William Calley

William Calley was held responsible and found guilty for the killings of the My Lai massacre during the Vietnam War. He was also sentenced to a life term, but was put on house arrest instead. William Calley only spent three years on house arrest then was released.


</doc>
<doc id="266815" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266815" title="Weak acid">
Weak acid

A weak acid is an acid chemical which does not dissociate (split into ions) completely when in a water solution. This means it does not give all its hydrogen ions into the water.

Acetic acid (CHCOOH) and oxalic acid (HCO) are examples of weak acids. If an acid is represented by HA, then there is a balance between molecules which are split (ionised), and molecules which are not:


</doc>
<doc id="266820" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266820" title="Strong base">
Strong base

In chemistry, a strong base is a base that gives off a hydroxide ion, OH–, when put in water. There are eight of them.

List of strong bases


</doc>
<doc id="266822" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266822" title="Second Amendment to the United States Constitution">
Second Amendment to the United States Constitution

Created on December 15, 1791, the Second Amendment in the United States Constitution is the part of the United States Bill of Rights that protects the right of citizens to have firearms.


</doc>
<doc id="266860" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266860" title="Category:Healthy lifestyle">
Category:Healthy lifestyle

The category should follow the basic concept of Healthy lifestyle.


</doc>
<doc id="266871" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266871" title="Wikipedia:Proposed good articles/Archive 10">
Wikipedia:Proposed good articles/Archive 10

Failed VGA (), but I think would probably be good for GA. Any thoughts? -- () 20:52, 15 October 2010 (UTC)
I don't have any major problems with the article (one of the issues that held it up last time was simplicity, which I don't see as an issue at this point in time.) I am a little concerned about the references to his pictures as "beautiful", as that may violate NPOV. () 23:42, 16 October 2010 (UTC)

Mild objection the article is in good shape, but I'm not sure about the reliability of the sources. () 14:38, 28 October 2010 (UTC)

I do currently think that the article is getting to a state where it is worthy listing it here. To my knowledge there are virtually no red links. I am listing this as proposed GA, because in general, there are few references. Note that genuine references may be hard to get, as incidents like the evasion/shooting at the Wall were not recorded at all or only sporadically by the East Germans. Anyway, open to criticism. -- () 12:15, 13 October 2010 (UTC)

Comments - good subject choice, culturally and historically very important.
 () 12:16, 18 October 2010 (UTC)

Comment just to keep this ticking over, two weeks later. The most important thing here is lack of references really. As I said earlier: "Only three references for the last six sections (and a "curiosities" section which has one bullet point and one normal paragraph)". () 18:30, 31 October 2010 (UTC)

Closed as not promoted: The article has been sat for nearly a month now, and for the majority of that time nothing seems to have changed and concerns have not been met. As TRM has said above, it's still lacking references for it to be a GA. Sorry, not now. 10:47, 4 November 2010 (UTC) 

This article's laid still for a while without any major changes, and being sufficiently simple and without red links, well referenced, and covering the subject pretty throughly, I thought it might be a good candidate for GA. It was also proposed for VGA earlier this year. Cordially, — 09:40, 6 September 2010 (UTC)

Oppose at first glance it's reasonably suitable for GA, but there are several dozen niggling issues which could easily be resolved, a few examples:
I could go on, but this really needs a capable copyeditor to do at least one run through of the text before it should even be considered GA. () 20:14, 12 October 2010 (UTC)


This is a good article about one of Australia's famous bushrangers. Well referenced and comprehensive. The article was proposed earlier this year , and all issues have been fixed. As well their has been a new final section added. () 22:07, 28 August 2010 (UTC)
Article originally from enwiki and GA there. Some significant work has been done in the last few weeks simplifying and improving references and I now believe it reasonably fits all nine requirements. All problems mentioned in its peer review have been fixed. 17:34, 10 August 2010 (UTC)
I'll do what I can do on the first two, and hopefully be a help rather than a hindrance. Overall, the article seems to be of good quality and well-covered with reliable references, and with a little work it has an excellent chance of becoming GA. :) Cordially, — 04:33, 12 August 2010 (UTC)
...which has been reduced to one redlink (the other, Helm of Darkness, I've just created). :) Hope this helps, — 03:20, 18 August 2010 (UTC)

Notability isn't an issue here. I left a quick review on the article's talk page. - () 11:38, 6 September 2010 (UTC)

Not written by me, so I feel free to say it's a fine page about a great book. () 10:26, 11 August 2010 (UTC)

Was very close to being a VGA before its review was abruptly closed yesterday. I discussed this with another editor over IRC, and we think that it could fairly. It will likely again be nominated for VGA in the near future 17:49, 4 November 2010 (UTC)

I have instigated threads on the images and the GOP victories 20:42, 4 November 2010 (UTC)


Apologies if any of these were already discussed and decided. Thanks, () 06:17, 5 November 2010 (UTC)


Thanks, () 01:32, 6 November 2010 (UTC)

References still need to be fixed per my comment above. () 13:14, 7 November 2010 (UTC)

Despite a COI re-opening of this PGA, nothing has changed. It's not good enough. Several of my comments on the talk page are unaddressed, several references (as noted above) are incorrectly formatted (despite denial from the nominator) and if you're prepared to nominate the article, be prepared to fix it. () 17:46, 11 November 2010 (UTC)

Closed as not promoted: Outstanding issues need to be properly and comprehensively addressed before re-nominating.  () 19:07, 11 November 2010 (UTC)

Hey everyone, this article has been nominated for Good Article before and has had a long list of comments (now all fixed and seen to) put up on its talk page. It failed, but I'm determined to get it to GA some day soon. I admit my simplifying (I brought it over from en, you see) is not the most perfect, but I'd like to see if there are any more concerns I can fix about it now or if it is ready. :) Thanks. Cheerfully, 11:39, 23 October 2010 (UTC)

Comments nice work so far, as requested, some comments on the talk page. Ping me when you're done! () 13:46, 28 October 2010 (UTC)

I want to get at least one of my chemistry articles into a good article status and see what I can do to improve my chemistry article-writing skills. Peer review is a little bit sluggish. () 15:05, 15 October 2010 (UTC)

Comments
 () 12:32, 18 October 2010 (UTC)

Thanks. -- () 12:40, 18 October 2010 (UTC)

Otherwise this is heading in the right direction. () 18:25, 31 October 2010 (UTC)

I must have saved it too early. -- () 19:28, 31 October 2010 (UTC)

I've put a lot of work into it. It's not the longest of articles but I do think it provides a good overview of internment. () 00:46, 15 October 2010 (UTC)

Had a quick look, made mainly MOS changes, looks good to me. () 18:19, 31 October 2010 (UTC)
Was San Francisco the main base of the Pacific Fleet in mainland US at that time? And was not San Fran the main location of Japanese immigration at the time? And was there not a concern that Japanese submarines might operate off the west coast of the US? That might help readers understand why California was so important. Parallels with other countries might be mentioned. Everyone interned 'enemy aliens'. Britain interned about 1,000 people of German origin who were living in Britain. Some were citizens, and some were Jews. Many were released when officials got to know what kind of people they were. None of this is absolutely necessary, it is 'framework' stuff. On trivia, race tracks are certainly not 'small places'! () 06:16, 6 November 2010 (UTC)

Quite a bit of work went into this article. Personally, I think that it would have the potential for VGA, but I'll try GA first (ideally, this cuts down the workload for VGA). -- () 12:20, 13 October 2010 (UTC)
I have made a small change, and am in favour of this article for GA. () 06:28, 27 October 2010 (UTC)

Comments
The article is very good and needs just a few tweaks to make it professional. Right now it looks a little like it was put together "by" simple English readers/writers, not "for" simple English readers/writers. () 18:37, 31 October 2010 (UTC)



This article failed VGA because of its size and several people, as well as I, thought that GA would be better. -- () 14:56, 30 October 2010 (UTC)

I've slowly but steadily expanded this article with information from the English Wikipedia for the last several months, and I think it has the quality to be a GA with some work. :) I would greatly appreciate any reviews or comments, as I know my simplification was probably imperfect. Thank you! Love, — 09:38, 10 November 2010 (UTC)
Much, much more needed. As you say, nothing is noteworthy about her life, so why 46000 kb? Let's try and get it under 30k! The article should not be a survey of every aspect of end of the Romanovs. Context, yes, but not so much detail. () 12:22, 17 November 2010 (UTC)

I went through and checked a lot of the vocabulary. There were still several items that were pretty complex. I added links to the following words: archaeologist, captivity, execution, animated, laundry, memoir, sentry, imp, valet, and autocracy. I noticed that some words in the article linked to Simple English Wikipedia and others to Simple English Wiktionary. I tried to follow a similar pattern, but the links may need a check. Two issues: new red links and some of the Wiktionary entries do not exist, but don't show up as red links. If anyone considers that over-linking, please go ahead and undo, but I think the words add complexity.

One other issue that adds complexity is some of the quotations. Quotes from sources can be really valuable and add richness to an article, but some of them include some complex language. I think there is always a trade off there, but some of the quotes might be paraphrased or left out. For example:

Those are few places to reduce complexity in a long article with a lot of detail in it. Just the amount of detail, the long names, and the many interconnections make this a complicated story in itself. But that is separate from the language. Maybe I just lack the Russian history context. Thanks, () 02:59, 28 November 2010 (UTC)
I'm rather surprised no one has mentioned that the entire "In culture" section has no references whatsoever. 13:54, 9 December 2010 (UTC)

 Thank you for your excellent review, dear Barras! It's been a great help. Please tell me if there's anything else to fix, and I'll be very happy to do so. Oh - and PrincessofLlyr, the "In culture" section is largely unreferenced because it's just a list of well-known books or movies (which are all linked to their own articles) without any controversial information in it. :) Warmly, — 09:53, 16 December 2010 (UTC)

I have been adding new information into this article for the last few weeks. I believe it contains enough information to be promoted to Good Article status. It might have some red links. But it indeed qualifies for good article status. Please comment if you don't agree. Thanks! () 10:23, 10 December 2010 (UTC)
I have helped correct many of your reviews. But some really needs someone else to help. I can't be the only one doing everything. I am not a genius. Maybe can help? () 15:02, 19 December 2010 (UTC)
Closed as not promoted: Sorry, this one's not quite up to shape yet, and nor is there a promotion consensus. Fix any outstanding issues, then come back and try again! :-) 13:24, 9 January 2011 (UTC) 

</doc>
<doc id="266876" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266876" title="Template:SMRT color">
Template:SMRT color


</doc>
<doc id="266877" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266877" title="Template:SMRT lines">
Template:SMRT lines

Line

</doc>
<doc id="266878" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266878" title="Template:Singapore MRT stations">
Template:Singapore MRT stations


</doc>
<doc id="266879" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266879" title="Category:MRT Singapore">
Category:MRT Singapore

The Mass Rapid Transit of Singapore


</doc>
<doc id="266884" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266884" title="Cuscus">
Cuscus

A Cuscus is a marsupial from Papua New Guinea. It has a pouch on its front where its baby begins to grow and develop in. The cuscus has thick white fur and a long tail, with a slightly pink tip. It uses its tail to help it climb through the trees.


</doc>
<doc id="266887" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266887" title="Couscous">
Couscous

Couscous is a kind of food, common in North Africa. It is made from semolina of wheat, barley or millet. Couscous is not cooked, but rather steamed over hot water. Couscous is served as a side-dish, or as a main dish. Very often vegetables are added. Meat such as poultry, beef, lamb, or fish is sometimes added. Spices such as ras el hanout and harissa are used for seasoning.

Couscous can also be served cold. In this case, may be the base of a salad, with seafood, or it is used to make Taboulé. Couscous can also be used for sweets, by adding milk, raisins or almonds. 

Couscous is similar to Bulgur, but Bulgur is based on groat.



</doc>
<doc id="266900" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266900" title="Template:SMRT code">
Template:SMRT code

  

</doc>
<doc id="266901" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266901" title="Template:Rail color box">
Template:Rail color box

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="266902" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266902" title="Template:SMRT stations">
Template:SMRT stations


</doc>
<doc id="266903" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266903" title="Template:SMRT style">
Template:SMRT style


</doc>
<doc id="266904" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266904" title="Template:S-line/SMRT left/North East">
Template:S-line/SMRT left/North East

HarbourFront

</doc>
<doc id="266905" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266905" title="Template:S-line/SMRT left/North South">
Template:S-line/SMRT left/North South

Jurong East

</doc>
<doc id="266906" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266906" title="Template:S-line/SMRT right/Circle">
Template:S-line/SMRT right/Circle

HarbourFront

</doc>
<doc id="266907" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266907" title="Template:S-line/SMRT right/North East">
Template:S-line/SMRT right/North East

Punggol

</doc>
<doc id="266908" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266908" title="Template:S-line/SMRT right/North South">
Template:S-line/SMRT right/North South

Marina Bay

</doc>
<doc id="266914" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266914" title="2010 Copiapó mining accident">
2010 Copiapó mining accident

The 2010 Copiapó mining accident was a mining accident that happened on August 5, 2010, when the copper-gold mine of San José, located near Copiapó, Chile, collapsed. It left 33 miners trapped around 700 meters under the ground.
The Mine of San José (Mina San José) is about north of Copiapó, in the Region of Atacama. The miners were trapped at about deep and about from the entrance of the mine. The mine has had accidents in the past, including one death. A report from the Chilean Government from July 2010, said that the owners of the mine did not "reinforce the roof." The lack of reinforcement "led to an earlier collapse of the roof". There has been controversy over why the mine was not closed down earlier.

Some people, including lawyers representing the mining company, think that the owners of the mine will declare bankruptcy after the miners are rescued.

On October 13, 2010, Florencio Ávalos reached the surface. He was the first miner to be rescued.



</doc>
<doc id="266927" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266927" title="Qualitative chemistry">
Qualitative chemistry

Qualitative chemistry is about the chemical reactions used to find out what an unknown chemical is. Qualitative chemistry is used in many jobs. It is very useful for testing for drugs and poisons.

Many reactions are used in qualitative chemistry. For example, fire or sodium hydroxide can be used to learn what metals are in the compound. The scientist would know what metal was in an unknown compound by the colour of the flame. silver nitrate can show what group seven ions are in a compound.

Qualitative chemistry can be easily confused with Quantitative chemistry:


</doc>
<doc id="266930" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266930" title="Fracture">
Fracture

A fracture is when some kind of material is split into multiple pieces, because stress is applied to it.


</doc>
<doc id="266933" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266933" title="Cherkasy">
Cherkasy

Cherkasy (, transliterated: "Čerkasy") is a city in central Ukraine. It is the capital of the Cherkasy Oblast (province), as well as the administrative center of the surrounding Cherkasky Raion (district) within the oblast.

The city is cultural, educational and industrial center of Cherkasy Oblast and Central Economical Region of Ukraine. Cherkasy is famous since 13th century and played a great role in history of Ukraine. Cherkasy was the center of Cossacks, citizens took part in Khmelnychchyna and Koliyivschyna (cossacks and peasants rebellions).

The city is on the right bank of Dnieper River (specifically at the Kremenchuk Reservoir), about south of the nation's capital, Kiev. The city is divided into 2 parts (raions) - Sosnivskiy (with Orshanets village) and Pridniprovskiy. The current population of Cherkasy is 285,526 (as of 2010).


</doc>
<doc id="266939" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266939" title="Dnieper River">
Dnieper River

The Dnieper River (), ( , pronounced ; , , ) is one of the major rivers in Europe (fourth by length) that flows from Russia, through Belarus and Ukraine, to the Black Sea. Even though Dnepr is considered to be the Russian version of the name, the Russian language also calls the river Dnipro, such as in the song "Hey, Dnipro, Dnipro".

Its total length is , of which lie within Russia, within Belarus, and within Ukraine. Its basin covers , of which are within Ukraine. In antiquity, it was known to the Greeks as the Borysthenes.


</doc>
<doc id="266947" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266947" title="Synod of Hippo">
Synod of Hippo

The Synod of Hippo was the synod of 393 that was held in Hippo Regius in northern Africa during the early Christian Church. Other synods were held in 394, 397, 401 and 426.

Some were attended by St. Augustine. The synod of 393 is best known for two things. First, for the first time a council of bishops listed and agreed a canon of Sacred Scripture that is the same as the modern Orthodox and Roman Catholic canon. The canon was later agreed at the Council of Carthage. 


</doc>
<doc id="266948" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266948" title="State Electoral District">
State Electoral District

State Electoral District means an electorate in the Lower House or Legislative Assembly of Australian states and territories. Most state electoral districts (except Australian Capital Territory and Tasmania, which have multi-member electorates using a proportional voting method) send a single member to a state or territory's parliament using the preferential method of voting. The size of a state electoral district depends on the Electoral Acts in the state and vary in size between them. At present, there are 407 state electoral districts in Australia.

State electoral districts do not apply to the Upper House, or Legislative Council, in the states which have one (New South Wales, South Australia, Tasmania, Victoria and Western Australia). In New South Wales and South Australia, MLCs represent the entire state, in Tasmania they represent single-member districts, and in Victoria and Western Australia they represent a region formed by grouping electoral districts together.

There are three electorates for the Legislative Assembly, two with five members each, and one with seven members, making up seventeen members in total.

There are currently 93 electoral districts in New South Wales.

There are 25 single-member electoral divisions in the Northern Territory, and 13 former divisions.

There are 89 electoral districts in Queensland, for the Legislative Assembly of Queensland.

There are 47 single-member electoral districts in South Australia, for the South Australian House of Assembly.
There are 5 electoral divisions in Tasmania. 

There are 88 electoral districts in Victoria, for the Victorian Legislative Assembly.

There are 59 single-member electoral districts in Western Australia for the Western Australian Legislative Assembly. 42 are in the Perth metropolitan area and 17 are in the rest of the state.


</doc>
<doc id="266949" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266949" title="First Amendment (disambiguation)">
First Amendment (disambiguation)

The First Amendment may mean any of the following:



</doc>
<doc id="266952" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266952" title="Category:Mining">
Category:Mining


</doc>
<doc id="266956" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266956" title="Elephant gun">
Elephant gun

An elephant gun is a large caliber gun, which could be (but does not have to be) a rifle. Elephant guns were first made to be used by big-game hunters who were hunting elephants and other large animals.. 

As people from Europe began exploring Africa in the early 1800s, guns were made to handle the very large animals that people saw. This was for people to protect themselves, to shoot animals for food, and later, and most commonly, sport. The first guns were the simple shotgun designs already used for birds. They were loaded with solid balls of lead that could shoot long animals. Because they did not kill large animals very easily (some writers said that it could take up to 35 shots to kill one elephant), elephant guns were soon made into larger caliber black powder smoothbores. The caliber was still measured in bore or gauge - or the guns were named by how much the projectiles (what was shot out of the guns) weighed in ounces. The projectiles were lead round balls or short slugs shaped like cones. Sometimes, antimony was put in them to make them harder.

These very large and heavy firearms were the first to be known as the elephant guns of the black powder era (1850–1890). They were not only used to kill elephants. They were also used to kill dangerous animals such as the rhinoceros, the hippopotamus and the cape buffalo. Because black powder and lead cannot go faster than about - the only way to make the projectiles go deeper into the animals' skins was to make a larger gun. Although they were very powerful, the short slugs (a type of projectile), which did not go very fast, still had problems going fully into their targets. This was especially hard for the toughest shot of all - going through the bone when an elephant's head was shot around the brain area. 

Nitro Express elephant guns were first made around 1895. They used smokeless powder, which was new at the time. With smaller metal-cased bullets with sizes from .400 to .620 and speeds around , they had a much better trajectory and penetration over the black powder guns. In a few years the big bore guns disappeared from the gamefields. The safari heyday of the early 20th century 'Nitro era' records much writing on such calibres as the .577 Nitro Express, .375 H&H Magnum, .416 Rigby, .404 Jeffery, 505 Gibbs, .450 Nitro Express, .470 Nitro Express and many others. These rifles came out in single shot, bolt action, and double rifle ways and was used until ivory hunting died off in the mid 20th century. Then the guns switched roles to tools for game wardens and as backup firearms for professional hunters guiding international hunters.

The American gun market made several famous dangerous gun cartridges around this time, such as the .458 Winchester Magnum, .378 Weatherby Magnum and .460 Weatherby Magnum. Many of these were 'wildcatted' (to modify an existing case and rifle to fire a different caliber bullet). The rest of the old Nitro express calibers faded to obscurity until people starting safari hunting in the 1970s and 1980s. Then elephant guns like the .416 Weatherby Magnum and the .416 Remington Magnum were made again. The .700 Nitro Express (made in the 1980's and 1990's) and the new brass manufacturers made even more powerful elephant guns such as the .585 Nyati by Ross Seyfried, .577 Tyrannosaur by Colonel Art Alphin and .585 Gehringer by Karl Gehringer to be made by wildcatters. The .600 Overkill made by Rob Garnick shows the biggest power that could come from from a standard hunting action. Other wildcats based on the heavy machine gun .50 BMG and similar anti-materiel rounds have been devised which are much more powerful, though they are not generally useful hunting arms because they are heavier than .

All elephant guns have one idea in common: to have enough stopping power to prevent harm to the hunter in the case of charging game. The necessities for the gun are not only very high power (any big gun could do that), but that it can be carried for long periods, shot from any position, and be well balanced enough to track on rapidly moving animals. It is really no more than a very big hunting rifle with the same use as any hunting rifle.

During World War I, both the British and Germans used elephant guns taken from their African colonies when they tried to break the stalemate in the trenches. The British used elephant guns as a means of getting around the German tactic of having their snipers advance towards Allied lines under the cover of a large, 6-10 millimeter (0.24-0.4 inch) thick steel plate. Though normal guns didn't do anything to the plate, the elephant guns had enough force to punch through it. Likewise, the Germans used a mass-produced anti-tank rifle, the Mauser 1918 TuF Gewehr, to knock out lightly armored British tanks.

During the African campaign of World War II in 1941, the Italians in East Africa fought against the British. The Commander - The Duke of Aosta - gave his personal collection of elephant guns to his Italian soldiers to shoot armored cars because they didn't have enough antitank guns.

The Finnish 20 mm anti-tank gun Lahti L-39 had the nickname "Norsupyssy" (Elephant Gun) during the Winter War because of its stopping power. It is not a true elephant gun, though, since it was not made for elephant hunting but as a military weapon.



</doc>
<doc id="266964" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266964" title="Charter 08">
Charter 08

Charter 08 is a manifesto (a public declaration of your beliefs) initially signed by over 350 Chinese intellectuals and human rights activists to promote political reform and democratization in the People's Republic of China. It was published on 10 December 2008, the 60th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, using a similar name and style from the anti-Soviet Charter 77 issued by dissidents in Czechoslovakia. Since its release, more than 8,100 people inside and outside of China have signed the charter.

One of the authors of Charter '08, Liu Xiaobo, was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 2010.


</doc>
<doc id="266965" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266965" title="Sedan, France">
Sedan, France

Sedan is a town and commune in France, a part of the Ardennes department in northern France.

The old centre is on land within a curve of the Meuse River. It is about 10 km (6 miles) from Belgium, and about 200 km (120 miles) from Paris.

Sedan was built in 1424. In the sixteenth century Sedan was a safe place for Protestants escaping from the Wars of Religion.

Until 1651, the Principality of Sedan belonged to the La Tour d'Auvergne family. It was independent. The most famous member of the family, Marshal Turenne, was born at Sedan on 11 September 1611. With help from the Holy Roman Empire, Sedan defeated France at the Battle of La Marfée. Immediately after that it was surrounded, and its prince, Frederic, surrendered to France. Only a year after that, it became part of France in return for sparing Frederic's life after he was in a plot against France.

During the Franco-Prussian War, on 2 September 1870 the French emperor Napoleon III was taken prisoner with 100,000 of his soldiers at the Battle of Sedan.

Because of this major victory, which also made the "Second Reich" of Germany possible, 2 September was declared "Sedan Day" ("Sedantag") and a national German holiday in 1871. It remained a holiday until 1919.

In World War II the German army invaded neutral Belgium and crossed the Meuse River in Sedan. This allowed them to get past the French fortification system, called the Maginot Line.

Sedan Castle may be the biggest of its kind in Europe with a total area of 30,000 square metres on seven levels. Building started in 1424 and the castle's defences were improved over the years. It is the only part left of the huge fortifications that there were in Sedan and around Sedan.

Sedan was a centre of cloth production, which was started under Cardinal Mazarin. It supported the town until the late nineteenth century.

These people were born in Sedan:





</doc>
<doc id="266966" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266966" title="Category:Ukrainian singers">
Category:Ukrainian singers


</doc>
<doc id="266989" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266989" title="KNVB Cup">
KNVB Cup

The KNVB Cup () is a competition in the Netherlands organized by the Royal Dutch Football Association (KNVB) since 1899. It was based on the format of the English FA Cup. Outside of the Netherlands, it is often referred to as the Dutch Cup. The tournament consists of all teams from the top two leagues of Dutch football (the Eredivisie and Eerste Divisie), as well as the top four teams from each of the six third tier of Dutch football (Hoofdklasse), while the remaining teams are drawn from the fourth tier (Eerste Klasse). The finals of the tournament usually takes place in De Kuip, and has been held there every season since 1988. The winners of the cup compete against the winners of the Eredivisie for the Johan Cruijff Shield, which is the first game of the following season.

The competition was created during a board meeting of the Dutch National Football Association, in the Hague, on 19 January 1898. The tournament began the following season, 1898–1899. The first final was played on 9 May 1899 between RAP Amsterdam and HVV Den Haag. In 1946, the trophy was changed to one made out of silver, which was very rare in after World War II.

Like many national cup competitions, the name of the tournament has changed with sponsorship. From 1995, the competition went from being the KNVB Cup Tournament to being known as the Amstel Cup after the then sponsor Amstel. On 16 August 2005, the name was changed to the Gatorade Cup after the drinks company Gatorade. In 2006, the name returned to being the KNVB Cup Tournament with Gatorade remaining as the principal sponsor.

Up until 1998, the winner of the cup entered into the UEFA Cup Winners' Cup, but with the abandonment of that tournament, the winner now goes into the UEFA Europa League. If the winning team has won the Eredivisie and thus entry into the UEFA Champions League, then the beaten KNVB Cup finalist will take the place in the UEFA Europa League.

In 1998, both teams in the KNVB final, Ajax and PSV, had won places into the Champions League. So a game was played between the beaten semi-finalists, SC Heerenveen and FC Twente, to determine who would take the Cup Winners' Cup place.



</doc>
<doc id="266990" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266990" title="Category:National parks in the U.S.A.">
Category:National parks in the U.S.A.


</doc>
<doc id="266991" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266991" title="Tadeus Reichstein">
Tadeus Reichstein

Tadeusz Reichstein (July 20, 1897 – August 1, 1996) was a Polish-born Swiss chemist and Nobel laureate. 

Reichstein was born into a Jewish family at Włocławek, Congress Poland, and spent his early childhood at Kiev, where his father was an engineer. He began his education at boarding-school in Jena, Germany.

In 1933, working in Zürich, Switzerland, Reichstein made vitamin C (ascorbic acid) in what is now called the Reichstein process. 

Together with E. C. Kendall and P. S. Hench, he was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1950 for their discovery of cortisone.

He died in Basel, Switzerland. The main industrial process for the artificial creation of Vitamin C still bears his name. Reichstein was the longest-lived Nobel laureate at the time of his death, but was beaten in 2008 by Rita Levi-Montalcini.




</doc>
<doc id="266999" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266999" title="Manú National Park">
Manú National Park

Manú National Park is a biosphere reserve in Peru.

Before becoming an area protected by the Peruvian government, the Manú National Park was conserved because it was inaccessible; that is, people could not get to it. The park is fairly inaccessible by road to this day. In 1977, UNESCO recognised it as a Biosphere Reserve and in 1987, it was named a World Heritage Site. 

It is the largest National Park in Peru, covering an area of 15,328 km². The Biosphere Reserve includes an additional 2,570 km², and a further 914 km² are included in a "Cultural Zone" (which also given protection), bringing the total area up to 18,811 km².

The park protects several ecological zones ranging from as low as 150 metres above sea level in parts of the Amazon Basin, to Puna grassland at altitudes of 4200 metres. Because of this topographical range, it has one of highest levels of biodiversity of any park in the world. 

Overall, more than 15,000 species of plants are found in Manú, and up to 250 varieties of trees have been found in a single hectare. 

The reserve is visited by birdwatchers from all over the world, as it is home to over 1000 species of birds. This is over 10% of all living bird species, and more than the number of bird species found in the United States and Canada combined. 

The Park has one of the most varied collections of land vertebrates ever found in Latin American tropical forests.


</doc>
<doc id="267010" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267010" title="Category:Formula One current">
Category:Formula One current

This is a hidden category used to maintain the current Formula One season.

All articles relating to the current season should include this category. This includes:


</doc>
<doc id="267014" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267014" title="Plane Stupid">
Plane Stupid

Plane Stupid is a non-violent environmentalist group in the United Kingdom. It is against making airports bigger.

Plane Stupid was started in 2005 by Joss Garman, Richard George and Graham Thompson.


</doc>
<doc id="267023" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267023" title="Nissan Pathfinder">
Nissan Pathfinder

The Nissan Pathfinder is an SUV made by Nissan Motors company. Its competitor is the Toyota 4Runner. It has been around since 1986 and has gotten some changes since that. The most recent change was in 2010. There were three generations of the vehicle. It won the AutoPacific Best in Class Vehicle Satisfaction Award.


</doc>
<doc id="267026" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267026" title="Class A drug">
Class A drug

A Class A drug is the most dangerous drug. Possession of the drug (having the drug on you) can result in a serious punishment. Fines can be very large and imprisonment can be up to 7 years. Some examples are cocaine, crack cocaine, ecstasy, LSD, psilocybin mushrooms. 


</doc>
<doc id="267031" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267031" title="Class C drug">
Class C drug

In the United Kingdom, class C drugs are the least harmful drugs.



</doc>
<doc id="267041" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267041" title="Lose Yourself">
Lose Yourself

"Lose Yourself" is a hip hop song by American rapper Eminem. Eminem won an Academy Award in 2003 and a Grammy in 2004 for "Lose Yourself".


</doc>
<doc id="267043" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267043" title="Geomorphology">
Geomorphology

Geomorphology is the scientific study of landforms and the processes that shape them, and more broadly, the evolution of processes controlling the topography of any planet. Geomorphologists seek to understand why landscapes look the way they do, to understand landform history and dynamics, and to predict future changes through a combination of field observation, physical experiment, and numerical modeling. 

Geomorphology is part of geography, geology, geodesy, engineering geology and archaeology. This range of interests leads to a wide variety of research styles and interests in the field.


</doc>
<doc id="267048" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267048" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/List of United States network television schedules">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/List of United States network television schedules

 "has nominated this page for deletion for the reason:"


"Please discuss this deletion below, but keep in mind that and that there may be options that are not just "keep" or "delete", such as merging."

This request is due to close seven days after it was filed; that is on approx. Monday, 18 October 2010 at 5:50 pm, although it may be closed more quickly due to .<br><br>


</doc>
<doc id="267055" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267055" title="George Marshall">
George Marshall

George Catlett Marshall (December 31, 1880 – October 16, 1959) was an American military leader, Chief of Staff of the Army, Secretary of State, and the third Secretary of Defense. Marshall served as the United States Army Chief of Staff during World War II. As Secretary of State, his name was given to the Marshall Plan. For this plan, he was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1953.


</doc>
<doc id="267059" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267059" title="John Isner">
John Isner

John Robert Isner is a professional tennis player from Greensboro, North Carolina, USA. He was born on April 26, 1985. He is best known for his first round marathon match at Wimbledon in 2010 against Nicolas Mahut, where they played the longest ever tennis match, which lasted 11 hours and 5 minutes and was played over three days.


</doc>
<doc id="267064" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267064" title="Steve Keirn">
Steve Keirn

Steve Keirn is a professional wrestler. He was born on September 10, 1951. Since the early 1990's, he has had a wrestling school called the "School of Hard Knocks". 


</doc>
<doc id="267065" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267065" title="Jubilees">
Jubilees

The book of Jubilees is an ancient Hebrew book. It is sometimes called the Lesser Genesis. It was well known to early Christians. Then it was repressed so it was very hard to find.


</doc>
<doc id="267102" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267102" title="Template:Infobox tennis event">
Template:Infobox tennis event


</doc>
<doc id="267103" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267103" title="Category:US Open (tennis)">
Category:US Open (tennis)


</doc>
<doc id="267104" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267104" title="Category:2009 US Open (tennis)">
Category:2009 US Open (tennis)


</doc>
<doc id="267105" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267105" title="Category:Grand Slam tennis tournaments">
Category:Grand Slam tennis tournaments


</doc>
<doc id="267106" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267106" title="Category:Tennis tournaments in the United States">
Category:Tennis tournaments in the United States


</doc>
<doc id="267107" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267107" title="Category:Tennis tournaments by country">
Category:Tennis tournaments by country


</doc>
<doc id="267108" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267108" title="Category:Tennis by country">
Category:Tennis by country


</doc>
<doc id="267109" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267109" title="Category:Tennis in the United States">
Category:Tennis in the United States


</doc>
<doc id="267110" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267110" title="Category:2009 in tennis">
Category:2009 in tennis


</doc>
<doc id="267111" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267111" title="Category:Years in tennis">
Category:Years in tennis


</doc>
<doc id="267112" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267112" title="Category:History of tennis">
Category:History of tennis


</doc>
<doc id="267113" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267113" title="Fuji Speedway">
Fuji Speedway

Fuji Speedway Corporation was established in 1963, as Japan NASCAR Corporation. At first, the circuit was planned to hold NASCAR-style races in Japan. The track was designed to be a high-banked superspeedway. There was not enough money to complete the project and only one of the banked turns was ever designed. Mitsubishi Estate Co. (a part of Mitsubishi) invested in the circuit. They took over the management rights on October 1965.

The track was converted to a road course. Fuji speedway opened in December 1965. The banked turn was somewhat dangerous, and caused several major accidents. According to Vic Elford "The reason that banking was so horrific, was that at the end of the straight we went over a blind crest at around 190/200 mph and "dropped into" the banking. At other tracks (Daytona, Monthlery, etc.) you climb up the banking."

A new part of track was built to fix the problem. The new course was more successful. In 1966, the track hosted a USAC Indy Car non-championship race, won by Jackie Stewart. The speedway brought the first Formula One race to Japan at the end of the season. Mario Andretti won the race, and James Hunt earned enough points to win the world championship title.

In Gilles Villeneuve was involved in a crash that killed two spectators on the side of the track. Formula One stopped racing at the speedway and Japan. When Japan was added back to the F1 schedule ten years later, it went to Suzuka instead. F1 didn't return to Fuji until .

Fuji remained a popular sports car racing venue. FIA World Sportscar Championship visited the track between 1982–1988. Fuji was often used for national races. Two chicanes were added to the track to slow down the speeds. Even with these changes, the main feature of the track remained its long straight, one of the longest in all of motorsports.

The long pit straight has also been used for drag racing. NHRA exhibitions were run in 1989. Local drag races are common on the circuit.

The track is still used for Japanese national races. In 2000 the majority of the shares of stock were bought by Toyota. Toyota was making plans for future motor racing.

In 2003 the circuit was closed to for a major reprofiling of the track. A new design from Hermann Tilke was used. The circuit reopened on 10 April 2005. It hosted its first Formula One championship event in 29 years on 30 September 2007. The race won by Lewis Hamilton.
The circuit hosts the NISMO Festival for historic Nissan racers. Toyota also hosts its own historic event a week before the NISMO called Toyota Motorsports Festival. Nearby is a drifting course, which was built as part of the refurbishment. 

The only time the circuit is run on a reverse direction is during the D1 Grand Prix drifting round. The series has hosted its rounds since 2003, with the exception of the 2004 closure. The circuit became the first to take place on an international level racetrack and the first of the three to take place on an F1 circuit. 

As part of the 2003 renovations, most of the old banked section of track was removed. Only a small section remains.

Following both poor ticket sales and bad weather it was decided by FOM that the Japanese Grand Prix would be shared between Fuji Speedway and Suzuka on alternate years. Suzuka would hold the next race on 4 October 2009. After the global recession and its own financial problems, Toyota decided to stop hosting of Japanese Grand Prix.

The Fuji circuit is known to fans of the arcade racing game Pole Position, as cars raced on the circuit. 

Fuji is also featured in a number of video games including "Top Gear", several "Gran Turismo" games and "TOCA Race Driver".

The Fuji circuit is featured prominently in the Japanese television drama "Engine" as the main setting for the racing scenes. It is also the home of the (fictional) "Regulus Cup".



</doc>
<doc id="267115" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267115" title="2010 US Open (tennis)">
2010 US Open (tennis)

The 2010 US Open was a tennis event played on an outdoor hard courts, held between August 30 and September 13, 2010 at the USTA Billie Jean King National Tennis Center in Flushing Meadows, Queens, New York City, United States.

The men's singles final was initially going to be played on September 12, but due to rain the final was postponed till the following day. In the past two years the final was also pushed forward because of rain.

 Rafael Nadal beat Novak Djokovic, 6–4, 5–7, 6–4, 6–2

 Kim Clijsters beat Vera Zvonareva, 6–2, 6–1

 Bob Bryan / Mike Bryan beat Rohan Bopanna / Aisam-ul-Haq Qureshi, 7–6(5), 7–6(4).

 Vania King / Yaroslava Shvedova beat Liezel Huber / Nadia Petrova, 2–6, 6–4, 7–6(4)

 Liezel Huber / Bob Bryan beat Květa Peschke / Aisam-ul-Haq Qureshi, 6–4, 6–4.

 Jack Sock beat Denis Kudla, 3–6, 6–2, 6–2

 Daria Gavrilova beat Yulia Putintseva, 6–3, 6–2

 Duilio Beretta / Roberto Quiroz beat Oliver Golding / Jiří Veselý, 6–1, 7–5

 Tímea Babos / Sloane Stephens beat An-Sophie Mestach / Silvia Njirić, walkover

 Shingo Kunieda beat Nicolas Peifer, walkover

 Esther Vergeer beat Daniela Di Toro, 6–0, 6–0

 Maikel Scheffers / Ronald Vink beat Nicolas Peifer / Jon Rydberg, 6–0, 6–0

 Esther Vergeer / Sharon Walraven beat Daniela Di Toro / Aniek van Koot, 6–3, 6–3

 David Wagner beat Peter Norfolk, 6–0, 2–6, 6–3

 Nick Taylor / David Wagner beat Johan Andersson / Peter Norfolk, 7–5, 7–6(4)
Before the 2010 US Open began a series of qualifying matches were held for players who were not able to automatically enter the main draws.




The following player received the lucky loser spot:


The following player received the lucky loser spot:



</doc>
<doc id="267116" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267116" title="Category:2010 US Open (tennis)">
Category:2010 US Open (tennis)


</doc>
<doc id="267117" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267117" title="Category:2010 in tennis">
Category:2010 in tennis


</doc>
<doc id="267118" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267118" title="Template:8TeamBracket-Tennis3-v2">
Template:8TeamBracket-Tennis3-v2


</doc>
<doc id="267119" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267119" title="Template:Draw key">
Template:Draw key





</doc>
<doc id="267120" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267120" title="Template:Tennis Grand Slam events">
Template:Tennis Grand Slam events


</doc>
<doc id="267121" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267121" title="2010 US Open – Men's Singles Qualifying">
2010 US Open – Men's Singles Qualifying

The 2010 US Open Men's Singles Qualifying stage was a pre-tournament, played by competitors who weren't automatically qualified for the main draw.




</doc>
<doc id="267149" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267149" title="Christianity and alcohol">
Christianity and alcohol

In the first 1,800 years of church history, Christians often enjoyed alcoholic drinks as a part of their everyday life and almost always used wine (fermented grape juice) in the Eucharist (Lord's Supper). They taught that according to both the Bible and Christian tradition, alcohol is a gift from God that makes life happier, but that drinking too much of it and becoming drunk is a sin. In the mid-19th century, some Protestant Christians moved away from this traditional belief that drinking a moderate (small) amount of wine was not bad (sometimes called "moderationism"). They either decided that not drinking wine at all was wisest ("abstentionism"), or that drinking any alcohol was sinful ("prohibitionism"). Today, all three of these positions are in Christianity, but most people still believe in the traditional position.

The Bible often mentions alcoholic drinks. Sometimes it is simply mentioning real wine, and sometimes it uses wine for poetic expressions. The Bible says that alcohol is a blessing from God that makes people happy, but it can also be dangerously and sinfully used. Most Christians' opinions about alcohol depend on the way they understand what the Bible says about it, so the Bible is an important source about it.

The languages in the Bible have several words for alcoholic drinks. Though prohibitionists and some abstentionists disagree, most people agree that the words were usually meant to be about intoxicating drinks.

Wine was an important and common drink in biblical times, as the Bible shows by using it for metaphors about good and bad. Wine can be used as a symbol for good things, like abundance and health.. However, the Bible also calls wine a mocker and beer a brawler (a person who fights too much). Drinking a cup of strong wine and getting drunk are also used sometimes as a symbol of God's anger.


</doc>
<doc id="267157" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267157" title="City of Dunedin Choir">
City of Dunedin Choir

The City of Dunedin Choir a community choir in a city called Dunedin which is in the South Island of New Zealand. It has people from all age groups: some are old, some are young. They are all from the Dunedin area. The choir sings large classical choral pieces of music. The choir has about 140 members at the moment.

The choir sings many types of music, including music from these periods: Baroque, Classical and Romantic orchestral works, and also modern New Zealand choral music. The Choir usually sings in about four or five concerts a year, often performing with an orchestra called Southern Sinfonia. Choir practice is held every week in the Crypt of St Paul's Cathedral on the Octagon in the middle of Dunedin.

The music in the City of Dunedin Choir's recent concerts include:

Schubert: Mass in A Flat;
Orff: Carmina Burmana;
Elgar: Dream of Gerontius;
Bach: A Christmas Oratorio;
Ralph Vaughan Williams: Serenade to Music;
Handel: The King Shall Rejoice;
Purcell: Come ye Sons of Art;
Mendelssohn: As the Hart Pants;
Handel: My Heart is Inditing;
Haydn: Nelson Mass;
Handel: Messiah;
Bach: St. John Passion;
Faure: Cantique de Jean Racine;
Faure: Requiem and
Alexander Estrange: Zimbe!

Upcoming City of Dunedin Choir Concerts include a performance of 'Saint Nicolas' by Benjamin Britten.

The City of Dunedin Choir has been making audiences enjoy themsleves around the region for nearly 150 years. The choir used to be two choirs, the Musical Union and the Choral Society, which were both made in 1863 and they joined together the following year with George West as conductor.

The name of the choir became Dunedin Choral Society Incorporated a few years later. The society stopped existing in 1888 but started existing with the same name as before in 1897 with James Coombs as conductor. It changed its name to Schola Cantorum in 1967, after joining together with the University Union Choir, and then it changed its name to City of Dunedin Choir in 1993, the year it had existed for 130 years. However, through all these "trading name" changes, the official name remains Dunedin Choral Society Incorporated.

Vice-Regal Patronage

The Choir's immediate past Patron was the Hon. Dame Silvia Cartwright. The choir's archives, which are at the Hocken Library, say that, Mr H.S. Chapman, Supreme Court Judge, was Patron in 1878 and Governor, the Earl of Ranfurly, was Patron in 1898. They also say that Sir Hercules Robinson, Governor from 1879 to 1880, attended several concerts during his time as Governor, but he was not a patron.

The archives of the City of Dunedin Choir are in the Hocken Library, Anzac Avenue, Dunedin, New Zealand.

The Choir has recently been listed on SOUNZ (http://sounz.org.nz), a submission process which includes details of the Choir's performances of works by New Zealand composers. Only 13 other choirs are listed on SOunz



</doc>
<doc id="267158" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267158" title="Gisborne, New Zealand">
Gisborne, New Zealand


</doc>
<doc id="267169" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267169" title="Changi">
Changi

Changi is a place in Singapore that have Changi Airport, Singapore Expo, Changi Air Base and Changi Naval Base.

Singapore had its international airport at Kallang and Paya Lebar. But it expanded so rapidly that the Singapore government worried about having not enough space for airport to grow bigger. There were many proposals for a new location and the Singapore government chose Changi in the end.

There are also other places in Changi, for example the Changi Prison, which had the Japanese Prisoner-of-war (POW) camps. These camps had the Allied powers prisoners staying there.

There is also the Changi Air Base, Changi Naval Base, Changi Point Ferry Terminal and Changi Ferry Terminal.

There are many ways to get to Changi. The easiest way is to take the Mass Rapid Transit which goes straight to the heart of Changi Airport. However, there are also buses and taxis available.


</doc>
<doc id="267171" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267171" title="Southern Islands">
Southern Islands

The Southern Islands of Singapore is a group of islands at the south of Singapore. It features famous islands like Sentosa"(pictured)", the Sisters Islands and Kusu Island.

The Singapore Tourism Board has spent close to S$300 million and took about 15 years to develop the southern islands of Singapore. This whole project is to bring gas, water, electricity and telecommunication supplies to the southern islands.


</doc>
<doc id="267172" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267172" title="Template:Towns and municipalities in Munich Rural District">
Template:Towns and municipalities in Munich Rural District


</doc>
<doc id="267183" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267183" title="Coupe de la Ligue">
Coupe de la Ligue

The Coupe de la Ligue is a French football competition. It is organized by the Ligue de Football Professionnel. It was established in 1994. Its current champion is Olympique de Marseille.


</doc>
<doc id="267185" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267185" title="Wrought iron">
Wrought iron

Wrought iron is a type of iron. It has a very little carbon in it. Most steels have much more carbon. It also has some slag in it. This gives it a fibrous look similar to how wood looks. It is tough, malleable, ductile, and can be welded easily. It was most common in the old days when cast iron was the only other type of iron. Now mild steel is used instead. If it contains too much sulfur, it becomes very brittle when heated. Wrought iron has a rough surface that can hold paint and zinc for galvanization much more easily.

Wrought iron was one of the most common types of iron in the medieval times. Its popularity has declined. It is needed to make historical items look historical.



</doc>
<doc id="267187" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267187" title="Slag">
Slag

Slag is a liquid residue from making iron. It consists of calcium silicate. The silicon dioxide in iron has to be taken away. The calcium oxide reacts with the silicon dioxide solid to make liquid calcium silicate, which is lighter than iron. It is drained out of the blast furnace. Slag can be used to make concrete. Air can be blown through molten slag to make a fluffy insulation made mineral wool.

Concrete made with blast furnace slag is almost pure white compared to ordinary concrete which is greyish.



</doc>
<doc id="267198" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267198" title="2010 US Open – Women's Singles Qualifying">
2010 US Open – Women's Singles Qualifying

The 2010 US Open Women's Singles Qualifying stage was a pre-tournament, played by competitors who weren't automatically qualified for the main draw.




</doc>
<doc id="267199" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267199" title="Template:4TeamBracket-Tennis3">
Template:4TeamBracket-Tennis3


</doc>
<doc id="267200" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267200" title="2010 US Open – Boys' Singles Qualifying">
2010 US Open – Boys' Singles Qualifying

The 2010 US Open Boys' Singles Qualifying stage was a pre-tournament, played by competitors who weren't automatically qualified for the main draw.




</doc>
<doc id="267201" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267201" title="2010 US Open – Girls' Singles Qualifying">
2010 US Open – Girls' Singles Qualifying

The 2010 US Open Girls' Singles Qualifying stage was a pre-tournament, played by competitors who weren't automatically qualified for the main draw.




</doc>
<doc id="267202" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267202" title="2010 US Open – Men's Singles">
2010 US Open – Men's Singles

Juan Martín del Potro was the defending champion, but chose not to compete this year, after a wrist operation in May and only starting to practice again in August.

Rafael Nadal defeated Novak Djokovic 6–4, 5–7, 6–4, 6–2 to win his first US Open title. It was his ninth career major and Nadal completed the Career Golden Slam with the win. Nadal became the first player since Rod Laver in 1969 to win the French Open, Wimbledon, and the US Open all in the same calendar year. 

<ol start="17">
<li> Gaël Monfils "(Quarterfinals)
<li> John Isner "(Third Round)
<li> Mardy Fish "(Fourth Round)
<li> Sam Querrey "(Fourth Round)
<li> Albert Montañés "(Fourth Round)
<li> Juan Carlos Ferrero "(Third Round)
<li> Feliciano López "(Fourth Round)
<li> Ernests Gulbis "(First Round)
<li> Stanislas Wawrinka "(Quarterfinals)
<li> Thomaz Bellucci "(Second Round)
<li> Fernando González "(First Round, retired due to a knee injury)
<li> Radek Štěpánek "(First Round)
<li> Philipp Kohlschreiber "(Second Round)
<li> Juan Mónaco "(First Round)
<li> David Nalbandian "(Third Round)
<li> Lleyton Hewitt "(First Round)
<li> Michael Llodra "(Third Round)



</doc>
<doc id="267205" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267205" title="2010 US Open – Women's Singles">
2010 US Open – Women's Singles

Kim Clijsters was the defending champion, and successfully defended her 2009 title, after she won 6–2, 6–1, against Vera Zvonareva in the final.


<ol start="17">
<li> Nadia Petrova "(First Round)
<li> Aravane Rezaï "(Second Round)
<li> Flavia Pennetta "(Third Round)
<li> Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova "(Fourth Round)
<li> Zheng Jie "(Second Round)
<li> María José Martínez Sánchez "(Second Round)
<li> Maria Kirilenko "(Third Round)
<li> Daniela Hantuchová "(Third Round)
<li> Alexandra Dulgheru "(Third Round)
<li> Lucie Šafářová "(First Round)
<li> Petra Kvitová "(Third Round)
<li> Alisa Kleybanova "(Second Round)
<li> Alona Bondarenko "(Third Round)
<li> Yaroslava Shvedova "(First Round)
<li> Kaia Kanepi "(Quarterfinals)
<li> Tsvetana Pironkova "(Second Round)



</doc>
<doc id="267206" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267206" title="2010 US Open – Men's Doubles">
2010 US Open – Men's Doubles

Lukáš Dlouhý and Leander Paes were the defending champions, but lost in the first round to Martin Damm and Filip Polášek 6–7(7), 6–3, 6–4.

Bob and Mike Bryan won in the final 7–6(5), 7–6(4), against Rohan Bopanna and Aisam-ul-Haq Qureshi.



</doc>
<doc id="267207" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267207" title="2010 US Open – Women's Doubles">
2010 US Open – Women's Doubles

Serena Williams and her sister Venus Williams were the defending champions, but as a result of a foot injury Serena withdrew from the competition.
Vania King and Yaroslava Shvedova defeated Liezel Huber and Nadia Petrova, 2–6, 6–4, 7–6(4) in the final.




</doc>
<doc id="267208" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267208" title="2010 US Open – Mixed Doubles">
2010 US Open – Mixed Doubles

Carly Gullickson and Travis Parrott were the defending champions, but lost in the first round to Gisela Dulko and Pablo Cuevas 2–6, 4–6.

Liezel Huber and Bob Bryan won in the final 6–4, 6–4, against Květa Peschke and Aisam-ul-Haq Qureshi.




</doc>
<doc id="267219" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267219" title="Brigadier General">
Brigadier General

A Brigadier General is a rank in the army. He is normally in command of a brigade, about 3,000 men. It is between the rank of major general and colonel. In the United States, brigadier general is also a rank in the Air Force and Marines and is also called O-7


</doc>
<doc id="267221" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267221" title="Harry Belafonte">
Harry Belafonte

Harold George "Harry" Belafonte, Jr. (originally Belafonete; born March 1, 1927) is an American musician, singer, actor, and social activist. He is a very successful pop singers. Some called him the "King of Calypso," because he popularized this Caribbean musical style in the 1950s. Belafonte is well known for singing the "Banana Boat Song", with the words ""Day-O"." He has worked for civil rights and humanitarian causes. He criticized the policies of U.S. President George W. Bush. 






</doc>
<doc id="267228" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267228" title="Hamilton O. Smith">
Hamilton O. Smith

Hamilton Othanel Smith (born August 23, 1931) is an American microbiologist and a Nobel prize winner. He was given the 1978 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine. He was the leader in the field of genomics. 


</doc>
<doc id="267232" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267232" title="Macaroni and cheese">
Macaroni and cheese

Macaroni and cheese, also known as mac and cheese, macaroni cheese, or macaroni pie, is a dish that consists of noodles and a cheese sauce. It can be bought packaged. It is a common food for children in the US. It was introduced in America by Thomas Jefferson in 1803. It originated in Italy and originally was a high-class food. It is not a good choice for people trying to lose weight. It is high in fat and very cheap. 


</doc>
<doc id="267237" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267237" title="Cordell Hull">
Cordell Hull

Cordell Hull (1871) was an American politician from Tennessee. He was the Secretary of State for 11 years. He received the Nobel Peace Prize in 1945 for helping make the United Nations. He was a lawyer in his younger years, then became a US Representative. He later was appointed to the Democratic National Committee. He then became a US Senator`, but resigned because he was appointed secretary of state. He resigned from the secretary position when his health failed. He died in 1955 from some heart attacks and strokes.


</doc>
<doc id="267241" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267241" title="Penalty (ice hockey)">
Penalty (ice hockey)

A penalty in ice hockey is a punishment when people do bad things in ice hockey. Normally it is done by placing the person in a penalty box for an amount of time. After that they can go play again. There are several types of penalties. Some are more serious and some are less.


</doc>
<doc id="267250" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267250" title="2010 US Open – Boys' Singles">
2010 US Open – Boys' Singles

The Boys' Singles tournament of the 2010 US Open started on Sunday September 5th, the seventh day of the main tournament. 

Bernard Tomic was the defending champion, but was no longer eligible to compete as a Junior this year.

Jack Sock, who received wildcard into the singles main draw, won this tournament, after defeating Denis Kudla in the final.



The following player received the lucky loser spot:


</doc>
<doc id="267251" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267251" title="Peter Scott">
Peter Scott

Sir Peter Markham Scott, CH CBE DSC and Bar MID FRS FZS (14 September 1909 – 29 August 1989) was a British ornithologist, conservationist, painter, Royal Navy Volunteer Reserve officer and sportsman.

Scott was knighted in 1973 for his contribution to the conservation of wild animals. He had been a founder of the World Wildlife Fund (WWF), a founder of several wetlands bird sactuaries in Britain, and an influence on international conservation. He received the WWF Gold Medal, and the J. Paul Getty Prize for his work.

Scott was born in London, the only child of Antarctic explorer Robert Falcon Scott ("Scott of the Antarctic") and sculptor Kathleen Bruce. He was only two years old when his father died. Robert Scott, in a last letter to his wife, advised her to "make the boy interested in natural history if you can; it is better than games". 

He was educated at Oundle School and Trinity College, Cambridge, at first taking Natural Sciences but graduating in the History of Art in 1931. After graduating, he studied art in Germany and London.

He had his first exhibition in London in 1933, and sold his first paintings. In 1935 he published "Morning Flight", illustrated by himself. As a young man, Scott was not wealthy, and the income from his paintings was the basis of his life. The paintings themselves sold well, but most of the income came from books and reproductions. The reproductions, which were printed by Ankermann of Bond Street, are still selling well. From this 'income stream' Scott was able to keep a family, and buy some of the land he wanted for wildfowl refuges.

In the 1936 Berlin Olympic Games, he represented Great Britain at sailing, winning a bronze medal in the smallest class of boat, the O-Jolle or dinghy.

As war approached, in 1939, he joined the Royal Naval Volunteer Reserve. In 1940 he was made 1st Lieutenant, rising to Lieutenant-Commander during the war. He fought in small vessels in the Channel. He was awarded the Distinguished Service Cross, with bar.
In 1948, he founded the organisation with which he was ever afterwards closely associated, the Severn Wildfowl Trust (now the Wildfowl and Wetlands Trust) with its headquarters at Slimbridge in Gloucestershire. 

In the years that followed, he became a television personality, popularising the study of wildfowl and wetlands. His BBC natural history series, "Look", ran from 1955 to 1981 and made him a household name. From 1973 to 1983, Scott was Chancellor of the University of Birmingham. 

He was the founder President of the Society of Wildlife Artists and President of the Nature in Art Trust, (a role in which Philippa succeeded him).


</doc>
<doc id="267252" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267252" title="2010 US Open – Girls' Singles">
2010 US Open – Girls' Singles

Heather Watson was the defending champion, but was no longer eligible to compete as a Junior that year.

Daria Gavrilova won this event, after beating her compatriot Yulia Putintseva 6–3, 6–2 in the final.



The following player received the lucky loser spot:


</doc>
<doc id="267254" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267254" title="Template:16TeamBracket-Compact-Tennis3-Byes">
Template:16TeamBracket-Compact-Tennis3-Byes


</doc>
<doc id="267255" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267255" title="2010 US Open – Boys' Doubles">
2010 US Open – Boys' Doubles

Márton Fucsovics and Hsieh Cheng-peng were the defending champions, but Hsieh did not enter the junior competition this year. Fucsovics played alongside Máté Zsiga, but the team lost to Guilherme Clézar and Tiago Fernandes in the second round.

Duilio Beretta and Roberto Quiroz defeated Oliver Golding and Jiří Veselý 6–1, 7–5 in the final.



</doc>
<doc id="267256" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267256" title="2010 US Open – Girls' Doubles">
2010 US Open – Girls' Doubles

Valeria Solovieva and Maryna Zanevska were the defending champions but did not enter the junior competition this year.

Tímea Babos and Sloane Stephens won the title, after their opponents - An-Sophie Mestach and Silvia Njirić withdrew before the final match.




</doc>
<doc id="267258" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267258" title="2010 US Open – Wheelchair Men's Singles">
2010 US Open – Wheelchair Men's Singles

Shingo Kunieda, defended his 2009 title after Nicolas Peifer withdrew from the final.




</doc>
<doc id="267259" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267259" title="2010 US Open – Wheelchair Women's Singles">
2010 US Open – Wheelchair Women's Singles

Esther Vergeer, defended her 2009 title, after a win against Daniela Di Toro 6–0, 6–0 in the final.




</doc>
<doc id="267269" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267269" title="2010 US Open – Wheelchair Men's Doubles">
2010 US Open – Wheelchair Men's Doubles

Stéphane Houdet and Stefan Olsson were the defending champions, but lost in the first round to eventual champions Maikel Scheffers and Ronald Vink.

Maikel Scheffers and Ronald Vink won this event, after won 6–0, 6–0, against Nicolas Peifer and Jon Rydberg in the final.




</doc>
<doc id="267271" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267271" title="2010 US Open – Wheelchair Women's Doubles">
2010 US Open – Wheelchair Women's Doubles

Korie Homan and Esther Vergeer were the defending champions, only Vergeer competed in the event.

Esther Vergeer and Sharon Walraven won this tournament, after they won in the final 6–3, 6–3, against Daniela Di Toro and Aniek van Koot.




</doc>
<doc id="267272" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267272" title="Template:2TeamBracket-Compact-Tennis3">
Template:2TeamBracket-Compact-Tennis3


</doc>
<doc id="267273" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267273" title="Template:4TeamRR-TennisWide">
Template:4TeamRR-TennisWide


</doc>
<doc id="267274" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267274" title="2010 US Open – Wheelchair Quad Singles">
2010 US Open – Wheelchair Quad Singles

Peter Norfolk is the defending champion, but he lost in the final 6–0, 2–6, 6–3, against David Wagner.



</doc>
<doc id="267276" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267276" title="Template:2TeamBracket-Tennis3NoSeeds">
Template:2TeamBracket-Tennis3NoSeeds


</doc>
<doc id="267277" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267277" title="2010 US Open – Wheelchair Quad Doubles">
2010 US Open – Wheelchair Quad Doubles

Nick Taylor and David Wagner defended their 2009 title, after they won 7–5, 7–6(4), against Johan Andersson and Peter Norfolk in the final.



</doc>
<doc id="267278" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267278" title="2009 US Open – Men's Singles">
2009 US Open – Men's Singles

Roger Federer was the defending champion, but was defeated by Juan Martín del Potro in the final, 6–3, 6–7(5), 6–4, 6–7(4), 2–6.



</doc>
<doc id="267279" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267279" title="2009 US Open – Women's Singles">
2009 US Open – Women's Singles

Kim Clijsters defeated Caroline Wozniacki in the final 7–5, 6–3. Serena Williams, the defending champion, lost to Clijsters in the semifinals.




</doc>
<doc id="267280" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267280" title="2009 US Open – Men's Doubles">
2009 US Open – Men's Doubles

Bob Bryan and Mike Bryan were the defending champions, but lost in the semifinals against Lukáš Dlouhý and Leander Paes.

Lukáš Dlouhý and Leander Paes won in the final 3–6, 6–3, 6–2 against Mahesh Bhupathi and Mark Knowles.




</doc>
<doc id="267281" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267281" title="2009 US Open – Women's Doubles">
2009 US Open – Women's Doubles

Cara Black and Liezel Huber were the defending champions, but Serena Williams and Venus Williams defeated them in the final 6–2, 6–2.




</doc>
<doc id="267282" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267282" title="Template:4TeamBracket-Tennis3-v2">
Template:4TeamBracket-Tennis3-v2


</doc>
<doc id="267283" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267283" title="2009 US Open – Mixed Doubles">
2009 US Open – Mixed Doubles

Carly Gullickson and Travis Parrott won in the final, 6–2, 6–4, against defending champions, Cara Black and Leander Paes.


<ol start="5">
<li> Su-Wei Hsieh / Kevin Ullyett "(Semifinals)
<li> Nadia Petrova / Max Mirnyi "(First Round)
<li> Rennae Stubbs / Robert Lindstedt "(Quarterfinals)
<li> Bethanie Mattek-Sands / Nenad Zimonjić "(Quarterfinals)



</doc>
<doc id="267284" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267284" title="2009 US Open – Boys' Singles">
2009 US Open – Boys' Singles

Bernard Tomic won in the final 6-1, 6-3 against Chase Buchanan.




</doc>
<doc id="267285" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267285" title="2009 US Open – Girls' Singles">
2009 US Open – Girls' Singles

Heather Watson won in the final 6–4, 6–1 against Yana Buchina.




</doc>
<doc id="267287" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267287" title="2009 US Open – Boys' Doubles">
2009 US Open – Boys' Doubles

Marton Fucsovics and Cheng Peng Hsieh won in the finals 7-6(5), 5-7, [10-1] against Julien Obry and Adrien Puget.


<ol start="5">
<li> Andrea Collarini / Nikala Scholtz "(First Round)
<li> Pierre-Hugues Herbert / Kevin Krawietz "(Quarterfinals)
<li> Hiroyasu Ehara / Shuichi Sekiguchi "(First Round)
<li> Arthur De Greef / Gianni Mina "(First Round)



</doc>
<doc id="267288" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267288" title="2009 US Open – Girls' Doubles">
2009 US Open – Girls' Doubles

Lertcheewakarn partnered with Elena Bogdan, but Valeria Solovieva and Maryna Zanevska defeated them in the final 1-6, 6-3 [10-7].


<ol start="5">
<li> Richel Hogenkamp / Ksenia Kirillova "(First Round)
<li> Yana Buchina / Heather Watson "(First Round)
<li> Daria Gavrilova / Irina Khromacheva "(Semifinals)
<li> Ulrikke Eikeri / Mai Grage "(First Round)



</doc>
<doc id="267289" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267289" title="2009 US Open – Wheelchair Men's Singles">
2009 US Open – Wheelchair Men's Singles

Shingo Kunieda won in the final 6-0, 6-0 against Maikel Scheffers




</doc>
<doc id="267290" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267290" title="2009 US Open – Wheelchair Women's Singles">
2009 US Open – Wheelchair Women's Singles

Esther Vergeer won in the final 6-0, 6-0 against Korie Homan.



</doc>
<doc id="267291" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267291" title="2009 US Open – Wheelchair Men's Doubles">
2009 US Open – Wheelchair Men's Doubles

Stephane Houdet and Stefan Olsson won in the final 6–4, 4–6, 6–4 against Maikel Scheffers and Ronald Vink.



</doc>
<doc id="267302" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267302" title="2009 US Open – Wheelchair Women's Doubles">
2009 US Open – Wheelchair Women's Doubles

Korie Homan and Esther Vergeer won in the final 6–2, 6–2 against Daniela DiToro and Florence Gravellier.




</doc>
<doc id="267303" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267303" title="2009 US Open – Wheelchair Quad Singles">
2009 US Open – Wheelchair Quad Singles

Peter Norfolk won in the final 6–6, 3–6, 6–3, against David Wagner.



</doc>
<doc id="267304" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267304" title="2009 US Open – Wheelchair Quad Doubles">
2009 US Open – Wheelchair Quad Doubles

Nicholas Taylor and David Wagner won in the final 6-1, 6-7(5), 6-3 against Johan Andersson and Peter Norfolk.



</doc>
<doc id="267305" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267305" title="Template:2009 in tennis">
Template:2009 in tennis


</doc>
<doc id="267306" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267306" title="Category:Years in tennis navbox templates">
Category:Years in tennis navbox templates


</doc>
<doc id="267307" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267307" title="Category:Tennis navbox templates">
Category:Tennis navbox templates


</doc>
<doc id="267308" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267308" title="Category:Tennis templates">
Category:Tennis templates


</doc>
<doc id="267309" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267309" title="Template:2010 in tennis">
Template:2010 in tennis


</doc>
<doc id="267312" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267312" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Wikipedia:Announcements">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Wikipedia:Announcements

 "has nominated this page for deletion for the reason:"


"Please discuss this deletion below, but keep in mind that and that there may be options that are not just "keep" or "delete", such as merging."
This request is due to close seven days after it was filed; that is on approx. Tuesday, 19 October 2010 at 8:56 pm, although it may be closed more quickly due to .<br><br>




</doc>
<doc id="267313" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267313" title="2010 ATP World Tour">
2010 ATP World Tour

The Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP) World Tour is the number one tier tennis tour for men's tennis competition. The 2010 ATP World Tour calendar cosists of Grand Slam tournaments (organised by the International Tennis Federation (ITF)), the ATP World Tour Masters 1000, the ATP World Tour 500 series, the ATP World Tour 250 series, the ATP World Team Championship, the Davis Cup (organized by the ITF), and the ATP World Tour Finals. Also included in the 2010 calendar is the Hopman Cup, which does not distribute ranking points, and is organised by the ITF.



</doc>
<doc id="267330" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267330" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Nazi zombies">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Nazi zombies

 () "has nominated this page for deletion for the reason:"


"Please discuss this deletion below, but keep in mind that and that there may be options that are not just "keep" or "delete", such as merging."

This request is due to close seven days after it was filed; that is on approx. Wednesday, 20 October 2010 at 1:04 am, although it may be closed more quickly due to .<br><br>


</doc>
<doc id="267343" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267343" title="Rectus abdominis muscle">
Rectus abdominis muscle

The rectus abdominis muscle is a muscle in the human body. It is commonly referred to as "Abs". It is a paired muscle that runs vertically from the lower chest to the pubic region. 


</doc>
<doc id="267351" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267351" title="Commander">
Commander

Commander is a rank of naval officer. It may also be used as a general term for a leader. 

Commander is a rank used in many navies and some air forces. It is rarely used as a rank in armies, except in special forces for a team leader. 

The title (originally "Master and Commander") originated in the 18th century Royal Navy for naval officers who commanded ships of war too large to be commanded by a Lieutenant but too small to warrant the assignment of a Post-captain. 

In practice, these were usually unrated sloops-of-war of no more than 20 guns. The Royal Navy shortened "Master and Commander" to "Commander" in 1794; however, the term "Master and Commander" remained in common use for many years. A corresponding rank in some navies is frigate captain. In the 20th and 21st centuries, the rank has been assigned the NATO rank code of OF-4.

A Commander in the Royal Navy is above the rank of Lieutenant-Commander, below the rank of Captain. It is equivalent in rank to a Lieutenant Colonel in the British Army and Wing Commander in the Royal Air Force. A Commander may command a frigate, destroyer, submarine, aviation squadron or shore installation, or may serve on a staff.


</doc>
<doc id="267353" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267353" title="Federalist Papers">
Federalist Papers

The Federalist Papers were a series of newspaper articles written about the United States Constitution. Many talked about how the Constitution would solve America's political problems. Most of them were published in newspapers in New York and Virginia, states were it was not clear whether or not the Constitution would pass (it did). Most were written by Alexander Hamilton or James Madison, though a few were written by John Jay. One of the most famous of the Papers is Federalist No. 10. It was written by Madison and says that the Constitution would keep the United States from being run by small groups called "factions". 

The papers are often thought of as one of the most important works of American political thought. Sometimes they are used by Supreme Court justices to try to say what the founders were thinking.


</doc>
<doc id="267355" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267355" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Assault and Batteries">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Assault and Batteries

 () "has nominated this page for deletion for the reason:"


"Please discuss this deletion below, but keep in mind that and that there may be options that are not just "keep" or "delete", such as merging."
Support delete () 09:19, 13 October 2010 (UTC)

This request is due to close seven days after it was filed; that is on approx. Wednesday, 20 October 2010 at 6:55 am, although it may be closed more quickly due to .<br><br>


</doc>
<doc id="267356" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267356" title="Akita Prefecture">
Akita Prefecture

Akita Prefecture (秋田県) is a prefecture of Japan. It is in the north of the island of Honshu, Japan. On its west is the Sea of Japan. The capital city is Akita. Akita Prefecture used to be some distance away from other large cities, and it was surrounded by mountains. This kept Akita Prefecture away from most Japanese society. It is also famous for rice farming and sake brewing. A famous dish in Akita is Kiritampo.

There are 13 cities in Akita Prefecture:



</doc>
<doc id="267360" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267360" title="Category:Military ranks">
Category:Military ranks


</doc>
<doc id="267364" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267364" title="Korean Demilitarized Zone">
Korean Demilitarized Zone

The Korean Demilitarized Zone () is a piece of land running across the Korean Peninsula that serves as a buffer zone between North and South Korea. The DMZ cuts the Korean Peninsula almost in half, crossing the 38th parallel. The west end of the DMZ is south of the parallel and the east end is to the north of it. It is long, and about wide and is the most highly militarized border in the world. The border between both Koreas in the Yellow Sea and its coastline is known as the Northern Limit Line. Both sides of the Northern Limit Line are also heavily guarded. 

The 38th parallel north cuts the Korean peninsula routhly in half. The parallel was the original boundary between the US-occupied and Soviet-occupied areas of Korea at the end of World War II. When the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK, informally North Korea) and the Republic of Korea (ROK, informally South Korea) were created in 1948, this line became a de facto international border between the two countries. It was also one of the most tense fronts in the Cold War.

Both the North and the South remained heavily dependent on their sponsor states from 1948 to the outbreak of the Korean War. The conflict claimed over three million lives and divided the Korean Peninsula along ideological lines. On June 25, 1950, a Soviet-sponsored DPRK invasion crossed the 38th parallel. The conflict ended three years later. International troops had been deployed and pushed the frontline back to near the 38th parallel. In the ceasefire of July 27, 1953, the DMZ was created. Each side agreed in the armistice to move their troops back from the front line, creating a buffer zone wide. The Military Demarcation Line (MDL) goes down the center of the DMZ and indicates exactly where the front was when the agreement was signed.

In theory, this is a stalemate. Neither side won or lost. Because of this, both sides of the conflict are still ennemies, and a large number of troops is still stationed along both sides of the line. The armistice agreement explains exactly how many military personnel and what kind of weapons are allowed in the DMZ. Soldiers from both sides may patrol inside the DMZ, but they may not cross the MDL. Sporadic outbreaks of violence due to North Korean hostilities killed over 500 South Korean soldiers and 50 U.S. soldiers along the DMZ between 1953 and 1999.

Tae Sung Dong and Kijong-dong were the only villages allowed by the armistice committee to remain within the boundaries of the DMZ. Residents of Tae Sung Dong are governed and protected by the United Nations Command and are generally required to spend at least 240 nights per year in the village to maintain their residency. In 2008, the village had a population of 218 people. The villagers of Tae Sung Dong are direct descendants of people who owned the land before the 1950-53 Korean War.

Inside the DMZ, near the western coast of the peninsula, is a place called Panmunjeom. The Joint Security Area (JSA) is located there. Originally, it was the only connection between North and South Korea. In 2007 a Korail train crossed the DMZ to the North on the new Donghae Bukbu Line built on the east coast of Korea.

There are several buildings on both sides of the Military Demarcation Line. A few are built right on top of the MDL. The Joint Security Area is the location where all negotiations since 1953 have been held, including statements of Korean solidarity, which have generally amounted to little except a slight decline of tensions. The MDL goes through the conference rooms and down the middle of the conference tables where the North Koreans and the United Nations Command (primarily South Koreans and Americans) meet face to face.

Though generally calm, the DMZ has been the scene of much saber-rattling between the two Koreas over the years. Several small skirmishes have occurred within the Joint Security Area since 1953. The Axe Murder Incident in August 1976 involved the attempted trimming of a poplar tree which resulted in two deaths (CPT Arthur Bonifas and 1LT Mark Barrett) and Operation Paul Bunyan. Beforehand, the soldiers of both sides were permitted to go back and forth across the MDL inside of the JSA, a privilege since revoked as a result of this incident. 

Another incident occurred on November 23, 1984, when a Soviet tourist, who was part of an official trip to the JSA (hosted by the North), ran across the Military Demarcation Line (MDL) shouting that he wanted to defect. North Korean troops immediately chased after him opening fire. Border guards on the South Korean side returned fire eventually surrounding the North Koreans as they pursued the Russian national. One South Korean and three North Korean soldiers were killed in the action. The defector was not captured.

In late 2009, South Korean forces and the United Nations Command began renovation of its three guard posts and two checkpoint buildings within the JSA compound. Construction was designed to enlarge and modernise the structures. Work was undertaken a year after North Korea finished replacing four JSA guard posts on its side of the MDL.

South Korea has discovered tunnels that cross the DMZ. To bulid these tunnels, explosives were used. This left certain traces, called "blasting lines". The orientation of these blasting lines shows that the tunnels were bulit from north to south, North Korea built them. In total, four tunnels have been discovered, the first on November 15, 1974. North Korea claimed that the tunnels were used for coal mining. No coal has been found in the tunnels. All tunnels were dug in a rock called granite. Some of the tunnel walls have been painted black to give the appearance of anthracite.

It is believed the tunnels were built to allow a North Korean military invasion. Each tunnel is big enough, so an entire infantry division can pass in one hour, but the tunnels are too small for tanks or other vehicles. All the tunnels run in a north-south direction and do not have branches. Engineering within the tunnels, following each discovery, has become progressively more advanced. For example, the third tunnel sloped slightly upwards as it progressed southward, to prevent water stagnation. Today, visitors may visit the second, third and fourth tunnels through guided tours.

The first of the tunnels was discovered by a South Korean Army patrol, noticing steam rising from the ground. The initial discovery was met with machine gun fire from North Korean soldiers. Five days later, during a subsequent exploration of this tunnel, U.S. Navy Commander Robert M. Ballinger and ROK Marine Corps Major Kim Hah Chul were killed in the tunnel by a North Korean explosive device. The blast also wounded five Americans and one South Korean from the United Nations Command. 

The tunnel, which was about high by wide, extended more than beyond the Military Demarcation Line (MDL) into South Korea. The tunnel was reinforced with concrete slabs and had electric power and lighting. There were weapons storage and sleeping areas. A narrow gauge railway with carts had also been installed. Estimates based on the tunnel's size, suggest it would have allowed approximately 2,000 KPA soldiers (one regiment) to pass through it per hour.

The second tunnel was discovered on March 19, 1975. It is of similar length to the first tunnel. It is located between below ground, but is larger than the first, approximately .

The third tunnel was discovered on October 17, 1978. Unlike the previous two, the third tunnel was discovered following a tip from a North Korean defector. This tunnel is about long and about below ground. Foreign visitors touring the South Korean DMZ may view inside this tunnel using a sloped access shaft.

A fourth tunnel was discovered on March 3, 1990 north of Haen town in the former Punchbowl battlefield. The tunnel's dimensions are 2m x 2m and it is 145m underground, the method of construction is almost identical in structure to the second and the third tunnels.

Both North and South Korea maintain "peace villages" in sight of each other's side of the DMZ. In the South, Daeseong-dong is administered under the terms of the DMZ. Villagers are classed as Republic of Korea citizens, however they are exempt from paying tax and other civic requirements such as military service. 

In the North, Kijong-dong features a number of brightly painted, poured-concrete multi-story buildings and apartments with electric lighting. These features represented an unheard of level of luxury for rural Koreans, north or south, in the 1950s. The town was oriented so that the bright blue roofs and white sides of the buildings would be the most distinguishing features when viewed from the border. However scrutiny with modern telescopic lenses reveals that the buildings are mere concrete shells lacking window glass or even interior rooms, with the building lights turned on and off at set times and the empty sidewalks swept by a skeleton crew of caretakers in an effort to preserve the illusion of activity. 

Until 2004, massive loudspeakers mounted on several of the buildings continuously delivered DPRK propaganda broadcasts directed towards the south as well as propaganda radio broadcasts across the border. 

Within the JSA are a number of U.N. buildings called Conference Row these are used for direct talks between the two Koreas. Facing the UN buildings is DPRK's Panmungak () and ROK's Freedom House. In 1994, North Korea enlarged Panmungak by adding a third floor. In 1998, South Korea built a new Freedom House for its Red Cross staff and to possibly host reunions of families separated by the Korean War. The new building incorporated the old Freedom House Pagoda within its design.

In the 1980s, the South Korean government built a flagpole in the village of Daeseong-dong. The North Korean government responded by building a taller one — the tallest in the world at in Kijong-dong.

The "Korean wall" is a concrete barrier that was allegedly built along the length of the DMZ in South Korea between 1977 and 1979. Dutch journalist and filmmaker Peter Tetteroo shows footage of what he believes (at the prompting of his North Korean guides) to be the Korean Wall. North Korea contends: 

In the area south of the Military Demarcation Line, which cuts across our country at its waist, there is a concrete wall which [...] stretches more than from east to west, is high, thick at the bottom, and wide in the upper part. It is set with wire entanglements and dotted with gun embrasures, look-outs and varieties of military establishments [...] the South Korean rulers built this wall over a period of many years from 1977.

In December 1999, Chu Chang Jun, North Korea's longtime ambassador to China, repeated claims that a "wall" divided Korea. He said the south side of the wall is packed with soil, which permits access to the top of the wall and makes it effectively invisible from the south side. He also claimed that it served as a bridgehead for any northward invasion.

According to the United States, the wall does not exist, although there are anti-tank barriers along some sections of the DMZ.

Panmunjeom is the site where the negotiations that ended the Korean took place. It is the main centre of human activity in the DMZ today. The village is located on the main highway and near a railroad connecting the two Koreas.

The railway, which connects Seoul and Pyongyang, was called the Gyeongui Line before Korea was divided in the 1940s. Currently the South uses the original name, but the North refers to the route as the P'yŏngbu Line. Today, the railway is mainly used to carry materials to the industrial complexes at Kaesong. South Korea workers also use it to commute there. When it was reopened in the early 2000s, this was seen as a sign that the relations between both countries were improving. However in November 2008 North Korean authorities closed the railway because of growing tensions with the South. When former South-Korean president Kim Dae-jung had died, a delegation from North Korea also attended his funeral. On that occasion, talks were held with South Korean officials. In September 2009, the Kaesong rail and road crossings were reopened.

The road at Panmunjeom, which was known historically as "Highway One" in the South, was originally the only access point between the two countries on the Korean Peninsula. Passage is comparable to the strict movements that occurred at Checkpoint Charlie in Berlin at the height of the Cold War. Both North and South Korea's roads end in the Joint Security Area; neither highway meets because there is a concrete line that divides the entire site. People given the permission to cross this border must do so on foot before continuing their journey by road.

In 2007, on the east coast of Korea, the first train crossed the DMZ on the new Donghae Bukbu (Tonghae Pukpu) Line. The new rail crossing was built next to the road which took South Koreans to Kŭmgangsan, a region that has significant cultural importance for all Koreans. More than one million civilian visitors crossed the DMZ until the route was closed after a 53-year-old South Korean tourist was shot in July 2008. The North Korean government did not want that both police forces investigate the shooting together, so the South Korean government stopped offering tours to the resort. Since then the resort, and the Donghae Bukbu Line have effectively been closed by the North.

In the past half century, the Korean DMZ has been a deadly place for humans, making habitation impossible. Only around the village of Panmunjeom and more recently the Dong Bukbu Line on Korea's east coast have there been regular incursions by people. 

This natural isolation along the length of the DMZ has created an involuntary park which is now recognised as one of the most well-preserved areas of temperate habitat in the world.

Several endangered animal and plant species now exist among the heavily fortified fences, landmines and listening posts. These include the extremely rare Red-crowned Crane (a staple of Asian art), and the White-naped crane as well as, potentially, the extremely rare Korean Tiger, Amur leopard and Asiatic black bear. Ecologists have identified some 2,900 plant species, 70 types of mammals and 320 kinds of birds within the narrow buffer zone.Additional surveys are now being conducted throughout the region. 

The DMZ owes its varied biodiversity to its geography which crosses mountains, prairies, swamps, lakes and tidal marshes. Environmentalists hope that by the time reunification occurs, the former DMZ will be conserved as a wildlife refuge, with a well-developed set of objective and management plans vetted and in place. In 2005, CNN founder and media mogul, Ted Turner, on a visit to North Korea, said that he would financially support any plans to turn the DMZ into a peace park and a UN-protected World Heritage Site.



</doc>
<doc id="267365" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267365" title="Template:Basepage subpage">
Template:Basepage subpage


</doc>
<doc id="267366" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267366" title="Template:Flag/core">
Template:Flag/core

 

</doc>
<doc id="267368" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267368" title="Template:Infobox military structure">
Template:Infobox military structure

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="267369" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267369" title="Template:Language with name">
Template:Language with name


</doc>
<doc id="267370" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267370" title="Template:Order of magnitude">
Template:Order of magnitude

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="267371" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267371" title="Template:Order of magnitude/x">
Template:Order of magnitude/x

<includeonly>+( ( )/10^>==10)</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="267394" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267394" title="Category:Semimetals">
Category:Semimetals

Semimetals are chemical elements. Semimetals can have some properties partially like metals and partially like nonmetals.


</doc>
<doc id="267395" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267395" title="Category:Selenium compounds">
Category:Selenium compounds

Selenium compounds are chemical compounds contains selenium ions.


</doc>
<doc id="267403" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267403" title="Robert Falcon Scott">
Robert Falcon Scott

Captain Robert Falcon Scott CVO, RN (6 June 1868 – 29 March 1912) was a Royal Navy officer and explorer who died on an expedition to the South Pole. He is widely known as "Scott of the Antarctic", the title of a 1948 film.

Scott led two expeditions to the Antarctic regions: the Discovery Expedition, 1901–04, and the ill-fated Terra Nova Expedition, 1910–13. 
Before his appointment to lead the Discovery Expedition, Scott had followed the conventional career of a naval officer in peacetime Victorian Britain, where opportunities for career advancement were keenly sought after by ambitious officers. 

It was the chance for personal distinction that led Scott to apply for command of the "Discovery". His name became associated with the Antarctic, his field of work for the final twelve years of his life.

During this second venture, Scott led a party of five which reached the South Pole on 17 January 1912, only to find that Roald Amundsen's Norwegian expedition had got there first. On the return journey, Scott and his four comrades died from exhaustion, starvation and extreme cold.

After his death, Scott became a British hero, a status he kept for more than 50 years. In a more sceptical age at the end of the 20th century, the legend was reassessed. Attention focused on the causes of the disaster, and whether Scott was responsible. Scott became a figure of controversy, with questions raised about his competence and character. 

In particular, Scott's decision to take ponies and motorised sleds, as well as dogs, was a disaster. The ponies proved almost useless, and the sleds (which worked well at the start) eventually froze up. The dogs, of which there were far too few, were left behind on the final attempt on the Pole. Scott's instructions to the men he left at the base camp were unclear. They did not know whether they should use the dogs to rescue Scott's party when they were overdue. The final group of four died on the way back, after running into a blizzard which stopped their progress.

A widespread view is that his reluctance to rely on dogs, despite the advice of expert ice travellers, was a critical factor. It lost him the race to the pole and, ultimately, the lives of his party. Amundsen, on the other hand, had plenty of dogs. When food ran short, he was able to kill a couple of dogs to feed the men and the rest of the pack.

One author thought there was "devastating evidence of bungling", and that "Scott doomed his companions, then covered his tracks with rhetoric" (in his diaries and letters).
Commentators in the 21st century have, so far, regarded Scott more positively.


</doc>
<doc id="267413" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267413" title="Standard state">
Standard state

The standard state is a common way for measuring properties of chemicals. Standard state normally is room temperature (25°C) and normal atmospheric pressure (14.7 psi). Normally when no temperature or pressure is given, standard state is implied. If an article says "bromine is a liquid" it means bromine is a liquid in the standard state.


</doc>
<doc id="267414" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267414" title="Tellurium trioxide">
Tellurium trioxide

Tellurium trioxide, also known as tellurium(VI) oxide is a chemical compound. Its chemical formula is TeO. It contains tellurium and oxide ions. It contains tellurium in its +6 oxidation state.

Tellurium trioxide can come in two forms. There is a yellow-red form and a gray form. The yellow red form is more reactive. It is a powerful oxidizing agent. It reacts with strong bases to make tellurates. It releases oxygen to turn into tellurium dioxide when heated. 

It is made by taking the water from telluric acid. The gray form can be made from this by reacting the yellow-red form with sulfuric acid and air.



</doc>
<doc id="267416" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267416" title="Sons of Liberty">
Sons of Liberty

The Sons of Liberty were a group of people in Boston at the time of the American Revolution. They were lead by Samuel Adams, James Otis, and Paul Revere. They were in favor of rights of colonial Americans, which meant they often did not like the British. Some people thought the Sons of Liberty were a mob. The Sons of Liberty were the main group involved in the Boston Massacre and the Boston Tea Party.


</doc>
<doc id="267418" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267418" title="Agnes Grey">
Agnes Grey

Agnes Grey is a novel written by the English author Anne Brontë and first published in 1847. The novel is about a governess of that name and is said to be based on Anne Brontë's own experiences. It was her first novel. 
Story has happy end. Finally, Agnes married her heart friend Edward Weston and they have three children called Agnes, Mary and Edward.



</doc>
<doc id="267419" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267419" title="Category:Tellurium compounds">
Category:Tellurium compounds

Tellurium compounds are chemical compounds containing tellurium ions.


</doc>
<doc id="267423" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267423" title="The Tenant of Wildfell Hall">
The Tenant of Wildfell Hall

The Tenant of Wildfell Hall is the second and final novel by English author Anne Brontë, published in 1848 under the false name Acton Bell. Story framed as a letter from Gilbert Markham to his friend and brother-in-law. He writes about events leading to his meeting his wife. It is a classic of English literature.



</doc>
<doc id="267424" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267424" title="Poems by Currer, Ellis and Acton Bell">
Poems by Currer, Ellis and Acton Bell

Poems by Currer, Ellis, and Acton Bell was a book of poetry published together by the three Brontë sisters, Charlotte, Emily and Anne in 1846 (see 1846 in poetry). It is their first printed work.


</doc>
<doc id="267434" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267434" title="Minimum efficient scale">
Minimum efficient scale

The Minimum Efficient Scale (MES): It is the output at which a firms long run average cost curves stop falling. The size of mes relative to market demand curve has a strong influence on market structure.It can also be defined as the minimum point in U-shaped long run average cost curve.


</doc>
<doc id="267437" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267437" title="Alex Riley">
Alex Riley

Alex Riley is a English DJ, television personality and comedian. His DJ career began when he became a DJ on BBC Radio 7. Some of the shows he hosted are "The Comedy Club", "Sony Gold Award" and "Station Sound". He began his TV career performing with the city's Crucible Youth Theatre during which time he originated, and appeared in, dozens of sketches and devised pieces, as well as appearing in a number of plays and farces at the Library Theatre.

Riley then had a succession of jobs including managing an alternative shopping centre, selling aerial photographs and answering an on-air appeal for researchers on BBC TV's Top Gear programme. He is best known for "Britain's Really Disgusting Food" first aired in 2008, with a second series in 2009 and an alternative but same universe series "Britain's Really Disgusting Drink". He also acted in "Chelsea Flower Show", "Britain in Bloom", "Bigamy", "Short Circuits", "Discovery Home and Leisure", "Boys Toys", the Caravan Show, "You Know You Want To" and "Classic Car Club" among other TV shows. He also has a career as a stand-up comedian.


</doc>
<doc id="267440" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267440" title="Tellurite">
Tellurite

Tellurite is an ion. Its chemical formula is TeO. They are some of the more stable tellurium compounds. They are weak oxidizing agents. In slightly acidic conditions, it makes hydrogen tellurite, HTeO. When it is very acidic, it makes tellurous acid. They are normally made by reacting tellurium dioxide with a metal oxide. 

Tellurite is also a rare mineral. This mineral consists of tellurium dioxide. It is a yellow to white mineral. It is in areas that tend to oxidize minerals (oxidation zone). Otherwise telluride or native tellurium would be there. 



</doc>
<doc id="267451" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267451" title="Category:Muscular system">
Category:Muscular system


</doc>
<doc id="267457" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267457" title="Chiba, Chiba">
Chiba, Chiba

Chiba (千葉市 Chiba-shi) is the capital city of Chiba Prefecture, Japan.


</doc>
<doc id="267459" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267459" title="Chiba Prefecture">
Chiba Prefecture

Chiba Prefecture was established on June 15, 1873 by combining Kisarazu Prefecture and Inba Prefecture. 

Chiba borders Ibaraki Prefecture to the north at the Tone River, Tokyo and Saitama Prefecture to the west at the Edo River, the Pacific Ocean to the east and Tokyo Bay around its southern boundary. Most of Chiba lies on the hilly Boso Peninsula, a rice farming region: the east coast, known as the Ninety-Nine League Plain, is an especially productive area. The most populous zone, in the northwest of the prefecture, is part of the Kantō region that extends into the urban agglomeration of Tokyo and Saitama. The Kuroshio Current flows near Chiba, which keeps it relatively warm in winter and cooler in summer than neighbouring Tokyo.

There are thirty-six cities in Chiba Prefecture:
‡ Scheduled to be dissolved after mergers.

These are the towns and villages in each district:
Chiba is one of Japan's largest industrial areas because it has a long coastline on Tokyo Bay. After Chiba was chosen as the site for a major Kawasaki Steel factory in 1950, the prefectural government started a very large land reclamation program. They filled in the water areas to make large, new waterfront properties for factories, warehouses, and docks. Chemical production, petrochemical refining, and machine production are the three main industries in Chiba today; together, they account for forty-five percent of the prefecture's exports. In recent years, the government has funded more than eighty industrial parks to bring development further inland as well.

Chiba also has the second-highest farming output in Japan. Only Hokkaidō produces more farm products, and Chiba leads Hokkaidō in vegetable production. Seaweed is harvested in large quantities from Tokyo Bay.


Two major Japanese sport events happen in Chiba each year: the International Chiba Ekiden and the Chiba International Cross Country.

These sports teams are based in Chiba.




Most Tokyo-bound visitors going to Tokyo arriving on international flights land in Narita International Airport, which is situated in Narita in the north of the prefecture, and connected to Tokyo by the East Japan Railway's "Narita Express" and the Keisei Electric Railway's "Skyliner".

The Tokyo Disney Resort is in Urayasu near the western border of the prefecture.

There are several tourist sites on the Chiba peninsula, such as Mount Nokogiri; Kujūkuri Beach; and Onjuku beach.

Chiba is linked to Tokyo by several railway lines; the main ones are the Keiyo Line and Sobu Line. The Musashino Line connects Chiba to Saitama and northern Tokyo. Southern Chiba is connected to Kanagawa Prefecture by the Tokyo Bay Aqua-Line bridge-tunnel.

Chiba is famous for peanuts. Most of Japan's peanuts are harvested in this prefecture and are also processed into peanut oil.




</doc>
<doc id="267460" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267460" title="Chiba">
Chiba

Chiba means more than one thing.


Chiba is also a common family name in Japan.


</doc>
<doc id="267462" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267462" title="Narita, Chiba">
Narita, Chiba

Narita (成田市; -shi) is a city in Japan. It is the site of Narita International Airport.



</doc>
<doc id="267466" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267466" title="Jerzy Popiełuszko">
Jerzy Popiełuszko

Jerzy Popiełuszko (pron. jɛʐɨ popʲɛwuʂko) (Okopy, 14th of September 1947 - Włocławek, 19th of October 1984) was a Polish presbyter, killed by officers of the ministry of the interior of the People's Republic of Poland. He is treated with great respect and worship as blessed by the Catholic Church.

Born in Okopy a alone village near Suchowola, his parents were farmers, in this simple environment became grown to his vocation.
He was ordered priest the 28th of May 1972 in Warsaw by the cardinal Stefan Wyszyński. 

Until the 1980 he was priest in his home village, occupying himself mainly of the education of children and boys, since that moment began to near the movement of Polish workers and to subjects of social justice.

In his pastoral activity he took his work near the workers of steelworks, celebrating a solemn mass in the factory during a strike of the metalurgiacal workers.

Next he joined the workers of the independent trade union of Solidarność, adverse to the communist system of government. He was a anticommunist sure of his faith, and in his preachings launched criticisms to the system and invited the people to contest the system of government.

During the period of the martial law (1981 - 1983) the Catholic Church was the only force that could have a certain possibility of criticism, through the preachings during the celebration of the masses. 

The homilies and the preachings of father Popiełuszko were regularly transmitted by Radio Free Europe, that gave him a certain popularity also in another countries. 

He was initially threatened and invited to the silence by the Polish ministry of the interior, and the 13th of October 1984 he was involved in a traffic accident from which however he went out whole. 

The 19th of October 1984, of return from a pastoral service, was took away illegally and killed by three officers of the ministry of the interior, and his body was found the 30th of October in the waters of the Vistula close to Włocławek.

The notice of the murder caused disorders in Poland, and the authors of the murder - the captains Grzegorz Piotrowski, Leszek Pękala, Waldemar Chmielewski and the colonel Adam Petruszka - were judged guilty and stated punishment to 25 years of prison, but were freed as consequence of amnesty some year later.

To the funeral, taking place the 3rd of November, took part more than 400.000 persons, including the leader of Solidarność Lech Wałęsa.

His grave is aim of regular pilgrimages, from the Poland and from another countries; the 14th of July 1987 prayed on his grave also pope John Paul II.

The Catholic Church began the process of beatification in the 1997.

The 19th of December 2009 pope Benedict XVI gave formal permission for the Congregation for the Causes of Saints to issue the decree regarding "the martyrdom of Servant of God, George Popiełuszko, diocesan priest; born the 14th of September 1947 in Okopy Suchowola (Poland) and killed in hate to the faith the 20th of October 1984 in the near of Włocławek (Poland)".

The solemn mass of beatification of don Jerzy Popiełuszko has been celebrated in Warsaw Sunday 6th of June 2010, in the square that has a title of the marshal Piłsudski.





</doc>
<doc id="267468" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267468" title="Category:Beatified people">
Category:Beatified people

This category lists people who have been beatified, which is one of the steps toward becoming a saint in the Roman Catholic Church. 


</doc>
<doc id="267488" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267488" title="Nordjyllands Trafikselskab">
Nordjyllands Trafikselskab

Nordjyllands Trafikselskab (English: North Jutland's Transport Company) is a Danish company who makes the routes of regional buses in Northern Jutland.


</doc>
<doc id="267489" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267489" title="Category:Danish companies">
Category:Danish companies


</doc>
<doc id="267495" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267495" title="Al Capone">
Al Capone

Alphonse Gabriel "Al" Capone (January 17, 1899 – January 25, 1947) was an Italian-American gangster. He led a crime syndicate in the Prohibition-era that was known as the "Capones". The Capones was known for smuggling, bootlegging liquor and prostitution in Chicago, Illinois from around the 1920s to 1931. Capone died on January 25, 1947 after he suffered a stroke. He regained consciousness and caught pneumonia and later had a fatal cardiac arrest.



</doc>
<doc id="267498" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267498" title="Tama-Plaza Station">
Tama-Plaza Station

Tama-Plaza Station (たまプラーザ駅,たまぷらーざえき) is a Railway station of Tokyu Corporation in Aoba-ku, Yokohama, Kanagawa Prefecture, Japan.




</doc>
<doc id="267502" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267502" title="Tellurium compounds">
Tellurium compounds

Tellurium compounds are chemical compounds containing tellurium ions. Tellurium comes in several oxidation states: -2, +2, +4, and +6. Tellurium chemistry is similar to selenium chemistry.

Tellurides are the most common -2 tellurium compounds. Tellurides are strong reducing agents. They are the common ores of tellurium. Most natural tellurides are not pure, so they are much less reactive.

Tellurium forms some halides in the +2 oxidation state. They are the rarest oxidation state.

Tellurium forms many compounds in the +4 oxidation states. They are weak oxidizing agents and weak reducing agents.
Tellurites are another class of +4 tellurium compounds. They are made by reacting tellurium dioxide with a metal oxide.

Tellurium forms some compounds in the +6 oxidation state. They are powerful oxidizing agents.
Tellurates are a class of +6 tellurium compounds. They are made by reacting telluric acid with metal oxides.


</doc>
<doc id="267522" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267522" title="Gloria Estefan">
Gloria Estefan

Gloria Estefan was born Gloria Fajardo in September 1957 in Havana, Cuba. She is a singer-songwriter and has won multiple Grammy Awards. Gloria is Cuban American. The singer was a member of Miami Sound Machine in the 1980s.Singer. She was born Gloria Fajardo on September 1, 1957, in Havana, Cuba. As a toddler Estefan fled Cuba with her family when Communist dictator Fidel Castro rose to power. Her father, Jos˜O Manuel Fajardo, had been a Cuban soldier and bodyguard of President Fulgencio Batista.

After coming to the United States, Fajardo was recruited into the 2506 Brigade, a Central Intelligence Agency-funded band of Cuban refugees that was involved in the unsuccessful 1961 Bay of Pigs invasion. After President John F. Kennedy negotiated the release of the captured soldiers, Fajardo rejoined his family. He eventually joined the U.S. Army and served for two years in Vietnam.

As a child Estefan liked to write poetry, and though she took classical guitar lessons, she found them tedious. She had no inkling that she would some day become a popular music star, but music played a very important role for her as a teenager.

After her father's return from Vietnam, he was diagnosed as having multiple sclerosis, possibly as a result of having been exposed to the herbicide Agent Orange while serving in the army. Estefan's mother, who had been a teacher in Cuba, worked to support the family during the day and attended school at night. Young Gloria was left to take care of her father and younger sister. She had little social life, and because she felt the weight of such responsibilities she turned to music as a release.

"When my father was ill, music was my escape," Estefan told Washington Post reporter Richard Harrington. "I would lock myself up in my room for hours and just sing. I wouldn't cry—I refused to cry...Music was the only way I had to just let go, so I sang for fun and for emotional catharsis."


</doc>
<doc id="267523" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267523" title="Lorrie Morgan">
Lorrie Morgan

Lorrie "Loretta Lynn" Morgan (June 27, 1959) is an American singer. Her first single was put out in 1978. It was not until 1989 that Lorrie began going up in the United States country charts. She was born in Nashville, Tennessee. Her albums include "Something in Red" and "Watch Me".


</doc>
<doc id="267524" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267524" title="Lee Ann Womack">
Lee Ann Womack

Lee Ann Womack was born August 19, 1966. Her place of birth is Jacksonville, Texas. She is an American country singer and songwriter. Womack has won a number of music awards for her music and singing.


</doc>
<doc id="267525" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267525" title="Sheena Easton">
Sheena Easton

Sheena Easton—aka Sheena Shirley Orr—is a Scottish singer songwriter. She was incredibly popular during the 1980s and the 1990s. She has won several Grammy Awards and had many charting singles and albums. Sheena Easton was born April 27, 1959.


</doc>
<doc id="267526" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267526" title="Cerebral palsy">
Cerebral palsy

Cerebral palsy is the name given to a number of motor problems which usually result from damage done to the brain during early childhood. The person affected often has trouble standing or walking. Those affected may also be partly paralysed. They may also suffer from other problems, such as learning difficulties, or mental retardation.


</doc>
<doc id="267527" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267527" title="Nathanael Greene">
Nathanael Greene

Nathanael Greene (August 7, 1742-June 19, 1786) was a general in the Continental Army during the American Revolution. He was from Rhode Island and was a Quaker. Before the war, he was a blacksmith and a delegate to the Rhode Island General Assembly. During the war, he commanded a fort in Boston and a wing of Washington's army during the New York, New Jersey and Philadelphia campaigns. Late in the war, Greene commanded an army in the South. After the war, he moved to Georgia, where he died of sunstroke.


</doc>
<doc id="267528" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267528" title="Category:Freemasons">
Category:Freemasons

People who have been members of the Freemasons


</doc>
<doc id="267535" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267535" title="BUNC">
BUNC

Belgian United Nations Contingent (BUNC) was the name for the Belgian and Luxembourger soldiers who volunteered to fight in the Korean War (1950–1953).


</doc>
<doc id="267536" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267536" title="Sleigh Ride">
Sleigh Ride

Sleigh Ride is an extremely popular song which is played in the holiday season of each year. The song was composed by Leroy Anderson. Sleigh Ride never mentions any holiday, except in certain versions. It has been performed by many musicians, including though not limited to The Carpenters, Johnny Mathis, Amy Grant, Air Supply, The Ronettes and Ray Conniff Singers throughout the years.


</doc>
<doc id="267540" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267540" title="Mark Rutte">
Mark Rutte

Mark Rutte (born 14 February 1967 in The Hague) is a Dutch politician. He has been Prime Minister of The Netherlands since October 2010. He is the leader of the liberal party VVD.

In 2010, Rutte won the elections with his party. He did not gain a majority in parliament, he won 31 out of 150 seats. Before he could form his government, there were four weeks of negotiations with the Christian-democratic CDA and the right-wing PVV of Geert Wilders. Wilders is not in the government, but he will support the government on several issues. These issues were discussed in those four weeks. When he was sworn in on 14 October 2010, he became the first liberal Prime Minister in the Netherlands in 92 years.

Rutte is also a teacher at a school in The Hague. 


</doc>
<doc id="267543" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267543" title="Pete Carroll">
Pete Carroll

Peter Clay Carroll (born September 15, 1951, in San Francisco, California) is the head coach and of the Seattle Seahawks, a National Football League team. He used to coach for the New York Jets, New England Patriots and the University of Southern California football team.

In his time at USC, the Trojans went to two BCS Bowl games, winning the National Championship in 2004 and winning the Pacific-10 Conference football title seven years in a row from 2002 to 2008. The 2004 BCS title was taken away from the team in 2010, but USC kept its 2003 and 2004 AP National Championships.

Carroll went to Redwood High School in Larkspur, California. Carroll played in three sports: football (playing quarterback, wide receiver and defensive back), basketball and baseball. Carroll won the school's Athlete of the Year award in 1969.

After high school, Carroll went to junior college (a two-year college) at College of Marin, where he played football for two years before changing schools to the University of the Pacific. At Pacific, Carroll played the free safety position for two years.

After graduation, Carroll tried out for the Honolulu Hawaiians of the World Football League, but did not make the team because of shoulder problems. To make money, he found a job selling roofing materials in the Bay Area, but he found he wasn't good at it and soon moved on; it would be his only non-football-related job.


</doc>
<doc id="267545" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267545" title="Religious belief">
Religious belief

A religious belief is a strong belief in a supernatural power or powers that control human destiny. Religious beliefs often are about the cause, nature, and purpose of the universe and involve devotion, ritual practices and rules which must be followed.


</doc>
<doc id="267549" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267549" title="Polychlorinated biphenyl">
Polychlorinated biphenyl

Polychlorinated biphenyls (often shortened to PCBs) are organic chemical compounds that contain chlorine atoms. They were used in industrial chemistry, and to make certain transformers, capacitors, and cooling fluids. The Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants declared them to be among the worst chemical polluants. Their use has been banned worldwide, since 2001. The mode of action of these substances is similar to that of dioxin. 

Polychlorinated biphenyls were widely used, and they can be found in the atmosphere, the soil, and the bodies of water anywhere on the earth. In the short term, these substances are not very toxic, but they accumulate in the body. They are teratogens, and may cause cancer. 


</doc>
<doc id="267550" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267550" title="Teratogen">
Teratogen

A teratogen is a substance that can cause congenital defects. This means the child is born with deformities it would not otherwise have had.

Certain Viruses, certain chemicals, and ionizing radiation can also have this effect.


</doc>
<doc id="267551" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267551" title="Mountain pass">
Mountain pass

In a group of hills or mountains, a pass is a path for crossing a mountain. It is usually a saddle point between two higher areas. Many of the world's mountain ranges have always made travel difficult so passes have been important throughout history in trade, war and migration.

A pass has the general form of a saddle between two mountains. They are often found just above the source of a river, making a sort of "bridge" over to the headwaters of another river. Passes may be very short, with steep slopes to the top of the pass, or valleys of many kilometers.

Roads and railways have been built through passes. Some high and rugged passes may have tunnels dug underneath to let traffic move faster.

The top of a pass is often the only flat ground in the area so it is often a good site for buildings. For countries whose borders lie on a mountain range, the pass is often part of the border. As well as making travel easy between valleys, passes also provide a route between two mountain tops so it is common for tracks to meet at a pass; this often makes them good routes even when travelling between a summit and the valley floor.

Some of the best known passes are Great St. Bernard Pass at in the Alps, the Khyber Pass at between Afghanistan and Pakistan, and the Khardung La at in Jammu and Kashmir, India. 



</doc>
<doc id="267552" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267552" title="Category:Mountain passes">
Category:Mountain passes

This category contains articles about Mountain passes


</doc>
<doc id="267596" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267596" title="Albrecht Böttcher">
Albrecht Böttcher

Albrecht Böttcher (born 29 December 1954 in Oberwiesenthal, Saxony, Germany) is a German mathematician. His field of research is functional analysis.

Between 1971 and 1973, Böttcher was in an elite class for mathematics at the Chemnitz University of Technology. In 1973, he won a silver medal at the International Math Olympiad in Moscow. He studied mathematics from 1975 to 1979 in Chemnitz. In 1980, he went to Rostov on Don to study and earned a PhD there in 1984. The topic of his dissertation was "The finite section method for the Wiener-Hopf integral operator". After this he worked as scientist assistance at the university of Chemnitz. Since 1992, he is professor for "harmonic analysis and Operator theory" at the Chemnitz University of Technology.

As of 2011, he is the author of seven books and about 180 papers.



</doc>
<doc id="267599" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267599" title="ATI Technologies">
ATI Technologies

ATI Technologies is a Canadian company for graphics processing units and motherboard chipsets. In 2006 ATI is was bought by AMD.



</doc>
<doc id="267600" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267600" title="Aromatherapy">
Aromatherapy

Aromatherapy is a type of alternative medicine that uses the part of plants known as essential oils. Some people think that aromatherapy helps to change a person's mind, mood or health but this has not been proven scientifically.

Some essential oils like tea tree do have an anti-microbial effect, so they may be useful for the treatment of infections. Evidence that aromatherapy works in treating disease and other conditions is poor.

The ways of using aromatherapy oils include:




</doc>
<doc id="267602" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267602" title="Sodium tellurite">
Sodium tellurite

Sodium tellurite is a chemical compound. Its chemical formula is NaTeO. It contains sodium and tellurite ions.

Sodium tellurite is a colorless solid. The tellurite ion can react with water to make sodium hydrogen tellurite, NaHTeO. It dissolves in water easily. It is a weak oxidizing agent (can be reduced to tellurium) and a weak reducing agent (can be oxidized to tellurates). It is part of the process in making tellurium. 

It is made by reacting tellurium dioxide with sodium hydroxide, or by heating a telluride in air with sodium carbonate. 

Sodium tellurite is used in making tellurium. It is also used to make electroplated nickel corrosion-resistant. It can also be used to add a bluish coating to steel. It can be used to isolate certain types of bacteria that it is not toxic to.



</doc>
<doc id="267603" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267603" title="Telluride">
Telluride

Telluride is an ion. Chemical compounds containing this ion are called tellurides. Examples are sodium telluride and hydrogen telluride. The chemical formula is Te. Tellurides are strong reducing agents. Some tellurides are impure, making them weaker reducing agents. Tellurides are the main source of tellurium in the ground. It only exists at very high pH. At lower pH's, hydrogen telluride, HTe, is made. When it is acidic (very low pH), hydrogen telluride gas is made.



</doc>
<doc id="267605" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267605" title="Tellurate">
Tellurate

Tellurate is an ion. Its chemical formula is TeO or TeO. Chemical compounds having the tellurate ion in them are called tellurates. Tellurates are strong oxidizing agents. They are similar to selenates. Sodium tellurate is an example. Tellurates react with acids to make telluric acid. 



</doc>
<doc id="267606" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267606" title="Sodium tellurate">
Sodium tellurate

Sodium tellurate is a chemical compound. It contains sodium and tellurate ions. Its chemical formula is NaTeO. 

Sodium tellurate is a white solid. It is a strong oxidizing agent. It can be reduced to sodium tellurite. It is similar to sodium selenate.

It is made by reacting telluric acid with sodium hydroxide. It can also be made by oxidizing sodium tellurite.



</doc>
<doc id="267608" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267608" title="Hydrogen telluride">
Hydrogen telluride

Hydrogen telluride, also known as hydrotelluric acid, tellane, or tellurium hydride, is a chemical compound. It is also an acid. Its chemical formula is HTe. It contains hydrogen and telluride ions.

Hydrogen telluride is a toxic reactive gas. It easily decomposes to hydrogen and tellurium. It also burns in air to make tellurium dioxide and water. It has a very bad smell of decayed garlic. It is almost as acidic as phosphoric acid. It reacts with some metals and metal oxides to make tellurides.

It is made by adding a strong acid to a telluride, such as sodium telluride.

Hydrogen telluride does not have many uses because it is very toxic and unstable.



</doc>
<doc id="267613" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267613" title="Sodium telluride">
Sodium telluride

Sodium telluride is a chemical compound. Its chemical formula is NaTe. It contains sodium and telluride ions. 

It is a white solid when pure. It reacts with air to make a mixture of tellurium and tellurides, which would make gray or purple colors. It eventually turns into sodium carbonate and tellurium when in air. It is a powerful reducing agent. It reacts with strong acids to make hydrogen telluride. It reacts with water to make sodium hydrogen telluride, NaHTe.

Sodium telluride is made by reacting tellurium and sodium in liquid ammonia. 

Sodium telluride is used to make organic tellurium compounds. It also can act as a reducing agent. 



</doc>
<doc id="267617" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267617" title="Tellurium(II) bromide">
Tellurium(II) bromide

Tellurium(II) bromide, also known as tellurium dibromide, is a chemical compound. Its chemical formula is TeBr. It contains tellurium and bromide ions. The tellurium is in the +2 oxidation state.

Tellurium(II) bromide is a green brown crystalline solid. It absorbs water from the air. 

It is made when tellurium(IV) bromide is heated in air. It can also be made by careful reduction of tellurium(IV) bromide.



</doc>
<doc id="267619" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267619" title="Tellurium(IV) bromide">
Tellurium(IV) bromide

Tellurium(IV) bromide, also known as tellurium tetrabromide, is a chemical compound. Its chemical formula is TeBr. It contains tellurium and bromide ions. The tellurium is in the +4 oxidation state.

Tellurium(IV) bromide is a yellow-orange solid. It conducts electricity when molten. It decomposes to bromine and tellurium(II) bromide when heated strongly. 

It is made by reacting tellurium with bromine.

Tellurium(IV) bromide can be used to make complexes with organic molecules.



</doc>
<doc id="267620" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267620" title="Cadmium telluride">
Cadmium telluride

Cadmium telluride is a chemical compound. Its chemical formula is CdTe. It contains cadmium and telluride ions.

Cadmium telluride is a black solid. It reacts with acids to make toxic cadmium compounds and toxic hydrogen telluride gas. It does not dissolve in water.

Cadmium telluride is used to make electricity in solar cells. It is one of the best things. It can be mixed with mercury to make mercury cadmium telluride, good in infrared detectors.



</doc>
<doc id="267621" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267621" title="Lead telluride">
Lead telluride

Lead telluride, also known as lead(II) telluride, is a chemical compound. Its chemical formula is PbTe. It contains lead and telluride ions. The lead is in the +2 oxidation state.

Lead telluride is a gray crystalline solid. It reacts with strong acids to make toxic hydrogen telluride and toxic lead salts. 

It may be made by melting lead and tellurium together.

It is used as a semiconductor and an infrared detector.



</doc>
<doc id="267622" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267622" title="Tellurium bromide">
Tellurium bromide

Tellurium bromide can refer to either of these chemical compounds:



</doc>
<doc id="267627" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267627" title="Sphalerite">
Sphalerite

Sphalerite is a mineral. Its is a mixed zinc and iron sulfide. The chemical formula is (Zn,Fe)S. It can be brown, yellow, red, green, and black. It is normally found with galena, a lead ore. It is also known as zinc blende. It has a Mohs hardness of 3.5 to 4. It is the main ore of zinc. It can be shiny or dull.


</doc>
<doc id="267630" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267630" title="Vale Park">
Vale Park

Vale Park is a football stadium in Burslem, Stoke-on-Trent, England. It is the home ground of Port Vale F.C., who have played at the ground since 1950.


</doc>
<doc id="267632" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267632" title="Category:American Civil War generals">
Category:American Civil War generals

Men who were generals in the American Civil War


</doc>
<doc id="267638" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267638" title="Model rocket">
Model rocket

A model rocket is a miniature rocket. They are not launched by the government or a space program. They are used by people interested in rockets. They are normally made of light (not heavy) materials. Even though it seems dangerous, it is quite safe and is a way many people start getting interested in rockets and space exploration. Rocket motors come in many different sizes, and they are indicated by a code on the motor. There are also many ways for the rocket to fall back down after it is ignited. Some of them use parachutes.


</doc>
<doc id="267641" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267641" title="Guide">
Guide

Guides are people who lead people in countries that have not been mapped. This includes people of the real world (such as a person who helps travellers and tourists through a place), as well as a person who leads someone to more unusual places (such as to knowledge or wisdom).


</doc>
<doc id="267659" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267659" title="Template:NFL Head Coaches">
Template:NFL Head Coaches


</doc>
<doc id="267660" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267660" title="Blast furnace">
Blast furnace

A blast furnace is a special type of furnace. It is very tall - up to 60 m - and can be up to 15 m by its diameter. Blast furnaces are used on making iron from ore. In many languages the blast furnace is called as "high oven". The blast furnace is the biggest chemical reactor which there is.

It normally is a steel case with bricks made of magnesia lining it. Magnesia is very heat resistant and does not melt. The furnace is cooled with water running inside the channels of the case and lining.

The ironmaking process is simple. Ore is basically iron oxide, so iron is produced by taking the oxygen off the iron, leaving crude iron called "pig iron" left. This process, where oxygen is stripped off its compounds, is called reduction. The reducing agent is carbon, as it can easily strip the oxygen off the ore in extremely hot temperatures.

A blast furnace is fed at the top with ore, carbon in form of coke and limestone, as layers. At the same time hot air called "wind" is blown inside the furnace with special nozzles called "tuyeres" at the bottom of the furnace. This process is called blasting, hence the name "blast furnace". The coke ignites and burns, creating carbon monoxide as there is too little oxygen to make carbon dioxide. The carbon monoxide then reduces the metal oxide to the metal and makes carbon dioxide. This process is used to make iron. The limestone forms a substance called slag with the rock substance of the iron ore.

When the bottonmost part of the furnace called "hearth" has filled with molten pig iron and molten slag, the iron is drained away. First the slag is removed. This is called "skimming". Slag is lighter than iron and floats on it. A hole is drilled on the hearth at the level of the slag and the liquid slag runs into a collecting vessel called "slag pot". The iron is then collected. This is called "tapping". Similarly a hole is drilled on the bosh and the liquid pig iron is let run away. It is either run directly into a converter for steelmaking, collected into a special railway wagon called "torpedo car" or cast into molds. When all the pig iron has been drained, the taphole and skimhole are then plugged with fire-resistant clay, which solidifies immediately in the immense heat.

The furnace is again fed with ore, coke and limestone and the reaction cycle begins again. Normally a blast furnace can work continuously for 10 to 20 years. This is called "campaign".

Pig iron contains some carbon and is too hard and brittle to be used right on. It must first be refined into steel for further use. This is made in special furnaces called converters.


</doc>
<doc id="267664" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267664" title="Wloclawek">
Wloclawek

Włocławek is a town in northern Poland with a population of 117,785 (June 2009). It has a large Jewish community. In 1939, when the Nazis invaded, the Jewish people of this town were the first to have to wear yellow Stars of David.

This town is twinned with the following places:


</doc>
<doc id="267667" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267667" title="Hurricane Carla">
Hurricane Carla

Hurricane Carla was one of two Category 5 tropical cyclones. It hit the Texas shore in the 1961 Atlantic hurricane season as a Category 4 hurricane, becoming one of the most powerful storms to ever strike the United States. Hurricane Carla was the second strongest storm to ever hit the Texas shore. The storm caused over $2 billion (2005 US dollars) in damages, but because over 500,000 people who lived there moved out only 43 were killed.

A tropical depression started in the western Caribbean Sea on September 3 from a disturbance in the Intertropical Convergence Zone. It moved northwestward, to become Tropical Storm Carla on the 5th and "Hurricane" Carla on the 6th. After touching the Yucatán Peninsula as a weak hurricane, Carla moved into the Gulf of Mexico and headed for the U.S. Gulf Coast.

As it moved slowly across the Gulf of Mexico, Carla got stronger to its peak of 175 mph (280 km/h) winds (Category 5 intensity) on September 11. Just before landfall, it weakened, but Carla was still a very strong and unusually large Category 4 hurricane when it touched the shore between Port O'Connor and Port Lavaca, Texas, on the 11th. At the time, Carla became the largest hurricane on record in the Atlantic basin. Along the whole Texas shore, hurricane warnings were given, and people were moved out of their homes in low-lying areas.

Storm surge was measured at 22 feet (6.6 m) near the heads of bays, in some places reaching 10 miles inland. Because of its large size, the whole Texas shore was hit, and damage was seen as far away as Dallas. Winds were reported to be 115 mph in Matagorda, 110 mph in Victoria and 88 mph in Galveston. Wind gusts as high as 170 mph were recorded at Port Lavaca. Pressure at landfall was measured at 931 mb (hPa), making it the eighth most intense hurricane to strike the United States in the 20th century. Then little-known newsman Dan Rather reported live from the Galveston Seawall during the storm, an act that would be imitated by later reporters. This marked the first live television broadcast of a hurricane.
Much of the damage was done well away from the landfall site, as Carla caused one of the largest hurricane-related tornado outbreaks on record at the time, when 26 tornadoes touched down within its circulation. One F4 tornado ripped through downtown Galveston, killing several (sources differ on the exact number, varying from 6 to 12). Outside the protection of the Galveston Seawall, structures on the island were severely damaged by storm surge. Damage was reported as far east as the Mississippi River delta.

As Carla weakened, it dropped heavy rain in the Midwest , causing some flooding.

Carla killed 43 people, 31 of them in Texas. The low number of deaths was due to what was then the largest movement of people out of their homes in US history except during a war. One half million people moved inland from exposed coastal areas. Carla caused a total of $325 million (1961 USD, $2.36 billion 2010 USD) in damage, not much considering Carla's strength at landfall.

Owing to the intensity of and destruction by the storm, the name Carla was retired, and will never again be used for an Atlantic hurricane. It was replaced by Carol in the 1965 season.




</doc>
<doc id="267680" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267680" title="Shimane Prefecture">
Shimane Prefecture

Shimane prefecture (島根県 "Shimane-ken") is in the western Chugoku region of the main Japanese island Honshu. It has the second smallest population of any prefecture in Japan.

Shimane Prefecture is in Chugoku and is part of the San'in area. San'in means "the shady side of the mountains". There is a mountain range separating Shimane and neighboring Tottori from Hiroshima and Okayama. That means that the weather here is much wetter than further to the south.

The history of Shimane starts with Japanese mythology. In these myths, the Shinto god Ōkuninushi lived in Izumo, an old province in Shimane. Izumo Shrine honors this god. The current Shimane prefecture was divided into three parts: Iwami, Izumo, and Oki. That lasted until the the han system was stopped in 1871. 

Later on in the Kamakura period, the Kamakura Shogunate forced Emperor Gotoba and Emperor Godaigo into exile on Oki Island. Emperor Godaigo got away from Oki and successfully fought back against the shogunate.

During the Muromachi period, many clans fought over this area because there was a lot of silver. The Kyogoku clan controlled Izumo and Oki. However, after the Ōnin War, the Amago clan in Gassan-Toda castle increased in power, and the Masuda clan controlled Iwami. Iwami Ginzan Silver Mine was in between Amago clan territory and Masuda clan territory, so there were many battles between these lords for the large amount of silver. However, in 1566 Mori Motonari conquered Izumo, Iwami, and Oki. After over 30 years of Mori control, in 1600 Horio Yoshiharu entered Izumo and Oki after the Battle of Sekigahara which Mori lost. Horio Yoshiharu decided to move and build Matsue Castle instead of Gassan-Toda. The castle was completed soon after Yoshiharu's death. Later in 1638, the grandson of Tokugawa Ieyasu, Matsudaira Naomasa entered the castle because the Horio clan had no heir. Matsudaira's family ruled until the end of the han system. 

The Iwami area was split into 3 clans. The mining district was under direct control of the Shogunate. The Hamada clan and the Tsuwano clan each controlled their own areas. Iwami Ginzan produced silver and was one of the nation's largest silver mine by the early 17th century. The Hamada clan was on the shogunate's side in the Meiji Restoration, and the castle was burned down. The Tsuwano clan, despite the Matsudaira (relative of the shogun) rule was on the emperor's side in the restoration.




Shimane Prefecture: Introduction to Shimane 


</doc>
<doc id="267683" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267683" title="Matsue, Shimane">
Matsue, Shimane

Matsue (松江) is a city in Japan on the Japan Sea coast. It is the capital of Shimane Prefecture. It is known for its historic castle and as the home of Lafcadio Hearn.


</doc>
<doc id="267688" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267688" title="Ōnin War">
Ōnin War

The was a civil war in Japan. It lasted 10 years (1467 - 1477) during the Muromachi period. Hosokawa Katsumoto and Yamana Sōzen had a conflict that grew into a war throughout the country. The Ashikaga shogunate and some daimyo in many regions of Japan were fighting in this war. 

The war started the Sengoku jidai,or "the Warring States Period". This period was a very long struggle for control by individual daimyo. Different houses made huge efforts to dominate all of Japan. Three powerful individuals emerged during this time. These great daimyo of the Sengoku Period eventually united Japan under one government. They were Oda Nobunaga, Toyotomi Hideyoshi, and Tokugawa Ieyasu.


</doc>
<doc id="267702" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267702" title="Jonny Wilkinson">
Jonny Wilkinson

Jonathan Peter Wilkinson OBE is an English rugby union player. He was born on 25 May 1979 in Frimley, Surrey.

He played for England when the team won the 2003 Rugby World Cup. He was awarded the MBE in 2003 and then the OBE in 2004. 


</doc>
<doc id="267703" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267703" title="Poul Anderson">
Poul Anderson

Poul William Anderson (November 25, 1926 – July 31, 2001) was an American science fiction author. He began his career during the Golden Age of the genre and continued to write and remain popular into the 21st century. Anderson also wrote books of fantasy, historical novels, and a very large number of short stories. He received many awards for his writing, including seven Hugo Awards and three Nebula Awards.

Anderson received a degree in physics from the University of Minnesota in 1948. He married Karen Kruse in 1953. They had one daughter, Astrid, who is married to the science fiction author Greg Bear. Anderson was the sixth President of Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America, starting in 1972. He was a founding member of the Society for Creative Anachronism. Robert A. Heinlein dedicated his 1985 novel "The Cat Who Walks Through Walls" to Anderson and eight of the other members of the Citizens' Advisory Council on National Space Policy.

Poul Anderson died of cancer on July 31, 2001, after a month in the hospital. Several of his novels were published after his death.


</doc>
<doc id="267714" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267714" title="Roblox">
Roblox

Roblox is a MMOG (massively multiplayer online game) virtual playground and workshop designed for children aged six and over which was founded in 2006. Players can build games with virtual plastic building blocks. "Roblox" users can use Lua 5.1. To help build the places they create they use a simple version of Lua 5.1. Roblox is part of the TRUSTe privacy program and the Better Business Bureau.


</doc>
<doc id="267730" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267730" title="Template:Chem">
Template:Chem


</doc>
<doc id="267731" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267731" title="Template:Chem/1">
Template:Chem/1

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="267732" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267732" title="Template:Chem/19">
Template:Chem/19

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="267733" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267733" title="Template:Chem/2">
Template:Chem/2

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="267734" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267734" title="Template:Chem/20">
Template:Chem/20

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="267735" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267735" title="Template:Chem/disp00A">
Template:Chem/disp00A


</doc>
<doc id="267736" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267736" title="Template:Chem/disp0A0">
Template:Chem/disp0A0

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="267738" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267738" title="Template:Chem/dispA00">
Template:Chem/dispA00

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="267739" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267739" title="Template:Chem/dispA0A">
Template:Chem/dispA0A

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="267740" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267740" title="Template:Chem/dispAAA">
Template:Chem/dispAAA

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="267741" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267741" title="Template:Chem/doc">
Template:Chem/doc

<br clear="all">
This template, , serves to simplify the writing of chemical formulae. For example,

will yield:

Algebraic expressions are rendered as subscripts (but must not contain upper case letters).

gives

Ion charge superscripts (for: +/-) are also supported:

yields a "+" as superscript:

Simultaneous subscripts/superscripts are automatically handled (use a hyphen for the minus sign):

gives "2-" as superscript:

The first parameter can be used for mass number.

gives:

The first two parameters can be used for mass number and atomic number.

gives:


The optional parameter link changes the formula into a link. For example:

will yield:

For linking individual elements can be linked in the following manner.

gives 


<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="267742" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267742" title="Template:Chem/initial00">
Template:Chem/initial00


</doc>
<doc id="267743" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267743" title="Template:Chem/initial0A">
Template:Chem/initial0A


</doc>
<doc id="267744" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267744" title="Template:Chem/initialA">
Template:Chem/initialA


</doc>
<doc id="267745" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267745" title="Template:Chem/initialA0">
Template:Chem/initialA0


</doc>
<doc id="267746" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267746" title="Template:Chem/initialAA">
Template:Chem/initialAA


</doc>
<doc id="267747" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267747" title="Template:Chem/sign">
Template:Chem/sign

<includeonly>0</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="267748" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267748" title="Template:Chem/su-1m2">
Template:Chem/su-1m2

<includeonly></sup></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="267749" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267749" title="Template:Chem/su0m1">
Template:Chem/su0m1

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="267750" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267750" title="Template:Chem/su1m1">
Template:Chem/su1m1

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="267751" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267751" title="Template:Chem/type">
Template:Chem/type

<includeonly>A</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="267758" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267758" title="Blimp">
Blimp

A blimp is a kind of airship.

Some airships have a structure in them. Blimps have no structure in them.

Blimps were used by the United States in WWII to fight against submarines.

Blimps are now used mostly for advertising.


</doc>
<doc id="267759" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267759" title="Balloon (aircraft)">
Balloon (aircraft)

A balloon is a kind of aircraft that stays in the sky by floating. People fly in balloons mostly for fun.

A balloon is different from an airship. An airship is a floating aircraft that has an engine and can change its direction of movement. A balloon has no engine and has no way to change its direction of movement. A balloon travels by moving with the wind.

The bottom of the balloon is called the "basket" where people can sit or stand.

The top of a balloon is a big cloth bag called the "envelope".

There are three kinds of balloon aircraft:



</doc>
<doc id="267763" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267763" title="Benoît Mandelbrot">
Benoît Mandelbrot

Benoît Mandelbrot (20 November 1924 14 October 2010) was a French-American mathematician. Mandelbrot is best known for his works with fractal geometry. He lived and worked until his death in the United States. He was a professor at the University of Yale. 

Mandelbrot was born in Warsaw, Poland and died at the age of 85 in Cambridge, United States of America.

His most known development is the Mandelbrot set, which he discovered and described in 1979.


</doc>
<doc id="267769" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267769" title="Echolocation">
Echolocation

Echolocation is a way that bats locate objects around them. Whales and dolphins are two other kinds of mammals that use echolocation. Their sound waves go through the water, while the bats' sound waves go through the air.


</doc>
<doc id="267787" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267787" title="Greg Bear">
Greg Bear

Gregory Dale Bear (born August 20, 1951) is an American science fiction author. He has written about war across the galaxy, artificial universes, consciousness, and evolution.

Bear was born in San Diego, California. From 1968 to 1973 he attended San Diego State University, where he received a Bachelor of Arts degree. In 1975, he married Christina M. Nielson, but they divorced in 1981. He remarried in 1983, to Astrid Anderson, the daughter of science fiction author Poul Anderson. They have two children, Erik and Alexandra. They live outside of Seattle, Washington.

Bear is often called a hard science fiction author because he uses many scientific details in his work.

Bear often answers major questions in contemporary science and culture with fictional solutions. For example, "The Forge of God" tries to explain the Fermi paradox. If the galaxy is filled with intelligences that could be very dangerous, young civilizations could only survive by staying quiet so nobody would notice them and attack. In "Queen of Angels" Bear examines crime, guilt and punishment in society. He does this by examining consciousness and awareness. Part of the novel is about highly-advanced computers that begging to become intelligent and aware of themselves as they communicate with humans. In the two books "Darwin's Radio" and "Darwin's Children" he writes about the problem of overpopulation with a mutation the human genome making, basically a new series of humans. The books bring up the question of cultural acceptance of something brand new that cannot be stopped.

One of Bear's favorite themes is how observers effect or create reality. In "Blood Music" reality becomes unstable as the number of observers—trillions of intelligent single-cell organisms—gets higher and higher. Both "Anvil of Stars"—a sequel to "The Forge of God"—and "Moving Mars" propose a physics based on information exchange between particles, capable of being altered at the "bit level." (Bear has credited the inspiration for this idea to Frederick Kantor's 1967 treatise, "Information Mechanics.") In "Moving Mars" this knowledge is used to remove Mars from the solar system and transfer it to an orbit around a distant star.

"Blood Music" (first published as a short story in 1983, and expanded to a novel in 1985) has also been credited as being the first account of nanotechnology in science fiction. The short story described microscopic medical machines. He described DNA as a computer system that could be changed. In "Queen of Angels" and "Slant", Bear gives a detailed description of a near-future nanotechnological society. This historical sequence continues with "Heads"—which may contain the first description of a "quantum logic computer"—and with "Moving Mars". These books also show the historical development of self-awareness in AIs. One AI character called Jill is in all of these books. Bear was influenced by Robert A. Heinlein's self-aware computer Mycroft Holmes ("High-Optional, Logical, Multi-Evaluating Supervisor") in "The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress" when creating Jill.

More recent works, such as the two novels Darwin's Radio and Darwin's Children stick closely to the known facts of molecular biology of viruses and evolution. These books are about the impact of a strange disease that appears to make evolutionary transitions happen. Bear includes some very speculative ideas, but he wrote about them so carefully that "Darwin's Radio" gained praise in the science journal "Nature".

Bear, Gregory Benford, and David Brin wrote a series of three novels that take place before Isaac Asimov's famous "Foundation" series. Bear is named as the author of the second of the three books.

While most of Bear's writing is science fiction, he also wrote in other genres. Two of his early works, "The Infinity Concerto" and "The Serpent Mage"are clearly fantasies. These are now published together as one novel called "Songs of Earth and Power". "Psychlone" is horror. Bear called his story "Dead Lines" a "high-tech ghost story." He has received many accolades, including five Nebula awards and two Hugo awards for science fiction.

















</doc>
<doc id="267789" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267789" title="Category:Nebula Award winning authors">
Category:Nebula Award winning authors

This category includes people who have won the Nebula Award for writing science fiction.


</doc>
<doc id="267808" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267808" title="Keigo Higashi">
Keigo Higashi

Keigo Higashi (born July 20, 1990) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Oita Trinita.

23||2||3||0||2||1||28||3
23||2||3||0||2||1||28||3



</doc>
<doc id="267809" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267809" title="Serval">
Serval

The serval is a species of wild cat that lives in Africa. It is the highest jumper of all cats relative to its body size. It feeds mostly on rodents, such as mice and rats, although it has been known to catch birds while they are flying in the air. Using its spectacular jumping ability, the serval leaps into the air and bats the bird with its front paws. When the bird is on the ground, it bites its neck, killing it. The serval has been known to breed with the domestic cat, creating a hybrid called the Savannah Cat. Savannah Cats are very intelligent and reportedly act like dogs. They can be on a leash and even be trained to play fetch.


</doc>
<doc id="267811" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267811" title="0.999...">
0.999...

0.999... is one of the ways the number 1 can be written.

0.999... is a repeating decimal, which means the digit "9" is repeated forever. It is different from 0.999, which only has three 9s.

0.999... can also be written as
formula_1,
formula_2 or
formula_3,

It is hard for many people to understand why 0.999... is the same as 1. There are many proofs that show why they are the same number, but many of these proofs are very complex.

One simple way of showing that 0.999... and 1 are the same thing is to divide them both by the number 3. When 0.999... is divided by 3, the answer is 0.333..., which is the same as (the fraction one third).

When 1 is divided by 3, the answer is . Since the answers are the same, that means that 0.999... and 1 are the same. Another way of thinking about it is if = 0.333... and = 0.666..., then = 0.999... = 1. There are many other ways of showing this.

As the Internet developed, arguments about 0.999... are often on newsgroups and message boards. Even newsgroups and message boards that do not have much to do with math argue about this. In the newsgroup sci.math, arguing about 0.999... is a "popular sport". It is also one of the questions in its FAQ.



</doc>
<doc id="267825" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267825" title="Ophthalmosauridae">
Ophthalmosauridae

Ophthalmosauridae were a family of Ichthyosaurs which lived from the Middle Jurassic to the Upper Cretaceous period.

Within Ophthalmosauridae there are two lineages, one including "Aegirosaurus" and "Ophthalmosaurus", and the other including "Brachypterygius", "Caypullisaurus" and "Platypterygius".

Only three genera survived the end-Jurassic extinction event: "Caypullisaurus", "Maiaspondylus", and "Platypterygius". They did, however, have a worldwide distribution. The last to survive was "Platypterygius". This genus became extinct about 30 million years before the end of the Upper Cretaceous period. It happened when there was a deep ocean anoxic event, which wiped out all the animals below pelagic waters. Ichthyosaurs, being reptiles, came to the surface to breath, but the extinction event removed their prey species.


</doc>
<doc id="267827" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267827" title="Anoxic event">
Anoxic event

Anoxic events occur when the Earth's oceans become completely depleted of oxygen (O) below the surface levels. They may be called Oceanic anoxic events or Deep ocean anoxic events.

Anoxic events have happened. Although anoxic events have not happened for millions of years, the geological record shows that they happened many times in the past. 

Anoxic events may have caused mass extinctions. These mass extinctions were so characteristic that they have been used by geologists as markers in biostratigraphic dating. It is believed oceanic anoxic events are strongly linked to climate warming and greenhouse gases.

There are several places on earth today that show the features of anoxic events on a localized level. 'Dead zones' exist off the East Coast of the United States in the Chesapeake Bay, in the Scandinavian strait Kattegat, the Black Sea, in the northern Adriatic and off the coast of Louisiana. 
Typically, oceanic anoxic events last for under half a million years, before a full recovery.





</doc>
<doc id="267839" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267839" title="Metriacanthosaurus">
Metriacanthosaurus

Metriacanthosaurus is a genus of theropod dinosaur that lived in Europe during the Middle Jurassic period, about 160 million years ago. Its name means "Moderate-spined lizard", because its back vertebrae are taller than other meat-eating dinosaurs such as "Allosaurus", but shorter than those of other meat-eating dinosaurs, such as "Acrocanthosaurus". Like most theropods, "Metriacanthosaurus" was a meat-eater. It had three fingers on each hand. Each finger ended in a sharp, hook-like claw that was used to grab prey before giving the killing bite with its jaws. It probably preyed on the large, long-necked sauropods, such as "Pelorosaurus", that lived in the same time and place as it. It was originally classified as a megalosaurid, but recent studies show that it belongs to its own family, the Metriacanthosauridae
In "Jurassic Park", one of the vials of dinosaur DNA that Dennis Nedry steals is labeled "Metriacanthosaurus". However, this may refer to either "M. parkeri" or "Yangchuanosaurus shangyouensis", which Gregory S. Paul then classified as a species of "Metriacanthosaurus".


</doc>
<doc id="267842" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267842" title="Acrocanthosaurus">
Acrocanthosaurus

Acrocanthosaurus was a genus of theropod dinosaur that lived in North America during the Early Cretaceous period. Its name means "High-spined lizard", referring to the spines on its vertebrae that formed a sail or hump when the animal was alive. Its classification is uncertain. It was originally classified as a spinosaurid, because the spines on its back resembled those of "Spinosaurus". However, "Acrocanthosaurus" is now classified as a carnosaur. Most paleontologists believe that it was a carcharodontosaurid. However, some alternatively classify it as a member of the Allosauridae. "Acrocanthosaurus" was 39 feet long, almost as large as "Tyrannosaurus rex". It was the largest theropod in North America before the evolution of the tyrannosaurids. There is a famous trackway in Paluxy, Texas that shows an "Acrocanthosaurus" stalking its prey, a "Pleurocoelus". 

"Acrocanthosaurus" was featured in an episode of the television documentary "Monsters Ressurected". It was depicted as the top predator in Early Cretaceous North America. A juvenile was scared away from its kill by a pack of "Deinonychus", and was forced to hunt more difficult prey, such as a "Sauropelta".


</doc>
<doc id="267843" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267843" title="Flood basalt">
Flood basalt

A flood basalt or trap basalt is the result of a giant volcanic eruption or series of eruptions that coats large stretches of land or the ocean floor with basalt lava. 

Flood basalts have covered areas as large as a continent in prehistory, creating great plateaus and mountain ranges. Flood basalts have erupted at random intervals throughout Earth history and are clear evidence that the Earth undergoes periods of enhanced activity rather than being in a uniform steady state. 

One explanation for flood basalts is that they are caused by the combination of continental rifting and its associated melting, in conjunction with a mantle plume also undergoing decompression melting, producing vast quantities of a basaltic magma. These have a very low viscosity, which is why they 'flood' rather than form taller volcanoes. 

The Deccan Traps of central India, the Siberian Traps, and the Columbia River Plateau of western North America are three regions covered by prehistoric flood basalts. The two largest flood basalt events in historic time have been at Eldgjá and Lakagigar, both in Iceland. The largest and best-preserved continental flood basalt terrain on Earth is part of the Mackenzie Large Igneous Province in Canada. The maria on the Moon are additional, even more extensive, flood basalts. Flood basalts on the ocean floor produce oceanic plateaus.

The surface covered by one eruption can vary from around 200,000 km² (Karoo) to 1,500,000 km² (Siberian Traps). The thickness can vary from 2000 metres (Deccan Traps) to 12,000 m (Lake Superior). These are smaller than the original volumes due to erosion. 

Flood basalts originate at between 100 and 400 km depth, in the asthenosphere. To get a partial melting as large as that of the traps, expelling huge quantities of lava, it is necessary to have a large heat input. Such melting can take place near a hotspot, resulting in a mixture of magma from the depths of the hotspot with superficial magma produced by a mantle plume.


</doc>
<doc id="267844" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267844" title="Monterrey">
Monterrey

Monterrey is a city in northern Mexico. It is the capital of the state Nuevo León. It is the third largest city in Mexico, and has a population of 2,056,538.


</doc>
<doc id="267848" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267848" title="Siberian Traps">
Siberian Traps

The Siberian Traps form a large region of volcanic rock, known as a large igneous province, in the Russian region of Siberia. 

The massive eruptions which formed the traps were one of the largest known volcanic events of the last 500 million years of Earth history. They continued for a million years and spanned the Permian-Triassic boundary, about 251 to 250 million years ago. It was the same time as the Permian–Triassic extinction event, which is estimated to have killed 90% of species existing at the time. The eruption of the Siberian Traps is a possible cause of this "Great Dying".

The term "traps" is derived from the Swedish word for stairs ("trappa", or sometimes "trapp"), referring to the step-like hills forming the landscape of the region, which is typical of flood basalts.

Vast volumes of basaltic lava paved over a large expanse of primaeval Siberia in a flood basalt event. Today the area covered is about 2 million km² – roughly equal to western Europe in land area – and estimates of the original coverage are as high as 7 million km². The original volume of lava is estimated to range from 1 to 4 million km³.

The source of the Siberian Traps basalt was, probably, a mantle plume at the base of the crust which erupted through the Siberian craton (the oldest part of the Siberian continental plate). Helium isotope analysis from the basalts indicates a plume origin. The scientific debate continues. There is a minority controversial theory which argues that the traps were caused by a large asteroid impact.

This massive eruptive event spanned the Permian-Triassic boundary, about 250 million years ago, and is widely cited as a cause of the Permian-Triassic extinction event. This extinction event, also called the Great Dying, affected all life on Earth, and is estimated to have killed 90% of species living at the time. Life on land took 30 million years to recover from the environmental disruptions caused by the eruption of the Siberian Traps.

The Siberian Traps are considered to have erupted through numerous vents over a period of a million years or more, probably east and south of Norilsk in Siberia. The giant Norilsk nickel-copper-palladium deposit formed within the magma flows in the main Siberian Traps. The presence of extensive tuff and pyroclastic deposits suggests that a number of large explosive eruptions occurred during or before the eruptions of basaltic lavas. The presence of silicic volcanic rocks such as rhyolite is also indicative of explosive eruptions.




</doc>
<doc id="267851" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267851" title="College of Marin">
College of Marin

The College of Marin is a community college in Marin County, California, U.S., with two campuses, one in Kentfield, and the second in Novato.


</doc>
<doc id="267868" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267868" title="Tellurium(II) chloride">
Tellurium(II) chloride

Tellurium(II) chloride, also known as tellurium dichloride, is a chemical compound. Its chemical formula is TeCl. It contains tellurium in its +2 oxidation state. It also contains chloride ions. 

Tellurium(II) chloride is a black solid. It absorbs water. It can be oxidized to tellurium(IV) chloride. It reacts with water.



</doc>
<doc id="267870" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267870" title="Tellurous acid">
Tellurous acid

Tellurous acid is a chemical compound. It is also an acid. Its chemical formula is HTeO. It contains hydrogen and tellurite ions.

It can be made by reacting tellurium dioxide with water. It is not made as easily as telluric acid. 

It is a weak oxidizing agent and a weak reducing agent. It easily turns back into tellurium dioxide and water. It is a weak acid. It reacts with bases to make tellurites.



</doc>
<doc id="267871" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267871" title="Tellurium(IV) chloride">
Tellurium(IV) chloride

Tellurium(IV) chloride, also known as tellurium tetrachloride, is a chemical compound. Its chemical formula is TeCl. It contains tellurium in its +4 oxidation state. It also contains chloride ions.

Tellurium(IV) chloride is a pale yellow solid. It melts easily to a red liquid. It evaporates easily. It reacts with water to make tellurium dioxide and hydrochloric acid. It is toxic and corrosive.

Tellurium(IV) chloride is made by reacting tellurium powder and chlorine.

It is used in making organic compounds.



</doc>
<doc id="267873" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267873" title="Tellurium chloride">
Tellurium chloride

Tellurium chloride may refer to either of these chemical compounds:



</doc>
<doc id="267875" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267875" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Accredited Higher Education Institutions in Serbia">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Accredited Higher Education Institutions in Serbia


</doc>
<doc id="267878" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267878" title="U.S. Route 78">
U.S. Route 78

U.S. Route 78 is an east-west highway. It goes from Memphis, Tennessee to Charleston, South Carolina.


</doc>
<doc id="267880" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267880" title="Kim Clijsters">
Kim Clijsters

Kim Clijsters is a Belgian tennis player. She used to be ranked as the World No. 1. As of 22 August 2011 she is ranked third in the world.


</doc>
<doc id="267881" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267881" title="U.S. Route 25">
U.S. Route 25

U.S. Route 25 is a US highway in the east part of the United States of America. It goes from north to south. The road begins in Cincinnati, Ohio, at the Ohio River and ends in Brunswick, Georgia, close to the Atlantic Ocean.


</doc>
<doc id="267882" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267882" title="Asheville, North Carolina">
Asheville, North Carolina

Asheville is the county seat of Buncombe County, North Carolina. The population of Asheville was counted in 2000 as 74,543.


</doc>
<doc id="267883" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267883" title="Category:County seats in North Carolina">
Category:County seats in North Carolina


</doc>
<doc id="267888" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267888" title="June Cleaver">
June Cleaver

June Cleaver is a literary reference meaning "the perfect stay-at-home mom" referring to the mother in the U.S. television show "Leave it to Beaver" which was released from 1957 to 1963. Women writers viewing the show sometimes had difficulty living up to or agreeing with such a feminine mystique. June Cleaver is often referred to in remarks justifying a messy home such as “June Cleaver made having a spotless house look so effortless . . .” The character was played by actress Barbara Billingsley, a life-long resident of Los Angeles county, California, U.S.A.


</doc>
<doc id="267894" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267894" title="Jack Tweed">
Jack Tweed

Jack Tweed (b. 9 June 1987) is a British television personality. 

Tweed started his career as Jade Goody's partner. He became widely known in 2007 after being on "Celebrity Big Brother UK". He caused controversy when he called housemate Shilpa Shetty a "cunt" and "Paki" and said that she should remove objects from the toilet with her teeth. After "Celebrity Big Brother", Goody miscarried his child in 2007. He married her on 22 February 2009 and she died of cervical cancer a month later. He appeared in 2010 ITV2 programme "The Only Way Is Essex". In 2010, he had a relationship with Chanelle Hayes. 
Tween has had several legal issues. These include a prison sentence for ABH for attacking a 16 year old boy with a golf club in December 2006. He was found guilty of common assault for attacking a taxi driver in May 2008. He was charged with the rape of a 19 year old woman but the court said that he did not do it. In 2011, he was charged with common assult again after he punched a man. 


</doc>
<doc id="267899" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267899" title="Quadrilateral">
Quadrilateral

A quadrilateral is a shape with four sides and four corners. Sometimes, they are called quadrangles or tetragons. The word quadrilateral is made of the words quad (meaning "four") and lateral (meaning "of sides").


</doc>
<doc id="267904" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267904" title="Yangchuanosaurus">
Yangchuanosaurus

Yangchuanosaurus was a genus of theropod dinosaur from the Upper Jurassic of China. 

It was the largest member of the family Sinraptoridae. It was a fairly typical carnosaur, with a large head, sharp, serrated teeth, and relatively short arms (though not as short as those of "Tyrannosaurus"). 

"Yangchuanosaurus" probably preyed on sauropods, such as "Mamenchisaurus", or stegosaurs, such as "Tuojiangosaurus". 

There are two known species, "Y. shangyouensis" and "Y. magnus". In 1988, in his book "Predatory Dinosaurs of the World", Gregory S. Paul classified "Yangchuanosaurus" as a species of "Metriacanthosaurus". However, this classification was not adopted by other paleontologists and has since been abandoned. 


</doc>
<doc id="267906" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267906" title="Pelorosaurus">
Pelorosaurus

Pelorosaurus conybeari is the name given to a few sauropod dinosaur bones from the Lower Cretaceous period, about 138–112 million years ago. 

Bones of "Pelorosaurus" have been found in England and Portugal. It was a Brachiosaurid, and had front legs that were longer than its hind legs, like "Brachiosaurus". 

The name has been challenged, and has been the subject of long-lasting dispute. Some palaeontologists prefer the name Cetiosaurus brevis.

The taxonomic status of "Pelorosaurus" is as a result very problematic. Technically, "Cetiosaurus brevis" is its type species. The position of "Pelorosaurus" is further undermined by the fact that several researchers hold that the genus is a "nomen dubium" ('doubtful name').

"Pelorosaurus" was one of the first dinosaurs described, and the naming procedures were not so well-developed at the time. Its life-style is assumed to be similar to other brachiosaurs, eating from the higher branches of tall conifer trees.


</doc>
<doc id="267918" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267918" title="Pope Leo X">
Pope Leo X

Pope Leo X (11 December 1475 – 1 December 1521), born Giovanni di Lorenzo de' Medici, was an Italian priest of the Roman Catholic Church and the 218th Pope from 1513 to his death in 1521. 

Giovanni de Medici was born in Florence. He was the second son of Lorenzo the Magnificent.

He studied theology and canon law at Pisa from 1489 to 1481.

Six days after his election as pope in 1513, Medici was ordained as a priest.

Two days after his ordination and eight days after his election as pope in 1513, Medici was made a bishop.
At the age of 13, Pope Innocent VIII named Medici cardinal in 1489.

Cardinal Medici was elected pope on 9 March 1513. On the 15 March he was ordained priest, and he was consecrated as bishop on March 17. He was crowned Pope on 19 March at the age of 37.

Pope Leo was involved in Italian and European political disputes.

Leo was a patron of Michelangelo and Raphael.




</doc>
<doc id="267920" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267920" title="Crumpet">
Crumpet

A crumpet is a kind of flat, small round bread that is raised by yeast. They are about the same size as an English muffin. They are made in crumpet rings that are four inches wide and usually one inch deep. Crumpets are usually baked on a griddle and served toasted. A well-baked crumpet has a brown bottom and a spongey top that has many tiny holes. Crumpets are toasted whole, while English muffins are split and then toasted. After the baking, crumpets are spread with butter or cream and jam. 

The word of crumpet may come from the Middle English word "crompid" (cake), or "curled" (cake). Or it may come from the past participle of the Middle English verb "crumpen", which means to curl up. It could also have come from "crumb", "crump", or "crooked", all Old English. Crumpet is also used as British slang for a particularly sexually attractive woman. It Australian slang, it is part of the expression: "not worth a crumpet", meaning that somebody or something is useless.

The first recipe for crumpets was long ago, referred to frequently as the "crompid cake" by many. The Oxford English Dictionary traced the history back to 1382.

The Oxford Companion to Food also says that the earliest published recipe for crumpets was by Elizabeth Raffald, in 1769. There, the "crompid cake" is mentioned as well with buckwheat griddle cakes so it is believed that there is a connection between crumpets and the buckwheat pancake.

Elizabeth Raffald mentions it in her book of "The Experienced English Housekeeper". Her recipe is very similar to the modern crumpet recipe, especially in the baking, buttering, and serving.


</doc>
<doc id="267929" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267929" title="Edam cheese">
Edam cheese

Edam is a type of Dutch cheese. It is named after the town that it comes from, Edam in the Netherlands. Edam cheese is pale yellow. It is often sold in round pieces, covered in red paraffin wax. Edam that is sold in the Netherlands (and not exported) does not usually have wax on it.


</doc>
<doc id="267933" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267933" title="The Night Angel Trilogy">
The Night Angel Trilogy

The Night Angel Trilogy is a series of fantasy novels written by Brent Weeks. The first book in the series, "The Way of Shadows", was published in October 2008, and the third book, "Beyond the Shadows", was published in December 2008.



</doc>
<doc id="267956" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267956" title="Template:Greenwood&amp;Earnshaw1st">
Template:Greenwood&amp;Earnshaw1st


</doc>
<doc id="267959" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267959" title="Taylor Chorney">
Taylor Chorney

Taylor Chorney (born April 27, 1987) is a professional ice hockey defenceman for the Oklahoma City Barons of the American Hockey League (AHL).

He was drafted by the Edmonton Oilers with the 36th overall pick in the 2005 NHL Entry Draft. He previously played at the University of North Dakota. He also was on Team USA at the 2006 World Junior Championships. Chorney represented the USA again in the 2007 World Juniors, where he was team captain. He made his NHL debut on April 10, 2009 against the Calgary Flames. He recorded his first NHL point in his first game of the 2009-10 season, by assisting one of Zack Stortini's two goals on October 12, 2009 on the road against the Nashville Predators.

His father, Marc, played 210 games in the NHL for the Pittsburgh Penguins and Los Angeles Kings.



</doc>
<doc id="267987" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267987" title="Homology">
Homology

A homologous trait is any characteristic which is derived by evolution from a common ancestor. This is contrasted to analogous traits: similarities between organisms that were evolved separately. 

The term existed before 1859, but got its modern meaning after Darwin established the idea of common descent.
The pre-Darwinian naturalists Cuvier, Geoffroy and Richard Owen, also used the idea.

According to Russell, we owe to Richard Owen the first clear distinction between homologous and analogous organs. Owen's definitions were:

The distinction is made clear by examples such as the ear ossicles of mammals. These little bones have, in the course of several hundred million years of evolution, made their way from the gill covers of fish to the rear jaw bones of Synapsids to their present position in the ear of mammals. In the fossil record is evidence of this, and also in embryology. As the embryo develops, the cartilage hardens to form bone. Later in development, tiny bone structures break loose from the jaw and migrate to the inner ear area.

This rather extraordinary story was first proposed nearly two hundred years ago by Geoffroy, who looked at fish and tried to discover the homologies of their bones with that of land vertebrates.

"A trait may be both homologous and analogous", depending on the level at which the trait is examined. For example, the wings of birds and bats are homologous as "forearms" in tetrapods. However, they are not homologous as "wings", because the organ served as a forearm (not a wing) in the last common ancestor of tetrapods. 

By definition, any homologous trait defines a clade—a monophyletic taxon in which all the members have the trait (or have lost it secondarily); and all non-members lack it.


A homologous trait is often called a homolog (also spelled homologue). In genetics, the term "homolog" is used both to refer to a homologous protein, and to the gene (DNA sequence) encoding it.


</doc>
<doc id="267997" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267997" title="Body Volume Index">
Body Volume Index

The Body Volume Index is a proposed alternative to the Body Mass Index (BMI). The BMI is used as an indicator for weight problems such as being overweight or underweight. The BMI puts a persons total weight in relation to their height. This measure does not take into account where on the body the mass is located. Recent studies have shown the limitations of BMI as an indicator of individual health risk.

The BVI was made in 2000 as an alternative to the BMI. With the data, a computer should be able to check whether a person is obese. The BVI measures the BMI, the circumference of the waist, and the waist-hip-ratio. 

The BVI is used on a 3D full body scanner to determine the health risk of the person scanned. Using the scanner, the BVI can differentiate between people with the same BMI, but with a different shape or weight distribution. The BVI is currently being tested in different hospitals in the US and Europe; a two-year project was started to see whether it would be as useful as the BMI.

The BMI can be measured manually, using the height and weight of a person. The BVI is calculated automatically based on data from the 3D scanner. The total weight or total fat content are not used. Scienmtific studies showed that fat content of the abdomen, and "mass" around it pose a greater health risk. This fact is commonly known as central obesity. A full body surface scanner determines the three-dimensional outline of a person's exterior surface, so that computation can be used to calculate the part volumes and the part body composition of that person. BVI makes an inference as to the body's distribution of fat and weight using complex and detailed Body Composition data. 

Most body scanners take a number of images from different angles. Different lighting as well as patterns projected onto the body are used to determine the body shape and the distribution of the weight in the body of the patient.


</doc>
<doc id="268000" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268000" title="Template:Infobox element">
Template:Infobox element


</doc>
<doc id="268001" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268001" title="Template:NavPeriodicTable">
Template:NavPeriodicTable


</doc>
<doc id="268002" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268002" title="Template:NavPeriodicTable/Elementcell">
Template:NavPeriodicTable/Elementcell


</doc>
<doc id="268004" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268004" title="Template:Infobox element/headers">
Template:Infobox element/headers

background-color: #; color: #

</doc>
<doc id="268005" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268005" title="Template:Infobox element/doc">
Template:Infobox element/doc

Be sure to maintain the formatting and order.

<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="268006" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268006" title="Discovery Channel">
Discovery Channel

The Discovery Channel is a television channel about science, history, and nature. It has programs such as "Man vs. Wild", "A Haunting", "The Last Day of the Dinosaurs", "MythBusters", and "Dirty Jobs".


</doc>
<doc id="268007" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268007" title="The Last Day of the Dinosaurs">
The Last Day of the Dinosaurs

The Last Day of the Dinosaurs is a 2010 Discovery Channel television documentary about the extinction of the dinosaurs. It portrays the asteroid as the cause of the extinction.


In the Pacific Northwest of North America, a "Quetzalcoatlus" is flying above the landscape, looking for food. It finds a nest of "Tyrannosaurus" babies that have just hatched. It picks them up in its beak and starts eating them. Suddenly, the father appears and starts fighting the "Quetzacoatlus". He grabs it by the wing, but it manages to escape. 

Meanwhile, the asteroid is getting closer to Earth. The narrator says that it was caused by the collision of two asteroids 150 million years ago. One of the fragments is heading towards Earth.

In the Pacific Northwest, two male "Triceratops" fight for mating rights. One of them wins. The loser walks away. Suddenly, two "T. rexes" attack and kill the "Triceratops". They start feeding on its carcass.

In what is today central Mexico, a herd of "Alamosaurus" is roaming the plains in search of food. They are giants, even by dinosaur standards. They are 60 feet long and 40 feet tall, and they weigh 30 tons. Their huge size demands that they eat a lot of vegetation to maintain their bulk. Meanwhile, the asteroid enters the Earth's atmosphere. It is burning brighter than a million suns. The scorching light sears the "Alamosaurus"' eyeballs, blinding them. 

Then the asteroid hits the Earth in the Gulf of Mexico, near the Yucatan Peninsula. In a fraction of a second, it disentegrates into the planet. The air temperature near the crash site now reaches 600 degrees Fahrenheit. The "Alamosaurus" are burned alive. In the Pacific Northwest, the "Quetzalcoatlus" can see the impact.

Meanwhile, Mongolia is 8,000 miles away from the point of impact. A herd of "Charonosaurus" is drinking at a watering hole. They are protecting their eggs. Suddenly, a "Troodon" appears. Its brain-to-body weight ratio is among the highest of any dinosaur. It steals an egg, but is seen by the mother. It runs into a cave. A second "Saurornithoides" is in the cave. The two predators start chasing the "Charonosaurus". They jump on its neck and slash with their retractable toe claws, killing their prey. Then they start feasting on the carcass.

Millions of tons of dust and rock were thrown up into the air by the asteroid's impact. This is the ejecta cloud. In Mongolia, the ejecta cloud causes the temperature to become hotter. As the air temperature reaches 120 degrees, the "Troodons" run inside the cave. The temperature ticks upward every second. The "Charonosaurus" go into the cave. Inside the cave, it is cooler. However, the "Charonosaurus" and "Troodon" are forced to share the cave with each other, even though they are enemies.

Back in the Pacific Northwest, fires burn across the forest floor at 9 miles per hour. The "Tyrannosaurus" and the "Triceratops" are running to get away from the fire. The panicked animals race up the valley slopes. 

In Mongolia, the temperatures are finally starting to decrease. The "Troodon" run outside and start feeding on a "Charonosaurus" corpse. Soon, the "Charonosaurus" follow. However, one stays near the protection of the cave. However, the dinosaurs are not safe yet. The ejecta cloud has caused a huge sandstorm. As it hits, the "Troodons" are small enough to crouch for cover. But the "Charonosaurus" are out in the open. The harder they struggle and the deeper they gasp for oxygen, the more sand fills their lungs, until finally, they can't breathe. It's hours before the winds die down. The last "Charonosaurus", protected once again by the cave, finds that it's the last of the herd. But it's not the last remaining dinosaur in the neighborhood. The "Troodons" were sheltered from the worst of the storm. They have survived.

Instinct drives the "Troodon" back to their prime hunting spot, the watering hole, where the last remaining "Charonosaurus" is drinking. The "Troodon" are desperate for food. One of them has the confidence to attack. The "Troodon" runs to the"Charonosaurus" and leaps on it. It starts slashing at its neck. The "Charonosaurus" is still too exhausted to run. Suddenly, the "Charonosaurus" crashes to the ground, crushing the "Troodon" to death under its weight. The remaining "Troodon" starts eating the dead body of its companion.

A week after impact, food is in very short supply across the entire planet. In the Pacific Northwest, two "Triceratops" are searching for food. Their hunger drives them to the Pacific coast. They see an island. Protected from the fires by the surrounding ocean, the island is lush and green. It has all the food that the "Triceratops" need. But when the asteroid hit the Earth, it caused an earthquake under the ocean. This causes a huge tsunami. The ocean is dragged back hundreds of feet. The path to the island is suddenly dry land. The "Triceratops" walk across the land bridge to the island. However, the tsunami crashes down on them, flooding the land. The "Triceratops" drown.

In the days and weeks that follow, few dinosaurs remain. In Mongolia, the starving "Charonosaurus" stays close to the cave that has saved it twice in the past. Suddenly, it collapses, but not from starvation. Bubbling to the surface from hot springs is one of nature's most toxic gases; Hydrogen Sulfide. The "Troodon" runs up to the dead "Charonosaurus". Then it too dies from inhaling the poisonous gas.

In the Pacific Northwest, only a handful of dinosaurs patrol the gray wasteland. An "Ankylosaurus", severely weakened by hunger, is searching for food. All it can find is a small bush. But even that won't come without a fight. A "Triceratops" roars at the "Ankylosaurus". Suddenly, a "T. rex" appears. It roars at the herbivores. Then it kills the "Triceratops". The "Ankylosaurus" tries to defend itself with its heavy tail club, but it's too weak to fight. The "Tyrannosaurus" flips the "Ankylosaurus" over and bites its soft underbelly, killing it. Then the "Tyrannosaurus" collapses from hunger. It falls on the "Triceratops"' horn and is impaled by it. 

In Mexico, the first region to be hit by the asteroid, life still remains. Buried in the cool ground inside its egg, an "Alamosaurus" baby has survived. And so has an adult "Alamosaurus". All around the world, small handfuls of dinosaurs try to start over. But their species are already considered extinct. In order to survive, any species needs to maintain a critical mass of population. If it falls below that threshold, then there's no way to climb back from certain extinction.

But life on Earth isn't completely destroyed. Out of the ruins, nature starts over. A group of animals that have long been limited in success by the dinosaurs now become the new rulers of the Earth: mammals. Eventually, they multiply and diversify. 10,000 species explode across the planet. And one species, humans, branches off from its relatives and comes down from the trees. They walk on two legs, evolve bigger brains, and eventually, they rule the planet. They build cities that touch the sky, vehicles that can leave the planet, and weapons that can destroy it.

In the end, the narrator says that humans would never have existed if a chance collision in space 150 million years ago hadn't occurred, sending an asteroid hurtling towards Earth and dooming the dinosaurs to extinction.






</doc>
<doc id="268009" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268009" title="Charonosaurus">
Charonosaurus

Charonosaurus was a genus of hadrosaur that lived at the very end of the Upper Cretaceous, about 65 million years ago. Its remains wer found in China. It is very similar to "Parasaurolophus" from North America, suggesting that a Bering land bridge existed during the Cretaceous period.

"Charonosaurus" was featured in the Discovery Channel television documentary The Last Day of the Dinosaurs, where it was the prey of "Troodon".


</doc>
<doc id="268012" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268012" title="Dinosaur brains and intelligence">
Dinosaur brains and intelligence

Dinosaur brains and intelligence are sometimes points of contention for paleontologists. Dinosaurs were once regarded as stupid animals but it is now realised that some of the smaller carnivores had above average intelligence for reptiles. This newfound optimism for dinosaur intelligence led to exaggerated portrayals in works like Jurassic Park.

Brain size usually increases with body size in animals (is positively correlated), i.e. large animals usually have larger brains than smaller animals. The relationship is not linear however. Generally, small mammals have relatively larger brains than big ones. Mice have a direct brain/body size ratio similar to humans (1/40), while elephants have comparatively small brain/body size (1/560), despite elephants being obviously quite intelligent animals.

The formula for the curve varies, but is usually given as Ew(brain) = 0.12w(body). As this formula is based on data from mammals, it should be applied to other animals with caution. For some of the other vertebrate classes the power of 3/4 rather than 2/3 is sometimes used, and for many groups of invertebrates the formula may give no meaningful results at all.

Intelligence in animals is hard to establish, but the larger the brain is relative to the body, the more brain weight might be available for more complex cognitive tasks. The EQ formula, as opposed to the method of simply measuring raw brain weight or brain weight to body weight, makes for a ranking of animals that coincide better with observed complexity of behaviour. Mean EQ for mammals is around 1, with carnivorans, cetaceans and primates above 1, and insectivores and herbivores below. It also puts humans at the top of the list. The relationship between brain-to-body mass ratio and complexity of behaviour is not perfect as other factors also influence intelligence, like the evolution of the recent cerebral cortex and different degrees of brain folding, which increase the surface of the cortex, which is positively correlated to intelligence in humans.

Traditional comparisons of brain volume to body mass in dinosaurs have estimated brain size as the volume of the endocast. However, the brain of the modern reptile genus "Sphenodon" fills only about half of its endocranial volume. Some paleontologists used this fifty percent estimate in their estimates of dinosaur brain volume. Other workers have observed that details on the endocranial surface indicates that some fossil reptiles had brains that occupied a much larger portion of the endocranium. Larsson notes that the transition from reptiles to birds prevents using a set ratio from being a valid approach to estimating the volume of the endocranium occupied by a dinosaur's brain.

Adding difficulty is the wide range of estimates for live mass. One study estimated that the live masses for many dinosaur genera had a four-fold range. Larsson laments that "[t]he broad ranges of body mass estimates, combined with the ambiguous ratio of endocranial volume occupied by the brain, present a high degree of uncertainty for [creating an] index of brain size". Consequently, he attempted to minimize errors by making a different kind of comparison.

While it is difficult to estimate the absolute volume of the brain, the proportions of its various regions of the brain should be the same in the endocast as it was in the live brain. Larsson's study compared the ratio of the cerebrum, which is clearly marked on the inside of skulls, to the rest of the endocast's volume. According to Larsson, his technique is superior to traditional comparisons of brain volume to estimated live body mass.

Most dinosaurs, and most theropods, had brains no better than present-day reptiles, so far as can be estimated. In a 2001 study of a "Carcharodontosaurus saharicus" endocast, Hans Larsson found that both "C. saharicus" and "Allosaurus" had a ratio of cerebrum to brain volume that was very similar to non-avian reptiles. By contrast, the "Tyrannosaurus" ratio was slightly in the direction of a more bird-like proportion. Since tyrannosaurs are relatively basal coelurosaurs, this is evidence that the advent of the Coelurosauria marks the beginning of a trend in theropod brain enlargement.

"Troodon"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s cerebrum-to-brain-volume ratio was 31.5% to 63% of the way from a nonavian reptile proportion to a truly avian one.

"Archaeopteryx" had a cerebrum-to-brain-volume ratio 78% of the way to modern birds.

The method used for Larsson's comparison was not the EQ, but a ratio of the size of the cerebrum to the whole brain. The cerebrum is chiefly responsible for what might be called 'intelligent behaviour'.

The brains of dinosaurs were generally much like other reptiles in their proportions. The exception is the coelurosaurs, which had cerebra proportionately larger than most reptiles, but proportionately smaller than modern birds.


</doc>
<doc id="268059" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268059" title="Tellurium(IV) iodide">
Tellurium(IV) iodide

Tellurium(IV) iodide, also known as tellurium tetraiodide, is a chemical compound. Its chemical formula is TeI. It contains tellurium in its +4 oxidation state. It also contains iodide ions. 

Tellurium(IV) iodide is a black solid. It breaks down when heated to tellurium(II) iodide and iodine. It is a weak reducing agent. It conducts electricity when melted.

It is made by reacting tellurium with iodine or by reacting tellurium with iodomethane, CHI.



</doc>
<doc id="268061" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268061" title="Tellurium(IV) fluoride">
Tellurium(IV) fluoride

Tellurium(IV) fluoride, also known as tellurium tetrafluoride, is a chemical compound. Its chemical formula is TeF. It contains tellurium in its +4 oxidation state. It also contains fluoride ions.

Tellurium(IV) fluoride is a white solid. It reacts with water to make tellurium dioxide and hydrofluoric acid. It reacts with many metals when heated.

It is made by reacting tellurium dioxide with sulfur tetrafluoride. It can also be made by reacting cold fluorine with tellurium. Another way is reacting selenium tetrafluoride with warm tellurium dioxide. Fluorine can also react with tellurium(II) chloride or tellurium(II) bromide to make tellurium(IV) fluoride. 



</doc>
<doc id="268064" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268064" title="Tellurium(IV) oxide">
Tellurium(IV) oxide

Tellurium(IV) oxide, also known as tellurium dioxide, is a chemical compound. Its chemical formula is TeO. It contains tellurium in its +4 oxidation state. It also contains oxide ions.

Tellurium(IV) oxide can be yellow or white. The white form is the manmade form. The yellow form is natural, also known as tellurite. The manmade form is most common in chemical reactions. At high pressure, the manmade white form turns into the yellow form. It melts at a high temperature to make a red liquid.

Tellurium(IV) oxide does not dissolve in water. It reacts with concentrated sulfuric acid. It can react with many strong acids and powerful oxidizing agents. It can also react with strong bases. It makes one's breath smell like garlic when it is eaten.

Tellurium(IV) oxide is made by burning tellurium in air.

It is used in devices that can convert light into sound. It can make glass with special properties. 

It can cause birth defects. It also makes bad breath.



</doc>
<doc id="268066" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268066" title="Tellurium oxide">
Tellurium oxide

Tellurium oxide can refer to either of these chemical compounds.



</doc>
<doc id="268067" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268067" title="Tellurium acid">
Tellurium acid

Tellurium acid can refer to any of these acids containing tellurium ions:



</doc>
<doc id="268070" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268070" title="Tellurium(VI) fluoride">
Tellurium(VI) fluoride

Tellurium(VI) fluoride, also known as tellurium hexafluoride, is a chemical compound. Its chemical formula is TeF. It contains tellurium in its +6 oxidation state. It also contains fluoride ions. It is the oldest known tellurium fluoride.

Tellurium(VI) fluoride is a colorless gas. It condenses to a white solid when made cold. It has a very bad smell. It is very toxic. It is similar to selenium hexafluoride, even though it is less volatile (not as easily evaporated). It reacts with water to make telluric acid and hydrofluoric acid. It reacts with tellurium under to make tellurium tetrafluoride. 

It is made by reacting hot fluorine with tellurium. Cold fluorine gas makes tellurium tetrafluoride. It can also be made by reacting fluorine with tellurium trioxide. Another way to make it is reacting selenium tetrafluoride and tellurium dioxide to make tellurium tetrafluoride, which is heated above to make tellurium hexafluoride and tellurium. 



</doc>
<doc id="268071" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268071" title="Tellurium fluoride">
Tellurium fluoride

Tellurium fluoride can refer to either of these chemical compounds:



</doc>
<doc id="268073" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268073" title="Avram Glazer">
Avram Glazer

Avram "Avi" Glazer is the Chairman of Manchester United


</doc>
<doc id="268075" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268075" title="Telluric acid">
Telluric acid

Telluric acid is a chemical compound. It is an acid. Its chemical formula is HTeO. It contains hydrogen and tellurate ions. It contains the TeO form of the tellurate ion.

Telluric acid is a weak acid. It reacts with strong bases to make tellurates. It is a powerful oxidizing agents. It can be dehydrated to make tellurium trioxide. The metatelluric acid, HTeO, does not exist. 

Telluric acid can be made by reacting tellurium dioxide with chromium trioxide or hydrogen peroxide. 

It is used to make other tellurates such as sodium tellurate.



</doc>
<doc id="268078" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268078" title="Electrical resistivity">
Electrical resistivity

Electrical resistivity is a concept in electrical engineering. It is a measure of how much an electrical conductor stops the flow of electricity through it. Most metals have a very low electrical resistivity. The SI uses the ohm metre for measuring how much electrical resistivity there is.


</doc>
<doc id="268083" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268083" title="Manzanar">
Manzanar

Manzanar was the name of a Japanese American internment camp in California. It was located near Lone Pine, California, in the desert near Death Valley. Thousands of people were kept there; most of them were Japanese people from Los Angeles. The camp opened in 1942 and was closed in 1945. Today, the camp is a National Historic Site.


</doc>
<doc id="268087" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268087" title="Philip Gunawardena">
Philip Gunawardena

Don Philip Rupasinghe Gunawardena (11 January 1901 – 26 March 1972) introduced Trotskyism to Sri Lanka. He studied in the United States and picked up liberal ideas there.


</doc>
<doc id="268090" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268090" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Banhammer">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Banhammer

 () "has nominated this page for deletion for the reason:"


"Please discuss this deletion below, but keep in mind that and that there may be options that are not just "keep" or "delete", such as merging."

This request is due to close seven days after it was filed; that is on approx. Tuesday, 26 October 2010 at 3:59 pm, although it may be closed more quickly due to .<br><br>


</doc>
<doc id="268094" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268094" title="Have Yourself a Merry Little Christmas">
Have Yourself a Merry Little Christmas

Have Yourself a Merry Little Christmas is an extremely popular Christmas song that is played every holiday season. The words were written by Ralph Blane and the music by Hugh Martin in 1943. The song was first introduced by Judy Garland in the 1944 movie, "Meet Me In St. Louis". A modified version was introduced by Frank Sinatra who felt the original was too sad for his 1957 album, "A Jolly Christmas". It has also been recorded by many other performers including Christine Aguilera, Demi Lovato and the Pretenders. In 2007 ASCAP listed the song at number three in the 25 most played holiday songs.


</doc>
<doc id="268095" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268095" title="Hurricane Diane">
Hurricane Diane

Hurricane Diane was really devastating to the East Coast of the US during 1955. The storm caused severe destruction and an unusually severe death toll. Diane was among several hurricanes which bashed the East Coast during 1955, the others being Connie and Ione. The name Diane was later retired.


</doc>
<doc id="268096" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268096" title="Martha Stewart">
Martha Stewart

Martha Stewart (born August 3, 1941 is an American entrepreneur, author, and media personality. Stewart is famous for the Martha Stewart Living TV show and magazine. In 2004, she was convicted of obstructing justice and lying to investigators about a stock sale. She served five months in a West Virginia prison. She was on ABC but moved to another channel.


</doc>
<doc id="268097" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268097" title="Paul Edwards (composer)">
Paul Edwards (composer)

Paul Christison Edwards (born ) is an English organist and composer of music for the Anglican Church. 
Paul Edwards spent his childhood in the village of Turvey in Bedfordshire. He liked church music, especially the sound of the big organ in the church at Turvey. He became a chorister at St Paul’s Cathedral for four and a half years and then spent the same amount of time as lay clerk at Peterborough Cathedral. He has been organist and choir master at several churches in Bedfordshire, including All Saints, Turvey and St. Paul's Church, Bedford. He works as a teacher, piano accompanist and choral singer .

Edwards has made a series of recordings of interesting old organs of North Bedfordshire. He has transcribed and edited ten volumes of 18th century "English Organ Music". The list of all his compositions has 450 opus numbers. They include about 150 hymn tunes and a large number of anthems. Many of these works have been published in collections including "Hymns for Today’s Church", "Psalms for Today" and "Carols for Today". His carol "No Small Wonder", written in 1983 was published in "Carols for Today" in 1986 and was recorded on LP by Canterbury Cathedral Choir. It was sung at the famous Nine Lessons and Carols service broadcast on the BBC Television by the Choir of King's College, Cambridge in 2000 . His music has been recorded on several CDs.

Edwards finds inspiration for his compositions in the English countryside, especially that of Norfolk He also enjoys driving and photographing busses and coaches.



</doc>
<doc id="268101" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268101" title="Opus">
Opus

Opus is Latin for "work".


</doc>
<doc id="268102" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268102" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Computer prank">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Computer prank


</doc>
<doc id="268103" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268103" title="Lay clerk">
Lay clerk

A lay clerk, also known as a lay vicar, is a term used in the United Kingdom to describe a male singer who sings in a cathedral choir or a choir belonging to a college of one of the large traditional universities. A lay clerk is usually paid for the job. When he is called "lay vicar" the term "vicar" comes from the Latin word "vice" (meaning "deputy"). A lay vicar is not in holy orders (he is not a priest). Today there are a few female lay clerks, e.g. in Dublin.

The term "layman" was used in the Middle Ages for a chorister who sings some of the music that was too difficult for the priests to sing. Today many of the lay clerks in places such as Oxford or Cambridge combine their work as layclerk with studying at University. It is similar to a scholarship for studying.


</doc>
<doc id="268110" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268110" title="Richard Owen">
Richard Owen

Sir Richard Owen KCB (Lancaster, 20 July 1804–18 December 1892) was an English biologist, comparative anatomist and palaeontologist.

Owen is probably best remembered today for coining the word "Dinosauria" (meaning 'Terrible Reptile'), and for his outspoken opposition to Charles Darwin's theory of evolution by natural selection. 

Owen was the driving force behind the establishment, in 1881, of the British Museum (Natural History) in London.

Owen's technical descriptions of vertebrates were important. His "Comparative Anatomy and Physiology of Vertebrates" (3 vols. London 1866–1868) was a standard reference work for many years.

His career was tainted by accusations that he failed to give credit to the work of others and even tried to appropriate it under his own name.

Owen credited himself and Georges Cuvier with the discovery of the "Iguanodon", completely excluding any credit for the original discoverer of the dinosaur, Gideon Mantell. This was not the first or last time Owen would deliberately claim a discovery as his own, when in fact it was not. Owen was finally dismissed from the Royal Society's Zoological Council for plagiarism.
Owen was highly critical of Darwin's "On the Origin of Species", in part because Darwin did not refer much to the previous scientific theories of evolution. Instead, Darwin compared the theory of evolution by natural selection with the unscientific theory in the Bible. 

Owen, in Darwin's opinion, was "Spiteful, extremely malignant, clever; the Londoners say he is mad with envy because my book is so talked about". "It is painful to be hated in the intense degree with which Owen hates me". 

Owen was also a party to the threat to end government funding of the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew botanical collection (see Joseph Dalton Hooker):

In the first part of his career Owen was regarded rightly as one of the great scientific figures of the age. In the second part of his career his reputation slipped. This was not solely due to his underhanded dealings with colleagues; it was also due to the serious errors of scientific judgement which were discovered and publicized. A fine example was his decision to classify man in a separate sub-class of the Mammalia (see Thomas Henry Huxley). In this Owen had no supporters at all. Also, his unwillingness to come off the fence concerning evolution became increasingly damaging to his reputation as time went on. 

Owen continued working after his official retirement at the age of 79, but he never recovered the good opinions he had got in his younger days.


</doc>
<doc id="268112" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268112" title="Ashcroft v. Al-Kidd">
Ashcroft v. Al-Kidd

Ashcroft v. Al-Kidd is a 2011 case decided, in a 5-3 ruling, by the U.S. Supreme Court. It was a civil law suit filed in federal court challenging the holding of Muslim-Americans after the September 11 attacks.
A young man named Lavoni T. Kidd was a prominent football player at the University of Idaho. He is an American citizen. While at college, Kidd converted to Islam and adopted the name Abudulla al-Kidd. The police arrested Al-Kidd in 2003 as he was boarding a flight to Saudi Arabia, where he planned to study. He was held for 15 nights under the federal material-witness statute (a law that allows police to hold people who are going to testify in court) because he was to testify in the trial of Sami Omar Al-Hussayen. FBI Director Robert S. Mueller told Congress that al-Kidd's capture was one of the FBI's "success" stories. Al-Kidd was never charged with a crime or called as a witness. He was later released.

Al-Kidd went to court suing John Ashcroft who was U.S. Attorney General from 2001 to 2005. Al-Kidd alleges that he was strip-searched, shackled, interrogated without a lawyer present, and treated as a terrorist. The American Civil Liberties Union lawyers who represent al-Kidd claim that he is one of 70 Muslim men who were similarly treated.

Aschroft claims that he has "absolute immunity" from such civil suits. In other words, because he was acting within the scope of his duties as Attorney General, nobody can sue him about his conduct. Ashcroft also claims that he has "qualified immunity" that prevents such suits unless the official actied in violation of a clearly established constitutional right.

In 2009, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit found that Ashcroft could be sued and held personally responsible for the wrongful holding of al-Kidd. On October 18, 2010, the United States Supreme Court agreed to hear Ashcroft's appeal.
On May 31, 2011, the Supreme Court, in a 5-3 ruling along the Court's
ideological lines, stated that Al-Kidd's lawyers had not met the high
burden of proof needed to show that Attorney General Ashcroft could be
personally sued- that he was directly involved or had explicit knowledge
of the events (suggesting the matter was handled mostly by distant
subordinates). All eight Justices agreed that the Ninth Circuit should be reversed in this case. But they reached their decision for different reasons. Justice Antonin Scalia, joined by Justice Roberts, Kennedy, Thomas and Alito, wrote a majority opinion. He said that a Magistrate Judge had issued a valid arrest warrant for al-Kidd based on specific information about him. (Al-Kidd was not arrested in a general effort to sweep a large group of Muslims into jail.) A footnote in Justice Scalia's opinion gets into a fight with Justice Ginsburg about what type of "individualized suspicion" is required. Scalia does not believe that a person must be suspected of "wrongdoing", just that he is suspected. Justice Scalia found Ashcroft to be free from possible lawsuits for ordering this group of arrests:
The objectively reasonable arrest and detention of a material witness pursuant to a validly obtained warrant cannot be challenged as unconstitutional on the basis of allegations that the arresting authority had an improper motive.

Justice Kennedy, joined by Justices Ginsburg, Breyer and Sotomayor for Part I of his opinion, also would dismiss the lawsuit, noting that the Supreme Court is not deciding the validity of the Material Witness Statute in this case. Kennedy then writes alone to describe his concern that the Attorney General of the United States cannot be personally sued just because lower courts in some parts of the United States have made legal decisions opposing his policies. Justice Ginsburg, joined by Justices Breyer and Sotomayor, said the scope of the Material Witness Statute was "uncertain." They questioned whether a "law-abiding citizen" who was not suspected of wrongdoing could be sent to jail if he saw "a crime during the days or weeks before a scheduled flight abroad." They were also concerned about how al-Kidd was treated in jail. The court left al-Kidd with the right to sue his jailers for mistreating him. 

Justice Sotomayor, joined by Justices Ginsburg and Breyer, wrote that it was unnecessary to reach Constitional questions to decide the outcome of this case. Justice Kagan did not participate in the
case.


</doc>
<doc id="268120" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268120" title="Template:Irc">
Template:Irc


</doc>
<doc id="268121" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268121" title="Template:Irc/doc">
Template:Irc/doc

This template is used to give links to IRC chats. To use, type <nowiki>.

By default, the template leads to the Simple English Wikipedia's IRC channel, "#wikipedia-simple" ().

The following templates use this template to link to IRC:
<includeonly>
</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="268136" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268136" title="Brit milah">
Brit milah

Brit milah is the Jewish ritual circumcision ceremony performed on eight-day-old male babies. The foreskin is cut off from the end of the penis. The operation is carried out by a person called a "mohel", a ritual circumciser.


</doc>
<doc id="268181" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268181" title="Lithium nitrate">
Lithium nitrate

Lithium nitrate is a chemical compound. Its chemical formula is LiNO. It contains lithium and nitrate ions. 

Lithium nitrate is a colorless solid. It makes a red flame when heated. It is an oxidizing agent. It breaks down when heated into lithium oxide, nitrogen dioxide, and oxygen. 

This metal can be made by reacting lithium, lithium hydroxide, lithium oxide, or lithium carbonate with nitric acid.

Lithium nitrate is used in fireworks to make a red color. It is also used in flares.



</doc>
<doc id="268182" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268182" title="Category:Lithium compounds">
Category:Lithium compounds

Lithium compounds are chemical compounds having lithium ions in them.


</doc>
<doc id="268186" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268186" title="Lithium peroxide">
Lithium peroxide

Lithium peroxide is a chemical compound. Its chemical formula is LiO. It contains lithium and peroxide ions.

Lithium peroxide is a white solid. It gives off oxygen when heated. It is an oxidizing agent.

Lithium peroxide is made by reacting lithium hydroxide with hydrogen peroxide and removing the water.

It is used to absorb carbon dioxide on spaceships. It also releases oxygen when it absorbs carbon dioxide.

Lithium peroxide reacts violently with water to make oxygen. It also is an oxidizing agent and can catch things on fire. It is corrosive because it is basic.


</doc>
<doc id="268187" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268187" title="Wikispeedia">
Wikispeedia

Wikispeedia is a list of speed limits worldwide. It is a collaborative list that anyone can edit. Every street in the USA is represented, along with England and Australia. There are 28 million speed limits so far. 



</doc>
<doc id="268191" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268191" title="Template:Doi">
Template:Doi


</doc>
<doc id="268193" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268193" title="Adam McKay">
Adam McKay

Adam McKay is an American writer, director, actor, and comedian. He works with Will Ferrell. He was born in 1968 in Pennsylvania. He wrote several films and directed others.


</doc>
<doc id="268195" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268195" title="Earth Hour">
Earth Hour

The Earth Hour is an event organized by the WWF. It is held on the last Saturday of March every year. The WWF asks people to shut off their lights and appliances for one hour. They want to raise awareness for climate change. It was started in 2007. 


</doc>
<doc id="268196" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268196" title="Police action">
Police action

Police action is a term for the use of military forces without declaring war. Many military actions are called police actions. People do not declare war commonly any more.


</doc>
<doc id="268201" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268201" title="Martin Evans">
Martin Evans

Sir Martin John Evans (born 1 January 1941, Stroud, Gloucestershire) is a British geneticist.

His first success was with Matthew Kaufman. In 1981 they were the first to grow embryonic mice stem cells in a laboratory. 

Evans, Oliver Smithies and Mario Capecchi discovered a technique in genetic engineering. It is known as homologous recombination of transgenic DNA. This is important because the most reliable method of changing animal genomes.

The three put this to use in two more inventions: gene targeting and knockout mice, and were jointly awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 2007.


</doc>
<doc id="268203" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268203" title="Ahmed Al Safi">
Ahmed Al Safi

Ahmed Al Safi, or (احمد الصافي), is a sculptor painter born in Al Diwaniyah, Iraq in 1971.


</doc>
<doc id="268206" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268206" title="Maria Stuarda">
Maria Stuarda

Maria Stuarda is an Italian opera in three acts by Gaetano Donizetti, libretto by Giuseppe Bardari, after Friedrich Schiller's play "Maria Stuart", it was first performed in Naples, on October 18,1834, under the name of "Buondelmonte" due to censorship problems, and in its original version in Milan, on December 30, 1835. One of Donizetti's finest work, it is notable for the confrontation scene between Queen Mary, Queen of Scots and Queen Elizabeth I of England, which in real life never took place. 




</doc>
<doc id="268208" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268208" title="Poptropica">
Poptropica

Poptropica is an online video game for children ages 6 to 15.

In the game players can make users and design characters. Awards and credits are given to players for completing levels. Credits can be used to buy objects to use in the game. It was created by the author of the "Diary of a Wimpy kid" novels, Jeff Kinney. There are currently 22 islands with a twenty-third, Ghost Story Island, coming out soon. The islands are: Early Poptropica, Shark Tooth Island, Time Tangled Island, 24 Carrot Island, Super Power Island, Spy Island, Nabooti Island, Big Nate Island, Astro-Knights Island, Counterfeit Island, Reality TV Island, Mythology Island, Skullduggery Island, Steamworks Island, Great Pumpkin Island, Cryptids Island, Wild West Island, Wimpy Wonderland, Red Dragon Island, Shrink Ray Island, Mystery Train Island and Game Show Island.



</doc>
<doc id="268211" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268211" title="Collosus Mark I">
Collosus Mark I

The Collosus Mark I 1943, the world's first programmable, digital, electronic, computing devices... its follow up the Mark II was used by British codebreakers to read encrypted German Enigma codes during World War II (notably D Day)

</doc>
<doc id="268212" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268212" title="Roberto Devereux">
Roberto Devereux

Roberto Devereux is an Italian opera in three acts by Gaetano Donizetti, libretto by Salvatore Cammarano, after François Ancelot's "Elisabeth d'Angleterre", it was first performed in Naples, on October 29, 1837. It is a powerful and sweeping work and is sometimes considered one of the most "verdian" of Donizetti's operas. After almost a century of neglect, it was revived in Naples by soprano Leyla Gencer in 1964, and has since then been regularly performed, notably by sopranos Montserrat Caballé and Beverly Sills. The plot is about the love between Queen Elizabeth I of England and her favorite Robert Devereux, Earl of Essex. 




</doc>
<doc id="268228" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268228" title="Roman Wales">
Roman Wales

Roman Wales is the area of modern Wales that was under Roman Empire control.

Roman Wales was an area of south western Britannia under Roman Empire control from the first to the fifth century AD. Romans considered it to be part of "Roman Britannia". South east Wales was fully made Roman at the beginning of the fifth century.

Up to and during the Roman occupation of Britain, the native inhabitants of Iron Age Britain spoke "Brythonic" languages (a sub-family of the Celtic languages) and were regarded as Britons (or Brythons). The area of modern Wales was divided among a number of tribes, of which the Silures in modern south-east Wales and the Ordovices in central and northwest Wales were the largest and most powerful. These two tribes were the ones who put up the strongest force to the Roman invasion: Mona (the island of Anglesey) was only conquered by Gnaeus Julius Agricola in 78 AD .

The first attack on the Celtic tribes of what is now Wales was made under the legatus Publius Ostorius Scapula about 48 AD. Ostorius first attacked the Deceangli in the north-east, who appear to have surrendered with little resistance. He then spent several years campaigning against the Silures and the Ordovices. Their resistance was led by Caratacus, who had fled what is now southeast England when it was conquered by the Romans. He first led the Silures, then moved to the territory of the Ordovices, where he was defeated by Ostorius in 51 AD. Caratacus fled to the Brigantes, whose queen handed him over to the Romans.

The Silures were not going to go under Roman rule however, and waged effective warfare against the Roman forces. Ostorius died with this tribe still unconquered; after his death they won a victory over the Roman Second Augusta Legion, Legio II Augusta. There were no more attempts to extend Roman control in Wales until the governorship of Caius Suetonius Paulinus, who attacked further north and captured the island of Anglesey in 60 or 61 AD. However he was forced to stop the offensive to meet the threat from the rebellion of Boadicea. 

The Silures eventually came under Roman rule by Sextus Julius Frontinus in a series of campaigns ending about 78 AD. His successor Gnaeus Julius Agricola subdued the Ordovices and recaptured Anglesey by the beginning of 78 AD.

The Romans occupied the whole of the area now known as Wales, where they built Roman roads and Roman forts, mined gold at Luentinum and conducted commerce, but their interest in the area was limited because of the difficult geography and shortage of flat agricultural land. Most of the Roman remains in Wales are military in nature. 

The area was controlled by Roman legionary bases at Deva Victrix (modern Chester) and Isca Augusta (Caerleon), two of the three such bases in Roman Britain, with roads linking these bases to Roman auxiliary forts such as Segontium (acual Caernarfon) and Moridunum (actual Carmarthen). 

Romans are only known to have founded one town in Wales, Venta Silurum (Caerwent) in Monmouthshire, although the fort at Moridunum (Carmarthen) was later superseded by a civilian settlement. The modern-day Wales is thought to have been part of the Roman province of "Britannia Superior", and later of the province of "Britannia Secunda", which also included part of what is now the West Country of England.

The later part of the third century witnessed a new concern: defending the coast from seaborne marauders from Hibernia (actual Ireland). The response was a Saxon Shore-style fort at Cardiff and refurbishment elsewhere. 

It is not clear when the legionary garrison at Caerleon was finally withdrawn, possibly by the end of the third century, although it may have left a skeleton force there as late as the mid-fourth century. 

The military dispositions in late fourth-century Wales at Cardiff, Caernarfon, Holyhead and Caerhun seem to have been concerned with continuing incursions by Irish bands.

The remaining recognisably military posts seem to have been abandoned c.AD 393 when soldiers were needed to counteract a rebellion in Gaul. There is some evidence that troops may have been left to guard the towns of Carmarthen and Caerwent into the fifth century.

Wales was occupied by the Romans from the first century AD to the Roman withdrawal from Britain nearly four centuries later, leaving their province to develop into Sub-Roman Britain and the emergence of Wales in the Early Middle Ages.

The only city founded by the Romans in Wales is Caerwent, called Venta Silurum in 75 AD when was created, and the last place to be left by the Romans.
The town lacked substantial defences until the mid 4th century, when stone town walls were built. A small garrison may have been based in the town during that period. Large sections of the defensive walls are still in place, rising up to 5 metres (17 feet) in height in places. 

The walls have been described as ""easily the most impressive town defence to survive from Roman Britain, and in its freedom from later rebuilding one of the most perfectly preserved in Northern Europe."" 

Indeed, the Roman town remained occupied after the Roman troops left, until at least the end of the fifth century. Caerwent has been even called the possible Camelot of King Arthur, because it is located only ten miles from the Roman fort Isca Silurum (actually Caerleon), that Geoffrey of Monmouth wrote was the place of the Round Table..

Furthermore, it appears that Christian worship was already established in the town in the fifth century, and it may have had a bishop. A monastery was founded by Saint Tatheus in the 6th century, and a Christian cemetery was also established around the site of the present church.
The name "Venta" gave its name to the emerging Kingdom of Gwent, and the town itself became known as "Caer-went" or "Castra/Fort of Venta/Gwent". Tradition holds that Caradog Freichfras of Gwent moved his court from Caerwent to Portskewett during the second half of the 6th century, finishing in this way the last romanised presence in Wales.

Finally, Gwyn A. Williams argues that even at the time of the erection of Offa's Dyke (that divided Wales from medieval England) the people to its west saw themselves as "Roman", citing the number of Latin inscriptions still being made into the 8th century.



</doc>
<doc id="268239" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268239" title="Georgia Dome">
Georgia Dome

The Georgia Dome is a domed stadium. It is in Atlanta. It costs $214 million to build. It was the largest domed building in the world until 1999. It opened in 1992. It was funded by the state. It originally had AstroTurf but later FieldTurf was used. It takes up 9.19 acres of land. It can host football and basketball.


</doc>
<doc id="268270" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268270" title="New Cola">
New Cola

New Coke is a type of coke which was sold between 1985 and 1992. It's flavor is sweeter then normal Coke and more better the normal coke. It has been sold as Coke 2 in the past and altough it does not exzist worldwide it is still avalible to today as COKEc2 it is a product of the coca cola company. 
""

</doc>
<doc id="268274" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268274" title="Rock of Ages Corporation">
Rock of Ages Corporation

Rock of Ages Corporation is a company in Vermont. It mines granite, which it sells largely for use in memorials, though it also makes smaller products.

It was started in 1885, and has its headquarters in Graniteville, Vermont, which is close to Barre.

There are around 230 people who work for the company. Rock of Ages had a profit of about $800,000 in 2008.

In October 2010, another mining company, Swenson Granite Company, said it would buy Rock of Ages for $39 million.

Rock of Ages runs the largest granite quarry in the world. It is about deep, and covers about 50 acres.


</doc>
<doc id="268289" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268289" title="International PEN">
International PEN

International PEN is a worldwide association of writers. It was founded in London in 1921 to increase friendship and intellectual co-operation among writers everywhere. At first, he letters "P", "E", and "N" stood for "Poets, Essayists and Novelists". Now the group includes any other kinds of writers, such as journalists and historians.
Other goals included: to make the role of literature stronger in developing international understanding and world culture; to fight for freedom of expression; and to act as a powerful voice to help writers who are harassed, imprisoned, and sometimes killed for their views. It is the world’s oldest human rights organization.

PEN is a non-governmental organization that has a formal consultative relations with UNESCO and Special Consultative Status with the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations.

The first PEN Club was founded in London in 1921 by Catherine Amy Dawson Scott. John Galsworthy was its first President. The first members included Joseph Conrad, Elizabeth Craig, George Bernard Shaw, and H.G. Wells.

The club established these goals:

Past Presidents of International PEN have included Malcolm Afford, Alberto Moravia, Heinrich Böll, Arthur Miller, Mario Vargas Llosa, Homero Aridjis and Jiří Gruša. The current President is John Ralston Saul and the current Executive Director is Caroline McCormick.

International PEN has its headquarters in London. There are also 145 independent PEN Centers in 104 countries around the world. Each of these centers are open to qualified writers, journalists, translators, historians and others actively engaged in any branch of literature. Nationality, race, color or religion cannot effect membership.

PEN awards dozens of literary awards each year. Some examples include:


Literature, national though it be in origin, knows no frontiers, and should remain common currency among nations in spite of political or international upheavals.

In all circumstances, and particularly in time of war, works of art and libraries, the heritage of humanity at large, should be left untouched by national or political passion.

Members of PEN should at all times use what influence they have in favor of good understanding and mutual respect among nations; they pledge themselves to do their utmost to dispel race, class, and national hatreds and to champion the ideal of one humanity living in peace in the world.

PEN stands for the principle of unhampered transmission of thought within each nation and among all nations, and members pledge themselves to oppose any form of suppression of freedom of expression in their country or their community.

PEN declares for a free press and opposes arbitrary censorship in time of peace. It believes that the necessary advance of the world toward a more highly organized political and economic order renders free criticism of governments, administrations, and institutions imperative. And since freedom implies voluntary restraint, members pledge themselves to oppose such evils of a free press as mendacious publication, deliberate falsehood, and distortion of facts for political and personal ends. 

International PEN's Writers in Prison Committee works to help persecuted writers worldwide. The Writers in Prison Committee monitors the cases of over 900 writers who have been imprisoned, tortured, threatened, attacked, made to disappear, and killed for the peaceful practice of their profession. It publishes a bi-annual Case List documenting free expression violations against writers around the world. This committee was started in 1960 in response to increasing attempts to silence voices of dissent by imprisoning writers, 





</doc>
<doc id="268291" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268291" title="Liu Xia (intellectual)">
Liu Xia (intellectual)

Liu Xia (born 1959), is a painter, poet, and photographer who resides in Beijing, China. She is 
married to 2010 Nobel Peace Prize winner Liu Xiaobo.

Liu used to be a civil servant in the Beijing tax bureau. She met her husband Liu Xiaobo while part of the Beijing literary scene in the 1980s. She married Liu Xiaobo while he was in prison in a Chinese labor re-education camp between the years of 1996 and 1999.

Ms. Liu prefers to lead the solitary life of an intellectual. However, she has been forced to act for her husband in public because of he is often in prison for his activism. She has been described as her husband's "most important link to the outside world." She also personally experiences pressures from Chinese authorities for publicly voicing opinions because she is the wife of one of China's most prominent human rights advocates. Since his arrest, she the government watches her constantly. She speaks out on issues of human rights both for herself and for her husband. Although she may not want always want to, he has continued to speak publicly all during their marriage and while her husband has been in prison Despite the pressures, she attempts to keep her life normal.

Liu Xiaobo's was sent to prison for 11 years after he helped write the political manifesto 2008 called Charter 08. Liu Xia begged her husband to not participate in writing the document. At first, he did as she asked. But later, he did it anyway spent much of his time for three years writing and re-writing the document. He later got more than 300 prominent workers, Chinese Communist Party members, and intellectuals, to sign the charter. 10,000 people added their names to a charter support list on the Internet.

After it was announced that her husband had won the Nobel Peace Prize, Liu Xia said that “For all these years, Liu Xiaobo has persevered in telling the truth about China and because of this, for the fourth time, he has lost his personal freedom." She also said that she would visit him in jail and "give him a big hug". After visiting him, however, she was placed under house arrest and her mobile phone number was canceled.



</doc>
<doc id="268295" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268295" title="Jilin University">
Jilin University

Jilin University (; often abbreviated JLU or 吉大) is a national university. China's Ministry of Education controls the university directly.



</doc>
<doc id="268299" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268299" title="Down to the Countryside Movement">
Down to the Countryside Movement

The Down to the Countryside Movement () was a government plan in the People's Republic of China in the late 1960s and early 1970s. During the Cultural Revolution, anti-bourgeois thinking was very common. Mao Zedong said that richer youth from the cities would be sent to mountains or farming villages so they could learn from the workers and farmers there.

Many fresh high school graduates were forced out of the cities. They had to stay in far away areas of China. They became known as the Rusticated Youth of China Many of them lost the chance to go university. Some call them China's "lost generation." Famous authors who have written about their experiences during the movement include Nobel Peace Prize winner Liu Xiaobo, Jiang Rong and Zhang Chengzhi, both of whom went to Inner Mongolia.



</doc>
<doc id="268300" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268300" title="Hu Jintao">
Hu Jintao

Hu Jintao (born 21 December 1942, in Taizhou, Jiangsu) is now the Paramount Leader of the People's Republic of China. He has held the titles of General Secretary of the Communist Party of China since 2002, President of the People's Republic of China since 2003, and Chairman of the Central Military Commission since 2004, succeeding Jiang Zemin as the top leader of the People's Republic of China.


</doc>
<doc id="268302" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268302" title="Václav Havel">
Václav Havel

Václav Havel (), 5 October 1936 18 December 2011, was a Czech playwright, essayist, dissident and politician. He was the tenth and last President of Czechoslovakia (1989–92). He then became the first President of the Czech Republic (1993–2003). He has written over twenty plays and many non-fiction works. Many have been translated into several languages. 

Beginning in the 1960s, Havel focussed on the politics of Czechoslovakia in his work. After the Prague Spring, he became more and more active against the government. In 1977, he became famous internationally for his work on the human rights manifesto, "Charter 77". He became known as a leader of the opposition in Czechoslovakia. He was also sent to prison for these activities. The 1989, Havel became president during the "Velvet Revolution". As president, he led Czechoslovakia and later the Czech Republic to an open democracy with several political parties. His country changed greatly during the thirteen years he was president. The Czech Republic separated from Slovakia, even though Havel was against separation. The Czech Republic also joined NATO and started negotiating membership in the European Union. The country became a member of the EU in 2004. He was one of the first people to sign the Prague Declaration on European Conscience and Communism.

Václav Havel was born in Prague, Czechoslovakia on 5 October 1936. He grew up in a well-known and wealthy entrepreneurial and intellectual family. His family was active in culture and politics in Czechoslovakia from the 1920s to the 1940s. His father owned of the suburb of Barrandov. This area is the highest part of Prague. Havel's mother came from a well-known family. Her father was an ambassador and journalist. Havel completed his required education in 1951. However, the Communist government did not allow him to continue to study formally because of his bourgeois family background. In the early 1950s, the young Havel entered a four-year apprenticeship as a chemical laboratory assistant. He took evening classes at the same time and completed his secondary education in 1954. None of the colleges or universities with humanities programs would accept Havel for political reasons. Therefore, he chose to study at the Faculty of Economics of Czech Technical University in Prague. He dropped out after two years. In 1964, Havel married proletarian Olga Šplíchalová. His mother was against the marriage.

Havel was already leader of the Civic Forum, and on 29 December 1989, he became president. He left office after his second term as Czech president ended on 2 February 2003. Every member of the Federal Assembly voted to make him president. This was surprising change because Havel had always said that he was not interested in politics. He and other dissidents had said that change should come from groups of people directly, not from the government.

Czechoslovakia had free elections in 1990. Havel won and continued to be president. Havel wanted to keep of the federation of the Czechs and the Slovaks together during the breakup of Czechoslovakia. He supported keeping the country together despite stress and pressure. On 3 July 1992 the federal parliament did not elect Havel — the only candidate — because Slovak MPs did not support him. Havel resigned as president on 20 July after the Slovaks issued their Declaration of Independence. He stood for election as president of the new Czech Republic in 1993. He won and became president of this new, separate country.

Havel was quite popular throughout his career. However, some of his actions caused controversy and criticism. One of his first acts as a president was to pardon many people. He wanted to both reduce the pressure in overcrowded prisons and release those who may have been falsely imprisoned during the Communist era. He did not trust the decisions of a corrupt court of the previous government. He thought most in prison had not been fairly tried in court. Critics claimed that this amnesty raised the crime rate. In his memoir, "To the Castle and Back", Havel wrote that most of the people he released had less than a year left to stay in prison. Statistics about this are not clear.

Havel said that the most important thing he did as president was breaking up the Warsaw Pact. Ending this group of countries was very complicated because the association was a deep part of how the countries worked. It took two years before the Soviet troops finally left Czechoslovakia completely.

Havel was very important to changing NATO. He helped change it from an anti-Warsaw Pact alliance to a group that includes former-Warsaw Pact members. Havel spoke very strongly for expanding of the military alliance into Eastern Europe, including the Czech Republic.
He has received many awards, including:





</doc>
<doc id="268307" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268307" title="Qincheng Prison">
Qincheng Prison

Qincheng Prison (秦城监狱) is a maximum-security prison located in the Changping District northwest of Beijing in the People's Republic of China. The prison was built in 1958 with aid from the Soviet Union and it is the only prison belonging to the Ministry of Public Security. 

The majority of people in prison here are political prisoners. Some of them were participants in the Chinese democracy movement and Tiananmen Square protests of 1989. Famous inmates include Jiang Qing, Bao Tong, Dai Qing, as well as Tibetans such as Choekyi Gyaltsen, the 10th Panchen Lama, and Phuntsok Wangyal. Other inmates included many communist cadres who were criticized during the Cultural Revolution, such as Bo Yibo, Peng Zhen, Israel Epstein, Sidney Rittenberg and David Crook. 2010 Nobel Peace Prize winner Liu Xiaobo was also imprisoned here.

The prison is located at the eastern foothill of Yanshan, facing the North China Plain in the east, north and south. The plain is where Qincheng Farm (秦城农场) is located, which is part of the prison.



</doc>
<doc id="268325" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268325" title="Category:1848 books">
Category:1848 books


</doc>
<doc id="268331" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268331" title="Uttarakhand judicial and legal academy">
Uttarakhand judicial and legal academy

The need of training in judiciary was being felt for long. Initially there was no such proposal. The institution itself was averse to the idea of acknowledging the need of training in the initial years. It was felt that the subordinate judges have the background of legal knowledge which can be applied by them while working as Presiding Officers of the Courts. Gradually the idea of training gained momentum. The Law Commission of India in its report has been in favour of the training and the need of establishing training institutes was, later on, felt. It received legal recognition for the first time when the Apex Court asked the states to establish their own judicial training academies. Consequently the state of U.P., established Judicial Training and Research Institute at Lucknow. The officers of the state of Uttarakhand were also part of the U.P. cadre and hence they received Induction Training as well as Refresher Training Programme in JTRI, Lucknow.

On Nov 9, 2000 a new state was carved out. Hon’ble Mr. Justice V.S. Sirpurkar, the then Chief Justice of Uttaranchal High Court desired that this state should have its own judicial academy and therefore a big chunk of land measuring 7.03 acres (147 nali) was transferred to the law department of Uttarakhand. The academy is christened as Uttarakhand Judicial and Legal Academy (UJALA). The foundation stone was laid on December 19, 2004 by Hon’ble Mr. Justice R.C. Lahoti, the then Chief Justice of India in the presence of Hon’ble Sri N.D. Tiwari, the then Chief Minister of Uttarakhand and Hon’ble Mr. Justice V.S. Sirpurkar, the then Chief Justice of Uttarakhand High Court and now the Judge of Supreme Court of India. Administrative-cum-training block of the academy was constructed. Mess and hostel of the academy is also constructed.

Finally, the academy became functional on June 14, 2008. It was inaugurated by Hon’ble Mr. Justice K.G. Balakrishnan, the Chief Justice of India in the presence of Hon’ble Sri B.L. Joshi, the then Governor of Uttarakhand and now Governor of U.P. and Hon’ble Mr. Justice V.K. Gupta, the then Chief Justice of Uttarakhand High Court. Two batches of Induction Training programme for newly recruited Civil Judges (J.D.) have taken place. Orientation Programme for direct recruits to H.J.S. has also taken place. Refresher Training Programme for Senior Additional District Judges has also concluded recently. Besides that, refresher training programme for Civil Judges/CJMs is currently under progress.

Basically this academy is meant for the training of judicial officers. The ultimate goal of UJALA is “to strengthen the administration of justice as a whole”. In this process every stake holder be it offices of State Government or any Department, who by virtue of their official position have to take judicial or quasi judicial decision, may be benefited by the resources of UJALA. By doing so on the one hand the resources of UJALA would be utilised to the optimum level for strengthening the administration of justice and on the other hand it would also help the officers of other services to acquire proficiency in the process of applying law in more functional manner. Consequently, workshops for the officers of Police Deptt., Medical & Health Deptt., Urban Development Deptt., PWD/RES/Irrigation/Minor Irrigation Deptt. and workshop on RTI Act have also been organised to cater to training needs of the Govt. departments. ==History==
The institute was established as College of Engineering & Technology, Delhi on August 21, 1961. Its foundation stone was laid by HRH Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, and was inaugurated by Prof.Humayun Kabir, then Union Minister for Scientific Research and Cultural Affairs.

After less than two years of existence, Parliament of India amended Institutes of Technology Act, and upgraded the institute as Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi. The IIT Delhi main building was formally opened by Dr. Zakir Hussain, the then President of India, on March 2, 1968.

]</ref>




</doc>
<doc id="268334" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268334" title="Suicide pact">
Suicide pact

A suicide pact is a plan of two or more people to kill themselves. People who agree on such a plan may kill themselves together, or they may do so in a planned manner. When studying suicide, suicide pacts are an important concepts. Suicide pacts have occurred through history.

Note that a suicide pact is different from mass suicide. In a mass suicide, many people commit suicide, for the same reason. This reason is often influenced by religious beliefs. 


</doc>
<doc id="268335" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268335" title="Mass suicide">
Mass suicide

In a mass suicide a group of people kill themselves for the same reason. Very often, all the people involved kill themselves together, at more or less the same time. The reason for the mass suicide often inolves religious views. Suicide bombings and Kamikaze missions are military or paramliitary forms of mass suicide.


</doc>
<doc id="268340" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268340" title="Goldie Goldthorpe">
Goldie Goldthorpe

Bill "Goldie" Goldthorpe (b. June 20, 1953 in Hornepayne, Ontario) is a retired professional ice hockey left winger who played for 16 minor league teams between 1973 to 1984, playing exhibition games with the Toronto Maple Leafs and Pittsburgh Penguins. Goldthorpe grew up in Thunder Bay, Ontario, is widely regarded as one of the most infamous hockey enforcers to have ever played the game, a man once dubbed the "wildest, meanest, most unpredictable player in hockey", earning an amazing 1,132 penalty minutes in 194 professional games. He was the inspiration for the character Ogie Ogilthorpe in the 1977 film Slap Shot. On January 1, 2008 during the 1st intermission of the NHL's Winter Classic outdoor game in Buffalo, NBC showed a 1 minute and 15 second piece on the movie Slapshot and the Ogilthorpe, Bill Goldthorpe connection to Bob Costas. Costas once did radio play-by-play for the Syracuse Blazers (NAHL) in 1973-74, a team that Bill Goldthorpe played on. Goldthorpe is currently a foreman at a construction company in Canada, having held that position in San Diego for several years.


</doc>
<doc id="268341" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268341" title="Alex Gray">
Alex Gray

Alexander Gray (June 21, 1899 - April 10, 1986) was a Canadian ice hockey right winger for the New York Rangers and the Toronto Maple Leafs from 1927 to 1933.

Although born in Glasgow, Scotland, Alex Gray grew up in Thunder Bay, Ontario. He played for five years with the Port Arthur Ports of the TBSHL. According to Legends of Hockey, "he topped the league in goal scoring three times and was its most penalized player twice."

In 1928 Gray signed with the New York Rangers of the NHL. Wearing jersey number 2, he played on a line with Paul Thompson and Murray Murdoch. He helped the Rangers win the Stanley Cup that spring.

After his rookie season in New York he was involved in a big trade with the Toronto Maple Leafs, He was traded along with Lorne Chabot for Melville "Butch" Keeling and John Ross Roach.

He played a total of 13 games for the Maple Leafs in the 1928–29 season (7 regular season games and 4 playoff games). After 1 season in Toronto he was sent to the minors where he spent the remainder of his career.




</doc>
<doc id="268342" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268342" title="Category:Scottish ice hockey players">
Category:Scottish ice hockey players


</doc>
<doc id="268343" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268343" title="Gordie Clark">
Gordie Clark

Gordon Corson Clark (born May 31, 1952 in Glasgow, Scotland) is a retired ice hockey right winger. He played in the National Hockey League for the Boston Bruins and in the WHA for the Cincinnati Stingers.


</doc>
<doc id="268344" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268344" title="Round Maple">
Round Maple

Round Maple is a hamlet in the civil parish of Edwardstone, in the Babergh district, in the English county of Suffolk.

Boxford, Sudbury, Priory Green, Mill Green, Rose Green.

Flushing Farm, Langley Wood, Little Thatch, Quicks Farm, Seasons.



</doc>
<doc id="268346" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268346" title="Sandy Fitzpatrick">
Sandy Fitzpatrick

Alexander Stewart "Sandy" Fitzpatrick (born December 22, 1944 in Paisley, Scotland) is a retired professional ice hockey player. He played in the in the National Hockey League for the New York Rangers and Minnesota North Stars.


</doc>
<doc id="268365" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268365" title="Red hair">
Red hair

People with red hair are referred to as redheads. Natural redheads are often have very light colored skin. They often also have freckles.


</doc>
<doc id="268376" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268376" title="Guard cell">
Guard cell

Guard cells are types of cells that surrounds stomates in plants. Plants lose water through stomates. Guard cells have the ability to open and close the stomates to save water. Guard cells are activated by sunlight. To open a guard cell, (H) protons are pumped into the guard cells and water follows, since the water potential inside the guard cell is lower. When water follows, the cells get hard and they push open. At night, guard cells lose water and close again.


</doc>
<doc id="268396" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268396" title="Adasaurus">
Adasaurus

Adasaurus is a genus of dromaeosaurid theropod dinosaur from the Late Cretaceous period. It lived in what is now Central Asia. It was a small carnivore, with a large, sickle-shaped claw on the second toe of each hind foot. An adult was probably about 6.2 feet (2 meters) long.

Ada is an evil spirit in the national mythology of Mongolia. The name also includes the Greek word "sauros" meaning 'lizard', the most common suffix used in dinosaur names. There is one species ("A. mongoliensis"), named after the country of Mongolia, where the fossil was found. Both genus and species were named and described in 1983 by famous Mongolian paleontologist Rinchen Barsbold.

"Adasaurus" is a member of Dromaeosauridae, a theropod family thought to be very closely related to birds. Relationships within the family are poorly understood, but "Adasaurus" seems to be a member of the subfamily Dromaeosaurinae, along with the Mongolian "Achillobator" and several North American species, including "Utahraptor" and "Dromaeosaurus", after which the whole family is named. Other dromaeosaurids include "Deinonychus", "Velociraptor", "Microraptor", and "Buitreraptor". "Adasaurus" is unique among dromaeosaurids in having much smaller sickle claws on its feet.

Two specimens of "Adasaurus" have been found, both from the Nemegt Formation of Bayankhongor Province in Mongolia. The holotype is an incomplete skull associated with some bones of the skeleton, including all three bones of the pelvis. The holotype specimen appears to be an elderly adult, because its bones are injured and diseased from a long, hard life. The second specimen, also described in the original paper, consists of the back end of another skeleton, including the hindlimbs. Both specimens are currently in the collection of the Mongolian Geological Institute in Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia.

The age of the Nemegt, like most of Mongolia's Late Cretaceous sediments, is not known for certain, but it is commonly thought to belong to the Maastrichtian stage of the Late Cretaceous Period. Therefore the Nemegt was deposited somewhere between 74 and 65 million years ago. Other dinosaurs found in this formation include "Tarbosaurus", "Anserimimus", and "Saurolophus".


</doc>
<doc id="268398" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268398" title="Dromaeosaurus">
Dromaeosaurus

Dromaeosaurus was a genus of theropod dinosaur which lived during the Upper Cretaceous period (middle late Campanian), about 75 million years ago. Its remains were found in the western United States and Alberta, Canada. 

"Dromaeosaurus" was a small carnivore, the size of a wolf, about 2 m (7 ft) in length and 15 kg (40 lb) in weight. Its mouth was full of sharp teeth, and it had a large "sickle claw" on each foot. It lived during the Upper Cretaceous; some fragmentary remains such as teeth which may belong to this genus have been found from the latest Cretaceous, 65.5 million years ago.

Although only a few bones are known from the hind limb, they indicate that "Dromaeosaurus" was a powerfully built animal. The presence of feathers in closely related animals makes it extremely likely that it was feathered as well.

"Dromaeosaurus" had remarkably large eyes and excellent vision. It also probably had a good sense of smell and hearing. Its neck was curved and flexible and its jaws were solidly built. The tail was flexible at the base but sheathed in a lattice of bony rods; this allowed it to be carried in an upturned position.

Despite receiving widespread attention in popular books about dinosaurs, and the usage of a complete mounted skeleton cast in many museums around the world, "Dromaeosaurus" is surprisingly poorly known from actual fossils. The preparation of the popular cast by the Tyrrell Museum was only made possible by knowledge gained from other dromaeosaurids that have been discovered more recently.

The first known "Dromaeosaurus" remains were discovered by paleontologist Barnum Brown during a 1914 expedition to Red Deer River on behalf of the American Museum of Natural History.

Several species of "Dromaeosaurus" have been described, but "Dromaeosaurus albertensis" is the most complete specimen. This genus is even rarer than other small theropods, although it was one of the first small theropods described. 

Matthew and Brown originally placed "Dromaeosaurus" within "Deinodontidae" (now known as Tyrannosauridae), based on some similarities in the general proportions of the skull. In 1969, John H. Ostrom recognized that "Dromaeosaurus" shared many features with "Velociraptor" and the newly-discovered "Deinonychus", and assigned these forms to a new family: Dromaeosauridae.

"Dromaeosaurus" differs from most of its relatives in having a short, massive skull, a deep mandible, and robust teeth. The teeth tend to be more heavily-worn than those of its relative "Saurornitholestes", suggesting that its jaws were used for crushing and tearing rather than simply slicing through flesh. Therrien "et al." (2005) estimated that "Dromaeosaurus" had a bite nearly three times as powerful as that of a "Velociraptor". 

It is possible that, unlike most other dromaosaurids, "Dromaeosaurus" relied more heavily on its jaws than its claws to dispatch its prey. It was probably better suited to tackling large prey than the more lightly-built "Saurornitholestes".

The relationships of "Dromaeosaurus" are unclear. Although its rugged build gived it a primitive appearance, it was actually a very specialized animal. It is usually given its own subfamily, the Dromaeosaurinae; this group is thought to include "Utahraptor", "Achillobator", "Adasaurus", and possibly "Deinonychus".

However, the relationships of dromaeosaurs are still in a state of flux. "Dromaeosaurus Morphotype A" is the designation given to a series of unusual, ridged dromaeosaur teeth from Alberta. These teeth probably do not belong to "Dromaeosaurus", although it is not clear from what animal they do come.

"Dromaeosaurus" are featured in "Walking with Dinosaurs", stalking juvenile "Torosaurus" and attempting to steal eggs from "Tyrannosaurus", despite never coexisting with the latter in real life.
"Dromaeosaurus" makes an appearance in "Jurassic Fight Club", where a pack is shown being capable of taking down "Edmontosaurus" in spite of the carnivores' small size, but the carcass is later taken by a "Tyrannosaurus" (despite the tyrannosaur not being contemporaneous with "Dromaeosaurus").


</doc>
<doc id="268404" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268404" title="Template:MSW3 Carnivora">
Template:MSW3 Carnivora


</doc>
<doc id="268417" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268417" title="Template:Uw-notenglish">
Template:Uw-notenglish


</doc>
<doc id="268418" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268418" title="Template:Uw-notenglish/doc">
Template:Uw-notenglish/doc

<includeonly>
</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="268420" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268420" title="French ban on full-length face-covering">
French ban on full-length face-covering

On 14 September 2010, the Senate of France passed a law that forbids the wearing of clothing that covers the face of a person in public, so that the perosn cannot be identified. The law talks about clothing that covers the face, so it includes burqas and niqabs, but does not include the chador. The main arguments for the ban are that people wearing such types of clothing cannot be identified by police forces, and that such velis are not compatible with the values of France as a state. In addition, there was a discussion about women's rights.


</doc>
<doc id="268427" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268427" title="John Flamsteed">
John Flamsteed

John Flamsteed FRS (19 August 1646 – 31 December 1719) was an English astronomer. He was the first Astronomer Royal, appointed in 1675.

Flamsteed accurately calculated the solar eclipses of 1666 and 1668. 

He was responsible for several of the earliest recorded sightings of the planet Uranus, which he mistook for a star and catalogued as '34 Tauri'. The first of these was in December 1690, which remains the earliest known sighting of Uranus by an astronomer.

Flamsteed is also remembered for his conflicts with Isaac Newton, the President of the Royal Society at the time. Flamsteed was refusing to publish work commissioned by the king, so in 1712 Newton and Edmond Halley published a preliminary version of Flamsteed's "Historia Coelestis Britannica". They did so "without crediting the author". 

Some years later, Flamsteed managed to buy many copies of the book, and publicly burnt them in front of the Royal Observatory. However, the numerical star designations in this book are still used and are known as Flamsteed designations.

In 1725 Flamsteed's own version of "Historia Coelestis Britannica" was published posthumously, edited by his wife Margaret. This contained Flamsteed's observations, and included a catalogue of 2,935 stars to much greater accuracy than any previous work. This was considered the first significant contribution of the Greenwich Observatory. In 1729 his wife published his "Atlas Coelestis", assisted by Joseph Crosthwait and Abraham Sharp, who were responsible for the technical side.





</doc>
<doc id="268435" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268435" title="Sugar cookie">
Sugar cookie

A sugar cookie is a cookie made from sugar, flour, butter, eggs, vanilla, and baking powder or baking soda.

Sugar cookies were invented when a cookie called a jumble showed up.

Sugar cookies can be iced with a variety of icings and are normally decorated.


</doc>
<doc id="268438" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268438" title="Edmond Halley">
Edmond Halley

Edmond Halley FRS (8 November 1656 – 14 January 1742) was an English astronomer, the second Astronomer Royal.

He was also a mathematician, meteorologist, and physicist. Halley is best known for computing the orbit of the comet named after him: Halley's Comet.

On leaving Oxford, in 1676, Halley visited the south Atlantic island of St. Helena and set up an observatory with a telescope which had no tube.

He used the telescope to study stars from the Southern Hemisphere. He later published "Catalogus Stellarum Australium" which was about the 341 southern stars. 

In 1686, Halley published the second part of the results from his St. Helena expedition. This was a paper and chart on trade winds and monsoons. He thought solar heating was because of atmospheric motions. He also established the relationship between barometric pressure and height above sea level. His charts were an advance in how to display information visually. Halley also persuaded Sir Isaac Newton to publish a book about his discovery of gravity.

In 1690, Halley built a diving bell, a device in which the atmosphere was replenished by way of weighted barrels of air sent down from the surface. In a demonstration, Halley and five companions dived to 60 feet in the River Thames, and remained there for over an hour and a half. Halley's bell was of little use for practical salvage work, as it was very heavy, but he made improvements to it over time, later extending his underwater exposure time to over 4 hours. 

That same year, at a meeting of the Royal Society, Halley introduced a rudimentary working model of a magnetic compass using a liquid-filled housing to damp the swing and wobble of the magnetized needle.

In 1691 Halley sought the post of Savilian Professor of Astronomy at Oxford University. As he was well-known as an atheist, he was opposed by the Archbishop of Canterbury, John Tillotson. The post went instead to a mathematician who had the support of Isaac Newton.

In 1693 Halley published an article on life annuities (a kind of pension), which featured an analysis of age-at-death on the basis of the Breslau statistics Caspar Neumann had been able to provide. This article allowed the British government to sell life annuities at an appropriate price based on the age of the purchaser. Halley's work strongly influenced the development of actuarial science. The construction of the life-table for Breslau, which followed more primitive work by John Graunt, is now seen as a major event in the history of demography.


These are generally either , rhyming with "valley", or ""Hailey"," though some people will use Halley's supposed pronunciation of his own name, ""Hawley"." The ""Hailey"" pronunciation inspired the rock and roll singer Bill Haley to call the rest of his band his "Comets" after Halley's Comet. 


</doc>
<doc id="268442" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268442" title="Collective names of groups of like elements">
Collective names of groups of like elements

There are areas on the periodic table where elements have similar properties. For example, all of the first column elements (alkali metals) are light, very soft, react with water rapidly, make hydroxides that are strong bases, and react with the halogens to make colorless ionic compounds. 

The second column elements (alkaline earth metals) are a little heavier, a little harder, react with water a little less rapidly, made hydroxides that are strong bases, and react with the halogens to make colorless ionic compounds.

The other categories are: transition metals, pnictogens, chalcogens, halogens, and noble gases. There are also inner transition metals that are divided into lanthanides and actinides.


</doc>
<doc id="268445" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268445" title="Flamsteed designation">
Flamsteed designation

Flamsteed designations are for stars that are similar to Bayer designations. However, they use numbers instead of Greek letters. Flamsteed designation contained 2554 stars.

The numbers are usually assigned in the order of increasing right ascension within each constellation. However, because of the effects of precession, they are now slightly out of order in some parts. This method first appeared in John Flamsteed's "Historia Coelestis Britannica", a book that was published by Edmond Halley and Isaac Newton together in 1712.


</doc>
<doc id="268446" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268446" title="Inner transition metal">
Inner transition metal

An inner transition metal is one of a group of chemical elements on the periodic table. They are normally below all of the other elements. They include elements 57-71 (lanthanides) and 89-103 (actinides). The lanthanides are very similar. The actinides are all radioactive.


</doc>
<doc id="268447" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268447" title="Molar mass">
Molar mass

Molar mass is the mass of a substance that has 6.022 x 10 atoms (Avogadro's number). The mass number of an element is equal to the molar mass of the element. The molar mass of a chemical compound is the amount that has 6.022 x 10 molecules. It can be found by adding the molar masses of all of its elements. So sodium hydroxide's (NaOH) molar mass can be found by adding the molar mass of sodium, oxygen, and hydrogen.


</doc>
<doc id="268448" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268448" title="Absolute hot">
Absolute hot

Absolute hot is the hottest temperature that anything can reach. It is measured at 1.416785(71) × 10 kelvins. It is the opposite of Absolute 0 which is -273.15°C on the Celsius scale or 0 K on the Kelvin scale. When something reaches this temperature, normal physics completely changes.


</doc>
<doc id="268452" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268452" title="Periodic table block">
Periodic table block

A block in the periodic table is an area of chemical elements that has the same electron arrangement. There are four blocks; the S-block, the P-block, the D-block, and the F-block. The alkali metals and the alkaline earth metals are in the S-block. The group of elements after the transition metals are the P-block. The transition metals are the D-block, as well as the last lanthanide and actinide. The rest of the inner transition metals are in the F-block.


</doc>
<doc id="268453" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268453" title="D-block">
D-block

The D-block is a group of elements on the periodic table. They include the transition metals. The Group 12 elements are normally called post-transition metals because they are different from the transition metals. The Group 12 elements are still in the d-block though.


</doc>
<doc id="268454" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268454" title="Group 12 element">
Group 12 element

A group 12 element is a group in the periodic table of chemical elements. It includes zinc, cadmium, mercury, and copernicium. Copernicium is not stable so its properties are not clear. They all have low melting and boiling points. Mercury is even a liquid. Zinc is the least electronegative and most reactive of the Group 12 elements.


</doc>
<doc id="268455" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268455" title="Period 4 element">
Period 4 element

A period 4 element is an element in the fourth period (row) of the periodic table. It begins at potassium and ends at krypton.


</doc>
<doc id="268456" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268456" title="Kilogram per cubic metre">
Kilogram per cubic metre

A kilogram per cubic meter is a measurement of density. It is defined as the amount of kilograms that one cubic meter of a substance has in it.


</doc>
<doc id="268457" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268457" title="Smokey Harris">
Smokey Harris

Wilfred Smokey Harris (born October 11, 1890 in Port Arthur, Ontario, Canada - June 4, 1974) was a Canadian ice hockey forward.

Harris began playing professional ice hockey with the Vancouver Millionaires in 1911. After spending some time with the Millionaires he moved on to play for the Seattle Metropolitans and Portland Rosebuds. Eventually he would find his way to the other side of the country to play for the Boston Bruins in the National Hockey League where he scored the first goal in the teams history.


</doc>
<doc id="268460" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268460" title="Kilojoule per mole">
Kilojoule per mole

A kilojoule per mole is a way of measuring the amount of heat needed for something. It is the number of kilojoules needed to make the reaction in one mole of substance.


</doc>
<doc id="268461" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268461" title="Enthalpy of fusion">
Enthalpy of fusion

Enthalpy of fusion is the measure of the energy needed to change a substance from a solid to a liquid. Extra energy is needed, more than what is obvious by the temperature scale. For example, ice at 0°C needs to absorb heat before it converts to water at 0°C. The temperature does not change, but energy is absorbed to change from solid to liquid.


</doc>
<doc id="268463" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268463" title="Ionization energy">
Ionization energy

Ionization energy is the energy needed to take an electron from an atom. The atom is not connected to any other atoms. The chemical elements to the left of the periodic table have a much lower ionization energy. The ones to the right have a much higher ionization energy. The chemical elements down the periodic table have a much lower ionization energy (due to electrons being farther away from the atom with increasing atomic radius). The ionization energy increases as each electron is removed.


</doc>
<doc id="268465" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268465" title="Picometer">
Picometer

A picometer is a measurement. It is one billionth of a meter. It is also one millionth of a millimeter. This is very small. Many atoms are larger than this.


</doc>
<doc id="268468" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268468" title="1 E-10 m">
1 E-10 m

To help compare different orders of magnitude this page lists lengths between 10 m and 10 m (100 pm and 1 nm).



</doc>
<doc id="268470" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268470" title="Covalent radius">
Covalent radius

The covalent radius is the radius of an atom that is measured when that atom is in a covalent bond. It is normally measured in picometers. It is normally found by X-ray diffraction. 


</doc>
<doc id="268471" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268471" title="Van der Waals radius">
Van der Waals radius

The Van der Waals radius is the radius of an atom that is seen as a hard sphere. It is named after someone who realized that atoms were not points, but actual objects. It can be found by the critical point and the physical properties of a gas. It also can be found by a molecular crystal. 


</doc>
<doc id="268472" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268472" title="Diamagnetism">
Diamagnetism

Diamagnetism is a type of magnetism. They very weakly repel magnets. Most substances are diamagnetic. It was discovered in 1778 when someone saw that bismuth and antimony repelled a magnet. Diamagnetic things can be levitated. A frog was levitated in a very strong magnet. Water can be repelled by a magnet because it is diamagnetic. It is too weak to be noticed normally, though.


</doc>
<doc id="268473" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268473" title="Young's modulus">
Young's modulus

Young's modulus is the measure of how much force is needed to stretch or compress a substance. Its most basic form is stress/strain. Stress is the measure of a force in a certain area. Strain is the amount the substance is deformed.


</doc>
<doc id="268476" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268476" title="Shear modulus">
Shear modulus

Shear modulus is a measure of the amount of force that will shear or twist an object. It is normally the letter "G". It is the measure of the force needed to shear an object that is attached to a solid object. It can also measure the amount of force needed to twist an object.


</doc>
<doc id="268477" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268477" title="Bulk modulus">
Bulk modulus

The bulk modulus (letter "K") is a measure of the resistance of a substance to compression on all sides. Gases are easily compressed, while solids and liquid are only compressed with difficulty. It is measured by a measuring instrument when another object is placed under pressure.


</doc>
<doc id="268478" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268478" title="Poisson's ratio">
Poisson's ratio

Poisson's ratio (letter "v") is a measure of the contraction that happens when an object is stretched. This contraction is perpendicular to the stretching force. It can also expand as the object is compressed in a perpendicular direction.


</doc>
<doc id="268480" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268480" title="Brinell scale">
Brinell scale

The Brinell scale is a measure of hardness in materials. It is measured by making a dent in the material and seeing how deep the dent goes with a known amount of force. It is similar to the Mohs' hardness scale, which scratches the material. It is used to test the hardness of metals. Normally, a steel ball is pressed into an object and the dent made is measured.


</doc>
<doc id="268483" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268483" title="CAS registry number">
CAS registry number

A CAS Registry number is a special number that is given to each chemical compound, substance and alloy. About 50,000 numbers are added every week. There are about 55 million numbers for chemical compounds in the CAS Registry. It is own by the American Chemical Society.


</doc>
<doc id="268499" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268499" title="Jeff Heerema">
Jeff Heerema

Jeff Heerema (; born January 17, 1980 in Thunder Bay, Ontario) is a Canadian professional ice hockey winger. He was drafted in the first round, 11th overall, by the Carolina Hurricanes in the 1998 NHL Entry Draft. 


</doc>
<doc id="268500" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268500" title="Danny Gruen">
Danny Gruen

Daniel Patrick Gruen (born June 26, 1952 in Thunder Bay, Ontario) is a retired professional ice hockey player. His career included 49 games in the National Hockey League and 181 games in the World Hockey Association, during which he played with the Colorado Rockies, Detroit Red Wings, Michigan Stags, Winnipeg Jets, Cleveland Crusaders, Calgary Cowboys, and Minnesota Fighting Saints. 


</doc>
<doc id="268501" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268501" title="Mike Hordy">
Mike Hordy

Michael Hordy (born October 10, 1956 in Thunder Bay, Ontario) is a retired Canadian professional ice hockey player. During his career he played eleven games in the National Hockey League for the New York Islanders.


</doc>
<doc id="268502" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268502" title="Steve Hrymnak">
Steve Hrymnak

Steve Hrymnak (born March 3, 1926 in Port Arthur, Ontario) is a retired Canadian professional ice hockey player. His career included playing 18 games in the National Hockey League for the Chicago Black Hawks and Detroit Red Wings. 


</doc>
<doc id="268508" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268508" title="Board of directors">
Board of directors

A board of directors is a group of people. They normally oversee the actions of a corporation or other business. There are laws called bylaws that the board follows. They organize the business, appoint the CEO, organize budgets and take care of financial matters.


</doc>
<doc id="268509" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268509" title="Clinical thermometer">
Clinical thermometer

A clinical thermometer is a thermometer used to measure body temperature. Many times the liquid is mercury, but sometimes it is alcohol. It is very accurate because it has a narrow place where the liquid rises very fast.


</doc>
<doc id="268514" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268514" title="Roar">
Roar

Roar may refer to :



</doc>
<doc id="268515" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268515" title="My Name Is">
My Name Is

"My Name is" is a song by Eminem, released in 1999. It is the debut and second single overall from his album, "The Slim Shady LP".

Producer Dr. Dre wanted to use a sample of Labi Siffre's "I Got The ..." for the rhythm track; as revealed in the sleeve notes of the re-mastered CD of the source album, "Remember My Song", Siffre, who is openly gay, stated, "attacking two of the usual scapegoats, women and gays, is lazy writing. If you want to do battle, attack the aggressors not the victims." Eminem made lyric changes and Siffre cleared the sample.


</doc>
<doc id="268517" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268517" title="Sugar Act">
Sugar Act

The Sugar Act (1764) was a tax passed by the British to pay for the Seven Years War, called the French and Indian War in America. It taxed sugar and molasses in British colonies in America and the West Indies. It was also a use of mercantilism. It was one of the first taxes that led to protests in the Thirteen Colonies. The Sugar and Stamp Acts were done away with in 1766.


</doc>
<doc id="268518" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268518" title="Townsend Duties">
Townsend Duties

The Townsend Duties was a tax passed by the British to pay for the Seven Year's War in 1767. It was named for Charles Townsend, who was the British Prime Minister at the time. Townsend wanted the duties to make sure the colonists knew that they were under British rule. It taxed a number of items, including paint, glass and tea. The tax was resisted in the Thirteen Colonies, including John Dickenson. A group in Boston called the Sons of Liberty was started to protest the acts. This in turn led to the Boston Massacre in 1770.


</doc>
<doc id="268522" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268522" title="Jay Treaty">
Jay Treaty

The Jay Treaty was a treaty between the United States and Britain in the years following the American Revolution. The main American involved in the treaty was John Jay, who was also Chief Justice of the United States. It was passed by Congress in 1795. It allowed for increased trade with Britain in exchange for the British giving up their forts on the Great Lakes. Many people thought that the Jay Treaty was good for the British and bad for the Americans, which led to them burning effigies of Jay.


</doc>
<doc id="268529" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268529" title="Aegyptosaurus">
Aegyptosaurus

Aegyptosaurus, meaning "Egypt's Lizard" after the country where it was discovered (comes from the Greek word "sauros", which means 'lizard'), is a genus of sauropod dinosaur that lived in Africa around 95 million years ago, during the Late Cretaceous period. Like most sauropods, it had a long neck and a small skull. The animal's long tail probably acted as a counterweight to its body mass. Its tail also ended in a whip-like structure that it used to defend itself against predatory dinosaurs that lived in the same place and time as it, such as "Carcharodontosaurus" and "Spinosaurus". "Aegyptosaurus" was a close relative of "Argentinosaurus", a much larger dinosaur that lived in South America at about the same time. This suggests a possible land bridge between Africa and South America during the Cretaceous period. 

"Aegyptosaurus" was discovered and named by a German paleontologist named Ernst Stromer in 1932. Its fossils have been found in Egypt, Niger, and in several different locations in the Sahara Desert. All known specimens were discovered before 1939. The fossils were stored together in Munich, but were obliterated when an Allied bombing raid destroyed the museum where they were kept in 1944, during World War II.
The type species is Aegyptosaurus baharijensis, named after the Bahariya Formation in Egypt, where the first fossils were found.

"Aegyptosaurus" was much smaller and more common than its contemporary, "Paralititan". Predators probably hunted the smaller "Aegyptosaurus" more often than the huge "Paralititan".


</doc>
<doc id="268530" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268530" title="Category:Dinosaurs of Africa">
Category:Dinosaurs of Africa

This category is for dinosaurs who have been discovered in the continent of Africa.


</doc>
<doc id="268532" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268532" title="Public Security Bureau">
Public Security Bureau

In the People's Republic of China, a public security bureau (PSB) is a kind of government office. These offices acting as a Police stations. Smaller offices are called "Police posts". These are similar Japanese Kōban.

PSBs in each province and large city take care of policing law enforcement, public security, and social order. Other duties of such offices include residence registration as well as immigration and travel affairs of foreigners.


</doc>
<doc id="268534" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268534" title="Category:Jurassic dinosaurs">
Category:Jurassic dinosaurs

This category is for dinosaurs who lived during the Jurassic Period of geological time.


</doc>
<doc id="268535" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268535" title="Solitary confinement">
Solitary confinement

Solitary confinement is a punishment or special form of imprisonment. A prisoner is not allowed contact with anyone, except the prison staff. It may be a kind of psychological torture. It is also used to protect one prisoner from other inmates in the prison.

Solitary confinement has many other names. In American English it also called the 'hole', 'lockdown', the 'SHU' (pronounced 'shoe') or the 'pound'. In British English people say 'block' or 'the cooler'.

People who think solitary confinement is necessary give several reasons. Some prisoners are considered dangerous to other people in the prison. Other prisoners might be able to lead crime groups even from inside jail. Also, solitary confinement can be used to stop prisoners from communicating with others because of possible fears about national security. Finally, it may be used for prisoners who are at high risk of being attacked by other inmates, such as pedophiles, celebrities, or witnesses who are in prison themselves. This form of solitary confinement is sometimes called protective custody.

In the US Federal Prison system, solitary confinement is known as the Special Housing Unit (SHU), . California's prison system also uses the abbreviation SHU, but it stands for Security Housing Units. In other states, it is known as the Special Management Unit (SMU), pronounced .

Opponents of solitary confinement claim that it is cruel and unusual punishment and torture Taking away human contact, and the sensory input is usually part of solitary confinement and can have a powerful negative effect on a prisoner's mind. This may lead to mental illnesses such as depression and even death.




</doc>
<doc id="268536" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268536" title="Category:Mammals of North America">
Category:Mammals of North America

This category is for mammals who live in North America.


</doc>
<doc id="268542" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268542" title="Thomas Gainsborough">
Thomas Gainsborough

Thomas Gainsborough (14 May 1727 – 2 August 1788) was an 18th-century English portrait and landscape painter. He was born in Sudbury, Suffolk, England. He was the youngest son of John Gainsborough. When he was 13, he surprised his father by how well he drew with the pencil. Impressed, his father let him go to London to study art in 1740. In the 1740s, Gainsborough married Margaret Burr and began painting portraits more than landscapes. He had two daughters. In 1774, Gainsborough and his family moved to London. In 1780, he painted portraits of King George III. He died on 2 August 1788 when he was 61 years old because of cancer.

In painting portraits he sometimes painted with brushes on sticks six feet long. This put him at the same distance from subject and canvas, set at right angles to each other.



</doc>
<doc id="268546" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268546" title="Leaellynasaura">
Leaellynasaura

Leaellynasaura (meaning "Leaellyn's lizard") was a fast-running, plant-eating dinosaur that lived in Australia during the middle Cretaceous Period, roughly 115-110 million years ago. Australia was within the Antarctic Circle during the Cretaceous period, and it had a very long winter.

"Leaellynasaura" is known from two nearly complete skeletons and two skulls. It is described as an ornithopod. Unlike some other ornithischians, the "Leaellynasaura" did not have any tendons in its tail. The tail is known for being among the longest of its relatives: it was three times longer than the rest of the whole body. It also has more vertebrae in its tail than any other ornithischians except for some hadrosaurs. It also had large eyes to help it look in the dark winter.


</doc>
<doc id="268547" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268547" title="Muttaburrasaurus">
Muttaburrasaurus

Muttaburrasaurus was a plant-eating dinosaur that lived during the middle Cretaceous period, about 113-97.5 million years ago. This dinosaur means "Muttaburra (in Queensland, Australia) lizard". "Muttaburrasaurus" are about 24 feet (7 m) long. They may have lived in herds.


</doc>
<doc id="268550" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268550" title="Gulf of Salerno">
Gulf of Salerno

The Gulf of Salerno is a gulf of the Tyrrhenian Sea in the coast of the province of Salerno in south-western Italy. The northern part of this coast is the Costiera Amalfitana. This includes towns like Amalfi, Maiori, Positano and the city of Salerno itself.

The Gulf of Salerno is separated from the Gulf of Naples (on the north) by the Sorrentine Peninsula, while from the south it is bounded by the Cilento coast.


</doc>
<doc id="268551" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268551" title="Gigi D'Agostino">
Gigi D'Agostino

Luigino Celestino Di Agostino (born December 17, 1967) is an Italian disk jockey. He was born in Turin, Italy. Di Agostino is better known under his stage name Gigi D'Agostino. He is also known as the "Violento Man". 



</doc>
<doc id="268552" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268552" title="San Bruno, California">
San Bruno, California

San Bruno is a city in San Mateo County, California, United States. The population was 40,165 at the 2000 census.

The city is next to San Francisco International Airport and Golden Gate National Cemetery.


</doc>
<doc id="268559" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268559" title="King's College, Cambridge">
King's College, Cambridge

King's College is one of the colleges of the University of Cambridge, England. It is a very famous college because it is very old and it has a world-famous choir.

The college was founded in 1441. Its full name is "The King's College of Our Lady and St. Nicholas in Cambridge". The students at the university usually just call it "King's". 

King's was founded in 1441 by King Henry VI. At first the college was going to be quite small, but by 1445 the college was going to be a magnificent building to show how important the king was. The king gave the college a lot of money for several feudal privileges. 

King Henry VI had admired what William of Wykeham had done when he founding the twin colleges of New College, Oxford and Winchester College in 1379. He copied a lot of Wykeham's ideas when building King's and Eton College. These colleges still have the same tie as part of their uniform.

Originally, the college was just for boys from Eton College. It was not until 1865 that other people could study there. King's does not have any strong connection now with Eton, although there is still a scholarship for a student from Eton to study at King's. 

Although building began in 1441, the project was interrupted by wars and it was not until 1544 that the inside was finished.
By this time King Henry VIII was King of England.

Henry VI is still remembered at the College: each year, on the Saturday after the end of Autumn Term (which in Cambridge is called the "Michaelmas term"), is Founder's Day. It begins with a service in the chapel: the "Founder's Eucharist". This is followed by a Founder's Breakfast with ale and finally a big dinner called "Founder's Feast" to which all members of College in their last year of studies are invited.

The College Chapel is built in the style of late Gothic architecture. It was built over a period of a hundred years (1446–1531) in three stages. The Chapel has the world's largest fan vault, stained glass windows, and the painting ""The Adoration of the Magi"" by Rubens.

Many concerts and college events take place here. The world-famous Chapel choir consists of choral scholars (male students from the college) and choristers (boys educated at the nearby King's College School). The choir sings services on most days in term-time, and also performs concerts and makes recordings and broadcasts. Every Christmas it sings the service called Nine Lessons and Carols which is shown on BBC television as well as heard on the radio.

The Chapel is so famous that it is seen as a symbol of Cambridge, and appears on the logo of the city council.

Nearly all subjects that can be studied at Cambridge can be studied at King's. There is a big library which includes some rare books and manuscripts.

Traditionally students have come from independent schools (so-called "public schools"), but today the college has gradually started to include many students from state schools.

As with all Cambridge colleges King's has its own student unions both for undergraduates and for graduates.

The student union has a long record of activism. In the 1980s a long strike against the college's investment in apartheid South Africa was organised.

The Cellar Bar is a small room in the basement of the college, which is used for music. The main bar at King's is far older. The bar has been traditionally painted a socialist red, including a picture of a hammer and sickle. In 2004 it was redecorated, with the walls painted yellow and the overall décor lightened. A hammer and sickle survives in a frame on the wall. There is a lot of argument about this. King's also has a Coffee Shop next to the bar. A Vacation Bar, or "vac bar", also is sometimes open during the summer vacation, run by (and mainly for) the graduate students who stay in College throughout the year.

Most Cambridge colleges celebrate May Week with a May Ball (which actually falls in June), but since the early 1980s King's has instead held a June Event (a more informal version of a May Ball) which they call King's Affair. The reason they have a different event from other colleges is because many students who were not invited used to forced their way into the party (so-called "gatecrashing"). A ticket usually costs around £60 which is cheap compared to the May Ball tickets for other colleges which can cost up to £200.

Once someone has been admitted to the College, they become a member for life. For this reason, King's alumni (people who used to go there) are referred to as 'Non Resident Members'.



</doc>
<doc id="268564" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268564" title="Template:Hide in print/testcases">
Template:Hide in print/testcases


</doc>
<doc id="268580" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268580" title="Leavening agent">
Leavening agent

A leavening agent is a substance used to make a baked good rise. Most people like baked goods that are risen, so leavening agents are popular.

Yeast is a common leavening agent. It is a fungus that converts sugar to ethanol and carbon dioxide. The carbon dioxide makes the bread rise. This is slower and makes the bread more soft. Most of the ethanol evaporates when the bread is baked. The yeast is also killed when the bread is baked. 

Yeast takes longer time to rise than chemical leavening agents. It also can be killed by heat or salt. Yeast is normally sold in small packages. These contain yeast fungi. 

"Main articles: Baking powder and baking soda"

There are several chemical leavening agents. For acidic foods, baking soda (sodium bicarbonate) can be used. It reacts with the acid to make carbon dioxide gas, which makes the bread rise. For non-acidic foods, baking powder is used. Baking powder is a mix of a powdered acid and sodium bicarbonate. They react when dissolved in water to make carbon dioxide gas. Baking powder is more common.

Baking powder and baking soda leavening is better for certain baked goods like muffins or cakes. The bread rises much faster with baking powder or baking soda. It is not affected by many other ingredients. But it does not have the same texture or taste that yeast has.


</doc>
<doc id="268586" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268586" title="Sweet potato pie">
Sweet potato pie

Sweet potato pie is a type of pie. It is common in the southern United States. It is similar to pumpkin pie. It is common at Thanksgiving. It is a side dish or dessert.

It is normally made as a large tart. It doesn't have a top crust. The filling has mashed sweet potatoes, milk, sugar, eggs, and flavoring. The filling can be made light or dense. Occasionally marshmallows are added as a topping.


</doc>
<doc id="268587" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268587" title="Modern art">
Modern art

Modern art refers to artistic works produced from the 1860s to about the 1970s. It refers to the style and philosophy of the art produced during that era. The period coincides with the invention of mechanical means of recording images: photography and film.

The term "modern art" is usually associated with art in which the traditions of the past have been thrown aside in a spirit of experimentation. Modern artists experimented with new ways of seeing and with fresh ideas about the nature of materials and functions of art. A tendency toward abstraction is characteristic of much modern art. More recent artistic production is often called Contemporary art or Postmodern art.

Modern art begins with the heritage of painters like Vincent van Gogh, Paul Cézanne, Paul Gauguin, Georges Seurat and Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec all of whom were essential for the development of modern art. At the beginning of the 20th century Henri Matisse and several other young artists including the pre-cubist Georges Braque, André Derain, Raoul Dufy and Maurice de Vlaminck revolutionized the Paris art world with 'wild', multi-colored, expressive, landscapes and figure paintings that the critics called Fauvism. 

Henri Matisse's two versions of "The Dance" marked a key point in his career and in the development of modern painting. It reflected Matisse's fascination with primitive art: the intense warm color of the figures against the cool blue-green background and the rhythmical succession of the dancing nudes convey the feelings of emotional liberation and hedonism. 

Pablo Picasso made his first cubist paintings based on Cézanne's idea that all depiction of nature can be reduced to three solids: cube, sphere and cone. With the painting Les Demoiselles d'Avignon 1907, Picasso dramatically created a new and radical picture depicting a raw and primitive brothel scene with five prostitutes, violently painted women, reminiscent of African tribal masks and his own new Cubist inventions. 

Analytic cubism was jointly developed by Pablo Picasso and Georges Braque, exemplified by "Violin and Candlestick, Paris," from about 1908 through 1912. Analytic cubism, the first clear manifestation of cubism, was followed by Synthetic cubism, practised by Braque, Picasso, Fernand Léger, Juan Gris, Albert Gleizes, Marcel Duchamp and several other artists into the 1920s. Synthetic cubism is characterized by the introduction of different textures, surfaces, collage elements, papier collé and a large variety of merged subject matter.

The notion of modern art is closely related to Modernism.

Modern art was introduced to the United States in 1913 and through European artists who moved to the U.S. during World War I. It was only after World War II, however, that the U.S. became the focal point of new artistic movements. The 1950s and 1960s saw the emergence of Abstract Expressionism, one of the most important of the later modernist art movements.

Modern art and Impressionism dominates the world art markets. Of the 20 top art prices, only one is a work of classical art. The world's highest price for a work of art is Jackson Pollock's "No. 5, 1948" privately sold by Sotheby's for (price adjusted) $151.2 million dollars. The modern paintings overtook the old masters in 1987.


</doc>
<doc id="268590" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268590" title="Colonial Clash">
Colonial Clash

The Colonial Clash is an annual American College Football rivalry game played between the University of Massachusetts and the University of New Hampshire. These are traditionally the two best programs in the championship subdivision of college football in New England.

The rivalry adopted the name "Colonial Clash" on August 18, 2010, just two months before becoming the first college football match-up ever at Gillette Stadium. Robert Kraft, owner of Gillette Stadium and its tenants, the New England Patriots and New England Revolution, called it "a fitting name for a border rivalry between schools who represent two of the original colonies." The game is scheduled to be held at the professional venue in both 2010 and 2011.

The two schools have played each other every year since 1952, with UMass holding a 43-26-3 advantage. UNH captured the 2008 game 52-21 while UMass won on homecoming in 2009, 23-17. In 2006, the schools played twice, meeting first on November 4th in Durham, NH (with UMass winning 28-20), then again on December 2nd in Amherst for the NCAA FCS Quarterfinals (UMass winning 24-17). After each regular season meeting, the Billy Knight Trophy is awarded to the MVP of the game.

Since the separation of Division I college football into two separate tiers in 1978, UMass has played for the National Championship three times (1978, 1999, 2006), winning in 1999. While New Hampshire has not yet reached a National Championship game, they were the #1 overall seed in the 2005 FCS playoffs.


</doc>
<doc id="268591" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268591" title="Category:Naruto characters">
Category:Naruto characters


</doc>
<doc id="268592" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268592" title="Classical physics">
Classical physics

Classical physics is the study of matter and energy that was first worked out by Sir Isaac Newton and later elaborated by countless scientists. Newton observed that things in nature such as the falling of an apple occur the same way each time. For instance, a cannon ball dropped from a tall building will strike the ground after the same length of time no matter how many times you drop it. It will be going the same speed each time that it hits the ground. Newton made equations that let him predict such events. He called these equations the laws of physics. 

Newton's laws of physics have been tested both by intentional experiments and by using them in doing jobs. Sometimes other things interfere with an experiment and make the results come out a little wrong. For instance, in the example above, a powerful wind coming from directly below the cannon ball could slow it down a little bit. But when people make efforts to get rid of these extra factors the results of the experiments always get closer to what Newton's laws predict. Or at least that was always the case for ordinary things and events.

Classical physics turned out not to work when the things being studied were very, very small (around the size of atoms or smaller), or were moving very, very fast (at some fairly large fraction of the speed of light). So, around the beginning of the twentieth century, Albert Einstein worked out his Theory of Relativity and people like Neils Bohr, Werner Heisenberg. and Erwin Schrödinger created Quantum mechanics.


</doc>
<doc id="268596" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268596" title="Huayangosaurus">
Huayangosaurus

Huayangosaurus is a genus of stegosaurian dinosaur from the Middle Jurassic of China. The name derives from "Huayang", an alternate name for Sichuan province. 

It lived about 165 million years ago, some 20 million years before its famous relative, "Stegosaurus" appeared in North America. At only 4.5 metres long, it was also much smaller than its famous cousin. Found in the Lower Shaximiao Formation, "Huayangosaurus" shared the local landscape with the sauropods "Shunosaurus", "Datousaurus", "Omeisaurus" and "Protognathosaurus", the ornithopod "Xiaosaurus" and the carnivorous "Gasosaurus".

Like other stegosaurians, "Huayangosaurus" was a quadrupedal herbivore with a small skull and a spiked tail. Like its more famous relative, "Stegosaurus", "Huayangosaurus" bore the distinctive double row of plates that characterize all the stegosaurians. These plates rose vertically along its arched back. In "Huayangosaurus", the plates were more spike-like than in "Stegosaurus". Like "Stegosaurus", however, it bore two pairs of long spikes extending horizontally near the end of its tail.

"Huayangosaurus" was one of the smallest known stegosaurians, at just 4.5 meters in length.

"Huayangosaurus" remains from twelve individual animals were recovered from the Dashanpu Quarry near Zigong in Sichuan. The type species is "H. taibaii".

As it is the most basal stegosaurian, it is placed in within its own family "Huayangosauridae". It is also morphologically distinct from later (stegosaurid) forms. Its skull was broader and had premaxillary teeth in the front of its mouth. All later stegosaurians lost these teeth.

Like many other stegosaurians, it had plates all down its back and spikes on its tail. Two large spikes were above its hips, and may have been used for deterring an attack from above (considering as it was a fairly short in height compared to later stegosaurians). Its plates were smaller than those of "Stegosaurus", with much less surface area. Thus they would have been much less effective heat regulators, one of the postulated functions of plates.

Mounted skeletons of "Huayangosaurus" are on display at the Zigong Dinosaur Museum in Zigong and the Municipal Museum of Chongqing in Sichuan Province in China.



</doc>
<doc id="268597" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268597" title="Gas balloon">
Gas balloon

A gas balloon is a kind of balloon that uses a gas of low density to fly using buoyancy. Gas balloons sometimes fly very high, very far, and for a very long time.

A gas balloon is different from a hot air balloon. A hot air balloon uses a fire to lower
the density of air. A gas balloon does not use fire.

The most common use for gas balloons are to measure the atmosphere. These are called weather balloons.

Some gas balloons carry people. 


</doc>
<doc id="268600" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268600" title="Evanna Lynch">
Evanna Lynch

Evanna Lynch (born 16 August 1991) is an Irish actress. She became famous by playing "Luna Lovegood", a supporting character in the "Harry Potter" film series. Lynch was cast as Luna at the age of 14, having acted only in school plays before. From 2007 to 2009, she starred in two Harry Potter films and their video games. She will return for the final films ("Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows") and the first of the film's two video games. Lynch's work on the series has earned her two award nominations.


</doc>
<doc id="268609" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268609" title="Art Nouveau">
Art Nouveau

Art Nouveau () is an international art movement and style. It was seen in art, graphic design, architecture and applied arts such as decoration, jewellery, ceramics and glass. It peaked in popularity at the fin de siècle of the late 19th century (1890–1905), and continued until the First World War. 

A reaction to academic art of the 19th century, Art Nouveau is organic in style. It has floral and plant-inspired motifs, and stylized, flowing curvilinear forms. Art Nouveau is an approach to design according to which artists should work on everything from architecture to furniture, making art part of everyday life.

The movement was strongly influenced by Czech artist Alphonse Mucha. Mucha produced a lithographed poster as an advertisement for the play "Gismonda" by Victorien Sardou, starring Sarah Bernhardt. 

The poster appeared on 1 January 1895 in the streets of Paris. It was an overnight sensation, and announced the new artistic style and its creator to the citizens of Paris. Initially called the "Style Mucha", this soon became known as "Art Nouveau".

Art Nouveau's fifteen-year life was most strongly felt throughout Europe—from Glasgow to Moscow to Madrid—but its influence was global. In France, Hector Guimard's Paris Metro entrances shaped the landscape of Paris and Emile Gallé was at the center of the school of thought in Nancy. Victor Horta had a decisive impact on architecture in Belgium. 

Magazines like "Jugend" helped spread the style in Germany, especially as a graphic design form, while the Vienna Secessionists influenced art and architecture throughout Austria-Hungary. Art Nouveau was also a movement of distinct individuals such as Gustav Klimt, Charles Rennie Mackintosh, Alphonse Mucha, René Lalique, Antoni Gaudí and Louis Comfort Tiffany, each of whom interpreted it in their own individual manner.

Although Art Nouveau fell out of favour with the arrival of 20th-century modernist styles, it is seen today as an important bridge between Neoclassicism and modernism. 

Art Nouveau monuments are now recognized by UNESCO on their World Heritage Sites list as significant contributions to cultural heritage. The historic center of Riga, Latvia, with "the finest collection of art nouveau buildings in Europe", was inscribed on the list in 1997 in part because of the "quality and the quantity of its Art Nouveau/Jugendstil architecture". Four Brussels town houses by Victor Horta were included in 2000 as "works of human creative genius" that are "outstanding examples of Art Nouveau architecture brilliantly illustrating the transition from the 19th to the 20th century in art, thought, and society".


</doc>
<doc id="268617" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268617" title="E.S. Posthumus">
E.S. Posthumus

E.S. Posthumus is a two-person band that mainly produce music for movies (and their trailers). Franz Vonlichten and Helmut Vonlichten created the music from Pythagorean ideas that combine very different elements and still produce harmony.


</doc>
<doc id="268619" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268619" title="Milos Forman">
Milos Forman

Jan Tomáš Forman (born 18 February 1932), better known as Miloš Forman, is a Czech-American film director and screenwriter. This is emigrant from Czechoslovakia. Two his movie "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest", and "Amadeus" won the Academy Award for Best Picture and very famous. Also directed beetwen other by "Hair" and "People vs. Larry Flynt". He's won two Academy Award for Best Director.



</doc>
<doc id="268620" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268620" title="All-purpose flour">
All-purpose flour

All-purpose flour is a type of wheat flour. It is very common. It can be used for many things, including cakes, breads, and muffins. It is one of the most common types of flour. It is found easily in grocery stores. It does not contain a leavening agent like self-rising flour.


</doc>
<doc id="268621" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268621" title="Wheat flour">
Wheat flour

Wheat flour is a type of flour made from wheat kernels. There are two main types of wheat flour: whole wheat flour and white flour. Whole wheat flour contains the whole grain of wheat, making it more nutritious. White flour only contains the endosperm of the wheat grain, making it less nutritious. White flour is preferred by many people. White flours are normally enriched. Wheat flour can be sifted to make it finer and smoother.


</doc>
<doc id="268622" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268622" title="Dysgraphia">
Dysgraphia

Dysgraphia or agraphia is the inability to write texts, even though the person has the necessary motoric skills. People with dysgraphia can move their hand enough, and are also capable of understanding how to write. Dysgraphias occur because of damage done to the brain. They often occur with other illnesses, such as speech problems. Many people who suffered a stroke may have lost the ability to move parts of their body. There are different forms of dysgraphia:



</doc>
<doc id="268625" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268625" title="List of African dinosaurs">
List of African dinosaurs

This is a list of dinosaurs whose remains have been recovered from Africa. 

Africa has a rich fossil record, but it is patchy and incomplete. Prosauropods dating from the Early Triassic period, about 230 million years ago, have been discovered in Madagascar. Africa is rich in Triassic and Lower Jurassic dinosaurs. African dinosaurs from these time periods include "Syntarsus", "Dracovenator", "Melanorosaurus", "Massospondylus", "Euskelosaurus", "Heterodontosaurus", "Abrictosaurus", and "Lesothosaurus". The Middle Jurassic is poorly represented in Africa. Only the three sauropods "Cetiosaurus", "Lapparentosaurus", and "Archaeodontosaurus" have been discovered dating from this time period. The Upper Jurassic, however, is well represented in Africa, mainly thanks to the spectacular Tendaguru Formation. "Allosaurus", "Ceratosaurus", "Elaphrosaurus", "Giraffatitan", "Dicraeosaurus", "Janenschia", "Tornieria", "Tendaguria", "Kentrosaurus", and "Dryosaurus" are among the dinosaurs whose remains have been recovered from Tendaguru. This fauna seems to show strong similarities to that of the Morrison Formation in the United States and the Lourinha Formation in Portugal. For example, "Allosaurus", "Ceratosaurus", and "Dryosaurus" have been found in both the Tendaguru and the Morrison. This has important biogeographical implications. 

The Lower Cretaceous in Africa is known primarily from the northern part of the continent, particularly Niger. "Suchomimus", "Elrhazosaurus", "Spinostropheus", "Rebbachisaurus", "Nigersaurus", "Kryptops", "Nqwebasaurus", and "Paranthodon" are some of the early Cretaceous dinosaurs known from Africa. The early Cretaceous was an important time for the dinosaurs of Africa because it was when Africa finally separated from South America, forming the South Atlantic Ocean. This was an important event because now the dinosaurs of Africa started developing endemism because of isolation.
The Upper Cretaceous of Africa is known mainly from North Africa. During the early part of the Upper Cretaceous, North Africa was home to a rich dinosaur fauna. It includes "Spinosaurus", "Carcharodontosaurus", "Rugops", "Bahariasaurus", "Deltadromeus", "Paralititan", "Aegyptosaurus", and "Ouranosaurus". During the latest Cretaceous, at the end of the Age of Dinosaurs, "Majungasaurus", "Masiakasaurus", "Rapetosaurus", and the flying dromaeosaurid "Rahonavis" lived in Africa. 

This is a timeline of selected dinosaurs from the list above. Time is measured in mya along the x-axis.



</doc>
<doc id="268637" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268637" title="IPO in Nepal">
IPO in Nepal

In Nepal, the initial public offering (IPO) is made only by the firm targeting more than fifty investors. In addition, the firm should have completed one year of operation and have published its audited financial reports and completed its annual general meeting before going public. IPO process starts with the ﬁrm submitting an application for registration of securities. The law requires the appointment of and use of assistance of issue manager in the public oﬀering of the shares. In this regard, the firm can use either the firm commitment or the best effort for the IPO. However, an IPO of the firm other than a bank, financial institution or insurance is legally required to be underwritten. The issue manager is responsible for the preparation of the prospectus and issuing the due diligence certificate which are then submitted to the regulating authority (Securities Board of Nepal) for the approval. After the approval from authority, announcement is made through the publication of prospectus or offer document at least in one national level daily newspaper and minimum one week earlier from the date of opening of the issue. In case of failure to issue the security within the two months from the date of approval, a re-approval should be obtained from authority . In Nepal, IPOs are usually offered at a fixed price and are kept open for public subscription for a minimum of 5 days and a maximum of 15 days from the date of issue. There is also an “"over-allotment option" (greenshoe) that allows the firm to issue issue additional shares up to 5% of the issued capital in case demand for the securities exceeds the original amount offered. 

Table 1: Allotment time 
^within the days after the closure of the issue

The share allotment has to be completed within 40-70 days from the date of the closure of the issue (Table 1) whereas the refund has to be made within the five days of the share allotment date. The companies have to apply for listing in the secondary market (Nepal stock exchange) within 30 days from the date of the allotment.. The primary issue allotment is based on the Share Allotment Directive 2051 that gives more weightage to the small applicants. However, on August 11, 2011 the regulating authority issued a new Securities Allotment Guideline, 2011 and introduced a proportional shares allocation mechanism. Under this, the shares will be allocated on a pro-rata basis in line with the level of oversubscription, e.g., if the company issuing IPO of 100,000 shares is oversubscribed by 10 times, then all the applicants will be allocated 1/10 of their applied shares, irrespective of the number (and amount) of shares applied for. The guideline also requires the issuing company to set aside 40% of the total securities issued for the retail investors (individual investors applying for up to 50,000 rupees). SEBON is also in the process of making some significant changes in the IPO market specifically with respect to the Banking and Financial Institutions (BAFIs): removing compulsory provision to issue IPO of at least 30% of the paid up capital, introducing the book-building or auction-based IPO issuing mechanism thereby removing the current provision of public shares issuance at face value of Rs 100 per share, and reducing the promotors’ shareholding to 20 percent from 51 percent. 

Footnotes

1. Securities Registration and Issue Regulation, 2065. http://www.sebonp.com/secuLaws.html. Retrieved Oct 20, 2010.

2. Securities Issue Guidelines, 2065. http://www.sebonp.com/secuLaws.html. Retrieved Oct 20, 2010

3. Introduction of Proportionate Securities Allotment System, 2011. http://www.sebon.gov.np/sebon/publications/news.aspx. Retrieved August 13, 2011.

4.5-YEAR CAPITAL MARKET DEVelopment MASTER PLAN. http://www.ekantipur.com/the-kathmandu-post/2011/08/13/money/5-year-capital-market-development-master-plan-sebon-seeks-revocation-of-forcible-ipo-provision/225163.html. Retrieved August 13, 2011.

</doc>
<doc id="268640" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268640" title="Xiaosaurus">
Xiaosaurus

Xiaosaurus (means "dawn lizard)" was a small, plant-eating dinosaur. It walked on two long legs, had four-toed feet, five-fingered hands, short arms, a long, stiff, pointed tail, a flexible neck, and a small head with large eyes.
This early dinosaur ornithischian lived during the mid-Jurassic period, about 169–163 million years ago. It was small and lizard-like, about four feet (1.2 m) long – smaller than an adult human. Fossils of this dinosaur were found in China. 


</doc>
<doc id="268644" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268644" title="Vulcanodon">
Vulcanodon

Vulcanodon was a long-necked dinosaur that lived during the early Jurassic period, about 208 to 201 million years ago. It was a very early sauropod (a vulcanodontid). A partial fossil has been found in Mashonaland North, Zimbabwe, Africa.
"Vulcanodon" was about 20 feet (6.5 m) long. It was a long-necked, long-tailed plant-eater with a small head, thick legs, and a bulky body. It had nail-like claws on its feet and an enlarged claw on each big toe. Its front legs were relatively long.


</doc>
<doc id="268668" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268668" title="Template:IPA-nl">
Template:IPA-nl

<onlyinclude>]</onlyinclude>


</doc>
<doc id="268675" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268675" title="Olympiacos F.C.">
Olympiacos F.C.

P.A.E. Olympiacos is a football club which plays in Greece. The club based in Piraeus, Greece. The colours of Olympiacos is white and red and its emblem is an adolescent with a crown made of laurel. It is the most successful Greek team. It has won thirty-seven League titles, twenty-four Greek Cups and three Greek Super Cups, more titles than any other Greek team and it is one of four teams that have never been relegated from the first division. 

The club's stadium is the newly rebuilt Karaiskakis Stadium in Piraeus. Olympiacos is the most popular Greek club with around two and a half million fans in Greece and was placed ninth on the list with the most paid up members in the world in 2006, having 83,000 registered members as of April 2006. They share a great and long-standing rivalry with Panathinaikos.


</doc>
<doc id="268678" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268678" title="Lancia Dedra">
Lancia Dedra

The Lancia Dedra is an automobile produced by Lancia. It replaced the Lancia Prisma in 1989, and was replaced by the Lancia Lybra in 2000.



</doc>
<doc id="268679" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268679" title="Category:Lancia automobiles">
Category:Lancia automobiles


</doc>
<doc id="268682" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268682" title="Treasure Planet">
Treasure Planet

Treasure Planet is a 2002 animated science fiction movie produced by Walt Disney Feature Animation, and released by Walt Disney Pictures on November 27, 2002. The 43rd animated feature in the Walt Disney Animated Classics, the movie is based on Robert Louis Stevenson's adventure novel "Treasure Island" and was the first movie to be released simultaneously in regular and IMAX theaters. The movie uses hand-drawn 2D traditional animation over 3D computer animation.

The movie was co-written, co-produced and directed by Ron Clements and John Musker, who had pitched the concept for the movie at the same time that they pitched "The Little Mermaid". "Treasure Planet" features the voices of Joseph Gordon-Levitt, Brian Murray, David Hyde Pierce, Martin Short, and Emma Thompson. The musical score was composed by James Newton Howard, while the songs were written and performed by John Rzeznik. Although it received generally positive reviews, the movie performed poorly in the United States box office, costing $140 million to create while earning $38 million in the United States and Canada and just under $110 million worldwide. It was nominated for the 2002 Academy Award for Best Animated Feature.


</doc>
<doc id="268684" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268684" title="Woolsthorpe-by-Colsterworth">
Woolsthorpe-by-Colsterworth

Woolsthorpe-by-Colsterworth is a hamlet in the United Kingdom. It is in Lincolnshire, England. It is 100 miles north of London. It is the town where the scientist, Sir Isaac Newton, was born. Newton was born and lived at Woolsthorpe Manor, which is a small farm house. The apple tree which made him think about gravity can still be seen in the garden.


</doc>
<doc id="268690" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268690" title="Second Great Awakening">
Second Great Awakening

The Second Great Awakening was a religious movement in the United States in the early and mid 1800s. It was led by people such as Charles Grandison Finney, Henry Ward Beecher, Lyman Beecher, Edward Everett and Joseph Smith. It started in upstate New York, but spread to New England and the Midwest. During the Second Great Awakening, thousands of people gathered at large religious meetings called revivals. The people of the Second Great Awakening though they could bring about a Golden Age in America through religion. The Second Great Awakening led to new religious movements such as the Holiness Movement and the Mormons, and helped groups like the Methodist Church grow. The Second Great Awakening led to two movements in reform, that is, changing laws and behaviors to make society better. One of these was the Temperance Movement, which believed that drinking alcohol was not good for society. The other was abolition, which wanted to end slavery. People such as Harriet Beecher Stowe and William Lloyd Garrison wrote books and newspapers about how slavery should stop. They also formed political movements, which included the Liberty Party, the Free Soil Party and the Republican Party. 


</doc>
<doc id="268694" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268694" title="Black Hawk War">
Black Hawk War

The Black Hawk War was a war between the Indians under command of Chief Black Hawk and American settlers on the frontier in 1832 and 1833. It took place mostly in Illinois and Wisconsin. Several small battles were fought, including the Battle of Stillman's Run and the Battle of Bad Axe. During the War, dozens of Americans and hundreds of Indians were killed. Many more Americans died of cholera and other diseases than died in battle. After the War, the Sac, Fox and Kickapoo Indians lost most of their land in Illinois and Wisconsin. Both future Union President Abraham Lincoln and future Confederate President Jefferson Davis fought in the Black Hawk War, both on the side of the Union.


</doc>
<doc id="268696" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268696" title="Populist Movement">
Populist Movement

The Populist Movement, also known as the People's Party was a movement in late-19th century America. It grew out of groups such as the Grange Movement. It was largely a movement of farmers, who were poor and felt big businesses, such as railroads, were to blame. Its leaders included Thomas Watson and William Jennings Bryan. The populists had a series of demands known as the Omaha Platform. Here are some of the things the Omaha Platform wanted:

Though the Populists never and only controlled a few state governments for a few years, many of the demands of the Omaha Platform, such as the income tax and direct election of Senators, were later done as part of the Progressive Movement


</doc>
<doc id="268704" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268704" title="Fauvism">
Fauvism

Les Fauves (French for "The Wild Beasts") was the name of a modern art movement in the early 20th century, led by the painters Henri Matisse and André Derain. The Fauves were a group of French painters who were influenced by the bright colours used by the Post-Impressionists Vincent van Gogh and Paul Gauguin. 

The bright colourful style of painting that they used began around 1900 and continued beyond 1910, but the group was only together for three years, 1905–1907. In that time they had three exhibitions together.



</doc>
<doc id="268706" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268706" title="Category:Fauna of North America">
Category:Fauna of North America

This category is for animals that live on the continent of North America.


</doc>
<doc id="268707" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268707" title="Category:Reptiles of North America">
Category:Reptiles of North America

This category is for reptiles that live in the North American continent, excluding dinosaurs and birds.


</doc>
<doc id="268709" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268709" title="American Crocodile">
American Crocodile

The American Crocodile is a species of crocodile that lives in the Americas, from the southern United States to northern South America. Its scientific name, "Crocodylus acutus", means "Pointy-snouted crocodile", and refers to the shape of its snout. American Crocodiles feed mostly on fish, but large individuals occasionally prey on larger animals, such as deer. The crocodile will pretend it is a log, and hide beneath the surface of the water. When the deer comes down to the water to drink, it lunges out of the water, grabs the deer in its jaws, and pulls it underwater, where it drowns. 

After the deer is dead, the crocodile will grab a piece of meat in its jaws and spin around in a "Death Roll". American Crocodiles are a somewhat aggressive crocodile species, and have been known to attack humans. Attacks on humans are very rare. However, attacks have started happening frequently in Mexico recently.

The American Crocodile's range in southern Florida overlaps with that of the closely related American Alligator. However, while the American Alligator's range stretches as far north as Virginia, the American Crocodile's range in the United States is confined to southern Florida. This is because alligators are much better at tolerating cold weather than crocodiles. The body temperature of alligators has been known to drop to 38 degrees Fahrenheit without any harm at all to the alligator. However, the American Crocodile is better at tolerating saltwater than the alligator. American Crocodiles have regularly been sighted 140 miles away from shore in the Caribbean Sea.


</doc>
<doc id="268712" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268712" title="Category:Birds of North America">
Category:Birds of North America

This category is for birds that live in North America. The reason that birds are excluded from is because there are too many birds alive today to be included in that category, so they need a category of their own. But this isn't to detract from their status as being 100% dinosaurian. After all, we have a category for , , and , but these are all still considered subclassifications of dinosaurs, just like birds are.


</doc>
<doc id="268719" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268719" title="Bagaceratops">
Bagaceratops

Bagaceratops (meaning "small horned face") was a plant-eating dinosaur that had a bony ridge along the back of its skull. This ceratopsian dinosaur lived during the late Cretaceous period, roughly 84 to 71 million years ago. "Bagaceratops" fossils have been found in Mongolia.

"Bagaceratops" had a large head, a bulky body, a parrot-like beak, cheek teeth, triangular cheek protruberances, a short snout horn, and a small frill on its head. This ornithischian (bird-hipped) dinosaur was about 3 feet (1 m) long. "Bagaceratops" walked on four short legs (it was a quadruped).

"Bagaceratops" could eat tough plants; it had powerful jaws and cheek teeth that could chew the food.


</doc>
<doc id="268722" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268722" title="Nodosaurus">
Nodosaurus

Nodosaurus (meaning "knobbed lizard") was a large, armored, quadrupedal (it walked on four legs), tank-like dinosaur. It lived in the first part of the Upper Cretaceous about 113–98 million years ago. Three very incomplete "Nodosaurus" fossils have been found in Wyoming and Kansas; no skulls have been found yet. It was named by paleontologist Othniel C. Marsh in 1889.

"Nodosaurus" was about 13 to 20 ft (4-6 m) long. It was an ornithischian (bird-hipped) dinosaur with bony dermal plates covering the top of its body. It had four short legs, five-toed feet, a short neck, and a long, clubless tail. The nodosaurids had no tail club; it is not known how they defended themselves. 


</doc>
<doc id="268724" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268724" title="USA PATRIOT Act">
USA PATRIOT Act

The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001., also known as the USA Patriot Act. It was proposed by the Bush Administration soon after the September 11 attacks. At that time, President Bush had very high approval ratings and it was clear that most Americans wanted him to do something to stop more terrorism. The bill passed quickly in Congress, mostly before it had even been fully read. The act made it much easier to control money terrorists had in bank accounts. It also made it easier for the government to access people's library and phone records. The act was criticized by many organizations, particularly the American Civil Liberties Union, for being a threat to Americans' civil liberties and rights


</doc>
<doc id="268744" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268744" title="Aztec Empire">
Aztec Empire

The Aztec Empire was in Mexico. Its capital was called Tenochtitlan. The Aztec Empire was a fairly large empire.

Very little is known about this Empire other than that the Europeans came and slaughtered them and also stole from them.


</doc>
<doc id="268745" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268745" title="Elf (band)">
Elf (band)

Elf was an American rock band that was active between 1967 and 1975. The band was previously called the Electric Elves. They released their first album, "Elf", in 1972. The album was co-produced by Ian Paice and Roger Glover, who would later work with Elf's lead singer Ronnie James Dio in the band Rainbow.



</doc>
<doc id="268755" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268755" title="Jason Jaspers">
Jason Jaspers

Jason Jaspers (born April 8, 1981 in Thunder Bay, Ontario), is a professional ice hockey centre who is currently playing for Kölner Haie (the Cologne Sharks) of the Deutsche Eishockey Liga. 

Jaspers was drafted 71st overall by the Phoenix Coyotes in the 1999 NHL Entry Draft. He was drafted from the Sudbury Wolves of the Ontario Hockey League. Jaspers made his professional start in the 2001–02 season with the Coyotes affiliate the Springfield Falcons of the American Hockey League. Jaspers made his National Hockey League (NHL) start in the same season, after he received his first NHL assignment on January 20, 2002. 

Jaspers then spent the next four years primarily with the Falcons of the American Hockey League. Unable to make the NHL regularly he was traded by the Coyotes to the Tampa Bay Lightning for Jarrod Skalde on July 25, 2005. Jason however, never played a game with the Lightning, playing for their affiliate coincidentally still the Springfield Falcons. 

Jaspers finally left the Falcons, ranking second in all-time appearances, in the 2006–07 season when he signed with German team Adler Mannheim, on July 6, 2006. After three years with Adler Mannheim signed on 6 April 2009 with Kölner Haie.

In July 2008 Jason married his highschool sweetheart, Morgan McKee. Morgan is from Sudbury, Ontario where Jason played junior hockey for the Sudbury Wolves. Currently they have no children and live in Germany.



</doc>
<doc id="268756" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268756" title="Jacob Epstein">
Jacob Epstein

Sir Jacob Epstein KBE (10 November 1880 19 August 1959) was an American-born British sculptor, a pioneer of modern sculpture. He was born in the United States, and moved to Europe in 1902, becoming a British citizen in 1911. He often produced controversial works which challenged taboos on what was appropriate subject matter. His portrait heads were traditional, but much of his other work was modernist. He also made paintings and drawings, and often exhibited his work.

The sculptures "Ecce Homo" (Old Coventry Cathedral) and "Rock Drill" (1913-1914, Museum of Modern Art, New York City), are famous and important, but we have no images of them. On view in the Strand, London near Trafalgar Square, are his sculptures for Zimbabwe House. There are a number of his busts (sculptures of heads) in the National Portrait Gallery, also near Trafalgar Square.


</doc>
<doc id="268768" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268768" title="Galvanizing">
Galvanizing

Galvanizing is the coating of a metal with a more reactive metal to stop corrosion. Normally zinc is used to coat iron. The zinc coating corrodes instead of the iron, stopping the iron from corroding. Even if the zinc is scratched, it doesn't corrode. Metal corrodes after paint is scratched. The zinc eventually corrodes all the way and then the iron starts corroding.

Galvanizing can happen in two ways. There is hot dip galvanizing, where the object is dipped in a pool of liquid zinc. This makes a thicker coating that lasts a long time. It does not have a shiny clean surface, though, so some people would not like it as much.

There is also electro galvanizing. This is the electroplating of zinc onto an object. It is shiny but thinner, so it doesn't last as long.



</doc>
<doc id="268776" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268776" title="Brookhaven National Laboratory">
Brookhaven National Laboratory

Brookhaven National Laboratory is a laboratory in the United States at Long Island, New York. It is located on the former location of Camp Upton, a US army camp. It was opened in 1947. It is located in the greater area of the town of Brookhaven. Its motto is "Passion for discovery". 

It was originally owned by the Atomic Energy Commission. It is now owned by the US Department of Energy. It has about 3000 people working there. 

Several people there have gotten Nobel Prizes.


</doc>
<doc id="268777" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268777" title="PubMed Identifier">
PubMed Identifier

A PubMed Identifier is a special number given to each citation of articles in scientific journals. As of 2005, there are about 16 million in use. About 1 million are added each year.


</doc>
<doc id="268778" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268778" title="National Institutes of Health">
National Institutes of Health

The National Institutes of Health is part of the United States Department of Health and Human Services. It is their agency for research. There are 27 separate institutes and offices. Each of them are for separate areas of health which they research.


</doc>
<doc id="268780" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268780" title="Los Angeles Times">
Los Angeles Times

The Los Angeles Times is a newspaper. It is the second largest newspaper in the United States. It is published in Los Angeles, California. It is the fourth most common newspaper in the United States. It was created in 1881.


</doc>
<doc id="268781" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268781" title="Bugle">
Bugle

The bugle is a very simple brass instrument. It has no valves or other mechanisms, the only way the player has to control the pitch is changing the shape of his lips. This means that only notes from the harmonic series can be played.

The bugle comes from instruments made from animal horns. The earliest bugles were shaped in a loop – usually a double loop, but sometimes triple or single – similar to the modern French horn, and were usually used to send messages during hunts. Predecessors and relatives of the developing bugle included the post horn, the Pless horn, and the bugle horn.

The first use of a brass horn as a military signal was the Halbmondblaser, meaning "half-moon blower", used in Hanover in 1758. It was U-shaped (this is where its name comes from) and easily carried with a shoulder strap. It first arrived in England in 1764 where it was slowly it became used often by foot soldiers. Cavalry did not normally use a proper bugle, but instead used an early trumpet that made a sound which was easier to hear from nearby, but travelled less far.

The bugle is used mainly in the military where the bugle call is used to make announcements. A long time ago, the bugle was used in the cavalry to pass instructions from officers to soldiers during battle. In the Bible, bugles are found in the time of Moses, when God commanded Moses to 'make two bugles of hammered silver' in Numbers 10:1-3. They were used to assemble the leaders and to give marching orders to the camps.

In the drum and bugle corps the bugle has changed from its military origins, and now has valves. In American drum and bugle corps, G is considered the traditional key for bugles to be pitched in. However, current rules in both Drum Corps International and Drum Corps Associates define a bugle as a brass instrument in any key, with 0 to 4 valves, and bell front.

Civilian drum corps were made using instruments sold off by the military in the early 1900s, and the last official change made to the military bugle (before it stopped being used because of the invention of the radio) was to make them all use the key of G. Bugles in other parts of the world used to be in B flat or E flat.

The bugle is also used in the Boy Scouts. They use some of the same calls as the military, but not all.

The cornet is sometimes wrongly considered to be the "valved version" of the bugle, although it comes from the French "cornet de poste" (post horn).

19th century versions based on the original bugle included keys and valves. Keyed bugles were invented in England in the early 19th century, with a patent for one design, the Royal Kent bugle, taken out by Joseph Halliday in 1811. This bugle was highly popular and widely in use until around 1850 – for example, in works by Richard Willis, later bandmaster of the United States Military Academy Band at West Point. This version of the bugle stopped being used when the valved cornet was invented.

Modern instruments considered bugles often have valves.





</doc>
<doc id="268796" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268796" title="Trevor Johansen">
Trevor Johansen

Trevor Daniel Johansen (born March 30, 1957 in Thunder Bay, Ontario) is a retired professional ice hockey player who played 286 games in the National Hockey League. Johanssen was drafted with the 12th overall pick in the 1977 NHL Entry Draft by the Toronto Maple Leafs. In addition the the Maple Leafs he also spent time with the Colorado Rockies, and Los Angeles Kings.


</doc>
<doc id="268798" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268798" title="James Jarvis">
James Jarvis

James "Jim, Bud" Jarvis (December 7, 1907 – May 7, 1983) was a Canadian professional ice hockey left winger who played three seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL). His time in the NHL included playing for the Pittsburgh Pirates, Philadelphia Quakers and Toronto Maple Leafs. He was born in Fort William, Ontario.


</doc>
<doc id="268818" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268818" title="Henry Moore">
Henry Moore

His forms are usually abstractions of the human figure, typically depicting mother-and-child or reclining figures. Moore's works are usually suggestive of the female body, apart from a phase in the 1950s when he sculpted family groups. His forms are generally pierced or contain hollow spaces. Many interpreters liken the undulating form of his reclining figures to the landscape and hills of his birthplace, Yorkshire. 

Moore was born in Castleford, the son of a mining engineer. He became well-known through his larger-scale abstract cast bronze and carved marble sculptures. His ability in later life to fulfill large-scale commissions made him exceptionally wealthy. Yet he lived frugally and most of the money he earned went towards endowing the Henry Moore Foundation, which continues to support education and promotion of the arts.


</doc>
<doc id="268821" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268821" title="Schloss Esterhazy">
Schloss Esterhazy

Schloss Esterhazy is a palace in Eisenstadt, Austria.

It was built in the end of 13th century and belonged to Esterházy family.


</doc>
<doc id="268823" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268823" title="Flotation">
Flotation

Flotation is a process. It is used to separate sulfide ores from the gangue, the impurities in the ore. A detergent is added to the mixture and it is stirred. The sulfide minerals float, while the gangue sinks to the bottom and is removed. This is used in making zinc, where zinc sulfide (sphalerite) is a major zinc ore.


</doc>
<doc id="268824" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268824" title="Gangue">
Gangue

Gangue is the worthless substance that is left behind when minerals are processed. Normally, the wanted ore is found only in small amounts. Flotation is used to concentrate the ore. The ore floats while the gangue sinks to the bottom. Sometimes minerals thought of as gangue are later recovered and used.


</doc>
<doc id="268834" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268834" title="Arctic Willow">
Arctic Willow

The Artic Willow is a plant less than 6" tall. The leaves are pale green with white hairs on top.


</doc>
<doc id="268838" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268838" title="WDC DML 001">
WDC DML 001

WDC DML 001 is the number of a substantially complete troodontid specimen. It was found in the Late Jurassic Morrison Formation of western North America.

The fossil was found in Wyoming. WDC DML 001 has not yet been officially named, but the specimen is nicknamed "Lori". Lori will be described by scientists from the Wyoming Dinosaur Center, a small natural history museum in Wyoming. 

A phylogenetic analysis was presented in an abstract for the "Journal of Vertebrate Paleontology" in 2005. The phylogenetic analysis placed the specimen as a close relative of "Sinornithoides".

This dinosaur is very significant because it is the oldest known troodontid. Until the discovery of Lori, troodontids were believed to have first originated and evolved in Asia and then migrated to North America. Most troodontids were discovered in Asia, and the previously oldest known troodontids, from the Lower Cretaceous, lived there. 


</doc>
<doc id="268844" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268844" title="Niigata Prefecture">
Niigata Prefecture

Niigata is next to Yamagata, Toyama, Nagano, Gumma and Fukushima prefecture. Niigata is in the Chubu region of Japan.



</doc>
<doc id="268850" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268850" title="Panoplosaurus">
Panoplosaurus

Panoplosaurus was an armored tank-like dinosaur from the Upper Cretaceous, living about 76–73 million years ago. 

"Panoplosaurus" was a herbivore (a plant-eater). It ate low-lying plants, like ferns and cycads. This nodosaurid ankylosaur (with no tail club) was about 23 ft (7 m) long and weighed about 3.5 tons. It had a bulky body, four short legs, a short neck, and a stiff tail.


</doc>
<doc id="268853" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268853" title="Polacanthus">
Polacanthus

Polacanthus was an armoured, spiked, plant-eating dinosaur from the Lower Cretaceous, about 132 to 100 million years ago. "Polacanthus" means "many spines." 

Some paleontologists think that "Polacanthus" is the same genus as "Hylaeosaurus". Fossils of this ankylosaurid have been found in England. 

"Polacanthus" was about 12 feet (4 m) long and about 4.8 feet (1.5 m) tall. It was a bulky quadruped that relied on its many rows of bony spikes for protection. No head is known for this genus.


</doc>
<doc id="268854" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268854" title="Earl Warren">
Earl Warren

Earl Warren (March 19, 1891 – July 9, 1974) was an American lawyer, judge and politician. Warren was born in Los Angeles and grew up in Bakersfield before moving to Oakland. He served in World War I. In 1925, he became District Attorney of Alameda County, and later Attorney General of California. He served as Governor of California from 1943 to 1953. Warren ran for Vice-President in 1948 as a Republican, but lost to Alben W. Barkley in a close election. In 1953, he became Chief Justice of the United States. He was Chief Justice when the Supreme Court issued "Brown v. Board of Education" and "Miranda vs. Arizona", two cases which furthered civil rights in the United States. Warren also chaired the Warren Commission, which looked into a possible conspiracy involving the killing of President Kennedy. Warren retired from the Court in 1969, and died in Washington, D.C., in 1974.


</doc>
<doc id="268878" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268878" title="Abstract art">
Abstract art

Abstract art is modern art which does not represent images of our everyday world. It has colour, lines and shapes (form), but they are not intended to represent objects or living things. Often the artists were influenced by ideas and philosophies.

Abstract art is found in painting and in sculpture. There are also many works of art which are partly abstract, and partly representational. And there are many artists who work in abstract and other types of modern art.

Purely abstract art is a 20th century invention. It grew out of the earlier forms of modern art, but it is perhaps the one movement which is absolutely modern. It has no roots in earlier art (as we use the term today).

One of the first to achieve complete abstract paintings was Kazimir Malevich, who presented a completely black square in 1913. He was a Suprematist, an art movement based on simple geometrical shapes. Art based on geometry is a kind of geometric abstraction. Wassily Kandinsky painted a famous work "Composition VII" in 1913, which was completely abstract and very complex. 

The case of Manierre Dawson, an American from Chicago, is very interesting. During a tour of Europe in 1910, he started painting true abstract works. Back in America, he became convinced that he could not earn a living at art, and became a farmer. He was forgotten until a rediscovery in 1963. He may have been the first person to paint a completely abstract work.

There are many hundreds of other artists who painted abstracts. Piet Mondrian and the sculptor Henry Moore deserve mention for their wide influence on other artists.

After World War II, abstract art became a dominant form of art in the United States, with some outstanding exponents. Immigrants such as Piet Mondrian, Max Ernst and Mark Rothko, and native-born Americans such as Barnett Newman and Jackson Pollock became almost household names. 

Abstract expressionism is the name given to the American post-World War II art movement. It was the first specifically American movement to achieve worldwide influence and put New York City at the center of the western art world, a role formerly filled by Paris. The term was used in 1919, but is more widely used for American work of the 1940s to 1960s. Of the previous generation of painters, Kandinsky is most clearly an abstract expressionist.

Technically, an important predecessor is surrealism, with its emphasis on spontaneous, automatic or subconscious creation. Jackson Pollock's dripping paint onto a canvas laid on the floor is a key method. It was novel, and brought into play several factors. Action: movements, how the artist worked. Automatism and the unconscious: worked was planned, but details were not. 

Abstract expressionist paintings share certain characteristics. The artists use large canvases, sometimes very large. There is an "all-over" approach: the whole canvas is treated with equal importance, as opposed to the center being of more interest than the edges. The canvas as the arena became a credo of Action painting, while the integrity of the picture plane became a credo of the Color field painters.

Painting like Jackson Pollock's which express the actions of the painter.

Painting mainly of coloured shapes of a geometric kind. Examples: Mark Rothko, Barnett Newman, Josef Albers


</doc>
<doc id="268881" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268881" title="MediaWiki:Abusefilter-warning-email">
MediaWiki:Abusefilter-warning-email


</doc>
<doc id="268882" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268882" title="MediaWiki:Abusefilter-warning-interrogative">
MediaWiki:Abusefilter-warning-interrogative


</doc>
<doc id="268883" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268883" title="Bill Johansen">
Bill Johansen

William Odd "Red" Johansen (July 27, 1928 – March 21, 2001) was a Canadian professional ice hockey centre. The high point of his career was one game played in the National Hockey League for the Toronto Maple Leafs. He was born in Oslo, Norway, and he grew up in Port Arthur, Ontario.



</doc>
<doc id="268884" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268884" title="MediaWiki:Abusefilter-warning-removal">
MediaWiki:Abusefilter-warning-removal


</doc>
<doc id="268885" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268885" title="MediaWiki:Abusefilter-warning-blanking">
MediaWiki:Abusefilter-warning-blanking


</doc>
<doc id="268888" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268888" title="Template:Edit filter warning">
Template:Edit filter warning

<noinclude>


</doc>
<doc id="268889" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268889" title="Template:Edit filter warning/doc">
Template:Edit filter warning/doc


<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="268890" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268890" title="Bob Kelly">
Bob Kelly

John Robert "Battleship" Kelly (born June 6, 1946 in Fort William, Ontario) is a retired professional ice hockey player. During his career he played 425 games in the National Hockey League (NHL). While in the NHL he played for the St. Louis Blues, Pittsburgh Penguins, and Chicago Black Hawks.


</doc>
<doc id="268892" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268892" title="Myelin">
Myelin

Myelin is a substance that forms the coating of axons in the brain and the rest of the central nervous system. It is a substance made of about 80% lipid and 20% protein. It's main function is to speed the relay of electricity messages in the nervous system. It is milky white and slippery in appearance and texture, giving rise to the term "white matter" in the brain.

Myelin is an important part of proper neural function. In later life, a process called demyelination can occur, causing poor neural function. Demyelination may be a cause of Alzheimer's disease.


</doc>
<doc id="268893" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268893" title="Dick Kotanen">
Dick Kotanen

Dick Kotanen (born November 18, 1925) is a retired Canadian professional ice hockey defenceman who played in one National Hockey League game for the New York Rangers during the 1950–51 NHL season.



</doc>
<doc id="268894" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268894" title="Template:Worldcat id">
Template:Worldcat id

Works by or about in libraries (WorldCat catalog)

</doc>
<doc id="268901" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268901" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Peanut Butter Jelly Time">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Peanut Butter Jelly Time

<div class="boilerplate metadata" style="background-color: #edeaff; padding: 0 10px 0 10px; border: 1px solid #8779DD;">

 () "has nominated this page for deletion for the reason:"


"Please discuss this deletion below, but keep in mind that and that there may be options that are not just "keep" or "delete", such as merging."

This request is due to close seven days after it was filed; that is on approx. Tuesday, 2 November 2010 at 1:38 pm, although it may be closed more quickly due to .<br><br>


</doc>
<doc id="268904" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268904" title="Scott King">
Scott King

Scott Glenndale Martin King (born June 25, 1967 in Thunder Bay, Ontario) is a former professional ice hockey goaltender. He played in only two National Hockey League games for the Detroit Red Wings. He was drafted 10th (190th overall) in the 1986 NHL Entry Draft.




</doc>
<doc id="268905" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268905" title="Chemical composition">
Chemical composition

Chemical composition refers to the arrangement, type and ratio of atoms in molecules of substances. Chemical composition varies when chemicals are added or subtracted from a substance, when the ratio of substances changes, or when other chemical changes occur in chemicals.


</doc>
<doc id="268912" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268912" title="London Zoo">
London Zoo

The London Zoo is the world's oldest scientific zoo. It was opened in London on 27 April 1828, and was originally intended to be used as a collection for scientific study. It was eventually opened to the public in 1847. Today it houses a collection of 755 species of animals, with 15,104 individuals, making it one of the largest collections in the United Kingdom.

It is managed under the aegis of the Zoological Society of London (ZSL), established in 1826. It is situated at the northern edge of Regent's Park , on the boundary line between City of Westminster and Camden (the Regent's Canal runs through it). The Society also has a more spacious site at ZSL Whipsnade Zoo in Bedfordshire to which the larger animals such as elephants and rhinos have been moved.
As well as being the first scientific zoo, ZSL London Zoo also opened the first Reptile house (1849), first public Aquarium (1853), first insect house (1881) and the first children's zoo (1938).

ZSL receives no state funding and relies on 'Fellows', 'Friends', 'Members', entrance fees and sponsorship to generate income.

However, the ZSL's nearby "Institute of Zoology" is eligible for public grants as a scientific institution. It has an international reputation in bioconservation.


</doc>
<doc id="268915" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268915" title="MediaWiki:Abusefilter-warning-testedit">
MediaWiki:Abusefilter-warning-testedit


</doc>
<doc id="268920" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268920" title="Ramon Sessions">
Ramon Sessions

Ramon Sessions (born April 11, 1986) is a professional basketball player for the Cleveland Cavaliers of the National Basketball Association (NBA). He played college basketball at the University of Nevada for three years before entering the 2007 NBA Draft. The Milwaukee Bucks chose him with the 56the pick of the draft.

On April 14, 2008, Sessions scored 20 points and had 24 assists in a game against the Chicago Bulls. Although the Bucks lost this game to the Bucks, Sessions set a Bucks record for the most assists by one player in a game.

In September 2009, Sessions signed a contract to join the Minnesota Timberwolves. The Timberwolves traded him to the Cleveland Cavaliers in July 2010.


</doc>
<doc id="268922" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268922" title="Volkswagen Polo Mk4">
Volkswagen Polo Mk4

The Volkswagen Polo Mk4 is the fourth generation of the small car Volkswagen Polo. It successed the Mk3 in 2001, and were in 2009 successed by the Mk5. The platform of the Mk4 Polo were also used for the SEAT Ibiza, the SEAT Córdoba and the Škoda Fabia.



</doc>
<doc id="268923" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268923" title="Volkswagen Polo Mk5">
Volkswagen Polo Mk5

The 'Volkswagen Polo Mk5 is the fifth generation of the small car Volkswagen Polo. It successed the Mk4 in 2009. The platform of the Mk5 Polo were also used for the Audi A1 and the SEAT Ibiza.



</doc>
<doc id="268924" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268924" title="Len Brown">
Len Brown

Len Brown (born ) is the current mayor of Auckland in New Zealand and a lawyer. He was elected mayor of Manukau in October 2007, the second time he ran for that office. He won the 2010 Auckland mayoral election on 9 October 2010 and was sworn in as mayor of Auckland on 1 November 2010.

He was born in Taumarunui, and his family moved to Otara in Auckland when he was seven years old. He attended Mayfield Primary School, Papatoetoe Intermediate School and De La Salle College. He has fond memories of his early life, saying "they were generous, generous days". His life growing up has been described as centred on family, church, school and community, while parents Tom and Ngaire were described as strong believers in social equity and social justice as well as active in the community life. While he did not grow up in Auckland, his family often travelled to see relatives there, because his parents had moved to Taumarunui from South Auckland.

Brown worked as a lawyer. He was a partner at law firm Wynyard Wood, and co-founded the Howick Free Legal Service.

He was first elected to the Manukau City council in 1992, and continued as councillor until 2004 when he did not run for re-election. He was also the chairperson of the Counties Manukau Health Council from 1998. Brown first ran for mayor of Manukau in 2004, and narrowly lost to long serving mayor Sir Barry Curtis; he lost by fewer than 600 votes. Brown had considered requesting a re-count due to the closeness of the vote, but decided that he had not been close enough to warrant it. Despite his affiliation with the New Zealand Labour Party since age 17, Brown did not run for election in the 2005 General Election, and instead returned to working for Wynyard Wood.

Brown announced that he was running to be the Mayor of Manukau in 2006. Barry Curtis announced that he would not be running for re-election, and Brown's main opposition were former Olympic runner Dick Quax and radio host Willie Jackson. Brown resigned from Wynard Wood in 2007 to focus on his candidacy full time. In August 2007, both Quax and Brown were polling "neck and neck". Brown's campaign was based on several policies, including; capping rates at the cost of inflation, increasing public transport, and working with youth in the region. 

Brown won the election in October 2007 with more than 32,000 votes; his next closest rival Dick Quax had less than 18,000, and the election was jokingly called a 'Lenslide' by some. He was officially sworn in on 26 October 2007 at the Manukau City Council hall.

On 31 May 2008 he suffered a heart attack while at a music awards ceremony, and was admitted to Auckland Hospital. He had a congenital heart problem that had not been diagnosed before. Brown had successful heart bypass surgery two days later and made a full recovery, returning to his duties after a few months. His wife acknowledged that the attack was not stress-related, but rather a family issue, with Len's mother having died from a heart attack at 47.

In August 2009, Brown stated he would run for the mayoralty of the combined Auckland "super-city" in the Auckland mayoral election, 2010. Brown announced his candidacy in front of more than 300 supporters at Sorrento in the Park, One Tree Hill, Maungakiekie. His campaign speech focused on delivering public transport, public ownership of the region's public assets, environmental protection, economic and social development. He won the position by 60,000 votes over main rival candidate, Auckland City mayor John Banks, on 9 October 2010.

In June 2010, Brown came under media attention for matters relating to his spending on his council credit card and other council expense claims, which included items of a personal nature like toys, groceries and insect repellent. His later explanations for these purchases were also examined at a council meeting, where Brown repeatedly slapped his face and got emotional. An advisor later explained that Brown's emotional behaviour was caused by his use of a Maori tradition, which Brown said was not true.

Another council expense claim included an $810 dinner at a restaurant, but Brown refused to say who was there. He said that the event was a fundraiser for a local singer for which the Council bought a table, an explanation later supported by the artist.

Brown is married to Shirley Anne Inglis, and has three children. They live in the Totara Park suburb of Manukau.


</doc>
<doc id="268933" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268933" title="Progressivism">
Progressivism

Progressivism generally means any political movement that wants to change government for the better. It is the opposite of conservatism. It most often refers to a political movement in the United States in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. In the United States, these people wanted to change politics, which was at that time run by big business and corrupt political machines. Most of the people who believed in the Progressive Movement were part of the middle class. Some of the leaders of the progressive movement were Theodore Roosevelt, Hiram Johnson and Robert M. LaFollette.


</doc>
<doc id="268935" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268935" title="Edgar Laprade">
Edgar Laprade

Edgar Louis "Beaver" Laprade (born October 10, 1919) was a Canadian professional ice hockey centre who played for the New York Rangers in the National Hockey League (NHL). He also spent time with the Port Arthur Bearcats of the Thunder Bay Senior Hockey League.

Born in Mine Centre, Ontario, Edgar was one of Canada's top senior hockey players before joining the NHL. He helped the Bearcats win the 1940 Allan Cup, before joining the Rangers in 1945. While with the Rangers, he would win the 1946 Calder Memorial Trophy and the 1950 Lady Byng Memorial Trophy. He was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1993.



</doc>
<doc id="268944" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268944" title="National Recovery Administration">
National Recovery Administration

The National Recovery Administration was an agency in the Government of the United States in the 1930s, during the New Deal. It was formed by the National Recovery Act during the first "Hundred Days" of President Franklin D. Roosevelt. It regulated the economy. It was the first agencies that could control minimum wages. It was headed by Hugh S. Johnson, a former general. The NRA lasted until 1935, when the United States Supreme Court said it was unconstitutional. 


</doc>
<doc id="268945" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268945" title="Works Progress Administration">
Works Progress Administration

The Works Progress Administration (or WPA) was an agency in the United States during the New Deal. It was formed in 1935, during the "Second New Deal". It employed more workers than any government agency had before. It built thousands of roads, schools, and government buildings. Part of it was the Federal Art Project, which created, such as murals by Diego Rivera and the play "The Cradle Will Rock". The agency was led by Harry Hopkins. It lasted until World War II.


</doc>
<doc id="268952" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268952" title="William H. Prescott">
William H. Prescott

William Hickling Prescott (May 4, 1796 – January 29, 1859) was an American historian who was interested in Spain and the Spanish Empire. He is known as one of the first great American historians. Prescott was made almost blind after a boy threw a piece of bread at his eye when he was sixteen. This meant that he could not work in a normal job.

Prescott's grandfather was William Prescott, a soldier who fought for the United States in the American Revolutionary War. Prescott grew up in Boston, Massachusetts, which is a city on the east coast of the United States. When Prescott was 15, he went to Harvard University. After he got his degree, he studied many different topics, before deciding that he was interested in the history of Spain. He wrote many books about Spanish history, which were very popular. His work had a significant impact on the study of the history of Spain. 
William H. Prescott was born in Salem, Massachusetts, on May 4, 1796. He was the oldest of seven children, but four of his brothers and sisters died at a young age. His parents were William Prescott, Jr., a lawyer, and his wife, Catherine Greene Hickling. His grandfather William Prescott served as a colonel during the American Revolutionary War.

Prescott first went to school when he was seven. The family moved to Boston, Massachusetts, in 1808. Prescott went to Harvard University in 1811, at the age of 15. He was good at Latin and Greek, but found mathematics difficult. He graduated from Harvard in 1814.

After he had graduated, Prescott traveled to the island of São Miguel in the Azores, where his grandfather and Portuguese grandmother lived. After staying there two weeks, he went to London, where he stayed with the famous surgeon Astley Cooper and the eye-expert |William Adams. Prescott found it difficult to write because his eyesight was so poor, so Adams gave him a device called a noctograph to help him. He visited Hampton Court Palace with John Quincy Adams, who was a diplomat in London. John Quincy Adams later became President of the United States. In 1816, Prescott travelled in France and Italy. He met an American academic, George Ticknor in Paris. Ticknor became a very good friend of Prescott. Prescott returned to America in December 1816. He spent the next four years studying Italian and Spanish literature. He also married Susan Amory, the daughter of Thomas Coffin Amory and Hannah Rowe Linzee, on May 4, 1820.
In the 1820s, Prescott wrote two essays for the "North American Review", an American academic journal. Both were about Italian poetry. However, Prescott became interested in the history of Spain due to his friend George Ticknor, who had become professor of Spanish studies at Harvard University. Prescott decided that he wanted to write a book about Ferdinand and Isabella, who were King and Queen of Spain in the early 1500s, in January 1826. After gathering source material, Prescott started writing the "History of Ferdinand and Isabella" in October 1829. He had finished it by July 1836. It was published on Christmas Day, 1837 by the "American Stationary Company", which was based in Boston, with a print run of 500 copies. Prescott dedicated the book to his father. The book sold very well, and was published in London in 1838. Prescott later made a shortened version of the work. In recognition of this work, he was awarded three honorary doctorates, by Columbia University, College of William and Mary and South Carolina College. 

Prescott wrote three other books on the Spanish Empire. The first, "The History of the Conquest of Mexico", was written between 1838 and 1842 and published in 1843. It is thought to be one of the most important books written on ancient Mesoamerica. It was so popular at the time that John Y. Mason, the United States Secretary of the Navy had a copy placed in the library of every fighting ship. Today, it is still the best known and most popular work by Prescott. The "Conquest of Mexico" was followed by the "Conquest of Peru", which was written between 1843 and 1847, and published in March 1847. It was similarly successful. Prescott's last book, the "History of the Reign of Phillip II" was never finished and is not thought to be of the same quality as his other works. Prescott started work on it in 1842, but stopped in 1858 after suffering a stroke. 




</doc>
<doc id="268955" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268955" title="Gloria Steinem">
Gloria Steinem

Gloria Steinem is an American feminist and writer. She founded "Ms." magazine, and also wrote for several other magazines. Steinem is Jewish and is from Toledo, Ohio.


</doc>
<doc id="268957" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268957" title="Betty Friedan">
Betty Friedan

Betty Friedan (February 4, 1921 - February 4, 2006) was an American writer, activist and feminist. She wrote the book "The Feminine Mystique" in 1963. She argued in the book that there was more to life for women than the achievemants of their husbands and children. In an interview for Life magazine in 1963 she said "Women of the the world unite! You have nothing to lose but your vacuum cleaner!" She helped set up the National Organization for Women (NOW) in 1966 and was its first president.


</doc>
<doc id="268979" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268979" title="Icelandic name">
Icelandic name

Icelandic names are different from most other naming systems used in the West, in that the names follow a patronymic( sometimes matronymic) surname pattern. 

This means that when a person is named, their last name is the name of their father, plus -sson. So if a man called Eric had a son called Leif, Leif's name would be Leif Ericsson. 

The same is true for females, although sometimes women take the name of their father for their last name, or the name of their mother. Also, the suffix -sdottír is added to the end of the parent's name. So, if a girl called Astrid's parents were Leif and Inga, then their daughter could be called either Astrid Leifsdottír, or Astrid Ingasdottír. 

This is naming system is the same naming system that was used by the Vikings. Iceland has kept this naming system because Iceland is an island, and had little contact with the outside world for quite some time, so there was not much change in things like customs, language and naming systems.


</doc>
<doc id="268981" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268981" title="Crystal Castles">
Crystal Castles

Crystal Castles is an experimental electronic music duo from Toronto, Canada. It is made up of producer Ethan Kath and vocalist Alice Glass. The band has released two albums, both named "Crystal Castles", in 2008 and 2010. Their first album made the "NME" list of the 50 greatest albums of the decade, placing at #39.


Additional live members:

Past spare live members:



</doc>
<doc id="268982" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268982" title="Crystal Castles (album)">
Crystal Castles (album)

Crystal Castles is the first studio album by Toronto-based duo Crystal Castles. The album was selected for the "NME" magazine's list of the 50 greatest albums of the decade, and gained #39.


</doc>
<doc id="268985" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268985" title="Reactivity">
Reactivity

Reactivity is a measure of how a chemical substance reacts with other things. Some substances are more reactive, and others are less reactive. Lithium reacts with water and air. Gold does not react with water or air. Gold is unreactive. Lithium is reactive. There are several ways to measure reactivity. Some are reducing agents, and others can be oxidizing agents. Some absorb water easily. Some break down easily.


</doc>
<doc id="268988" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268988" title="Chalcophile">
Chalcophile

A chalcophile is a chemical substance that would rather react with sulfur instead of oxygen. Some things like to react with oxygen to make oxides. Other things react with sulfur to make sulfides. Chalcophiles are normally found as sulfides. Zinc is a chalcophile. Zinc sulfide is a common ore, while zinc oxide is rare.


</doc>
<doc id="268991" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268991" title="Dethklok (band)">
Dethklok (band)

Dethklok is a band created by Brendon Small and Tommy Blacha. There are two bands called Dethklok: a fictional one in the television series Metalocalypse, and one formed to play the fictional one's songs.

To date, the real band has released two albums, "The Dethalbum" and "The Dethalbum II".




</doc>
<doc id="268993" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268993" title="Brendon Small">
Brendon Small

Brendon Small (born February 15, 1975 in Springfield, Illinois) is an American sitcom writer/producer, actor, voice actor, composer, and musician. He is best known as the maker of the cartoon series "Home Movies" and "Metalocalypse".


</doc>
<doc id="268997" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268997" title="Tianyuraptor">
Tianyuraptor

Tianyuraptor is a genus of short-armed dromaeosaurid dinosaur ('running lizard'; a type of small dinosaur considered to be closely related to birds) that lived during the Early Cretaceous, about 122 million years ago. Its remains have been found in western Liaoning, China. It was similar to other dromaeosaurids found in Liaoning, with the exception of being somewhat more primitive. The type specimen, formally described in 2009, shows features not seen in previously known Northern Hemisphere (Laurasian) dromaeosaurids, but present in Southern Hemisphere (Gondwanan) species and early birds. 

The generic name of "Tianyuraptor" combines "Tianyu", referring to the Shandong Tianyu Museum of Nature where the holotype specimen is stored, with raptor, the Latin word for 'robber'.


</doc>
<doc id="268999" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268999" title="Fruitadens">
Fruitadens

Fruitadens is a genus of heterodontosaurid dinosaur. 

The name means "Fruita tooth", in reference to Fruita, Colorado, where its fossils were first found. It is known from partial skulls and skeletons from at least four individuals from rocks of the Morrison Formation in Colorado. "Fruitadens" is the smallest known ornithischian dinosaur, with young adults estimated at 65 to 75 cm (26 to 30 in) in length and 0.5 to 0.75 kg (1.1 to 1.7 lb) in weight. 

The lower jaws had an enlarged canine-like tooth, opposite a gap in the upper jaw. Unlike "Echinodon", there wasn't an enlarged tooth in the upper jaw. A small peg-like tooth was present in front of the canine-like tooth. Replacement teeth were present in the jaws, unlike most other heterodontosaurids. "Fruitadens" was an omnivore. 


</doc>
<doc id="269011" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269011" title="Geelong Football Club">
Geelong Football Club

The Geelong Football Club, the Cats, is an Australian Rules Football team that plays in the Australian Football League. The club is based in the city of Geelong, Victoria. The club started in July 1859, and had played continuously since then, which makes it the second oldest club in any code, in the world. The club was an original member of the Victorian Football Association which formed in 1877. It left the association with a number of other clubs to form the Victorian Football League in 1897. It is now a member of the Australian Football League. 



</doc>
<doc id="269019" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269019" title="Volvo B10BLE">
Volvo B10BLE

Volvo B10BLE is a bus produced by Volvo from 1992 until 2002.


</doc>
<doc id="269020" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269020" title="The Diary of a Young Girl">
The Diary of a Young Girl

The Diary of a Young Girl is a Dutch diary written by Anne Frank. She began it in 1942, writing secretly to an imagniary friend. She wrote it while she was in hiding for two years with her family during the Nazi occupation of the Netherlands. The family was caught in 1944 and Anne Frank died of typhus in the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp. After the war, the diary was found by Anne's father, Otto Frank. He was the only known survivor of the family. The diary has now been published in more than 60 different languages. It is now considered a classic of war literature.

It was first published as "Het Achterhuis: Dagboekbrieven van 12 Juni 1942 – 1 Augustus 1944" ("The Annex: diary notes from 12 June 1942 – 1 August 1944") by Contact Publishing in Amsterdam in 1947. After it was translated into English as "Anne Frank: The Diary of a Young Girl" by Doubleday & Company (United States) and Valentine Mitchell (United Kingdom) in 1952, it became very famous critically. It became very popular, and the 1955 play "The Diary of Anne Frank" and movie version were both based on the diary. The play was first acted in New York City. It won the Pulitzer Prize for Drama in 1956. The book is in several lists of the top books of the twentieth century. It discusses the themes of sharing and selfishness in the war, about how someone can be different on the inside and the outside, and about the loneliness of growing up.




</doc>
<doc id="269021" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269021" title="Category:Anne Frank">
Category:Anne Frank

The main page of this category is Anne Frank.


</doc>
<doc id="269029" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269029" title="Crystal Castles II">
Crystal Castles II

Crystal Castles, also known as Crystal Castles II, is the second album by electronic music group Crystal Castles. The album was released by Fiction Records on 24 May 2010.
"Crystal Castles" has been met with mostly good views from people



</doc>
<doc id="269038" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269038" title="Odds">
Odds

In mathematics, odds are the chance that an event will happen compared to the chance that it will not happen. For example, if there is an equal chance that it will rain or that it will not rain, the odds of it raining are 1:1 (which is read as "1 to 1"). If it is twice as likely that it will not rain, then the odds of it raining are 1:2 (read as "1 to 2").

Odds are often used in gambling, especially in horse racing. 

Ask Dr. Math: Odds Slang for Probability?


</doc>
<doc id="269042" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269042" title="MediaWiki:Abusefilter-warning-talkblanking">
MediaWiki:Abusefilter-warning-talkblanking


</doc>
<doc id="269048" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269048" title="Battle of Sunomatagawa">
Battle of Sunomatagawa

The Battle of Sunomatagawa was a Japanese battle. It took place in Nanaimo, a place in Japan, in 1181 AD. Minamoto no Yukiie and his army found Taira no Tomomori's army across the river. They swam the river and attacked them. But Tomomori's people could tell the difference between the wet enemies and their dry people and forced them back across the river.


</doc>
<doc id="269049" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269049" title="Alton, Hampshire">
Alton, Hampshire

Alton is a market town in the English county of Hampshire, England. The town is famous for the home of Jane Austin, a famous English poet. It is the highest town in Hampshire.


</doc>
<doc id="269050" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269050" title="New Alresford">
New Alresford

New Alresford is a market town in the county of Hampshire, England. The town is notable for growing much watercress.


</doc>
<doc id="269051" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269051" title="Farnham">
Farnham

Farnham is a large market town in the county of Surrey, England. It is famous for its castle and its historic buildings. The town lies south from the River Wey.


</doc>
<doc id="269052" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269052" title="River Wey">
River Wey

River Wey is a long river which runs through the conties of Hampshire, Surrey and West Sussex in England. The source is in the town of Alton, Hampshire. 


</doc>
<doc id="269058" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269058" title="Battle of Leipzig">
Battle of Leipzig

The Battle of Leipzig was a battle between Napoleon I and his army and an allied force of several nations. It happened on October 16-19 on 1813. Napoleon I was defeated. It was the largest battle before World War I. It involved about 600,000 soldiers. It was part of the War of the Sixth Coalition. After this battle, Napoleon was taken to the island of Elba.



</doc>
<doc id="269061" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269061" title="Invisible Children">
Invisible Children

Invisible Children is an organization run by Ben Keesey. It was established after a movie was made about forcing children to fight in wars.

Their goal is to help young children in underdeveloped countries like Africa.


</doc>
<doc id="269072" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269072" title="MU*">
MU*

MU* refers to a family of text-based online game servers:


These are also called the Tiny family. These are kinds of MUD.


</doc>
<doc id="269073" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269073" title="Terracotta">
Terracotta

Terracotta is a red clay-based baked ceramic, usually unglazed. 

Its uses include vessels, water and waste water pipes and surface embellishment in building construction, along with sculpture such as the Terracotta Army and Greek terracotta figurines. The term is also used to refer to items made out of this material and to its natural, brownish orange color, which varies considerably. 

Clay is partially dried and cast, molded, or hand worked into the desired shape. After thorough drying, it is placed in a kiln, or atop combustible material in a pit, and then fired. 

After pit firing the hot ware is covered with sand to cool, and after kiln firing the kiln is slowly cooled. When unglazed, the material will not be waterproof, but it is suitable for in-ground use to carry pressurized water (an archaic use), for garden ware, and sculpture or building decoration in tropical environments, and for oil containers, oil lamps, or ovens. Most other uses such as for table ware, sanitary piping, or building decoration in freezing environments require that the material be glazed. Terracotta, if uncracked, will ring if lightly struck, but not as brightly as will ware fired at higher temperature, which is called stoneware. The fired material is weak compared to stoneware.

Some types of terracotta are created from clay that includes recycled terracotta ("grog").

The unglazed color after firing can vary widely, but most common clays contain enough iron to cause an orange, orangish red, or brownish orange color, with this range including various colors described as "terracotta". Other colors include yellow, gray, and pink.


</doc>
<doc id="269075" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269075" title="Yo-yo effect">
Yo-yo effect

The Yo-yo effect means people rapidly gaining weight after a diet. Other words for this activity are yo-yo dieting or weight cycling. People's weight can move down and back up like a yo-yo when they follow several diets one after another. A person's weight after the diet is often higher than it was before dieting. 

The body needs less energy after losing weight on a diet. People have less fatty tissue and often less muscle after dieting. Muscle tissue needs more energy than fatty tissue. Reducing the amount of muscle tissue therefore reduces the need for energy. Diets also limit the number of calories people take in. At some point, a dieter's body will change the way it uses energy if there are less calories to burn. The body does this to make sure it survives when less food is available. These changes in the body cause people to gain weight rapidly when they stop dieting and return to their old eating habits.

People can avoid the yo-yo effect by changing their diet. If a diet works without the body switching to a more efficient way of using calories, there will be no yo-yo effect. A diet should change the dieter's eating habits for a long time. New eating habits should not give the body more energy than it needs. At the end of the diet, it also makes sense to raise the number of calories someone eats slowly. Exercise and sports can increase the amount of calories burned by the body rather than turned into fat.


</doc>
<doc id="269083" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269083" title="David Latta">
David Latta

David Latta (born January 3, 1967, in Thunder Bay, Ontario) is a former professional ice hockey left winger. He was drafted in the first round, 15th overall, by the Quebec Nordiques in the 1985 NHL Entry Draft and went on to play thirty-six games in the National Hockey League, all of them with the Nordiques.



</doc>
<doc id="269084" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269084" title="Pentti Lund">
Pentti Lund

Pentti Alexander Lund (b. December 6, 1925 in Karijoki, Finland) was a Canadian professional ice hockey right winger who played for the Boston Bruins and New York Rangers in the National Hockey League. During his first year he was the recipient of the Calder Trophy. Lund is often said to be the first Finnish player in the National Hockey League. (Albert Pudas, however, played 4 games with the Toronto Maple Leafs in 1926-1927). Lund moved to Canada from Finland at the age of six.


</doc>
<doc id="269085" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269085" title="Mechanical wave">
Mechanical wave

A mechanical wave requires a medium. Sound waves, waves in a Slinky and pressure waves are all examples of this phenomenon. Sound waves need a physical medium in order to exist; the Slinky waves need the Slinky, and the waves in the ocean need the water. Like all waves, they have a frequency, period, wavelength and amplitude.
Mechanical waves are a local oscillation of material. Only the energy propagates; the oscillating material does not move far from its initial equilibrium position; the wave travels by jumping from one particle of the medium to another. Therefore, mechanical waves transport energy and not material;


</doc>
<doc id="269088" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269088" title="Mother Angelica">
Mother Angelica

Mother Angelica or Mother Mary Angelica of the Annunciation (born Rita Antoinette Rizzo on April 20, 1923) is a Catholic nun on a television channel called EWTN (Eternal Word Television Network). 

She started EWTN; now it is a very popular TV channel for Catholics. At four in the afternoon there is a special time for kids on EWTN. EWTN is also a good TV channel for non-Christians who want to learn about the Catholic faith. 

EWTN also has a web site called EWTN.com; at this web site you can learn about being Catholic and see when the shows come on. EWTN.com has a special blog for kids.


</doc>
<doc id="269097" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269097" title="Flame test">
Flame test

A flame test is a test for chemicals. Normally it is used to see whether there are certain metals in a chemical compound. The chemical compound is heated in a flame and a colored flame is made. The colored flame can be turned into its spectrum to analyze it. Many metals produce flame colors. The colors are made by electrons jumping up to higher orbits in the atom when it is heated. They fall down soon, putting out light as energy. 



</doc>
<doc id="269100" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269100" title="Futurism">
Futurism

Futurism was a modern art and social movement which originated in Italy in the early 20th century. It was largely an Italian phenomenon, though there were parallel movements in Russia, England and elsewhere. The Futurists practiced in every medium of art, including painting, sculpture, ceramics, graphic design, industrial design, interior design, theatre, film, fashion, textiles, literature, music, architecture and even gastronomy.

The founder of Futurism and its most influential personality was the Italian writer Filippo Tommaso Marinetti. Marinetti launched the movement in his "Futurist Manifesto", which he published for the first time on 5 February 1909 in "La gazzetta dell'Emilia". This article was reprinted in the French daily newspaper "Le Figaro" on 20 February 1909. Marinetti was soon joined by the painters Umberto Boccioni, Carlo Carrà, Giacomo Balla, Gino Severini and the composer Luigi Russolo.

Marinetti expressed a passionate loathing of everything old, especially political and artistic tradition. "We want no part of it, the past", he wrote, "we the young and strong "Futurists!"" The Futurists admired speed, technology, youth and violence, the car, the airplane and the industrial city, all that represented the technological triumph of humanity over nature, and they were passionate nationalists. They repudiated the cult of the past and all imitation, praised originality, "however daring, however violent", bore proudly "the smear of madness", dismissed art critics as useless, rebelled against harmony and good taste, swept away all the themes and subjects of all previous art, and gloried in science.

Publishing manifestos was a feature of Futurism, and the Futurists (usually led or prompted by Marinetti) wrote them on many topics, including painting, architecture, religion, clothing and cooking.

The founding manifesto did not contain a positive artistic programme. The Futurists attempted to create it in their subsequent "Technical Manifesto of Futurist Painting". This committed them to a "universal dynamism", which was to be directly represented in painting. 

In practice, much of their work was influenced by Cubism, and indeed their images "were" more dynamic than those of Picasso and Braque. The phrase 'plastic dynamism' has been used to describe their early work.

Many Italian Futurists supported Fascism in the hope of modernizing the country. Italy was divided between the industrial north and the rural, archaic South. Like the Fascists, the Futurists were Italian nationalists, radicals, admirers of violence, and were opposed to parliamentary democracy. Marinetti was one of the first members of the National Fascist Party. He soon found the Fascists were not radical enough for him, but he supported Italian Fascism until his death in 1944. 

The Futurists' association with Fascism after its triumph in 1922 brought them official acceptance in Italy and the ability to carry out important work, especially in architecture. After the Second World War, many Futurist artists had difficulty in their careers because of their association with a defeated and discredited regime.

The Futurists renewed themselves again and again until Marinetti's death. 

Futurism influenced many other twentieth century art movements, including Art Deco, Vorticism, Constructivism, Surrealism and Dadaism. Futurism was, like science fiction, in part overtaken by 'the future'.

Nonetheless the ideals of futurism remain as significant components of modern Western culture; the emphasis on youth, speed, power and technology finding expression in much of modern commercial cinema and culture. Ridley Scott consciously evoked the designs of Sant'Elia in "Blade Runner". 

Echoes of Marinetti's thought, especially his "dreamt-of metallization of the human body", are still strongly prevalent in Japanese culture, and surface in manga/anime and the works of artists such as Shinya Tsukamoto, director of the ""Tetsuo"" (lit. "Ironman") films; Marinetti's legacy is also obvious in philosophical ingredients of transhumanism, especially in Europe. Futurism has produced several reactions, including the literary genre of cyberpunk — in which technology was often treated with a critical eye. Artists who came to prominence during the first flush of the Internet, such as Stelarc and Mariko Mori, produce work which is influenced by Futurist ideas.

A revival of sorts of the Futurist movement began in 1988 with the creation of the Neo-Futurist style of theatre in Chicago, which uses Futurism's focus on speed and brevity to create a new form of immediate theatre. There are active Neo-Futurist troupes in Chicago, New York, and Montreal.


</doc>
<doc id="269102" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269102" title="Nine Lessons and Carols">
Nine Lessons and Carols

The Festival of Nine Lessons and Carols is a form of church service used at Christmas in the Anglican Church. There are nine lessons (readings) and between each reading there is a carol sung, either by the choir on its own or by the whole congregation. The story is told from the beginning of the Bible in which Adam disobeys God, to the coming of the baby Jesus.

The form of the service was started by Edward White Benson who was Bishop of Truro in Cornwall, for use on Christmas Eve (24 December) 1880. The service is now used by other churches all over the world, not just in Anglican churches, but also in some Roman Catholic and Lutheran churches. In the UK, the service has become the standard form for schools' Christmas carol services.

The best-known Nine Lessons and Carols service is the one held in King's College, Cambridge every Christmas. The choir carols are sung by the world-famous Choir of King's College, Cambridge. This service has been broadcast on BBC television for more than half a century.

The first Festival of Nine Lessons and Carols at King's College, Cambridge, was held on Christmas Eve in 1918. The music at the first service was directed by Arthur Henry Mann, who was the organist from 1876 to 1929. The choir had 16 trebles which was the number that Henry VI said there must be when he founded the college. Until 1927 the men in the choir were choral scholars and lay clerks. Today, 14 undergraduates from the Choir of King's College, Cambridge, sing the men's parts.

The service was first broadcast by the British Broadcasting Corporation in 1928 and, except for 1930, has been broadcast every year since, even throughout World War II in spite of the stained glass having been removed from the Chapel and the lack of heating. The service is slightly different today: not all the readings are from the Bible. Most of the carols are sung by the choir. There are generally more than nine carols. The service starts with the famous carol "Once in Royal David's City". Verse one is always sung as an unaccompanied solo by one of the boys in the choir. The boy is not told that he is the one who has been chosen to sing the solo until just before the service begins.

Since 1982 the Director of Music has been Stephen Cleobury. Each year he commissions a composer to write a new carol for the Choir. The service ends with the carol "O Come all ye faithful". This is followed by the Organ Voluntary: "In Dulci Jubilo" (BWV 729) by Johann Sebastian Bach and then another Organ Piece (which is heard on the radio but not on television).



</doc>
<doc id="269105" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269105" title="Bearing">
Bearing

A bearing is an item used to reduce friction. Babbitt metal is a common bearing. Some bearings can be stainless steel. They decrease the rubbing inside moving things so they can move more quickly.


</doc>
<doc id="269106" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269106" title="Babbitt metal">
Babbitt metal

Babbitt metal is a metal that has very little friction. It is used for bearings. It can be made from tin, copper, antimony, or lead. Normally it is a certain mixture of these metals. It is very soft. There are harder and softer parts in it, though. This creates small holes where grease can go in when the soft parts rub away. 


</doc>
<doc id="269107" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269107" title="Zinc aluminium">
Zinc aluminium

Zinc aluminium, also called ZA, are alloys of zinc and aluminium. They make good bearings. They work similar to Babbitt metal. Different amounts of aluminium can be added to make different properties. The percentage of aluminium can be known by a number. ZA8 means there is 8% aluminium.


</doc>
<doc id="269108" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269108" title="Nickel silver">
Nickel silver

Nickel silver is an alloy. It normally has copper, nickel, and zinc in it. It is common in utensils. It is also used in cymbals, keys, zippers, and musical instruments. Some coins use nickel silver. It is sometimes used to trick people into thinking it is silver. 


</doc>
<doc id="269110" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269110" title="Pope Innocent III">
Pope Innocent III

Pope Innocent III (1160 or 1161 – 16 July 1216) was an Italian priest of the Roman Catholic Church and the 177th Pope from 1198 until his death in 1216.

Lotario di Conti was born at Anagni in central Italy. His father was Count Trasimund of Segni who was a member of the Conti family. 

During the short reigns of Pope Lucius III, Pope Urban III, Pope Gregory VIII, and Pope Clement III, he served in the church bureaucracy.

In 1190, Clement III raised him to the rank of Cardinal. 

Cardinal Segni was unanimously elected pope on January 8, 1198; and he took the name of Innocent III.

Pope Innocent was involved in Italian and European political disputes.

Pope Innocent promoted the theory that the spiritual power of the church was greater than than any king or emperor. Innocent was the first pope to form a Papal state.

Innocent III was responsible for starting the Fourth Crusade, the Albigensian Crusade, and the Fifth Crusade.

In 1215, Innocent brought together the church's bishops and cardinals in a meeting called the Fourth Lateran Council.




</doc>
<doc id="269111" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269111" title="Debby Boone">
Debby Boone

Debby Boone (born Deborah Ann Boone on September 22, 1956) is a singer, songwriter, and children's book author. She is the daughter of singer Pat Boone. She has won three Grammy Awards; in 1977, 1980 and 1984.


</doc>
<doc id="269112" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269112" title="Flops">
Flops

FLOPS is an acronym for "Floating point Operations per Second". The FLOPS is a measure of a computer's performance, especially in the fields of calculations that make heavy use of floating point calculations. It is like the older measure of instructions per second.


</doc>
<doc id="269116" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269116" title="Satyr">
Satyr

Satyrs are creatures from Greek mythology. The upper half of their body is human and the lower part is two goat legs. Also, on their heads they have horns. Satyrs also can read other people's emotions.

They can also have similarities to goats like eating habits.


</doc>
<doc id="269120" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269120" title="Sigur Rós discography">
Sigur Rós discography

This page is about the music of the Iceland band Sigur Rós.



</doc>
<doc id="269121" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269121" title="White-tailed deer">
White-tailed deer

The white-tailed deer is a type of deer that is found throughout most of North America, except some parts of the United States. There are also some in South America, and humans brought some to Europe and New Zealand.

The white-tailed deer is normally between around 57 and 237 kilograms (125 to 301 pounds) in weight. Its body is between 160 and 220 centimeters (63 to 86 inches) long. It is mostly colored brown, but can also be greyish or reddish in winter and summer. Male white-tailed deer have large antlers. These fall off in the winter. The white-tailed deer mostly lives between two and three years long. Sometimes, though, they will live for more than ten years.

This type of deer is quite shy. When they are scared, they run very fast, and wave their tails. They mostly stay alone and in the same location throughout the year. During the autumn, the deer engage in mating.

They mostly eat vegetation like tree leaves or smaller plants. The deer feed mostly during the morning and evening.

Predators of the white-tailed deer include animals like wolves, coyotes, bears, and mountain lions, as well as humans.


</doc>
<doc id="269122" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269122" title="Turkik">
Turkik

Turkic people are common name for turkic speaking nationalities such as Kazakhs, Tatars, Kyrgyzs, Turkish, Turkmen,
Uyghur, Uzbeks, Bashkirs, Qashqai, Gagauzs, Yakuts, Crimean Karaites, Krymchaks, Karakalpaks, Karachays, Nogais and 
as well as past civilizations such as the Kumans, Kipchaks, Avars, Turgeshs, Seljuks, Khazars, Ottomans, Mamluks, Timurids,
Huns.

Territories occupied by Turkic people spread from Mediterranean sea in the west, to Central China in the East. From 
Central Russia in the north to Afghanistan and Iran in the south. 

Total Turkic population approximately 180 million. Most of the population live in Turkey, Kazakhstan, Iran, China, Russia. 
Around 5 000 000 turkic people live in European Union. Approximately 500 000 people live in United States.


</doc>
<doc id="269123" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269123" title="Great northern bean">
Great northern bean

Great Northern beans are beans that are white colored. They are also light in flavor. They have a shape like a Lima bean except it is a little bit shorter than a Lima bean.


</doc>
<doc id="269128" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269128" title="Wikipedia:Meta-Wiki">
Wikipedia:Meta-Wiki

Meta-Wiki is a collaborative, non-profit wiki. It is a coordination wiki that owns other Wikipedia logos and domains.It owns over 35 million in all and is based on a Wikimedia.

An account is NOT required to edit the wiki. In fact, one (even IPs) can edit almost every page, with protected pages as exceptions. However there are benefits to register.

Meta-Wiki, just as Wikipedia, has multiple policies that editors, anonymous and registered alike, should abide to. Some examples are deletion and page protection.


</doc>
<doc id="269131" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269131" title="Wikipedia:Content pages">
Wikipedia:Content pages

A page is an article, policy, etc. that either an autoconfirmed Wikipedian or an admin/sysop/bureaucrat created and enforced.

Content is content contained in an article that a Wikipedian created or is naturally existent (e.g. policies.) "Wiki markup" is sometimes used on a page to visually or encyclopedically improve the article's value. A content page, then, is a page with encyclopedic value.


</doc>
<doc id="269142" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269142" title="Frederick de Houtman">
Frederick de Houtman

Frederick de Houtman (1571 – 21 October 1627) was a Dutch explorer. In 1619, on his way to Batavia, he sailed the western coast of Australia.


</doc>
<doc id="269147" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269147" title="Jigsaw">
Jigsaw

A jigsaw puzzle is a puzzle with pieces in it. Most people think it is harder than normal puzzles. It is usually used for children's toy.


</doc>
<doc id="269151" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269151" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Dub Sharma">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Dub Sharma

 "has nominated this page for deletion for the reason:"


"Please discuss this deletion below, but keep in mind that and that there may be options that are not just "keep" or "delete", such as merging."
While I'm not sure if it's self-written, it does not appear to be notable, so delete is my vote. () 05:33, 28 October 2010 (UTC)

This request is due to close seven days after it was filed; that is on approx. Thursday, 4 November 2010 at 5:30 am, although it may be closed more quickly due to .<br><br>


</doc>
<doc id="269155" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269155" title="Googie">
Googie

Googie is the term given to a type of architecture and art in the United States in the 20th century. It is also called Doo Wop, Atomic age, or populuxe. It was very futuristic, echoing themes of the 1950s as a whole. Some of Googie architecture was based on what spaceships look like. It started in California soon after World War II and spread to the rest of the United States in the 1950s. Many of the buildings built in the Googie style were coffee shops, bowling alleys and motels. 

Here are a few famous Googie buildings:



</doc>
<doc id="269156" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269156" title="Sharecropping">
Sharecropping

Sharecropping is a term for when one person farms another person's land, and then the two share what is produced. Sharecroppers are almost always poor, and are often in debt to landowners or other people. Sharecropping was very common in the Southern United States after the Civil War and the end of slavery. At that time, many African-Americans sharecropped on the land that they had once farmed as slaves. Sharecropping was part of the system of "Jim Crow", which kept blacks poor and not really citizens. 


</doc>
<doc id="269157" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269157" title="List of Presidents of South Korea">
List of Presidents of South Korea

This is a list of the presidents of South Korea.



</doc>
<doc id="269159" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269159" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Category:1861 architecture">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Category:1861 architecture

 "has nominated this page for deletion for the reason:"


"Please discuss this deletion below, but keep in mind that and that there may be options that are not just "keep" or "delete", such as merging."




This request is due to close seven days after it was filed; that is on approx. Thursday, 4 November at 6:57 AM, although it may be closed more quickly due to .<br><br>


</doc>
<doc id="269177" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269177" title="Pierre Auguste Cot">
Pierre Auguste Cot

Pierre Auguste Cot (17 February 1837 – July 1883) was a French painter. Today he is counted as being part of the Academic art movement. He is also known for his portraits. He studied painting in Toulouse and Paris. His teachers were Léon Cogniet, Alexandre Cabanel and William Bouguereau, amongst others. He won various prizes for his paintings, and in 1874, he is made Chevalier of the Legion of Honour. He died at the age of 46.


</doc>
<doc id="269179" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269179" title="Normal force">
Normal force

Normal force is the force that the ground (or any surface) pushes back up with.
If there was no normal force , you'd be slowly seeping into the ground.

On a flat surface, the normal force of an object is formula_1.

On an inclined plane, the normal force is reduced by the angle, and the normal force is formula_2.

Note that on a flat surface, formula_3 would be 0, and so formula_4 would be 1. So the two equations are equal.


</doc>
<doc id="269183" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269183" title="Template:Country data Confederate States of America">
Template:Country data Confederate States of America


</doc>
<doc id="269185" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269185" title="Template:Cfd">
Template:Cfd


</doc>
<doc id="269186" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269186" title="Template:Cfd/doc">
Template:Cfd/doc

Propose deleting a category. The template displays the proper links and the recommended syntax for the next step.

Please follow .

If a single category:

If a group of similar categories or a category and its subcategories, use an umbrella nomination:


<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="269187" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269187" title="Template:Cfd all">
Template:Cfd all


</doc>
<doc id="269188" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269188" title="Template:Cfd full">
Template:Cfd full


</doc>
<doc id="269189" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269189" title="Template:Deletiontools">
Template:Deletiontools


</doc>
<doc id="269190" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269190" title="Template:Tlxs">
Template:Tlxs

<nowiki></nowiki>

</doc>
<doc id="269193" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269193" title="Zeebo">
Zeebo

The Zeebo was and is a video games console releaced by Zeebo Inc in 2009 in Brazil and Mexico, 2010 in India & Russia & TBA in China it's marketed via the fun and excitement of interactive entertainment and education to those who—until now—have had little or no access to such technology it has wireless capabilities and if the player would like you can Boomerang, Keyboard and Z-Pad, you can also go online via internet connectivity via the Zeebo video games console. 


</doc>
<doc id="269200" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269200" title="Template:Blue pencil">
Template:Blue pencil


</doc>
<doc id="269202" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269202" title="Template:Blue pencil/doc">
Template:Blue pencil/doc

<nowiki></nowiki>

Example of use:

<includeonly>
</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="269204" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269204" title="Grade (education)">
Grade (education)

Grades are a teacher's evaluation of a student's performance. They are often letters (e.g. A, B, C, D, F,) or numbers (e.g. 1-10.)

Letter grades are most commonly used in the U.S. and some others. A D or C, usually, is sufficient grade to pass.

Grades can also be on a number scale. Typically a midpoint score is a pass.
Sometimes the numbers can go in descending order to indicate better performance.

GPA stands for "Grade Point Average", which takes the grade(s) of a student and assigns point values to them. These points are added up and divided to calculate the GPA.


</doc>
<doc id="269209" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269209" title="Elaphrosaurus">
Elaphrosaurus

Elaphrosaurus is a genus of theropod dinosaur that lived during the Upper Jurassic period, about 150 million years ago. It was 15 feet long, and weighed 450 pounds. 

"Elaphrosaurus" was a slender, fast, and agile predator that probably preyed on small ornithopods, such as "Dryosaurus". 

The type specimen was found in the Tendaguru Formation in Tanzania. It was a nearly complete skeleton, but unfortunately, it lacked a skull. Since its body was similar to ornithomimids, it was originally thought to be the earliest ornithomimid. However, later studies showed that it is actually a ceratosaur. There is one named species, "Elaphrosaurus bambergi". Remains very similar to it have also been found in the Morrison Formation in the western United States. These may possibly belong to "Elaphrosaurus", indicating that this dinosaur had a wider range than previously thought.


</doc>
<doc id="269210" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269210" title="Category:Ceratosaurs">
Category:Ceratosaurs

This category is for ceratosaurs.


</doc>
<doc id="269214" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269214" title="Category:Roads in New York">
Category:Roads in New York


</doc>
<doc id="269215" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269215" title="Category:U.S. Highways">
Category:U.S. Highways


</doc>
<doc id="269223" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269223" title="United States Numbered Highways">
United States Numbered Highways

The United States Numbered Highways is a national system of roads in the United States. These roads connect to places across the country. Some of the roads are freeways, which means cars must use ramps in order to get on or off the road, but others are surface roads. Many U.S. Highways, such as U.S. Route 66, have had their numbers removed because of the creation of the Interstate Highway System.

U.S. highways have a special way to figure out their numbers. The main U.S. Highways usually have numbers with 1 or 2 digits. An exception is U.S. Route 101, which is a 3-digit route that is treated like a 2-digit route with a first digit of "10". U.S. Highways that run east/west are even numbers (2, 4, 6, 8, or 0), and north/south U.S. Highways are odd numbers (1, 3, 5, 7, or 9). For east/west U.S. Highways, the small numbers are in the north and the big numbers are in the south. For north/south U.S. Highways, the small numbers are in the east and the big numbers are in the west. The important east/west U.S. Highways usually have numbers ending in "0" and the important north/south U.S. Highways have numbers ending in "1". Many of the routes ending in "0" or "1" used to go across the country, but no longer do because of the Interstate Highway System.


U.S. Highways that have 3-digit numbers are spurs of a 1 or 2 digit highway. For example, U.S. Route 201 is a spur of U.S. Route 1. 

U.S. Route 2 is considered a major U.S. Highway even though it does not end in "0". U.S. Route 163, U.S. Route 400, U.S. Route 412, and U.S. Route 425 have 3-digit numbers that do not act as a spur of a 1 or 2 digit route.



</doc>
<doc id="269224" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269224" title="Indentured servant">
Indentured servant

An indentured servant was a worker in a contract with an employer for a certain length of time. Usually a laborer or craftsman would have to work three to seven years in exchange for the cost of transportation across the ocean, food, clothing, land, a place to live and other things they needed to live or work during their contract. This kind of contract was called "indenture." Indentures were quite common in Colonial in the 17th and 18th centuries.

Many immigrants arrived in Colonial America as indentured servants. Their new master paid a ship's captain for the worker's trip across the Atlantic Ocean. Most were young men and women from England, Scotland and Germany under the age of 21. Their parents often made the arrangements. In the 17th and early 18th century, most people who came to America were indentured servants.

Indentured servants often had to do very hard labor on a farm or in a household. Often, they were no more than slaves for their indentures. During the 17th century, over half of indentured servants died before their indentures ended. 

In the 17th century, when a person had served an indenture, they usually received a piece of land, usually 40 acres. However, by the 1690s, indentured servants were not getting land as much. This to led an attack on the Virginia government by Nathaniel Bacon and other indentured servants called Bacon's Rebellion. After Bacon's Rebellion, the number of indentured servants decreased, and the South turned to slaves for its labor. 

This type of contract has been common throughout world history in different forms. Usually the worker became an indentured servant by choice.

Some people claim that practices in the United Arab Emirates are examples of modern day indentured servitude. Many workers from India and Pakistan must pay agents in their own countries for jobs in the Emirates. The recruiting agents take the workers passports after they enter the country. The workers do not know when they will get their passports back. The indentured servants get basic food and housing and transportation to the work place.

The United Nations passed the Universal Declaration of Human Rights 1948. Article 4 of the Declaration says that indenture, or servitude, is illegal. However, only laws in each country can stop it. In America, the Trafficking Victims Protection Act (TVPA) of 2000 expanded the definition of servitude.




</doc>
<doc id="269227" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269227" title="Template:U.S. Routes">
Template:U.S. Routes


</doc>
<doc id="269229" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269229" title="National Organization for Women">
National Organization for Women

The National Organization for Women is a feminist group founded by Betty Friedan in 1966. About half a million people are members. It was one of the groups that wanted the Equal Rights Amendment and other ways to make women equal to men.


</doc>
<doc id="269239" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269239" title="Cnemidophorus">
Cnemidophorus

Cnemidophorus is a genus of lizards which belong to the family of Teiidae, which are commonly referred to as whiptail lizards or racerunners. Over 30% of the "Cnemidophorus" genus are parthenogenic.


</doc>
<doc id="269240" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269240" title="Toxicofera">
Toxicofera

Toxicofera (Greek or Latin for "those who toxins"), is a hypothetical clade which represents about 4600 species of extant scaled lizards. It encompasses all venomous reptile species, as well as numerous related non-venomous species.


</doc>
<doc id="269241" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269241" title="Balaur">
Balaur

Balaur is a genus of dromaeosaurid theropod dinosaur that lived in southern Europe during the Late Cretaceous period, about 70 million years ago. It is unique because, unlike most other dromaeosaurs, it had two sickle claws on each foot, not just one. 

It was discovered in 2010. "Balaur" lived on a large prehistoric island called Hateg Island. Seventy million years ago, sea levels were much higher than they are today. Europe was an archipelago of islands. Possibly because it was relatively isolated from other dinosaurs, "Balaur" developed unique features. 

There is one known species, "Balaur bondoc". "Balaur" is classified as a velociraptorine. Studies have shown that it is most closely related to the famous Asian dromaeosaurid "Velociraptor".


</doc>
<doc id="269247" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269247" title="Template:Cfd2">
Template:Cfd2


</doc>
<doc id="269249" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269249" title="Template:Cfd2/doc">
Template:Cfd2/doc


<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="269251" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269251" title="Template:Cfm2">
Template:Cfm2


</doc>
<doc id="269253" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269253" title="Template:Lc1">
Template:Lc1


</doc>
<doc id="269255" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269255" title="Template:Lx1">
Template:Lx1

<includeonly> ([ edit]||[ history]|[ links]|[ watch]|[ logs])</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="269257" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269257" title="Template:Lx/doc">
Template:Lx/doc

<nowiki></nowiki> produces 

This template is a metatemplate for the -family. This template should normally not be used on its own. Its purpose is to ensure that all ln-template looks the same.

<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="269261" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269261" title="Book of Optics">
Book of Optics

Book of Optics is a book that was written by Ibn al Haytham (965 - 1040), an Arabic scientist and polymath. It was a seven-volume treatise on optics, physics, mathematics, anatomy and psychology, from 1011 to 1021. It was originally written in Arabic and was later translated into Persian, Latin and Italian within the next several centuries. The book had an important influence on the development of optics and on science in general with its introduction of the experimental scientific method. Ibn al-Haytham has been called the "father of modern optics". Ibn al-Haytham wrote more than 200 works on a wide range of subjects, of which at least 96 of his scientific works are known.


</doc>
<doc id="269265" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269265" title="Letter (paper)">
Letter (paper)

A letter is a piece of paper with writing that is sent to others, often by post (mail).


</doc>
<doc id="269272" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269272" title="Tobolsk">
Tobolsk

Tobolsk () is part of the Tyumen Oblast in Russia. It is near many rivers. It is the only town in Russia that has a stone fortress. According to the census in 2002, 92,880 people live inside it. Its economy depends mostly on its oil. In February 1917, Nicholas II abdicated the throne, and his family, including his youngest daughter Anastasia, were moved to Tobolsk.



</doc>
<doc id="269274" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269274" title="Princess Helen of Serbia">
Princess Helen of Serbia

Princess Helen of Serbia (4 November 1884 – 16 October 1962) was the daughter of King Peter I of Yugoslavia and his wife Princess Zorka of Montenegro. She was the older sister of George, Crown Prince of Serbia and Alexander I of Yugoslavia. Helen was also a niece of Anastasia of Montenegro, or Stana, wife of Grand Duke Nicholas Nikolaevich of Russia, and of Milica of Montenegro. They were the women who introduced Grigori Rasputin to Tsarina Alexandra. She was born as "Princess Jelena of Serbia". Her mother died when she was younger, so she was brought up mostly by her aunts. After she was married, she was known as "Elena Petrovna", "Jelena Petrovna", "Hélène Petrovna" or "Ellen Petrovna". Grand Duchess Olga Nikolaevna of Russia liked her very much. After the Imperial family died, she was questioned about Anastasia Nikolaevna. When she was put in prison for a short time at Perm in 1918, she said that a guard took a girl who called herself Anastasia Romanova to her cell and asked her if the girl was the Tsar's daughter. When she did not recognize the girl, the guard took her away.


</doc>
<doc id="269281" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269281" title="Lithography">
Lithography

Lithography (from Greek "λίθος" - "lithos", 'stone' + "γράφω" - "graphο", 'to write') is a method for printing using a stone (lithographic limestone) or a metal (steel or aluminium) plate with a completely smooth surface. 

Lithography was invented in 1796 by Bavarian author Alois Senefelder as a low-cost method of publishing theatrical works. Lithography can be used to print text or artwork onto paper or other suitable material.

Lithography originally used an image drawn in wax or other oily substance applied to a lithographic stone as the medium to transfer ink to the printed sheet. In modern times, the image is often made of polymer applied to a flexible aluminum plate. 

The flat surface of the plate or stone is slightly roughened, or etched, and divided into hydrophilic (= water-loving) regions that accept a film of water and repel the greasy ink, and hydrophobic regions which repel water and accept ink. The image may be printed directly from the stone or plate (in which case it is reversed from the original image) or may be offset by transfer to a flexible sheet, usually rubber, for transfer to the printed article.

This process is different from gravure or intaglio printing where a plate is engraved, etched or stippled to make cavities to contain the printing ink, and in woodblock printing and letterpress where ink is applied to the raised surfaces of letters or images. 

In the early days of lithography, a smooth piece of limestone was used (hence the name "lithography"—"lithos" (λιθος) is the ancient Greek word for stone). After the oil-based image was put on the surface, a solution of gum arabic in water was applied, the gum sticking only to the non-oily surface. During printing, water adhered to the gum arabic surfaces and avoided the oily parts, while the oily ink used for printing did the opposite.

Chromolithography (colour lithography) was invented by Engelmann and son, who were granted a patent in 1837. After that, it was a matter of time before it reached full commercial development. 

By using more than one stone, different colours can be added to the same picture. Each colour needs a separate stone. The great posters of such artists as Alphonse Mucha and Toulouse-Lautrec are made like this. Complicated graphics may need twenty or more stones.


</doc>
<doc id="269282" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269282" title="Category:History of printing">
Category:History of printing


</doc>
<doc id="269289" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269289" title="Eve's Plum">
Eve's Plum

Eve's Plum was a US rock band. The band existed from 1991 to 1998.




</doc>
<doc id="269293" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269293" title="Lucius Cornelius Sulla">
Lucius Cornelius Sulla

Lucius Cornelius Sulla (c. 138 BC – 78 BC), usually called Sulla, was a Roman general and statesman. He was a "praetor" (a commander of an army) in 97 BC. He was the only man in history to have attacked and kept both Athens and Rome.


</doc>
<doc id="269298" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269298" title="Doric language (Scotland)">
Doric language (Scotland)

Doric is the language of the people of the North East of Scotland.


</doc>
<doc id="269306" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269306" title="Norm Maciver">
Norm Maciver

Norman Steven Maciver (born September 8, 1964 in Thunder Bay, Ontario) is a retired Canadian professional ice hockey defenceman who played in the National Hockey League as a member of the New York Rangers, Hartford Whalers, Edmonton Oilers, Ottawa Senators, Pittsburgh Penguins, and the Winnipeg Jets/Phoenix Coyotes franchise.

MacIver was never drafted by an NHL franchise and instead took the university route in order to reach the NHL. The defenceman played four seasons with the University of Minnesota Duluth and in 1985-86 was a finalist for the Hobey Baker Award, awarded to the NCAA's top player. While playing at the University of Minnesota, MacIver earned a communications degree and signed as a free agent with the NHL's New York Rangers upon graduation.

He played 500 regular season games in the NHL, scoring 55 goals and 230 assists for 285 points and collecting 350 penalty minutes. A career highlight came during the Ottawa Senators' debut season of 1992-93, when Maciver led the team in scoring with 17 goals and 46 assists for 63 points in 80 games. In the spring of 1996, he scored the final goal in Winnipeg Jets' history prior to the team's relocation to Phoenix in the sixth game of a first round playoff series against the Detroit Red Wings. After retirement he became an assistant coach for the American Hockey League's Springfield Falcons from 2000 to 2003, and then the NHL's Boston Bruins from 2003 to 2006.

Maciver is currently an amateur scout with the NHL's Chicago Blackhawks.



</doc>
<doc id="269307" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269307" title="Shortening">
Shortening

Shortening is a semisolid fat used in baking. It makes foods crumbly. Shortening doesn't smoke as easily as butter or oil, and it is 100% fat. Butter is 80% fat. It works by stopping long gluten polymers from forming in the food. It does not need to be refrigerated. It also is cheaper than butter. It can make foods last longer. 

Shortening is made from hydrogenated oils, which have trans fats in them. Trans fats can cause heart attacks. People making shortening try to take out the trans fats. 


</doc>
<doc id="269309" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269309" title="Semisolid">
Semisolid

A semisolid thing is something that is not really a solid or a liquid. Mayonnaise is an example. Mayonnaise does not hold its shape like a solid but does not flow like a liquid. Normally semisolids are covalent things. Covalent substances get softer and softer until they melt. Ionic substances melt at one temperature and do not get softer. Butter can be a semisolid when it is warm. Butter does not hold its shape but it does not flow like a liquid.


</doc>
<doc id="269312" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269312" title="Hydrogenation">
Hydrogenation

Hydrogenation is the process of adding hydrogen to organic compounds. It is done to alkenes. 

Vegetable oils have alkenes in them. Alkenes are liquid and spoil easily. People making shortening add hydrogen to the alkene, turning it into an alkane. The alkanes are more solid and stable. A catalyst is used to react the hydrogen with the oil. This makes trans fats, though.

Other things can be hydrogenated, too. Hot nitrogen is reacted with hydrogen under high pressure with a catalyst, usually nickel to make ammonia gas.


</doc>
<doc id="269313" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269313" title="Quiche">
Quiche

A quiche (Pronounced: "Keesh") is a type of pie. It is savory. It normally has a pie crust. The filling is made of eggs and meat. Ham is sometimes used.


</doc>
<doc id="269314" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269314" title="Pie crust">
Pie crust

A pie crust is a piece of pastry that surrounds a pie. Many pies have pie crusts. Pie crusts do not contain a leavening agent. Some pie crusts are not pastries.


</doc>
<doc id="269315" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269315" title="Category:Potassium compounds">
Category:Potassium compounds

Potassium compounds are chemical compounds containing potassium ions. They are normally unreactive and colorless.


</doc>
<doc id="269316" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269316" title="Brigid">
Brigid

Brigid is the Irish goddess of fire. She is also called Bride, Bridey, Brighid, Brigit, Briggidda, Brigantia, and Breo-saighead. According to legend she was born at dawn, rising into the sky with fire streaming from her head. The daughter of an Irish god, Dagda, she later married an Irish king, Bres.



</doc>
<doc id="269332" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269332" title="Bradyon">
Bradyon

Bradyons, also known as tardyons or ittyons, are very small particles that travel below the speed of light, as opposed to hypothetical tachyons (which travel above the speed of light). All known subatomic particles which have mass are bradyons.


</doc>
<doc id="269341" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269341" title="Higgs field">
Higgs field

Higgs Fields are theoretical fields which affect fundamental particles, giving them mass. This is known as the Higgs Effect. 

The Higgs Effect is not accepted to be true by all scientists, since it has never been found in an experiment. However, most physicists believe that it is true because it could explain issues in the normal rules of physics, called the Standard Model. The main issue is that according to the gauge theory (a branch of the Standard Model that deals with force-carrying particles), all force-carrying particles should not have mass. However, the particles that carry weak force have mass. The explanation of this is the Higgs Effect, which would give mass to these particles. Scientifically, the Higgs Effect breaks SU(2) symmetry. (SU stands for special unitary, a type of matrix, and 2 refers to the size of the matrices involved). A symmetry of a system is something you can do to the system that leaves it the same as before you acted on it. A symmetry also provides a rule for how something should always act unless acted on by an outside force. An example that might help thinking about one sort of symmetry is a Rubik's Cube. If we take a solved Rubik's cube and scramble it up by making whatever moves we want, it is still possible to solve the puzzle. Since each of the moves we can make with a Rubik's cube leaves the Rubik's cube solvable, we can say that these moves are 'symmetries' of the Rubik's cube. Together, they form what what we call the symmetry group of the Rubik's cube. Making any of these moves doesn't change the puzzle, since each move leaves it solvable. But, we can break this symmetry by taking the cube apart, and putting it back together with one of the corner pieces in a rotated position. No matter what moves we try, it is no longer possible to solve the Rubik's cube. Breaking the cube apart and putting it back together in the wrong way is the 'outside force': Without this outside force, nothing we do to the cube makes it unsolvable. The symmetry of the Rubik's cube is that it stays solvable whatever moves we make, as long as we don't take apart the cube.

The way that the SU(2) symmetry is broken is known scientifically as "spontaneous symmetry breaking." Spontaneous means random or unexpected, Symmetries are the rules that are being changed, and Breaking refers to the fact that the symmetries are no longer the same. The result of spontaneously breaking the SU(2) symmetry can be a Higgs Boson.

The reason that a the Higgs effect is believed to occur is that nature wants to be at its lowest energy state. Although this may seem weird, if you hold a pencil and then drop it, the pencil will release some of its potential energy stored in its relative distance from the center of the earth. This potential energy released in converted into kinetic energy. Likewise, the Higgs Effect will happen because gauge bosons near a Higgs Field will want to be in their lowest energy states, and this would break at least one symmetry. If Higgs Bosons were found to exist, this would probably mean that the Higgs effect is also true.

To justify giving mass to a would-be massless particle, scientists were forced to do something out of the ordinary. They assumed that vacuums (empty space)actually "had" energy, and that way if a particle that we think of as massive were to enter it, the energy from the vacuum would be transferred into that particle, giving it mass. A mathematician named Jeffrey Goldstone basically proved that if you violate a symmetry, (for example, a symmetry with a rubik's cube would be if you state that the corners must always be rotated 0 or 3 times to be solvable (it works)), a reaction will occur. In the case of the rubik's cube, the cube will become unsolveable if violated. In the case of the Higgs field, something named after Jeffrey (and another scientist who worked with him named Yoichiro Nambu) is produced, a Nambu-Goldston Boson. This is basically an excited or energetic form of the vacuum, which can be graphed revealing that to the left. The elevated areas are where the Nambu-Goldstone Bosons allow particles to have mass, under the energy provided by a Higgs Field. 


</doc>
<doc id="269352" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269352" title="Template:Talk page stalker">
Template:Talk page stalker


</doc>
<doc id="269357" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269357" title="Lance Hoyt">
Lance Hoyt

Lance Hoyt (born February 28, 1977 in Gause, Texas) is a American professional wrestler who is currently working for Florida Championship Wrestling under the ring name Vance Archer. He is best known for his time with Total Nonstop Action Wrestling where he worked from 2004-2009 under the ring name Dallas.


</doc>
<doc id="269361" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269361" title="Equal Rights Amendment">
Equal Rights Amendment

The Equal Rights Amendment was a proposed amendment to the United States Constitution in the 1970s and 1980s. It would have given men and women full equality under the law. Alice Paul first wrote the ERA. In 1923, it was introduced in the Congress for the first time. It passed both houses of Congress in 1972 after the National Organization for Women protested outside the United States Senate. Some people opposed it because women were already becoming equal in most areas, and women did not want to be drafted into the Vietnam War. Though 35 states ratified it, the amendment did not pass (38 were needed). Most of the states that did not ratify it were in the Southern United States, which is the most conservative and religious part of the country. 

The ERA has been introduced into Congress each year from 1923 to 1972. The amendment has been reintroduced in every session of Congress since 1982. In 2011, it was introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives by 159 House cosponsors and several Senators.


</doc>
<doc id="269369" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269369" title="Tianhe-I">
Tianhe-I

Tianhe-I is a supercomputer made and operated in the People's Republic of China and has been active since October 29, 2009. Right now, it is the fastest supercomputer in the world, replacing the Jaguar supercomputer. It has 98,304 GB of memory and has 2.507 petaflops at its peak. It uses a Linux operating system. It is being used for finding energy sources and doing simulations of aircraft right now.

It used to have 5,010 CPUs and 2,560 GPUs and was ranked the fifth-fastest supercomputer. After the upgrade, it now has 14,336 CPUs and 7,168 GPUs, making it the fastest.


</doc>
<doc id="269370" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269370" title="Austrian State Treaty">
Austrian State Treaty

The Austrian State Treaty was a treaty that made Austria a country. It was signed on May 15, 1955 at Vienna between the Allied powers from World War II and the Austrian government. It prohibited union with Germany. It also prohibited Nazi and fascist government. Austria also said that they would always be neutral in any wars. 


</doc>
<doc id="269377" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269377" title="Arabidopsis thaliana">
Arabidopsis thaliana

Arabidopsis thaliana is a small flowering plant native to Europe, Asia, and northwestern Africa. It is widely used as a model organism in plant genetics. Arabidopsis is a member of the mustard ("Brassicaceae") family, which includes cultivated species such as cabbage and radish. 

It was the first plant genome to be sequenced, completed in 2000 by the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative. The most up-to-date version of the "Arabidopsis thaliana" genome is maintained by The Arabidopsis Information Resource (TAIR). 

Much work has been done to find out what its 27,000 genes and 35,000 proteins do.
Arabidopsis is a popular tool for understanding the molecular biology of many plant traits, including flower development and light sensing.


</doc>
<doc id="269380" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269380" title="Dracovenator">
Dracovenator

Dracovenator was a genus of theropod dinosaur that lived in southern Africa during the Lower Jurassic period, about 185 million years ago. It is closely related to "Dilophosaurus", and may have sported a pair of crests like it. 

Its name means "Dragon hunter". It was given this name because dinosaurs are similar to the dragons of mythology, and it was a carnivore, so it was probably a hunter. 

"Dracovenator" was a large carnivore, about 23 feet long. It is the first large meat-eating dinosaur from the Lower Jurassic of Africa to be discovered. "Dracovenator" was described and named in 2006, based on a hand claw, an upper jaw with teeth, vertebrae, pelvis bones, ribs, and foot bones. There is one named species, "Dracovenator regenti". "Dracovenator" was discovered in the upper Elliot Formation in South Africa.


</doc>
<doc id="269381" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269381" title="Noise (music)">
Noise (music)

Noise music is a special type of music that uses noise as the main part of the song. Sometimes musicians make it so that they can find out what makes music what it is. They are exploring whether a sound can be music if it does not have melody or rhythm. Noise music was first made at the start of the 1910s. It is often called Sound Art, because it is a mixture of Art and Sound.


</doc>
<doc id="269382" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269382" title="Amanita">
Amanita

The genus Amanita contains about 600 species of basidiomycete mushrooms, including some of the most toxic known. It is found worldwide. 

This genus is responsible for approximately 95% of the fatalities resulting from mushroom poisoning, with the death cap accounting for about 50% on its own. The most potent toxin present in these mushrooms is amanitin, of which at least eight versions are known.

Amanita muscaria, commonly known as the "fly agaric", is a psychoactive fungus. It is known as the fly agaric for its ability to kill houseflies when combined with milk. The reason for this is that flies are attracted to the milk because it is so sweet. When they drink the milk they feel the effects of the mushroom and begin to act intoxicated.

Amanita phalloides, commonly known as the "death cap", is a deadly poisonous fungus, one of many in the genus "Amanita". Widely distributed across Europe, "A. phalloides" forms ectomycorrhizas with various broadleaved trees. In some cases, death cap has been accidentally introduced to new regions with the cultivation of non-native species of oak, chestnut, and pine. The large fruiting bodies (mushrooms) appear in summer and autumn; the caps are generally greenish in color, with a white stipe (stem) and gills (underneath the cap).

One mushroom, if eaten, may destroy the liver and cause death. There is no antidote.

Their major toxic mechanism is the inhibition of RNA polymerase II, a vital enzyme in the synthesis of messenger RNA (mRNA), microRNA (miRNA), and small nuclear RNA (snRNA). Without mRNA, essential protein synthesis, and hence cell metabolism, grind to a halt and the cell dies.

The liver is the principal organ affected, as it is the organ which is first encountered after absorption in the gastrointestinal tract, though other organs, especially the kidneys, are susceptible. The RNA polymerase of "Amanita phalloides" is insensitive to the effects of amatoxins; as such, the mushroom does not poison itself.


</doc>
<doc id="269383" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269383" title="Gurjar">
Gurjar

Gurjar (Sanskrit:Gurjara) or "Gujjar" (Gujari:) are an ethnic group of India, Pakistan and Afgansitan.Alternative spellings are Gurjara, Gujur, Veer Gurjar and Gujar.

Traditionally they are classified as Kshatriyas (warriors).They ruled many dynasty lately.it is said that major part of Rajasthan and Gujarat were known as "Gurjar-bhumi" or "Gurjaratra" prior to Mughal period in India.Gurjar pratiharas acted as barrier to Arabs for around 300 centuries.


</doc>
<doc id="269384" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269384" title="Eugene Botkin">
Eugene Botkin

Dr. Yevgeny Sergeivich Botkin (27 March 1865 – 17 July 1918), also known as Dr. Eugene Botkin, was the court physician for Tsar Nicholas II and Tsarina Alexandra. While he was in exile with the family, he often helped treat Tsarevich Alexei Nikolaevich of Russia.

Botkin went into exile with the Romanovs after the Russian Revolution of 1917. He was murdered with the family at Ekaterinburg on 17 July 1918. Like them, he was canonized as a martyr by the Russian Orthodox Church Outside Russia in 1981. His wife Olga and he divorced after she had an affair with the children's German teacher.

Shortly before he died, he wrote a letter in which he said that he "unhesitatingly orphaned my own children in order to carry out my physician's duty to the end, as Abraham did not hesitate at God's demand to sacrifice his only son."


</doc>
<doc id="269386" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269386" title="Jack Dorsey">
Jack Dorsey

Jack Dorsey is an American software developer and business person. He is chairman of Twitter.


</doc>
<doc id="269387" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269387" title="Biz Stone">
Biz Stone

Biz Stone is an American software developer. He is also the author of two books. He is an advisor to many companies. He is Creative Director at Twitter.


</doc>
<doc id="269389" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269389" title="Evan Williams (entrepreneur)">
Evan Williams (entrepreneur)

Evan Williams is an American business person. He is responsible for product strategy at Twitter.


</doc>
<doc id="269391" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269391" title="Template:Wikify/sandbox">
Template:Wikify/sandbox


</doc>
<doc id="269393" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269393" title="Amy Irving">
Amy Irving

Amy Davis Irving (born September 10, 1953) is an American actress. She is best known for her roles in the films Crossing Delancey, "The Fury", "Carrie", and "Yentl". She is also known for coming out in the Broadway.

Irving was born in Palo Alto, California. She was the daughter of film and stage director Jules Irving (né Jules Israel) and actress Priscilla Pointer. Irving's brother is a writer and director David Irving, and her sister Katie Irving is a singer and teacher of deaf children. Irving is of Jewish from her father's side and has a little bit of Welsh and Cherokee ancestry on her mother's. She was raised in the Christian Science faith, which means that she believed that God made the earth.


</doc>
<doc id="269394" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269394" title="Alphonse Mucha">
Alphonse Mucha

Alphonse Mucha, (24 July 1860 – 14 July 1939), was a Czech Art Nouveau painter and decorative artist, best known for his distinct style and his images of women. He produced many paintings, illustrations, advertisements, and designs.
Mucha moved to Paris in 1887, continued his studies, and worked at producing magazine and advertising illustrations.

Around Christmas 1894, Mucha happened to drop into a print shop where there was a sudden and unexpected need for a new advertising poster for a play starring Sarah Bernhardt, the most famous actress in Paris. Mucha volunteered to produce a lithographed poster within two weeks, and on 1 January 1895, the advertisement for the play "Gismonda" by Victorien Sardou appeared on the streets of the city. It was an overnight sensation and announced the new artistic style and its creator to the citizens of Paris. Bernhardt was so satisfied with the success of this first poster that she entered into a 6 year contract with Mucha. 

Mucha produced a flurry of paintings, posters, advertisements, and book illustrations, as well as designs for jewellery, carpets, wallpaper, and theatre sets in what was initially called the "Mucha Style" but became known as "Art Nouveau" (French for 'new art'). Mucha's works frequently featured beautiful, strong young women in flowing vaguely Neoclassical looking robes, often surrounded by lush flowers which sometimes formed halos behind the women's heads.
In contrast with contemporary poster makers he used pale pastel colours.
The 1900 Paris Exhibition spread the "Mucha style" abroad, of which Mucha said "I think [the Exposition Universelle] made some contribution toward bringing aesthetic values into arts and crafts."
He decorated the Bosnia and Herzegovina Pavilion and collaborated in the Austrian Pavilion.

Mucha's Art Nouveau style was often imitated. The Art Nouveau style however, was one that Mucha attempted to distance himself from. He always insisted that his paintings came purely from within and from Czech art. He declared that art existed only to communicate a spiritual message, and nothing more. He was frustrated at the fame he gained through commercial art, when he most wanted to concentrate on more lofty projects that would ennoble art and his birthplace.


</doc>
<doc id="269404" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269404" title="Category:History of Singapore">
Category:History of Singapore


</doc>
<doc id="269407" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269407" title="David Attenborough">
David Attenborough

Sir David Frederick Attenborough OM, CH, CVO, CBE, FRS, FZS, FSA (born 8 May 1926 in London, England) is a British naturalist and broadcaster, who works for the BBC. He is one of the most famous naturalists. He presents many programs about nature, talking about the lives of animals. He has won many prestigious award and honorable mentions. He is a younger brother of director, producer and actor Richard Attenborough.




</doc>
<doc id="269411" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269411" title="Gingerbread">
Gingerbread

Gingerbread is a word which describes different sweet food products from soft cakes to a ginger biscuit. Ginger and honey (or treacle) rather than only sugar, are usually the common ingredients to all the types of food product. They probably also have the same history. 

Before, "gingerbread" (from Latin "zingiber", then Old French "gingebras") meant preserved ginger. After, it was a confection made with honey and spices.

Armenian monk Gregory of Nicopolis (Gregory Makar) (Grégoire de Nicopolis) brought ginger bread to Europe in 992. He left Nicopolis Pompeii, in Lesser Armenia to live in Bondaroy (France) and stayed seven years. He showed French priests and Christians how to cook gingerbread. He died in 999.

German immigrants brought it to Sweden during the 13th century. Swedish nuns baked gingerbread to help indigestion in the year 1444.
The custom was to bake white biscuits and paint them as window decorations. Records show that gingerbread biscuits were sold in monasteries, pharmacies and town square farmers' markets in the 16th century.



</doc>
<doc id="269416" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269416" title="Baldness">
Baldness

Baldness is when someone has no hair on his or her head. Sometimes this is inherited from parents or grandparents, or it can be done on purpose if somebody cuts off all their hair off. Some monks or South Korean soldiers in the army do this.


</doc>
<doc id="269421" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269421" title="Common basilisk">
Common basilisk

The Common Basilisk (Basiliscus basiliscus) is a type of lizard. It can be found in Central and South American rainforests near rivers and streams. The basilisk is part of the corytophanid family. It is also known as the "Jesus Christ Lizard" because it can run on the surface of water.


</doc>
<doc id="269424" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269424" title="Manuel Antonio National Park">
Manuel Antonio National Park

Manuel Antonio National Park is a national park in Costa Rica. Over 150,000 people visit it every year. Many animals can be seen here, including the Common basilisk. Manuel Antonio park was listed by Forbes magazine in 2011 among the world's 12 most beautiful national parks.



</doc>
<doc id="269429" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269429" title="Wikipedia:Pagediff">
Wikipedia:Pagediff

We are trying to create a between 2 different pages. If it doesn't succeed, you might not have JavaScript enabled in your browser, which is . Please contact if you encounter a problem.


</doc>
<doc id="269430" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269430" title="Template:Welcomenpov">
Template:Welcomenpov

Welcome!

Hello, Welcomenpov, and to Wikipedia! Thank you for . I hope you like making changes and decide to stay. Unfortunately, one of your changes does not follow . Wikipedia articles should refer only to facts and interpretations that have been stated in print or on highly trusted news sources, websites, or other categories of media.

There's a page about the that has suggestions on how to effectively write about extreme points of view without compromising the NPOV status of the article as a whole. If you are having difficulty, and looking for help, please come to the , where experienced Wikipedians can answer any questions you have! Or, you can just type codice_1 on your user page, and someone will show up shortly to answer your questions. Here are a few other good links for newcomers:
I hope you enjoy editing here and being a ! Please on talk pages using four tildes (<nowiki>~~~~</nowiki>); this will automatically produce your name and the date. If you have any questions, check out or ask me on my talk page. Again, welcome! 

</doc>
<doc id="269433" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269433" title="United Nations Development Fund for Women">
United Nations Development Fund for Women

The United Nations Development Fund for Women commonly known as UNIFEM (from the French ""Fonds de développement des Nations unies pour la femme" is a fund of United Nations established in New York in 1976 aimed for equality as men and taking part in society of women.

It provides financial and technical aid for the better condition of women together with United Nations Development Programme. In 2006 Nicole Kidman was elected as goodwill ambassador. In 2011, it will be a part of the new institution "UN Women".




</doc>
<doc id="269436" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269436" title="Template:Lazy sleeping barnstar">
Template:Lazy sleeping barnstar


</doc>
<doc id="269439" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269439" title="Wikipedia:Lazy sleeping barnstar">
Wikipedia:Lazy sleeping barnstar

The lazy sleeping barnstar shows the lazy Wikipedian, who edits at a steady but calm pace.

If their talk page has been replaced with this image, it may be a sign that they are trying to cut back on their addiction.


</doc>
<doc id="269444" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269444" title="Category:Ethnic groups in Afghanistan">
Category:Ethnic groups in Afghanistan


</doc>
<doc id="269447" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269447" title="Shake">
Shake

Shake is a verb that means to move something in different directions in a random way, usually very quickly. It is sometimes used with liquids to mix the liquid with other ingredients. It can also be used with instruments, such as the maracas, for use as percussion.

A common social greeting in some countries is to hold the hand of another person and move the arm up and down. This is a formal greeting, and is used by many western countries. It is also known as a handshake.


</doc>
<doc id="269449" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269449" title="Exorcism">
Exorcism

Exorcism is the practice of evicting demons or other spiritual beings. This practice is quite ancient and part of the belief system of many cultures and religions. There are different types of exorcisms. Exorcisms can be performed on people, animals and places. These rituals are done by people called "exorcists". Exorcisms are usually done for religious reasons. The reasons vary, and the exorcisms can be different based on religions and which exorcists does them.


</doc>
<doc id="269450" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269450" title="Luther film">
Luther film

A Luther film is a film, which is about Martin Luther's life and his doings. In a narrow sense a Luther film is a feature film or a television film. In an wider sense a Luther film could also be a documentary film about Martin Luther, like Curt Oertel's "Der gehorsame Rebell" (translated: "The Obedient Rebel"). 

Since the time of the silent films films telling the story of Martin Luther have been made. 1911 was made the silent film "Doktor Martinus Luther", with a running time of round about 20 minutes. 1913, 1923 und 1927 were made the next films. The films of the year 1923 and 1927 were made with support of the church.

The newest film is called "Luther". It was released in 2003.




</doc>
<doc id="269451" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269451" title="Luther (1928 movie)">
Luther (1928 movie)

Luther is a 1928 film about the life of Martin Luther, father of the Protestant Reformation.

The silent film starred Eugen Klöpfer as Luther himself and Theodor Loos as Philipp Melanchthon.



</doc>
<doc id="269453" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269453" title="Luther (2003 movie)">
Luther (2003 movie)

Luther is a 2003 biopic about the life of Martin Luther (1483–1546).

The film starred Joseph Fiennes as Luther himself and Alfred Molina as Johann Tetzel.

The film covers Luther's life from his becoming a monk in 1505 to the Diet of Augsburg in 1530.




</doc>
<doc id="269454" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269454" title="Robbie Coltrane">
Robbie Coltrane

Robbie Coltrane (born Anthony Robert McMillan on March 30, 1950), is a Scottish actor, comedian and author.

Coltrane was born in Rutherglen, South Lanarkshire. He now lives in Killearn Stirlingshire, and has a son, Spencer and daughter, Alice.

Coltrane began his acting career in his early twenties. In 2006, Robbie received an OBE for his services to drama.


</doc>
<doc id="269456" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269456" title="Martin Luther (1953 movie)">
Martin Luther (1953 movie)

Martin Luther is a 1953 movie biography of Martin Luther. It was directed by Irving Pichel, who also plays a supporting role. 

The film starred Niall MacGinnis as Luther.

The movie begins in the year 1505. Luther goes into a monastery in Erfurt, but he is in fear of God. One day he finds God's mercy in the New Testament (in Romans 1:17). Later he published his Ninety-Five Theses. In the year 1521, in the view of the pope, he should recant on the Diet of Worms. But there he does it not. Instead he says "Here I Stand". The film ends with the presentation of the Augsburg Confession.



</doc>
<doc id="269457" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269457" title="Martin Luther, Heretic (1983 movie)">
Martin Luther, Heretic (1983 movie)

Martin Luther, Heretic was a movie made in 1983 which was made to the 500th birthday of Martin Luther. The movie starred Jonathan Pryce as Martin Luther and Maurice Denham as Johann von Staupitz. 

The movie begins in the year 1506, in the time when Luther was a Monk. The movie ends in the year 1522, when Luther returns from his exile at the Wartburg in 1522 to Wittenberg.



</doc>
<doc id="269458" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269458" title="Potassium sulfide">
Potassium sulfide

Potassium sulfide is a chemical compound. Its chemical formula is KS. It contains potassium and sulfide ions. The potassium is in its +1 oxidation state.

Potassium sulfide is a colorless solid when it is pure. Sometimes it is not pure and it is yellow-brown. It reacts with water to make KHS, potassium hydrogen sulfide, and potassium hydroxide. It reacts with acids to make hydrogen sulfide and a potassium salt. 

Potassium sulfide is made by reacting potassium with sulfur. Many times the potassium is dissolved in liquid ammonia. It can also be made by reacting potassium sulfate with carbon. It is made when black powder is burned.



</doc>
<doc id="269463" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269463" title="Schoep's Ice Cream">
Schoep's Ice Cream

Schoep's Ice Cream is an ice cream manufacturing company based in Madison, Wisconsin.

Schoep's Ice Cream was founded by E.J. Schoephoester in 1928. Schoephoester produced and sold the ice cream in his grocery store. By 1937 Schoep's Ice Cream had become well known locally and E. B. Schoephoester sold his company to Peter B. Thomsen, a butter maker. The company has been kept in the Thomsen family, and as of 2008 it was owned in part by nineteen members of the Thomsen family.

All of Schoep's Ice Cream is currently produced from a single factory located on Helena Street in Madison, Wisconsin. As of 2008 Schoep's was producing 6,000 gallons of ice cream an hour and 2.5 million gallons a year. With this high production rate, Schoep's has been recognized as the top producer of ice cream in the state of Wisconsin. Due to this growth, in 2005, Schoep's opened a $7 million, 46,000-square-foot distribution center on Manufacturers Drive, near the Dane County Regional Airport. This new facility features space for 3,600 pallets and 14 loading-dock doors. Before this facility was built, Schoep's had shipped all of their ice cream from two loading docks at their factory. 

Schoep's is not well known around the United States as Schoep's Ice Cream, but as Walgreens brand Ice Cream. Since 1993 Schoep's has been the sole producer of ice cream sold under the Walgreens label. This contract accounts for more than 25 percent of Schoep's business. 


</doc>
<doc id="269469" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269469" title="Brandon Flowers">
Brandon Flowers

Brandon Flowers (born June 21, 1981) is an American musician. He is the singer and keyboardist of American rock band The Killers. He has also released a solo album called Flamingo. He is married with three sons named Ammon, Gunnar and Henry.


</doc>
<doc id="269470" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269470" title="Luther (1974 movie)">
Luther (1974 movie)

Luther is a 1974 film about the life of Martin Luther. The film starred Stacy Keach as Luther.

The film is a film version of John Osborne's biographical play, presenting the life of Martin Luther. The film begins in the year 1506 and ends in the year 1526.



</doc>
<doc id="269472" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269472" title="Karate belts">
Karate belts

Karate belts are a measure of a student/teacher ability. For example, a Brown belt is higher than a Blue Belt.

All styles of karate range from white to black. There are some theories about how belts came to be.

Some believe when a student graduated a kyu, he/she would dye their current belt the new, desired color. This was often done in Japan during WWII when it was a very poor country. 

This is a theory that demonstrates how a student would, as they trained, dirty their belt overtime. More of a myth than a theory, a student started with a white belt. As sweat, dirt, and other debris occupied not only the belt, but the karate gi, his/her color appeared to get darker and closer to black.


</doc>
<doc id="269477" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269477" title="Luther (1965 movie)">
Luther (1965 movie)

Luther is a 1965 film about the life of Martin Luther. The film starred Alec McCowen as Luther.

The film is a film version of John Osborne's biographical play, presenting the life of Martin Luther.



</doc>
<doc id="269478" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269478" title="Karate gi">
Karate gi

A karate gi is a standardized piece of karate clothing that acts as a uniform.
Whether or not a student is ranked, one must bring a gi to the academy.

A karate gi includes a martial arts jacket, as well as a martial arts pant.

The gi is white. 
The belt can be:



</doc>
<doc id="269479" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269479" title="Luther (1964 movie)">
Luther (1964 movie)

Luther is a 1964 film about the life of Martin Luther. The film starred Terry Norris as Luther.

The film is a film version of John Osborne's biographical play, presenting the life of Martin Luther.




</doc>
<doc id="269480" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269480" title="Luther (1968 movie)">
Luther (1968 movie)

Luther is a 1968 film about the life of Martin Luther. The film starred Robert Shaw as Luther.

The film is a film version of John Osborne's biographical play, presenting the life of Martin Luther.




</doc>
<doc id="269481" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269481" title="Pentaerythritol tetranitrate">
Pentaerythritol tetranitrate

Pentaerythritol tetranitrate (PETN), also known as PENT, PENTA, TEN, corpent, penthrite (or — rarely and primarily in German — as nitropenta) is one of the most powerful high explosives known. It has a relative effectiveness factor (R.E. factor) of 1.66. PETN can be used as a plastic explosive. PETN can also be use as a drug to treat certain heart conditions, such as angina pectoris. In this context, it helps widening blood vessels, which is known as vasodilatation. PETN is among the most widely used substances for vasodilatation.


</doc>
<doc id="269482" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269482" title="Dan (rank)">
Dan (rank)

A Dan is a measure of advanced martial arts rank. It often ranges from 1 to 10 and is used for black belts only. Dan means "step" in Japanese.

Usually a dan's belt will have "X" stripes, with X being the dan's dan rank.
Falcon Pawnch!


</doc>
<doc id="269484" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269484" title="Dan (disambiguation)">
Dan (disambiguation)

The term "dan" might refer to:



</doc>
<doc id="269486" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269486" title="Dan (name)">
Dan (name)

Dan is a very common man or boy name in the United States.


</doc>
<doc id="269491" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269491" title="Deinotherium">
Deinotherium

The Deinotherium or ‘terrible beast’ was a large prehistoric mammal similar to modern day elephants. Although similar to today’s elephants, there are a handful of differences such as a shorted trunk and downward curving tusks.
There were several species of "Deinotherium" that inhabited parts of Africa, Asia and Europe. 
The "Deinotherium" was also much bigger than today’s elephants and is currently thought to have been the third largest land mammal ever to exist.


</doc>
<doc id="269493" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269493" title="Tiruchirapalli">
Tiruchirapalli

Tiruchirappalli is a city in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu and the administrative headquarters of Tiruchirapalli District. It is the fourth largest municipal corporation in Tamil Nadu.


</doc>
<doc id="269495" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269495" title="ROM (disambiguation)">
ROM (disambiguation)

ROM can refer to:




</doc>
<doc id="269500" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269500" title="POST">
POST

The POST, in most computers, is a self-testthat checks the OS(s) available and boots from the OS selected. POST stands for "Power On Self Test".

A POST usually checks the crucial, files, folders, and components. Once the POST is completed, a selected OS will take control and finish the startup process.

If the POST fails, usually a BSOD displays (Blue Screen of Death, most commonly) and offers recovery options such as safe mode.

LKGC(Last Known Good Configuration) reverts to the last non-problematic, successful bootup.It is similar to System Restore, but its primary function is to allow the user to use the computer normally, unlike System Restore, which does not guarantee a fix. Also, LKGC is unrevertable, unless you successfully bootup again.

System Restore works by allowing the user to open a wizard, then select a "restore point". The user must restart for the point to take effect, but the system will start as normal.

System Repair is typically found on the hard disk of your computerand contains options that can be used to fix the system. However, in serious cases, the OS may need to be reinstalled.


</doc>
<doc id="269501" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269501" title="Kill screen">
Kill screen

A kill screen, often occurring in games of the Golden Age, are screens that prevent progress from the player. The screens in some games stop the game with gibberish or otherwise impossible figures. In Pac Man, at a certain level the screen overflows and spreads fruits and ghosts across the arcade machine's screen.


These are games that have integer overflow.


</doc>
<doc id="269509" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269509" title="Wikipedia:Change filter/Mistakes">
Wikipedia:Change filter/Mistakes

This page is for reporting any mistakes the makes. If it warns you or stops you from making a helpful change, please report it here.

<inputbox> 
type=commenttitle
page=Wikipedia:Change filter/Mistakes
width=30
default=Name of article
buttonlabel=Report
break=no
preload=Wikipedia:Change filter/Mistakes/Preload
</inputbox>
Change being made: article creation, not copying
Message of the filter: 

Note: It looks like you have copied the text of this article from another wikipedia. This should usually be done differently: 
Ask someone to import the article 
Write a similar article, and link to the original, using interwiki links 
In general, articles from other Wikipedias are difficult to understand, and should not be copied to this Wikipedia without change 

If this edit is constructive, please click 'Save page' again, and report this error. () 14:25, 22 November 2010 (UTC)

Change being made: create article
Message of the filter: copy/paste from another wikipedia

Change being made:
Message of the filter:

Change being made:
Deleted a completely irrelevant section about Hinduism vs Buddhism which was suspiciously evangelical. 

Message of the filter:

Change being made: I changed the pictures of the links so you could see the characters better.
Message of the filter:


</doc>
<doc id="269510" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269510" title="Wikipedia:Change filter">
Wikipedia:Change filter

The is a tool used to allow and other trusted users to set controls on certain types of bad changes.

The was developed by with support from the Wikimedia Foundation, and went live on the Simple English Wikipedia in October 2010. This page calls it the "change filter" instead of the "abuse filter" because not everything that it stops is abuse.

This extension allows rules to be written to apply to all changes that are made. These rules can include things like "users with less than 500 changes are stopped from moving pages to titles which contain this regular expression: /poop/". Of course, the rules can get quite a bit more complicated.

Log entries (a record of what changes have been caught by filters) can be seen by all users, but some filters cannot. Every user will be able to see a short description of what each filter is designed to stop.

Change filters can cause a lot of damage if they stop changes that are helpful. Because of this, new filters can be tested for a few days (in "log only" mode, which only records the changes that the filter detects) before being used (in "warn", "disallow" or "throttle" modes). If the change filter makes a mistake, it can be reported here.

</doc>
<doc id="269512" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269512" title="Wikipedia:Change filter/Mistakes/Preload">
Wikipedia:Change filter/Mistakes/Preload

Change being made:
Message of the filter:
~~<includeonly></includeonly>~~

</doc>
<doc id="269516" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269516" title="Regular expression">
Regular expression

A regular expression is a way to describe sets of characters using syntactic rules. Many programming languages use or support regular expressions. A regular expression is then used by a special program or part of a programming language. This program will either generate a parser that can be used to match expressions or it will match such expressions itself. 

A few examples what can be matched with regular expressions:

Regular expressions can be much more complex than these examples. 

Many regular expression languages also support "wildcard" characters.


</doc>
<doc id="269518" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269518" title="Doktor Martinus Luther (1911)">
Doktor Martinus Luther (1911)

Doktor Martinus Luther (translated: "Doctor Martinus Luther") is a 1911 film about the life of Martin Luther. The silent film starred Hermann Litt as Luther.





</doc>
<doc id="269522" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269522" title="Die Wittenberger Nachtigall">
Die Wittenberger Nachtigall

Die Wittenberger Nachtigall (translated: "The Wittenberg Nightingale") is a 1913 film about the life of Martin Luther. The silent film starred Rudolf Essek as Luther.

Historical mistakes are the reason that the film was forbidden for the youth. 





</doc>
<doc id="269524" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269524" title="Disput u noći">
Disput u noći

Disput u noći (translated: "Dispute in the Night") is a 1976. The film was made in Yugoslavia.

The movie is about a dispute between Desiderius Erasmus and Martin Luther. So the film shows parts of the life of Martin Luther. 



</doc>
<doc id="269527" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269527" title="Martin Luther (1923 movie)">
Martin Luther (1923 movie)

Martin Luther is a 1923 silent movie about the life of Martin Luther. The movie starred Karl Wüstenhagen as Luther.





</doc>
<doc id="269528" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269528" title="1986 Pacific hurricane season">
1986 Pacific hurricane season

The 1986 Pacific hurricane season officially started May 15, 1986 in the eastern Pacific, and June 1, 1986 in the central Pacific, and lasted until November 30, 1986. These dates conventionally delimit the period of each year when most tropical cyclones form in the northeastern Pacific Ocean.

The number of storms this season was slightly above average. There were eight tropical storms, and six hurricanes. However, the number of major hurricanes was below average with three.

On May 22, a tropical depression (a large and organized cloud mass) formed. It took a rare southeast track. On May 24, the depression made a lope strengthened into Tropical Storm Agatha. Agatha headed almost due north. On May 25, reached minimal hurricane strength and turned to the east-southeast. Agatha weakened back to a tropical storm and then a tropical depression as it continued paralleling the coast of Mexico. Agatha restrengthened into a tropical storm for 12 hours on May 28 and 29 before dissipating for good that same day.

At midday on July 16, a tropical depression formed. It acquired gale-force winds 12 hours later and was named Estelle. On July 18, it intensified into a hurricane. In an environment that favored an increase of the storm's winds, Estelle continued strengthening, and became the first major hurricane of the season on July 20. Estelle's forward motion increased to close to 20 knots. Estelle's path took it towards a potential landfall on the Big Island. Due to a shearing environment from a trough, Estelle weakened as it continued approaching Hawaii. A possible recurve never materialized, and the cyclone continued its path towards the Hawaiian Islands.

The hurricane veered to west and passed south of the islands. Estelle weakened to a tropical storm on July 23. Early on July 25, Tropical Storm Estelle weakened to a depression. The tropical cyclone weakened two days later.

Due to its rapid motion, Estelle kept pace with a large swell of water that it generated. In combination with a high spring tide and peripheral winds generated by Estelle, huge waves crashed on the shores of the Big Island on the afternoon of July 22. The high waves washed away five beachfront homes and severely damaged dozens of others in Vacation Land. The total damage was around 2 million (1986 USD) dollars. On Maui, waves washed away a dirt road on the eastern part of the island between Kipahulu and Kaupo.

After Estelle passed by the islands, moisture related to the tropical cyclone caused heavy rainfall in the Ka'u and Puna districts on the Big Island. After Estelle dissipated, its moisture continued to spread over the islands, causing significant rainfall and thunderstorms over the archipelago. The only deaths reported were two drownings on Oahu that occurred on July 23. 

A cloud mass became a tropical depression late on the September 27 roughly 200 miles southwest of Guatemala. Paralleling the Mexican coastline, the system became a tropical storm late on the 29th, about 350 miles west-southwest of Acapulco. It steadily intensified, peaking with winds of 100 mph. This made Paine a Category 2 hurricane, Paine entered the Gulf of California on the evening of October 1. The hurricane increased its motion, crossing the coast near San Jose (Boca del Rio) while still a hurricane. The system moved rapidly across Mexico, bringing significant rains from west Texas across Oklahoma and Kansas into the Mid-Mississippi Valley. Flooding was reported, with the worst flood begin near Oklahoma City, the capital of the US State of Oklahoma.

The next tropical cyclone originated as a tropical disturbance which moved westward offshore
Nicaragua. During the early afternoon of the 15th, ship reports indicated the formation of a tropical depression near 10.2N 92.7W. The cyclone moved at a quick pace to the west- northwest south of a warm-core ridge. Early on the morning of the 16th, Roslyn became a tropical storm. By the morning of the October 17, it had developed into a hurricane south of Acapulco.

Roslyn began to recurve within a few hundred miles of Manzanillo. Striking Mazatlán as a marginal hurricane on the 20th, the remains of the system caused heavy rains along the Middle Texas coast. It later moved northward through the Mississippi Valley, spreading light to moderate rains 
along its path and then started to spread rains across the Southern United States. Click here for the storm total rainfall graphic for Roslyn.

On August 3, a tropical depression organized in the open ocean. Twelve hours later, it strengthened into Tropical Storm Georgette before weakening to a depression 6 hours later. It then accelerated to a very rapid speed of 20-39 knots. Due to its fast speed, Georgette could not maintain a closed circulation, and the tropical storm degenerated into a non-cyclonic disturbance. The disturbance kept up its rapid forward motion, crossed the dateline, and entered the western Pacific.

Five days later, Georgette reformed into a depression in the western part of the Pacific Ocean. As was customary, it kept its name. It eventually strengthened into a minimal typhoon (a hurricane in the West Pacific). It began to interact with a typohoon in the west Pacific, and thus cased it to dissipate.

The following names were used for named storms that formed in the eastern Pacific in 1986. No names were retired, so it was used again in the 1992 season. This is the same list used for the 1980 season. Storms were named Orlene, Paine, and Roslyn for the first time in 1986, although Orlene had been used on the old four-year lists. No central Pacific names were used; the first name used would have been Oka. Names that were not assigned are marked in gray.




</doc>
<doc id="269537" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269537" title="1985 Pacific hurricane season">
1985 Pacific hurricane season

The 1985 Pacific hurricane season was an event in tropical cyclone meteorology. It officially started on May 15, 1985 in the eastern Pacific, and on June 1, 1985 in the central Pacific, and lasted until November 30, 1985. These dates conventionally delimit the period of each year when most tropical cyclones form in the northeastern Pacific Ocean.

At the time, the 1985 season was the most active on record in the eastern north Pacific (breaking a short-lived record set in 1983), with 25 tropical cyclones forming. Of those, 22 attained tropical storm intensity, 12 reaching hurricane intensity and 8 becoming major hurricanes by reaching Category 3 or higher on the Saffir-Simpson Scale. In addition, three additional systems formed in the central north Pacific, of which one became a hurricane and another became a typhoon before re-crossing the international dateline.

Despite the activity, there were few notable systems this year. The only cyclone to make landfall was Hurricane Waldo, which caused damage in Mexico. Elsewhere, surf from Hurricane Pauline caused damage in Hawaii and either Pauline or the following system sank a sailing vessel.

Hurricane Pauline caused heavy surf along the Big Island, which washed debris up onto roads. There was no damage reported. It threatened the islands enough to prompt a hurricane watch, which means winds of 74 mph or higher are possible during the next 36 hours. However, the hurricane turned away.

Rick was the strongest storm of the season, and at the time had the second strongest winds recorded in a tropical cyclone in the Central Pacific. It may also have contributed to the sailing vessel being overdue.

Terry was a powerful major hurricane that formed by the 15th of September. It became a major hurricane fours days later on the 19th, but it did not affect land while doing so. It eventually dissipated due to hostile conditions on the 24th, without ever impacting land.

Tropical Depression Twenty Three-E formed from a disturbance on October 7. In a environment over warm waters (86 °F), it rapidly intensified, reaching Tropical Storm intensity the same day it formed. Waldo moved towards the Mexican coast. Just after peaking as a Category 2 hurricane on the hurricane scale, Waldo made landfall southwest of Culiacán. Waldo rapidly dissipated over land. Major damage, but no deaths were reported in Mexico. It was the season's lone landfall.

The first recorded twenty-second storm of a season formed October 25. It strengthened into Tropical Storm Xina early October 27. Xina began to start tracing out a huge oblong loop beneath an anticyclone. Xina peaked as a minimal major hurricane on October 29. As it finished the loop and left the cover of the anticyclone, Xina started falling apart. Cool waters took their toll on the cyclone, and Xina dissipated on November 5.

Had the list of names not been extended, Xina would have been named "Alpha" instead. However, the anticipated exhaustion of the old list was averted, meaning that the east Pacific has never exhausted its list. Xina stayed at sea, and no casualties or damages were reported.
The following names were used for named storms that formed in the eastern Pacific in 1985. No names were retired, so it was used again in the 1991 season. The name "Dolores" was misspelled as "Delores" in 1991. This is the same list used for the 1979 season, except for the added names. Storms were named Kevin, Linda, Marty, Nora, Olaf, Pauline, Rick, Sandra, Terry, Vivian, Waldo, and Xina for the first time in 1985. Names that were not assigned are marked in gray.

One name from the Central Pacific list was used – Nele. It was the first usage for this name. One storm, Typhoon Skip, formed in the central Pacific but did not receive a name until it reached the west Pacific, therefore only Nele was used from the central Pacific list.

Later during the '80s, the added names were made a permanent part of the Eastern Pacific lists, and other names were added for even-numbered years.

Had the names not been added, this season would have been the first Pacific or Atlantic hurricane season to exceed the list, and had to have used a Greek letter named storm. This would not occur until the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season, which saw an unprecedented 28 storms and 6 Greek names.




</doc>
<doc id="269539" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269539" title="Template:Pacific hurricane season">
Template:Pacific hurricane season


</doc>
<doc id="269547" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269547" title="IUPAC nomenclature">
IUPAC nomenclature

IUPAC nonclemature is a way to name chemicals. It was made by a group of scientists at IUPAC, the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry. It is used so everyone uses the same name for a chemical. This is useful in the chemistry world.


</doc>
<doc id="269549" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269549" title="Coordination geometry">
Coordination geometry

Coordination geometry is a way of showing how atoms are put in molecules. Molecules can be arranged different ways. They can be in a cube, a line, a triangle, a pyramid, or other shapes.


</doc>
<doc id="269550" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269550" title="Triclinic">
Triclinic

A triclinic crystal is shaped almost like a rectangle. It is slightly bent, though. Copper sulfate makes triclinic crystals. It is the least symmetric (meaning that both sides are not very similar). 


</doc>
<doc id="269552" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269552" title="Crystal structure">
Crystal structure

The crystal structure of a chemical is the shape of the crystal. There are several shapes of crystals. Sodium chloride is a cube. Copper sulfate is triclinic. Most things, even metals, have crystal structures. Some crystals fit more atoms in them than others. These crystals weigh more.


</doc>
<doc id="269554" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269554" title="Aliens of the Deep">
Aliens of the Deep

Aliens of the Deep is a 2005 documentary film, directed in part by James Cameron and filmed in the IMAX 3D format. It was produced by Walden Media and Buena Vista Pictures. Cameron worked with NASA scientists to explore the Mid-Ocean Ridges, under water chains of mountains in the Atlantic and Pacific oceans that are home to some of the planet's more unusual forms of life.

Cameron joins up aboard the Russian research ship, "Akademik Mstislav Keldysh", with a group of NASA scientists, as well as some Russian marine biologists, to investigate ten hydrothermal vents in both the Atlantic and Pacific. The vents have their own unique ecosystem, which support diverse organisms such as giant tube worms, swarms of blind white crabs, and vast amounts of shrimp which are capable of "seeing" water that is heated by the vents. These creatures do not need sunlight like other organisms, and instead get their energy from the vents. They are able to survive in the superheated and sulfurous water. Because of this, the documentary suggests that this is what life beyond Earth might look like. As some alien ecosystems are likely to be a lot harsher than a typical terrestrial ecosystem, these exotic vents provide an insight into some of the forms that alien life might take.

The documentary shows Cameron's passion for exploring the oceans, as well as his interest in extraterrestrial life. It also shows the technology used to reach such depths.

The film is similar to Cameron's earlier documentary, "Ghosts of the Abyss" (2003), which involves him journeying to the wreck of the RMS "Titanic". It too was filmed in the 3-D IMAX format.


</doc>
<doc id="269556" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269556" title="Hazard">
Hazard

A hazard is something that can be dangerous. Fire is sometimes a hazard. Explosives are a hazard. Many chemicals can be a hazard. There are ways to get rid of hazardous things. There are different types of hazards; some can catch things on fire; some can burn skin; some can irritate the eyes, etc.


</doc>
<doc id="269557" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269557" title="Risk and Safety Statements">
Risk and Safety Statements

Risk and Safety Statements are codes that show the hazards of certain chemicals. There are certain R (risk) phrases and S (safety) phrases. For example, R34 states that the chemical may cause burns. S36 says to wear protective clothing. 



</doc>
<doc id="269558" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269558" title="List of R-phrases">
List of R-phrases




</doc>
<doc id="269560" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269560" title="List of S-phrases">
List of S-phrases





</doc>
<doc id="269572" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269572" title="Template:Cite mac">
Template:Cite mac

<includeonly>Technical specifications of from Apple's knowledge base and from EveryMac.com. Retrieved .</includeonly>


</doc>
<doc id="269574" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269574" title="Template:Cite mac/doc">
Template:Cite mac/doc

This is an experimental way to cite the technical specifications of Macintosh models in a uniform way from developer Apple Inc. and third party EveryMac.com. Apple, as a primary source, is the most reliable, but its information is often sparse. EveryMac.com was selected as the least commercial and most reliable of a handful of sites dedicated to legacy Macintosh specifications.
All users should add the following to their or pages for use with :




codice_1

yields


<includeonly>
</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="269582" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269582" title="Okinawa Prefecture">
Okinawa Prefecture

Okinawa is a prefecture of Japan located southwest of Kyūshū. There are 50+ islands in the prefecture.

Naha is the capital city. It is on the island of Okinawa.


Okinawa is a grouping of many islands along the border at the edge of the East China Sea and the Pacific Ocean from Kyūshū to Taiwan. It is the southernmost prefecture in Japan. 





</doc>
<doc id="269583" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269583" title="Gunma Prefecture">
Gunma Prefecture

Gunma is a prefecture of Japan. Its capital city is Maebashi. As of 2005, its population is 2,032,709, making it the 19th most populous prefecture in Japan.

There are some tourist attractions in Gunma prefecture. Kusatsu is famous for hot springs. In winter, there are many ski resorts. 




</doc>
<doc id="269584" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269584" title="Kagoshima Prefecture">
Kagoshima Prefecture

Kagoshima Prefecture corresponds to the ancient Japanese provinces Ōsumi and Satsuma, including the northern part of the Ryukyu Islands. During the Sengoku and Edo Periods, Ōsumi was controlled by the Shimazu clan of Satsuma.

This region played a key role in the Meiji Restoration. Important historical figures from Kagoshima are Saigo Takamori) and Tōgō Heihachirō.


Kagoshima borders Kumamoto Prefecture and Miyazaki Prefecture. It lies at the southern part of Kyushu facing the Pacific Ocean.






</doc>
<doc id="269586" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269586" title="Osaka Prefecture">
Osaka Prefecture

The Kansai International Airport opened in Osaka 1994.



</doc>
<doc id="269593" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269593" title="Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women">
Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women

Cnovention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women is a convention and one of the international human rights law adopted by United Nations General Assembly on 18 December 1979 and entered into force 3 September 1981 established to prohibit all discrimination against women and to ensure their human rights and freedom on a basis of equality with men. Until now in 2010, all countries have ratified this Convention, that is, have made promise to realize this Convention except Iran, Nauru, Palau, Somalia, Sudan, Tonga, Niue, United States and Vatican City.

Article 1 Discrimination against women means any distincting, excluding or limiting all kinds of the human rights and freedoms of women.

Article 2 Countries must prohibit all discrimination against women by anyone, any groups and any companies and must change any law to protect women from discrimination.

Article 4 Special measures to promote real equality between men and women and to protect mother women is not discrimination.

Article 5 Abolishing any prejudices and custom which are out of the idea insisting that either sex is inferior or superior or out of stereotyped roles for men and women. 

Article 6 Protection women from all forms of human trafficking and prostitution.

Article 7 The right to vote of women and to take part in government policy.

Article 8 Rights of women to represent their government and take part in the work of international organisation.

Article 9 Rights of women to change nationality and in marriage to an alien, women are not changed automatically changed her nationality according to that of the husband and have equal right as men about the nationality of her child.

Article 10 Abolishing discrimination against women in the field of education;

Article 11 
1. To abolish discrimination against women in the field of working

2. To prevent discrimination against women in marriage motherhood, and ensure their right to work, countries have

Article 12 Abolishing discrimination in the field of health care.

Article 13 

Article 14 Abolishing discrimination in rural areas. 

Article 15 Equality of women with men before law, also in civil matters and legal capacity.

Article 16 

From Article 19 to 30, about the Committee that watch the realisation of this Convention by countries. The Committee is composed of 23 members elected by countries. They must be "of high moral standing". Countries must submit a national report, at least every four years to the Committee and the Committee submit reports to the United Nations Economic and Social Council.

The committee also give suggestion to the countries on matter about the abolition of discrimination against women.

This Convention also have the "Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Elimination of All Formes of Discrimination against Women". It admits women whose human rights written in this Convention are violated to claim to the Committee of the United Nations. Unitil now, November 2010, 100 countries have ratified it, that is, promised to United Nations to realize it. 




</doc>
<doc id="269600" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269600" title="Garhwal">
Garhwal

'Garhwal Land ' (Hindi: गढ़वाळ) is a region. It is in the state of Uttarakhand India. Garhwal's name is taken from Garhs (or forts). This is because this region had 52 forts belonging to local chiefs who ruled small areas near their forts. People who belong to this region are known as Gharhwalis. Now, this region is being looked onto as a tourist hub of India. This land has the districts Tehri, Chamoli, Uttrakashi, Pauri, some parts of Dehradun, and other areas. 

The history of Garhwal goes back to the dawn of Hindu civilization, but most of history of Garhwal is fairly unknown or not given any importance by historians. Also, some facts known about this land are vague and taken from Garhwali folk songs and Hindu epics. Most historians say that the name of Garhwal comes from the ancient regimes and rulers. However, most of the facts are unknown, and the things that "are" known are very vague and unreliable.

Garhwal is mostly known as the land of sacred Devi Devta (gods) because the holy river Ganges, Yamuna comes from here and Char Dhams (Holy Pilgrimage) Badrinath, Kedarnath, Gangotri and yamunotri are found here along with Panch Paryags (Lands where merging of Holy Rivers take place). These Paryags are Deoparyag, Rudraparyag, Karanparyag, Nandparyag and Vishnuparyag. There are also some Shaktipeeths like Dhari Devi, Mathiyana, Kunjapuri, Surkunda and Punch Badri Kedarnath, Madhya Maheswer, Tungh Nath, Rudra Nath, Kalpeshwer and Panch Badri Adi Badri, Vridha Badri, Bhavisya Badri, Yog Badri, Badri Vishal.

Garhwal is motherland of most of Gharwali people and language spoken by Garhwalis is also known as Garhwali. Most of the Garwalis are villagers and depends upon agriculture.Village in Garhwal are combine among some areas which is known as "Patti" for example Patti Bhillang may contain more than 30 villages. Garhwal land is facing troubles of unemployment and therefor most Garhwali youngsters migrate to the cities. Administration for education is fairly poor however some improvements are there but not so impressive as other states.Health and medical services need to be improved and cultivation is totally depends upon rain and rainfall is not consistent.

The culture and dialect of Garhwal is different in different areas. The culture and dialect of one area can be different from another area but an important part of the culture is Hinduism. Hinduism is the soul of Garhwali culture. Garhwali culture is influenced a lot by Epics and Devi Devta.


</doc>
<doc id="269602" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269602" title="Singapore National Pledge">
Singapore National Pledge

The Singapore's National Pledge was written by Sinnathamby Rajaratnam in 1966, not long after Singapore's Independence. A draft was submitted to the then Prime minister Lee Kuan Yew, before he made it better and passed it to the Cabinet.

These are the words of the pledge<nowiki>:</nowiki>


</doc>
<doc id="269606" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269606" title="Category:Singaporean companies">
Category:Singaporean companies

List of companies that is based in Singapore


</doc>
<doc id="269612" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269612" title="Fish pie">
Fish pie

Fish pie is a savory pie that has fish in it. It is normally eaten by British people, and made with white fish (cod, haddock, or halibut) in a white sauce. Hard boiled eggs are sometimes added as well, and the pie is made in a deep dish. The fish is not covered by a pie crust, but there are mashed potatos over it instead. The pie is sometimes also called the "fisherman's pie" because it is similar to the shepherd's pie. 




</doc>
<doc id="269615" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269615" title="Boiled egg">
Boiled egg

A boiled egg is an egg boiled in its shell. This is a common way of cooking eggs. If the shells are broken, it is called a poached egg. There are two different types of boiled eggs: hard boiled eggs and soft boiled eggs.

Hard boiled eggs are completely cooked. The egg yolk is solid. They can be eaten warm or cold. Some dishes use them like egg salad. They can be stored for a long time in the refrigerator. Some machines called egg slicers can slice these easily.

Soft boiled eggs are not completely cooked. They can have salmonella in them if they are not done right. The egg yolks are liquid. They are normally scooped out of the shell and eaten. In Asia, the soft boiled egg is cracked into a cup with soy sauce and black pepper.



</doc>
<doc id="269618" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269618" title="Egg yolk">
Egg yolk

The egg yolk is the yellow center of an egg. It is only one cell. It is commonly seen in fried eggs. When it is mixed with the whites, it makes scrambled eggs. It is sometimes used in cooking. It is much higher in calories than the egg white. It has Vitamin D in it. Some eggs have two egg yolks in them.


</doc>
<doc id="269619" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269619" title="Egg white">
Egg white

The egg white, also known as albumen, is the clear liquid part of the egg. The yellow part is called the egg yolk. The egg white holds the egg yolk in place. Most of the egg white is water. It is low in calories. They are high in protein. They can be whipped into a foam. The egg white foam is used to make many things like mousse and meringue.


</doc>
<doc id="269621" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269621" title="Spinach pie">
Spinach pie

A spinach pie, also called a spanakopita, is a savory pastry. It is Greek. It is filled with spinach, feta cheese, eggs, onions, and seasoning. This filling is wrapped in a pastry with olive oil. It is normally eaten as a snack. 


</doc>
<doc id="269629" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269629" title="Category:Prime Ministers of Singapore">
Category:Prime Ministers of Singapore

People who have been the Prime Minister of Singapore.


</doc>
<doc id="269630" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269630" title="Category:People's Action Party (Singapore) politicians">
Category:People's Action Party (Singapore) politicians


</doc>
<doc id="269631" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269631" title="Category:Members of the Cabinet of Singapore">
Category:Members of the Cabinet of Singapore


</doc>
<doc id="269637" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269637" title="1861 in architecture">
1861 in architecture

The year 1861 in architecture involved some significant events.





</doc>
<doc id="269638" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269638" title="Old Schwamb Mill">
Old Schwamb Mill

The Old Schwamb Mill is the oldest continuously operating mill site in the United States. There has been a mill operating at this site since c.1650. The current mill is a 19th-century woodworking factory. The mill was built in 1861, and purchased by brothers Charles and Frederick Schwamb in 1864 for the manufacture of picture frames. It remained within the family's ownership and continued to operate, more or less unchanged in both equipment and processes, until 1969. Two wings were added during this time, however: one by 1881, and the other between that date and 1898. The mill still contains operational equipment and four preserved power systems. 



</doc>
<doc id="269639" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269639" title="Halifax Town Hall">
Halifax Town Hall

Halifax Town Hall is a grade II listed, 19th century town hall in Halifax, West Yorkshire, England. It is notable for its design and interiors by Charles Barry and his son, Edward Middleton Barry, and for its sculptures by John Thomas.



</doc>
<doc id="269640" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269640" title="Annisquam Bridge">
Annisquam Bridge

Annisquam Bridge is a historic bridge in Annisquam, Massachusetts, a village within the city of Gloucester.

Built in 1861 to cross Lobster Cove, the bridge was added to the National Historic Register of Historic Places in 1983. It is a wood pile bridge.


</doc>
<doc id="269656" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269656" title="Sleepy Hollow">
Sleepy Hollow

Sleepy Hollow is a 1999 horror movie directed by Tim Burton. It stars Johnny Depp, Christina Ricci, Sir Michael Gambon and Miranda Richardson. The movie is based on a book by Washington Irving called The Legend of Sleepy Hollow. The story is about the murders of Sleepy Hollow which Ichabod Crane (Johnny Depp) has to investigate and find out who is the killer. When the movie went to box office it was a success and it made roughly $207 million worldwide.


</doc>
<doc id="269667" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269667" title="Republic of Maryland">
Republic of Maryland

The Republic of Maryland (also known as the Independent State of Maryland) was a small nation of African Americans from 1854 to 1857. It was in Africa. After this, it joined what is now Liberia. 

The area was first settled in 1834 by freed African-American slaves and African-Americans who were born free. Most of them were from the U.S. state of Maryland, and were there under the aurhority of the Maryland State Colonization Society. In 1838, other African-American settlements were joined to the Commonwealth of Liberia, which said that it was independent and not a part of Liberia in 1847. The Maryland in Liberia colony remained apart, as the state colonization society did not want anyone else to be able to trade goods. On 2 February 1841, Maryland-in-Africa became the State of Maryland. The state said that it was independent on 29 May 1854, and that it would be called Maryland in Liberia with its capital at Harper.

In December 1831, the Maryland state legislature said that it would give US$10,000 for 26 years to take free blacks and former slaves from the United States to Africa, and the Maryland State Colonization Society was started for this purpose.

On 29 May 1854 The State of Maryland declared its independence, naming itself Maryland in Liberia (it was also known as the Republic of Maryland), with its capital at Harper, Liberia. It held the land along the coast between the Grand Cess and San Pedro Rivers. However, it would last just three years as its own country.

Soon afterwards, local tribes, including the Grebo and the Kru, attacked the State of Maryland. Unable to defend itself, Maryland asked Liberia, its more powerful neighbor, for help. President Roberts sent military help, and an alliance of Marylanders and Liberian militia troops stopped the local tribesmen. However, it was now clear that the Republic of Maryland could not survive on its own, and 18 March 1857 Maryland was added by Liberia, and became known as Maryland County.



</doc>
<doc id="269679" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269679" title="Year of the Four Emperors">
Year of the Four Emperors

The Year of the Four Emperors was a year in the history of the Roman Empire, AD 69, in which four emperors ruled in a remarkable turnover. The four emperors were Galba, Otho, Vitellius, and Vespasian.

The suicide of emperor Nero, in 68, was followed by a brief period of civil war, the first Roman civil war since Mark Antony's death in 30 BC. Between June of 68 and December of 69, Rome witnessed the successive rise and fall of Galba, Otho and Vitellius until the final accession of Vespasian, the first ruler of the Flavian Dynasty.

This was an example of the political disturbances which occurred in the history of the Roman Empire. The military and political anarchy created by this civil war had serious repercussions, such as the outbreak of the Batavian rebellion. The Jewish Revolt was already ongoing.

By June of 68, the Senate took the initiative to rid itself of Nero, declaring him a public enemy and Galba emperor. The Praetorian Guard were bribed to betray Nero, and Nero committed suicide. Galba was recognized as emperor and welcomed into the city at the head of his legions

Galba did not remain popular for long. On his march to Rome, he either destroyed or took enormous fines from towns that did not accept him immediately. In Rome, Galba cancelled all the reforms of Nero, including benefits for many important persons. The army was not happy either. After his safe arrival in Rome, Galba refused to pay the rewards he had promised to soldiers who had supported him. The Roman treasury was indeed in a bad way after Nero's extravagances, but Galba did not handle the situation well.

Like Nero, Galba had a fear of conspirators and executed many senators and equites without trial. Moreover, in the start of the civil year of 69 on January 1, the legions of Germania Inferior refused to swear allegiance and obedience to the new emperor. On the following day, the legions acclaimed Vitellius, their governor, as emperor.

Marcus Salvius Otho bribed the Praetorian Guard, already very unhappy with the emperor, to his side. When Galba heard about the "coup d'état" he went to the streets in an attempt to normalize the situation. It proved a mistake, because he could attract no supporters. Shortly afterwards, the Praetorian Guard killed him in the Forum.

Otho was recognised as emperor by the Senate that same day. The new emperor was saluted with relief. Although ambitious and greedy, Otho did not have a record for tyranny or cruelty and was expected to be a fair emperor. However, trouble in the form of Vitellius was marching down on Italy from Germany.

Vitellius had behind him the finest elite legions of the empire, composed of veterans of the Germanic Wars. These would prove to be his best arguments to gain power. Otho was not keen to begin another civil war and sent emissaries to propose a peace and inviting Vitellius to be his son-in-law. It was too late to reason; Vitellius' generals had half of his army heading to Italy. After a series of minor victories, Otho was defeated in the Battle of Bedriacum. Rather than flee and attempt a counter-attack, Otho decided to put an end to the anarchy and committed suicide. He had been emperor for a little more than three months.

On the news of Otho's suicide, Vitellius was recognised as emperor by the Senate. Given this recognition, Vitellius set out for Rome. He faced problems from the start of his reign. The city was left very skeptical when Vitellius chose a day of bad auspices (according to Roman superstition) to accept the office of "Pontifex Maximus".

Events would seemingly prove them right. With the throne tightly secured, Vitellius engaged in a series of feasts, banquets and triumphal parades that drove the imperial treasury close to bankruptcy. Debts were quickly accrued and money-lenders started to demand repayment. 

Vitellius showed his violent nature by ordering the torture and execution of those who dared to make such demands. Vitellius took the step of killing citizens who named him as their heir, often together with any co-heirs. Moreover, he engaged in a pursuit of every possible rival, inviting them to the palace with promises of power only to have them assassinated.

Vespasian had been given a special command in Judaea by Nero in 67 with the task of putting down the Great Jewish Revolt. He gained the support of the governor of Syria, Gaius Licinius Mucianus. A strong force drawn from the Judaean and Syrian legions marched on Rome under the command of Mucianus. Vespasian himself travelled to Alexandria where he had been acclaimed Emperor on July 1, thereby gaining control of the vital grain supplies from Egypt. Vespasian's son Titus remained in Judaea to deal with the Jewish rebellion. Before the eastern legions could reach Rome, the Danubian legions of the provinces of Raetia and Moesia also acclaimed Vespasian as Emperor in August, and led by Marcus Antonius Primus invaded Italy. In October, the forces led by Primus won a crushing victory over Vitellius' army at the Second Battle of Bedriacum.

Surrounded by enemies, Vitellius made a last attempt to win the city to his side, distributing bribes and promises of power where needed. The Danube army was now very near Rome. Vitellius went into hiding and prepared to flee, but decided on a last visit to the palace. There he was caught by Vespasian's men and killed. In seizing the capital, they burned down the temple of Jupiter.

The Senate acknowledged Vespasian as emperor on the following day. It was 21 December 69, the year that had begun with Galba on the throne.






</doc>
<doc id="269680" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269680" title="Rockstar Games">
Rockstar Games

Rockstar Games is a video game company that has created well-known games such as the Grand Theft Auto series of games and the MidnightClub Racing Game series.

RAGE
Main article: Rockstar Advanced Game Engine
Rockstar Games have developed their own game engine called the Rockstar Advanced Game Engine (RAGE) to facilitate game development on the PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, Windows, and Wii systems.


</doc>
<doc id="269682" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269682" title="Slumdog Millionaire">
Slumdog Millionaire

Slumdog Millionaire is a 2008 British movie. It was directed by Danny Boyle and based on the novel "Q&A" by Vikas Swarup, although the movie is very different from the book. The movie is set in India and is about a poor boy who appears on India's version of the game show "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?".

In 2009, "Slumdog Millionaire" was nominated for 10 Academy Awards and won 8, including Best Picture.


</doc>
<doc id="269687" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269687" title="Sherry">
Sherry

Sherry is a wine made from grapes. It is produced in Jerez de la Frontera, Spain. In Spanish, it is called vino de Jerez.

There are many diferent kinds of Sherry:



</doc>
<doc id="269696" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269696" title="Scottish Conservative Party">
Scottish Conservative Party

The Scottish Conservative and Unionist Party is a political party in Scotland that is part of the British Conservative Party. The party's policies usually promote conservatism and the continuing of Scotland as part of the United Kingdom.

In the Scottish Parliament, the party's leader is Annabel Goldie and the party is an opposition party with 16 out of 129 seats. The party has one seat out of 59 Scottish seats in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom and 1 out of 6 Scottish seats in the European Parliament.

In Scotland, the Conservatives used to be known as the Unionist Party and were Scotland's largest party during the 1950s. However in 1965, the Scottish Unionist Party merged with the Conservative Party which triggered a decline in Conservative support across Scotland. At the 1987 General Election, the Conservatives were reduced from 21 to 10 Scottish seats, and the party lost all of its Scottish seats in 1997. 

Since 2001, the party has held only 1 Scottish seat in the House of Commons but has secured roughly 18 seats in Scottish Parliament elections because of the Scottish Parliament's electoral system which partly uses proportional representation. However, the party has won several constituency seats in the Scottish parliament and going into the 2011 Scottish parliament election, the party has 20 seats (6 constituency and 14 regional).


</doc>
<doc id="269698" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269698" title="Scottish Labour Party">
Scottish Labour Party

The Scottish Labour Party is a political party in Scotland that is part of the British Labour Party. The party's policies usually promote social democracy and democratic socialism as well as the continuing of Scotland as part of the United Kingdom.

In the Scottish Parliament, the party leader is Iain Gray and it is the main opposition party controlling 46 out of 129 seats. The party controls 41 out of 59 Scottish seats in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom and 2 out of 6 Scottish seats in the European Parliament.


</doc>
<doc id="269702" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269702" title="Scottish Liberal Democrats">
Scottish Liberal Democrats

The Scottish Liberal Democrats is a political party in Scotland that is part of the British Liberal Democrats. The party's policies usually promote liberalism and progressivism as well as the continuing of Scotland as part of the United Kingdom.

In the Scottish Parliament, the party's leader is Tavish Scott and the party is an opposition party with 16 out of 129 seats. The party has 11 seats out of 59 Scottish seats in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom and 1 out of 6 Scottish seats in the European Parliament.


</doc>
<doc id="269704" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269704" title="Scottish Green Party">
Scottish Green Party

The Scottish Green Party is a political party in Scotland that has close relations to the Green Party of England and Wales. The party's policies usually promote environmentalism, socialism and the creation of an independent Scotland free from the United Kingdom but within the European Union.

In the Scottish Parliament, the party's leaders are Robin Harper and Patrick Harvie and the party is an opposition party with 2 out of 129 seats. It does not have any seats in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom or the European Parliament.


</doc>
<doc id="269706" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269706" title="Group 15 element">
Group 15 element

The Group 15 elements, also called the pnictogens, Group V elements, or Group VB elements, are a group on the periodic table. They have many different properties. Nitrogen is a colorless unreactive gas. Phosphorus is a reactive white or red solid nonmetal. Arsenic is a highly toxic semimetal. Antimony is also a semimetal. Bismuth is a metal. They all have 5 valence electrons. Most of them form +5 or -3 chemical compounds.


</doc>
<doc id="269714" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269714" title="Category:Phosphorus compounds">
Category:Phosphorus compounds

Phosphorus compounds are chemical compounds containing phosphorus ions.


</doc>
<doc id="269716" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269716" title="Phosphonium">
Phosphonium

Phosphonium is an ion. It is rare. Its chemical formula is PH. It is similar to ammonium. It is almost never found outside of an organic compound. Its molar mass is 35.01 g/mol. 


</doc>
<doc id="269717" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269717" title="Phosphide">
Phosphide

Phosphide is an ion. Its chemical formula is sometimes P. It does not always have that formula. It is a reducing agent. Phosphides (chemical compounds having the phosphide ion in them) react with acids to make phosphine gas. Sodium phosphide is an example. Some phosphides are semiconductors and are not ionic with P ions. They are less reactive. Some metals form alloys with phosphorus to make phosphides. If it is ionic, then the phosphorus is in the -3 oxidation state.


</doc>
<doc id="269718" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269718" title="Sodium phosphide">
Sodium phosphide

Sodium phosphide is a chemical compound. It contains sodium and phosphide ions. Its chemical formula is NaP.

Sodium phosphide is a black solid. It is ionic. There are several other sodium phosphides that do not have the formula NaP. It reacts with acids to make phosphine gas. It is a reducing agent.

It can be made by reacting liquid sodium with phosphorus(V) chloride. It can also be made by reacting sodium with phosphorus. 

It is used to make semiconductors. It can also be used as a catalyst. 

Sodium phosphide is flammable, making toxic gases when burned. It also makes toxic flammable gases when reacted with acids.



</doc>
<doc id="269719" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269719" title="Phosphorus(V) chloride">
Phosphorus(V) chloride

Phosphorus(V) chloride, also known as phosphorus pentachloride, is a chemical compound. Its chemical formula is PCl. It contains phosphorus and chloride ions. The phosphorus is in the +5 oxidation state.

Phosphorus(V) chloride is a colorless solid. It is one of the most important phosphorus chlorides. Sometimes it is yellowish. It reacts with hot water to make phosphoric acid and hydrochloric acid.

It is made by reacting a lot of chlorine with phosphorus. It can also be made by reacting chlorine with phosphorus(III) chloride.

Phosphorus(V) chloride is used to add chloride to other chemical compounds. 

Phosphorus(V) chloride is acidic and toxic. It puts off toxic gases when reacted with water.



</doc>
<doc id="269720" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269720" title="Phosphorus chloride">
Phosphorus chloride

Phosphorus chloride can refer to either of these chemical compounds:



</doc>
<doc id="269736" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269736" title="Dilma Rousseff">
Dilma Rousseff

Dilma Vana Rousseff (born December 14, 1947) is an economist, politician and the 40th president of Brazil. On 31st October 2010, Rousseff won 55% of the vote. Her main contender was José Serra who won 44%. Serra was the candidate of the Brazilian Social Democratic Party. On January 1, 2011, she became the first woman president of the country. In 2003, in the government of Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, she was the minister of Mines and Energy. She became Lula's Chief of Staff in 2005, after her predecessor, José Dirceu, resigned because of charges of corruption.

She was against the military dictatorship that governed Brazil from 1964 to 1985. In January 1970 she was sent to prison for being a member a Marxist group which had carried out bank robberies and murders. She was released after three years. She joined the Workers Party in 1986.


</doc>
<doc id="269740" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269740" title="MicroSD">
MicroSD

microSD is a kind of removable flash memory card used for storing information. SD is an abbreviation of Secure Digital. The cards are used in cellular phones. They are also used in newer types of handheld GPS devices, portable media players, digital audio players, expandable USB flash memory drives, Nintendo DS flashcards, and digital cameras.

It is the smallest memory card that can be bought; at 15 mm × 11 mm × 1 mm (about the size of a fingernail), it is about a quarter of the size of a normal-sized SD card. There are adapters that make the small microSD able to fit in things that have slots for standard SD, miniSD, Memory Stick Duo and even USB cards. But, not all of the different cards can work together. Many microSD cards sold on the internet and in stores have a standard SD adapter, so that people can use them in things that take standard SD but not microSD cards.

TransFlash and microSD cards are the same (they can be used in place of each other), but microSD has support for SDIO mode, so that non-memory cards like Bluetooth, GPS, and Near Field Communication devices to use the card also.

Some people have a hard time knowing the difference between the microSD and the newer microSDHC format. The SD and SDHC act the same, but not all devices are able to be used with the newer format. This is even true with devices that have been made by SanDisk like their e200 series of MP3 players. Using 3rd party firmware, SDHC reading can sometimes be done.

TransFlash cards are sold in 16MB and 32MB sizes. microSD cards are sold in many sizes, from 64 MB to 2 GB, while microSDHC cards are sold in sizes between 4 GB to 64 GB. (This is the biggest microSD card so far, and the microSDHC format can not store anything past that amount. microSD cards with even more storage will be in microSDXC format.)

The microSD format was made by the company SanDisk. It was first called T-Flash, and then TransFlash, before being named microSD when it started to be used by the SD Card Association (SDA). Other flash card formats approved by the SDA include miniSD and standard SD card.

The SDA announced the microSD format at CTIA Wireless 2005 on March 14, 2005, and the final microSD details were announced on July 13, 2005. Then they were first sold, the microSD format was sold in sizes of 32, 64, and 128 MB. SanDisk made a 2 GB microSD card on July 2006, at first costing $99 (USD). Since then, the prices for flash memory devices have gotten much lower. At the time of April 2009, the same 2 GB card could be bought for as low as $12 (USD) at department stores, and by May 2009, for as low as $6 (USD) at online electronics stores. In January 2010, a 16 GB micro SD card class 2 cost about $40 (USD), and a 4 GB class 2 micro SD card about $8 (USD).

It is predicted that the SDXC (up to 2 terabytes data) format will be moved over to the MicroSD cards one day.

The amount of power used by microSD cards are all different because they are made by different manufacturers, but it looks like it is in the range of 20-100 mA at a supply voltage of 3.3 V. TwinMos technologies says that the cards carry a maximum of 45 mA during transfer. Toshiba lists 80-100 mA.




</doc>
<doc id="269753" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269753" title="Anton Mauve">
Anton Mauve

Anthonij (Anton) Rudolf Mauve (18 September 1838, Zaandam, North Holland – 5 February 1888, Arnhem) was a Dutch realist painter who was a leading member of the Hague School. He signed his paintings 'A. Mauve' or with a monogrammed 'A.M.'.
He had a great influence on his cousin-in-law Vincent van Gogh.

Mauve mostly painted people and animals shown outdoors. The paining "Morning Ride" shows well-dressed riders at the coast of the sea, as they ride away from the viewer. One detail which is uncommon, but shows his realism are the horse droppings shown in the foregorund of the picture. His best-known paintings show peasants working in the fields, and sheep-herding scenes.


</doc>
<doc id="269757" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269757" title="Vespasian">
Vespasian

Vespasian (Titus Flavius Vespasianus, 17 November 9 AD – 23 June 79), was Roman Emperor from 69 AD to 79. 

Vespasian was the founder of the Flavian dynasty which ruled the empire for a quarter century. Although he held the consulship in 51 AD, Vespasian became more highly regarded as a successful military commander. He took part in the Roman invasion of Britain in 43 AD, and the Jewish rebellion of 66 AD. 

While Vespasian was preparing to besiege Jerusalem during the latter campaign, emperor Nero committed suicide, plunging the empire into a year of civil war known as the Year of the Four Emperors. After the emperors Galba and Otho perished in quick succession, Vitellius became emperor in April 69 AD. 

In response, the armies in Egypt and Judaea declared Vespasian emperor on July 1. In his bid for imperial power, Vespasian joined forces with Mucianus, the governor of Syria, and Primus, a general in Pannonia. Primus and Mucianus led the Flavian forces against Vitellius, while Vespasian gained control of Egypt. On 20 December, Vitellius was defeated, and the following day Vespasian was declared emperor by the Roman Senate.

Little factual information survives about Vespasian's government during the ten years he was emperor. His reign is best known for financial reforms, the successful campaign against Judaea, and several ambitious construction projects such as the Colosseum. Upon his death in 79, he was succeeded by his eldest son Titus.


</doc>
<doc id="269760" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269760" title="Titus">
Titus

Titus (Titus Flavius Vespasianus, 30 December 39 – 13 September 81) was Roman Emperor from 79 to 81. A member of the Flavian dynasty, Titus succeeded his father Vespasian upon his death.

Before becoming emperor, Titus gained renown as a military commander. He served as a military tribune in Germany and Britain. 

It was he who brought the reinforcements after the revolt of Boudicca. Two tribes had destroyed Colchester, London and St Albans, and wiped out a whole legion, but were finally defeated by the Roman governor of Britain.

He served under his father in Judaea during the First Jewish-Roman War (66–70), where he commanded a legion. The campaign came to a brief halt with the death of emperor Nero in 68, but soon continued in the Year of the Four Emperors. 

When Vespasian was declared emperor on 1 July 69, Titus was left in charge of ending the Jewish rebellion. In 70, he successfully laid siege to Jerusalem. He destroyed the city and Temple in Jerusalem. For this, Titus was awarded a Roman triumph. To this day, the Arch of Titus commemorates his victory.

When Vespasian became Emperor, Titus and his brother Domitian received the title of "Caesar" from the Senate. Titus held seven consulships during Vespasian's reign and acted as his secretary, appearing in the Senate on his behalf. 

Under the rule of his father, Titus gained some notoriety in Rome as a ruthless Prefect of the Praetorian Guard. 

During the Jewish wars, Titus had begun a love affair with Berenice, sister of Agrippa II. The Herodians had collaborated with the Romans during the rebellion, and Berenice herself had supported Vespasian upon his campaign to become emperor. 

In 75, she returned to Titus and openly lived with him in the palace as his promised wife. The Romans were wary of her, and disapproved of their relationship. When the pair was publicly denounced by Cynics in the theatre, Titus caved in to the pressure and sent her away, but his reputation suffered.

Titus ruled to great acclaim after the death of Vespasian in 79. He was considered a good emperor by Suetonius and other contemporary historians. 

As emperor, he is best known for completing the Colosseum and for his generosity in relieving the suffering caused by two disasters, the Mount Vesuvius eruption of 79 and a fire in Rome in 80. 

Because of his supposed vices, many Romans feared he would be another Nero. But Titus proved to be an effective emperor and was well-loved when people found that he had virtues instead of vices. One of his first acts as an emperor was to stop trials based on treason charges, which had long plagued Rome. 

Under Augustus, the law of treason had been revived and applied to cover slander and libel. This led to a long cycle of trials and executions under such emperors as Tiberius, Caligula and Nero. This spawned entire networks of informers who terrorized Rome for decades. Titus put an end to this practice, against himself or anyone else, declaring:

"It is impossible for me to be insulted or abused in any way. For I do naught that deserves censure, and I care not for what is reported falsely".

Consequently, no senators were put to death during his reign; he thus kept to his promise that he would assume the office of Pontifex Maximus "for the purpose of keeping his hands unstained". The informers were publicly punished and banished from the city. Titus then made it unlawful for persons to be tried under different laws for the same offense (double jeopardy|). Finally, when Berenice returned to Rome, he sent her away.

After barely two years in office, Titus died of a fever on 13 September 81. He was deified (declared a god) by the Roman Senate and succeeded by his younger brother Domitian.


</doc>
<doc id="269761" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269761" title="RTL Television">
RTL Television

RTL Television or short RTL is a german television station. It is belongs to the RTL Group. It started at 2. Januar 1984. 



</doc>
<doc id="269772" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269772" title="Nerva">
Nerva

Nerva (Marcus Cocceius Nerva, 8 November 30 – 25 January 98) was Roman Emperor from 96 to 98. 

Nerva became emperor at the age of sixty-five, after a lifetime of imperial service under Nero and the rulers of the Flavian dynasty. Under Nero, he was a member of the imperial team, and played a vital part in exposing the Pisonian conspiracy of 65. 

Later, as a loyalist to the Flavians, he attained consulships in 71 and 90 during the reigns of Vespasian and Domitian respectively. 

On 18 September 96, Domitian was assassinated in a palace conspiracy. On the same day, Nerva was declared emperor by the Roman Senate. As the new ruler of the Roman Empire, he vowed to restore liberties which had been cut during the autocratic government of Domitian. 

Nerva's brief reign was marred by financial difficulties and his inability to assert his authority over the Roman army. 

A revolt by the Praetorian Guard in October 97 caused him to adopt an heir. After some deliberation Nerva adopted Trajan, a young and popular general, as his successor. After barely fifteen months in office, Nerva died of natural causes. 

Although much of his life remains obscure, Nerva was considered a wise and moderate emperor by ancient historians. Recent historians have revised this assessment, characterizing Nerva as a well-intentioned but ultimately weak ruler, whose reign brought the Roman Empire to the brink of civil war. 

Nerva's greatest success was his choice of Trajan. This led to a peaceful transition after his death, thus founding the Nerva-Antonine dynasty.


</doc>
<doc id="269781" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269781" title="Jimmy McLeod">
Jimmy McLeod

James Bradley McLeod (born April 7, 1937 in Thunder Bay, Ontario) is a retired Canadian ice hockey goaltender. McLeod started his career with the St. Louis Blues in the National Hockey League during the 1972. Later in his career he would also play in the World Hockey Association for the Chicago Cougars, Los Angeles Sharks, Michigan Stags, and New York Golden Blades. 


</doc>
<doc id="269782" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269782" title="Jeff McDill">
Jeff McDill

Jeffrey Donald 'Jeff' McDill (born March 16, 1956) is a retired Canadian professional ice hockey right winger who played in one National Hockey League game for the Chicago Black Hawks during the 1976–77 NHL season.



</doc>
<doc id="269787" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269787" title="Murdo MacKay">
Murdo MacKay

Murdo John MacKay (b. August 8, 1917 in Fort William, Ontario - d. August 8, 2000) is a retired Canadian professional ice hockey forward who played 19 games in the National Hockey League for the Montreal Canadiens.


</doc>
<doc id="269789" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269789" title="Bernadette Soubirous">
Bernadette Soubirous

Bernadette Soubirous (January 7 1844 - 1879) was a young girl that had religious visions at Lourdes, France. During 1858 she said she saw the Virgin Mary 18 times. The Roman Catholic Church later made her a saint, and Lourdes has become one of the most visited places for pilgrims.


</doc>
<doc id="269795" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269795" title="Political Parties in the United Kingdom">
Political Parties in the United Kingdom

This is a list of political parties in the United Kingdom. 

All of the English parties except for the Green Party contest elections in England, Scotland and Wales. Parties represented in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom or the European Parliament are:


There are 2 types of parties in Scotland; Nationalists and Unionists. Nationalists want to create an independent Scotland, free from the United Kingdom and Unionists want to keep Scotland as part of the United Kingdom. Parties represented in the Scottish parliament are:



"See Also": Political Parties in Scotland

Parties represented in the Welsh Assembly are:


There are two main types of political parties in Northern Ireland; Republicans and Unionists. Republicans want Northern Ireland to leave the United Kingdom and join with the Republic of Ireland. Unionists want to keep Northern Ireland in the United Kingdom and there are parties who are open-minded about the issue. Parties represented in the Northern Ireland Assembly are:


These parties are listed by the share of the vote they received at the last general election. 



</doc>
<doc id="269816" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269816" title="Economic nationalism">
Economic nationalism

Economic nationalism is the idea that a state should have control over its economy, labour and how capital is formed. In most cases, this includes taxation of imports. In many cases, economic nationalism is the opposite of globalization, or it questions the use of free trade without restrictions.


</doc>
<doc id="269818" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269818" title="Green Party of England and Wales">
Green Party of England and Wales

The Green Party of England and Wales is a left-wing political party in England and Wales. The party's policies usually promote environmentalism and socialism. It wants to create a system of proportional representation for British elections and is moderately against the UK being in the European Union. It has liberal policies on animal rights, LGBT rights and believes that the law on illegal drugs should be made softer.

Since May 2010, the party has 1 out of 573 English and Welsh seats in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom and has had 2 members in the European Parliament since 1999. The party is close to the Scottish Green Party and the Green Party of Northern Ireland. The party's current leader is Caroline Lucas, the party's only MP.


</doc>
<doc id="269822" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269822" title="Trifluoromethylphenylpiperazine">
Trifluoromethylphenylpiperazine

Trifluoromethylphenylpiperazine (TFMPP) is an organic chemical substance. It is a derivative of Piperazine. It is sometimes used as a part of other illegal drugs. It is sometimes used as a replacement for the drug MDMA, or as a component of Ecstasy pills. TFMPP has no known use in the chemical industry. 


</doc>
<doc id="269824" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269824" title="Aliens (movie)">
Aliens (movie)

Aliens is an American science fiction movie released in 1986. It is a science fiction movie because it takes place in outer space and there are alien creatures. It was directed by James Cameron and stars Sigourney Weaver, Michael Biehn and Lance Henriksen. "Aliens" is a sequel to "Alien" (1979) and was followed by two more sequels; "Alien³" (1992) and "" (1997).



</doc>
<doc id="269826" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269826" title="Evolutionary suicide">
Evolutionary suicide

Evolutionary suicide the an idea that the adaptation of an individual animal works in such a way that an entire species dies out. This is different from group selection where the biological fitness of an animal is linked to the entire population.

The idea is that evolution makes plants and animals pass on their genes to the next generation more efficiently, but it does not guarantee the survival of the population or the species. For this reason, the evolutionary benefit of an individual and its descendants might lead to the extinction of the respective population, or the whole species.

An example of this would be that an animal of a population starts to eat the seeds, or the buds of a food plant. This would destroy the supply of plants that would usually be available. All animals would then starve. 

As of 2010, there is no proof that evolutionary suicide exists. Different scientific studies found a correlation between acquired traits and a higher risk of a population disappearing.

A candidate for a future evolutionary suicide migh be cod. Cod is caught as fish by humans. There is evolutionary pressure on the bigger fish, which are caught. This has led to the fish not growing as much as they used to. They also mature earlier. These adaptations are a reaction that should save the species from becoming extinct, in the short run. They do however also mean that the amount of offspring per fish is reduced. This bears the risk of the population becoming extinct.


</doc>
<doc id="269829" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269829" title="Territorialism">
Territorialism

Territorialism, also known as Statism (but not to be confused with another belief also called statism), was a Jewish political movement. Jewish people wanted some land to live in that was big enough for them. It did not necessarily have to be in the land where the country of Israel is today, and it did not necessarily have to be its own country.

Before 1905, some Zionist leaders were thinking about making places for Jews to call home other than Palestine. Theodor Herzl's "Der Judenstaat" argued for a Jewish state in either Palestine, "our ever-memorable historic home", or Argentina, "one of the most fertile countries in the world". ("Fertile" means land where it is easy to grow crops.) Many of the socialist Zionist groups were more territorialist than Zionist, such as Nachman Syrkin's Zionist Socialist Workers Party (the Z.S.).

The Jewish Colonization Association, started in 1891 by the Baron Maurice de Hirsch, was started to help move many Jews from Russia and other Eastern European countries. It wanted to move them to land where they could grow food and that it would buy. It had in mind land in North and South America (especially Argentina).

In 1903, British cabinet ministers suggested the British Uganda Program, land for a Jewish state in "Uganda" (the land they were thinking about is actually in the modern country of Kenya). At first, Herzl said no to the idea, because he liked Palestine better. After the April 1903 Kishinev pogrom, in which many Jews were violently attacked in Russia, Herzl suggested to the Sixth Zionist Congress to look at the offer as a temporary way to keep Russian Jews safe. The plan was very controversial, and many Russian Jews were so upset that they walked out of the meeting. Few historians believe that such a settlement idea could have attracted immigrants, received much money in donations, or been supported by many other countries. Because some members of the Zionist leadership liked the idea, however, peace was kept in the movement because they voted to start a committee to look at the possibility. They did not officially say no to the idea until the 7th Zionist Congress in 1905.

Because of this, the Jewish Territorialist Organization (ITO) led by Israel Zangwill split off from the Zionist movement. It tried to find land where Jews could settle in different parts of America (e.g. Galveston), Africa, Asia, and Australia, but with little success. The ITO broke up in 1925. 

Apart from the (ITO), within the USSR there was also a Territorialist effort in Ukraine, the Crimea and then in a region around Birobidzhan, where a Jewish Autonomous Region was started in 1934.

As the Holocaust became close and as Nazis were discriminating against Jews in Germany, Isaac Nachman Steinberg started the Freeland League in the United States in 1935. This organization tried, but did not succeed, to start a new Jewish country by getting a large piece of land in places in Ecuador, Australia, or Suriname where not many people lived. One of the more well-known tries was the Kimberley Plan, to get land in Australia. After the State of Israel was created in 1948, Steinberg had criticized the exclusivist politics of the Zionist government and continued his attempts to create a non-nationalist Jewish settlement in some other part of the world. After Steinberg died in 1957, the Freeland League was led by Mordkhe Schaechter, who gradually changed the focus of the organization to more cultural, Yiddishist goals.



</doc>
<doc id="269832" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269832" title="Category:Jewish history">
Category:Jewish history


</doc>
<doc id="269833" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269833" title="Jewish Virtual Library">
Jewish Virtual Library

Jewish Virtual Library (JVL) is an online encyclopedia published by the American-Israeli Cooperative Enterprise (the AICE). Established in 1993, it is a comprehensive website covering Israel, the Jewish people, and Jewish culture.

The website was first made in the late 1990s. It was first called The Jewish Student Online Research Center (JSOURCE).According to the website, the Library covers material that cannot be found anywhere else in the world, such as information about projects where the United States and Israel worked together, and how Americans were treated during the Holocaust. It explains that it got permission to use materials from the Library of Congress, from the American Jewish Historical Society, the Anti-Defamation League, the Simon Wiesenthal Center, the Israeli Foreign Ministry, and Prime Minister’s Office, Rabbi Joseph Telushkin (author of "Jewish Literacy"), and dozens of other sources.

It has more than 13,000 articles and 6,000 photographs and maps about Jewish history, Israel, U.S.-Israel relations, the Holocaust, anti-Semitism, and Judaism. The website has all of the words of the Tanakh. The Jewish Virtual Library also has the Israel advocacy text "Myths and Facts", edited by Mitchell Bard, in several languages.

John Jaeger, in an article published by the Association of College and Research Libraries, said of the Jewish Virtual Library: "This library, once it is entered, is more like a living encyclopedia than it is anything else. One has options to click on, such as history, women, biography, politics, Israel, maps, and Judaic Treasures at the Library of Congress, with each launching a person into a different realm. The site is extremely well put together.

Karen Evans of Indiana State University wrote that the site covers many different topics, with "easily accessible, balanced information".

The Jewish Virtual Library has been used as a source by CNN, New York Times, BBC, CBS News, Fox News, "The Los Angeles Times", "USA Today", "Business Week", and Bloomberg, among others. JVL got awards from Britannica "Internet Guide Selection", "USA Today" "Hot Site", and the "Best of the Jewish Web" from the Jewish Agency for Israel, the" Academic Excellence Award" from Study Web and others.



</doc>
<doc id="269835" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269835" title="Taio Cruz">
Taio Cruz

Jacob Taio Cruz (born April 23, 1983) is an English R&B singer. He has released two studio albums and his single, "Break Your Heart" which was featured on his "Rokstarr" album was a number one hit in both the U.K. and the U.S.

Taio Cruz has released 2 studio albums:


</doc>
<doc id="269838" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269838" title="Martin Truex, Jr.">
Martin Truex, Jr.

Martin Lee Truex Jr. (born June 29, 1980 in Mayetta, New Jersey) is an American racecar driver. Truex Jr. drives the #56 NAPA Auto Parts Toyota Camry for Michael Waltrip Racing in the NASCAR Sprint Cup series. Truex, Jr. won the 2004 and 2005 Nationwide Series. Truex, Jr.'s brother, Ryan Truex, Jr. and his cousin Curtis are also racecar driver.



</doc>
<doc id="269840" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269840" title="Haitian Revolution">
Haitian Revolution

The Haitian Revolution (1791–1804) was a period of conflict in the French colony of Saint-Domingue, leading to the elimination of slavery and Haiti as the first republic ruled by Africans.This was the first successful slave rebellion. The Haitian Revolution was important to revolutions in the future, as well as the future of the Americas.


</doc>
<doc id="269869" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269869" title="Centralist">
Centralist

A centralist is a person who believes in centralisation (controlling a country or organisation through a single central government instead of lots of local government bodies).


</doc>
<doc id="269875" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269875" title="Janenschia">
Janenschia

Janenschia (named after Werner Janensch) was a huge, plant-eating dinosaur with an elongated neck and tail. It was a sauropod from the late Jurassic period, about 156 million to 150 million years ago. "Janenschia" had a small head, blunt teeth, and a short, thick tail; it was about 80 feet (24 m) long. This titanosaurid back may have been covered with bony, armored plates. Fossils have been found in Tanzania, Africa. 


</doc>
<doc id="269879" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269879" title="Wikipedia:Wikipediholic Test">
Wikipedia:Wikipediholic Test

If you want to evaluate your , take this 20 question test. The test measures your addictiveness to Wikipedia. The numbers in parentheses (X) indicate the number you will earn (or lose) if you answer a "Yes" to the question. 

"Please do not lie in this test"!

1. How often do you use Wikipedia?


2. How many edits have you made?


3. Do you vandalize?

"If Yes..."


4. Has Wikipedia brought down your grades? (-100, get back to work!!!)

5. Has Wikipedia brought UP your grades? (60, your research has paid off)

6. Has Wikipedia caused your boyfriend/girlfriend to dump you? (40, we feel sorry)

7. Do you neglect eating due to Wikipedia? (50)


8. When you cannot edit for...


... do you feel depressed, bored, or otherwise undesirable? (Symptoms albeit minor)

9. Does Wikipedia make you feel high? (20)

10. Do you other Wikipedians? (-5)


11. Do you use advanced, or policy/project page templates? (45)

12. Do you have an inappropriate username? (-56, you violator and liar. If you were blocked you couldn't take this test.)

13. Do you neglect the shower because of Wikipedia? (91, don't dodge the shower tomorrow either)

14. Has signing job resumes, emails, etc. with four tildes angered others? (5)


15. have you edited Wikipedia in school? (-100, GET BACK TO WORK!)


16. Anywhere else? (10, you think the above question is unfair because the rest of the class is outside during recess.)

17. Have your edits made real-life controversy? (-25)

18. Have you phoned/communicated with a Wikipedian? (10 for each)

19. Have you met in person? (50 for each)

20. Has Wikipedia editing made you famous? (1000, Wow)


</doc>
<doc id="269892" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269892" title="Hadrian">
Hadrian

Hadrian (Publius Aelius Hadrianus, 24 January 76 – 10 July 138) was Roman Emperor from 117 to 138. 

He is best-known for building Hadrian's Wall, which marked the northern limit of Roman territory in Britain. In Rome, he built the Pantheon and the Temple of Venus and Roma. 

In addition to being emperor, Hadrian was a humanist and a lover of Greek culture in all his tastes. Hadrian was the third of the so-called Five Good Emperors.

Hadrian was born to a Hispano-Roman family, probably in Italica (near Seville). His predecessor Trajan was a maternal cousin of Hadrian's father. Trajan never officially designated an heir, but according to his wife Pompeia Plotina, Trajan named Hadrian emperor immediately before his death. Trajan's wife and his friend Licinius Sura were well-disposed towards Hadrian, and he may well have owed his succession to them.

During his reign, Hadrian traveled to nearly every province of the empire. Hadrian sought to make Athens the cultural capital of the empire: he ordered the construction of many temples in the city. 

Hadrian spent much of his time with the military. He usually wore military attire, and dined and slept amongst the soldiers. He ordered military training and drilling to be more rigorous and even made use of false reports of attack to keep the army alert. Despite his fondness for the army, there was little military activity throughout the empire while Hadrian reigned. After he became emperor, Hadrian withdrew from Trajan's conquests in Mesopotamia and Armenia, and even considered abandoning Dacia. Late in his reign, he stopped the Bar Kokhba revolt in Judaea, renaming the province Syria Palaestina. 

In 136 an ailing Hadrian adopted Lucius Aelius as his heir, but he died suddenly two years later. In 138, Hadrian promised to adopt Antoninus Pius if he would in turn adopt Marcus Aurelius and Aelius' son Lucius Verus as his own eventual successors. Antoninus agreed, and soon afterward Hadrian died at his villa near Tibur.


</doc>
<doc id="269894" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269894" title="Civilization III">
Civilization III

Civilization III or Civ 3 is a turn based strategy computer game by Firaxis Games from 2001. It is the third part of the successful serial. The game become two expansion sets, "Play the World" and "Conquests". In the game you control a nation from the stone age too the modern age. Civ 3 have many new innovations in contrast with Civilization II. There are strategic resources, country borders and the military units will support by the nation, not by the cities.


official page


</doc>
<doc id="269899" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269899" title="Paul Revere">
Paul Revere

Paul Revere (December 1734 - May 10, 1818) was a silversmith (somebody who made things out of metal) and an early United States patriot. He was a messenger and soldier in the American Revolution.

Revere worked with metals in the city of Boston, where he was born. He married Sarah Orne in 1757, and they had six children who lived. After Orne died in 1773, he married Rachel Walker, and they had five children who lived. 

In the 1760s, Revere joined a group called Sons of Liberty. The group wanted the better treatment for the American colonies from the British government.

Many people in Boston were unhappy about British troops being in the city. On March 5, 1770, a fight started, and British troops shot and killed five people in Boston. This was called the Boston Massacre. Revere drew a picture of the shootings. He had a man named Christian Remick add color to it. Many people saw copies of the picture, which was called "The Bloody Massacre perpetrated in King Street". People were angry about what had happened. Revere would make more pictures for the Sons of Liberty over the next few years.

Revere is most famous for his "Midnight Ride" on the night of April 18-19, 1775. The British Army was marching to the city of Concord, Massachusetts. Dr. Joseph Warren sent Revere and a man named William Dawes to ride on horseback from Boston to Lexington, Massachusetts to warn John Hancock and Samuel Adams. Hancock and Adams were American patriots who were against the British army. Revere warned other patriots along the way. 

When Paul Revere arrived in Lexington he shouted loudly to wake up and warn the people. Revere was soon joined by Dawes who also told the people that the British regular soldiers were coming. Revere and Dawes were later stopped by the British in a field in the city of Lincoln, Massachusetts. But both men escaped. Revere ran away on foot, leaving his horse behind.

When he got back to Lexington the fighting had already started. 

In 1861, American poet Henry Wadsworth Longfellow published a poem called "Paul Revere's Ride". Although this poem made Revere more famous, not every part of the poem was exactly true. Also, the poem did not talk about Dawes. In response, in 1896, poet Helen Moore wrote a poem called "The Midnight Ride of William Dawes" about how Dawes had been forgotten.



</doc>
<doc id="269903" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269903" title="Sinterklaas">
Sinterklaas

Sinterklaas (also called Sint Nicolaas) is a traditional Winter holiday figure in Dutch-speaking Europe (Netherlands and Flanders), and is also well known in South Africa, Aruba, Suriname, Netherlands Antilles, and Indonesia. Every year he is celebrated in The Netherlands, one day before Saint Nicholas died (5 December) and on (6 December) in Belgium. His servant is Black Peter. Sinterklaas is the basis of the mythical holiday figure of Santa Claus in the United States. Sinterklaas has nothing to do with Christmas. Christmas will also be celebrated in the Netherlands. So Santa Claus is not the same as Sinterklaas (in the Netherlands).


</doc>
<doc id="269909" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269909" title="Antoninus Pius">
Antoninus Pius

Antoninus Pius (Titus Aurelius Fulvus Boionius Arrius Antoninus, 19 September 86 – 7 March 161), or simply Antoninus, was Roman Emperor from 138 to 161. 

As a private citizen between 110 and 115, he married Annia Galeria Faustina the Elder. They are believed to have enjoyed a happy marriage.Faustina was a beautiful woman, renowned for her wisdom. She spent her whole life caring for the poor and assisting the most disadvantaged Romans.

Faustina bore Antoninus four children, two sons and two daughters. They included Faustina the Younger, a future Roman Empress, who married her maternal cousin, future Roman Emperor Marcus Aurelius.

When Faustina died in 141, Antoninus was greatly bereaved and had a temple built in the Roman Forum in her name, had coins with her portrait struck in her honor, and created a charity called "Girls of Faustina", which assisted orphaned girls. 

Having filled with success the offices of quaestor and praetor, he was consul in 120. He was appointed by Hadrian as one of the four proconsuls to administer Italia, then Asia. The Emperor Hadrian adopted him as his son and successor on 25 February 138, after the death of his first adopted son Lucius Aelius. The condition was that Antoninus would in turn adopt Marcus Annius Verus, the son of his wife's brother, and Lucius, son of Aelius Verus, who afterwards became the emperors Marcus Aurelius and Lucius Verus

There are no records of any military related acts in his time. One modern scholar has written "It is almost certain not only that at no time in his life did he ever see, let alone command, a Roman army, but that, throughout the twenty-three years of his reign, he never went within five hundred miles of a legion". His reign was the most peaceful in the entire history of the Principate.

Unrest in Britannia is believed to have led to the construction of the Antonine Wall from the Firth of Forth to the Firth of Clyde, although it was soon abandoned. 

He was virtually unique among emperors in that he dealt with crises without leaving Italy once during his reign. He dealt with provincial matters through their governors or through imperial letters to the cities such as Ephesus (of which some were publicly displayed). This style of government was highly praised by his contemporaries and by later generations.

Those twenty-two years were not remarkably eventful in comparison to those before and after his reign. We might think that he wisely cut the activities of the Roman Empire to a careful minimum. Perhaps he was uninterested in events away from Rome, and his inaction contributed to the troubles which faced Marcus Aurelius and other emperors of the third century. 

German historian Ernst Kornemann, in his "Römische Geschichte" (roman history) [2 vols., ed. by H. Bengtson, Stuttgart 1954], said that the reign of Antoninus comprised "a succession of grossly wasted opportunities", given the upheavals that were to come. There is more to this argument, given that the Parthians in the East were themselves soon to make no small amount of mischief after Antoninus' passing. Kornemann's brief is that Antoninus might have waged preventive wars to head off these outsiders.

After the longest reign since Augustus (surpassing Tiberius by a couple of months), Antoninus died of fever about twelve miles (19 km) from Rome, on 7 March 161. The last word that he uttered when the tribune of the night-watch came to ask the password was "aequanimitas" (equanimity). 


</doc>
<doc id="269910" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269910" title="Black Peter">
Black Peter

Black Peter (Dutch: Zwarte Piet) is in the folklore and legends of the Netherlands and Flanders, a companion of Saint Nicholas (Dutch: "Sinterklaas", a traditional Winter holiday figure). This is celebrated every year on 5 December. The Black Peters distribute sweets and presents to all good children.


</doc>
<doc id="269923" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269923" title="Lucius Verus">
Lucius Verus

Lucius Verus (Lucius Ceionius Commodus, 15 December 130 – 169) was Roman co-emperor with Marcus Aurelius (121–180), from 161 until his death. In practice, he was the junior partner of the great Marcus Aurelius.

When his father died in early 138, Hadrian chose Antoninus Pius (86–161) as his successor. Antoninus was adopted by Hadrian on the condition that Verus and Hadrian’s great-nephew Marcus Aurelius was to be adopted by Antoninus as his sons and heirs.

Verus started his political career as a quaestor in 153, became consul in 154, and in 161 was consul again with Marcus Aurelius as his senior partner.

Antoninus died on 7 March 161, and was succeeded by Marcus Aurelius. Although the senate planned to confirm Marcus alone, he refused to take office unless Lucius received equal powers. The senate accepted, granting Lucius the "imperium", the tribunician power, and the name Augustus. It was the first time that Rome was ruled by two emperors.

In spite of their nominal equality, Marcus held more authority than Verus. He had been consul once more than Lucius, he had shared in Pius' administration, and he alone was "Pontifex Maximus". It would have been clear to the public which emperor was the more senior. As the biographer wrote, "Verus obeyed Marcus...as a lieutenant obeys a proconsul or a governor obeys the emperor".

Immediately after their senate confirmation, the emperors proceeded to the camp of the praetorian guard. Lucius addressed the assembled troops, which then acclaimed the pair as "imperatores". Then, like every new emperor since Claudius, Lucius promised the troops a special donative. The ceremony was perhaps not entirely necessary, given that Marcus' accession had been peaceful and unopposed, but it was good insurance against later military troubles.

War with Parthia had started as soon as Antoninus died.

Over the winter of 161–62, as more bad news arrived—a rebellion was brewing in Syria—it was decided that Lucius should direct the Parthian war in person. He was stronger and healthier than Marcus, the argument went, more suited to military activity. Whatever the case, the senate gave its assent, and Lucius left. Marcus would remain in Rome; the city "demanded the presence of an emperor".

Furius Victorinus, one of the two praetorian prefects, was sent with Lucius, as were a pair of senators, and part of the praetorian guard. Victorinus had previously served as procurator of Galatia, giving him some experience with eastern affairs. Since a prefect had to accompany the guard, Victorinus was the clear choice.

Laelianus, one of the Senators, was "a serious man and an old-fashioned disciplinarian". Bassus, the other Senator, had been governor of Lower Moesia, and was also made "comes". 

Lucius left in the summer of 162 to take a ship from Brundisium; Marcus followed him as far as Capua. Lucius feasted himself in the country houses along his route, and hunted at Apulia. He fell ill at Canosa, probably afflicted with a mild stroke, and took to bed. Marcus made prayers to the gods for his safety in front of the senate, and hurried south to see him.

Verus continued eastward via Corinth and Athens, accompanied by musicians and singers as if in a royal progress. It is not known how long Verus' journey east took; he might not have arrived in Antioch until after 162. Statius Priscus, meanwhile, must have already arrived in Cappadocia; he would earn fame in 163 for successful generalship.

Lucius spent most of the campaign in Antioch, though he wintered at Laodicea and summered at Daphne, a resort just outside Antioch. He took up a mistress named Panthea, from Smyrna. The biographer calls her a "low-born girl-friend", but she is probably closer to Lucian's "woman of perfect beauty", more beautiful than any of Phidias and Praxiteles' statues. Polite, caring, humble, she sang to the lyre perfectly and spoke clear Ionic Greek, spiced with Attic wit. Panthea read Lucian's first draft, and criticized him for flattery. He had compared her to a goddess, which frightened her—she did not want to become the next Cassiopeia. 

Lucius faced quite a task. The Syrian army had turned soft during the east's long peace. They spent more time at the city's open-air cafés than in their quarters. Under Lucius, training was stepped up. Pontius Laelianus ordered that their saddles be stripped of their padding. Gambling and drinking were sternly policed. Fronto wrote that Lucius was on foot at the head of his army as often as on horseback. He personally inspected soldiers in the field and at camp, including the sick bay.

In the middle of the war, perhaps in autumn 163 or early 164, Lucius made a trip to Ephesus to be married to Marcus' daughter Lucilla. Lucilla's thirteenth birthday was in March 163; whatever the date of her marriage, she was not yet fifteen. Marcus had moved up the date: perhaps stories of Panthea had disturbed him. Lucilla was accompanied by her mother Faustina and M. Vettulenus Civica Barbarus, the half-brother of Lucius' father. Marcus may have planned to accompany them all the way to Smyrna (the biographer says he told the senate he would); this did not happen. Marcus only accompanied the group as far as Brundisium, where they boarded a ship for the east. Marcus returned to Rome immediately thereafter, and sent out special instructions to his proconsuls not to give the group any official reception. Lucilla would bear three of Lucius' children in the coming years. Lucilla became Lucilla Augusta.

Legions I Minervia and V Macedonica, under the legates M. Claudius Fronto and P. Martius Verus, served under Statius Priscus in Armenia, earning success for Roman arms during the campaign season of 163, including the capture of the Armenian capital Artaxata. At the end of the year, Verus took the title "Armeniacus", despite having never seen combat; Marcus declined to accept the title until the following year. When Lucius was hailed as "imperator" again, however, Marcus did not hesitate to take the "Imperator II" with him. The army of Syria was reinforced by II Adiutrix and Danubian legions under X Gemina's legate Geminius Marcianus.
Occupied Armenia was reconstructed on Roman terms. In 164, a new capital, Kaine Polis ('New City'), replaced Artaxata. On Birley's reckoning, it was thirty miles closer to the Roman border. Detachments from Cappadocian legions are attested at Echmiadzin, beneath the southern face of Mount Ararat, 400 km east of Satala. It would have meant a march of twenty days or more, through mountainous terrain, from the Roman border; a "remarkable example of imperialism", in the words of Fergus Millar. A new king was installed: a Roman senator of consular rank and Arsacid descent, C. Iulius Sohaemus. He may not even have been crowned in Armenia; the ceremony may have taken place in Antioch, or even Ephesus. Sohaemus was hailed on the imperial coinage of 164 under the legend : Verus sat on a throne with his staff while Sohamenus stood before him, saluting the emperor.

In 163, while Statius Priscus was occupied in Armenia, the Parthians intervened in Osroene, a Roman client state in upper Mesopotamia, just east of Syria, with its capital at Edessa. They deposed the country's leader, Mannus, and replaced him with their own nominee, who would remain in office until 165. In response, Roman forces were moved downstream, to cross the Euphrates at a more southerly point. On the evidence of Lucian, the Parthians still held the southern, Roman bank of the Euphrates (in Syria) as late as 163. Before the end of the year, however, Roman forces had moved north to occupy Dausara and Nicephorium on the northern, Parthian bank. Soon after the conquest of the north bank of the Euphrates, other Roman forces moved on Osroene from Armenia, taking Anthemusia, a town south-west of Edessa. There was little movement in 164; most of the year was spent on preparations for a renewed assault on Parthian territory.

In 165, Roman forces, perhaps led by Martius Verus and the V Macedonica, moved on Mesopotamia. Edessa was re-occupied, Mannus re-installed. His coinage resumed, too: 'Ma'nu the king' (Syriac: M'NW MLK') or Antonine dynasts on the obverse, and 'King Mannos, friend of Romans' (Greek: "Basileus Mannos Philorōmaios") on the reverse. The Parthians retreated to Nisibis, but this too was besieged and captured. The Parthian army dispersed in the Tigris; their general Chosrhoes swam down the river and made his hideout in a cave. A second force, under Avidius Cassius and the III Gallica, moved down the Euphrates, and fought a major battle at Dura. 

By the end of the year, Cassius' army had reached the twin metropolises of Mesopotamia: Seleucia on the right bank of the Tigris and Ctesiphon on the left. Ctesiphon was taken and its royal palace set to flame. The citizens of Seleucia, still largely Greek (the city had been commissioned and settled as a capital of the Seleucid empire, one of Alexander the Great's successor kingdoms), opened its gates to the invaders. The city got sacked nonetheless, leaving a black mark on Lucius' reputation. Excuses were sought, or invented: the official version had it that the Seleucids broke faith first. Whatever the case, the sacking marks a particularly destructive chapter in Seleucia's long decline.

Cassius' army, although suffering from a shortage of supplies and the effects of a plague contracted in Seleucia, made it back to Roman territory safely. Iunius Maximus, a young "tribunus laticlavius" serving in III Gallica under Cassius, took the news of the victory to Rome. Maximus received a generous cash bounty for bringing the good news, and immediate promotion to the quaestorship. Lucius took the title Parthicus Maximus, and he and Marcus were hailed as "imperatores" again, earning the title 'imp. III'. 

Cassius' army returned to the field in 166, crossing over the Tigris into Media. Lucius took the title 'Medicus', and the emperors were again hailed as "imperatores", becoming 'imp. IV' in imperial titulature. Marcus took the Parthicus Maximus now, after another tactful delay. 

Most of the credit for the war's success must be ascribed to subordinate generals. The forces that advanced on Osroene were led by M. Claudius Fronto, an Asian provincial of Greek descent who had led I Minervia in Armenia under Priscus. He was probably the first senator in his family. Fronto was consul for 165, probably in honor of the capture of Edessa. P. Martius Verus had led V Macedonica to the front, and also served under Priscus. Martius Verus was a westerner, whose "patria" was perhaps Tolosa in Gallia Narbonensis. 

The most prominent general, however, was C. Avidius Cassius, commander of III Gallica, one of the Syrian legions. Cassius was young senator of low birth from the north Syrian town of Cyrrhus. His father, Heliodorus, had not been a senator, but was nonetheless a man of some standing: he had been Hadrian's "ab epistulis", followed the emperor on his travels, and was prefect of Egypt at the end of Hadrian's reign. Cassius also, with no small sense of self-worth, claimed descent from the Seleucid kings. Cassius and Martius Verus, still probably in their mid-thirties, took the consulships for 166.

Vologases IV of Parthia (147–191) made peace but was forced to cede western Mesopotamia to the Romans. Lucius is reported to have been an excellent commander, without fear of delegating military tasks to more competent generals.

On his return to Rome, Lucius was awarded with a triumph. The parade was unusual because it included Lucius, Marcus Aurelius, their sons and unmarried daughters as a big family celebration. Marcus Aurelius' two sons, Commodus five years old and Annius Verus of three, were elevated to the status of Caesar for the occasion.

In the spring of 168 war broke out in the Danubian border when the Marcomanni invaded the Roman territory. This war would last until 180, but Verus did not see the end of it. In 168, as Verus and Marcus Aurelius returned to Rome from the field, Verus fell ill with symptoms attributed to food poisoning, dying after a few days (169). However, scholars believe that Verus may have been a victim of smallpox, as he died during a widespread epidemic known as the Antonine Plague. Despite the minor differences between them, Marcus Aurelius grieved the loss of his adoptive brother. He accompanied the body to Rome, where he offered games to honour his memory.


</doc>
<doc id="269931" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269931" title="Auto mechanic">
Auto mechanic

An auto mechanic is a mechanic that works with cars, car parts, and special car changes that make the car work differently called modifications. Auto mechanics can either know all about all the different parts that let the car work, or they can specialize in one specific kind of part or car. People go to auto mechanics for many reasons: They might need to get a new car part, they might need to find out what is wrong with their car, or they might want to add something new to the car to make it better. Auto mechanics almost always work in places called garages, that are made for the work that auto mechanics do.


</doc>
<doc id="269942" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269942" title="2007 Scottish Parliament election">
2007 Scottish Parliament election

The 2007 Scottish Parliament election was an election held on May 3rd 2007 to elect members to the Scottish Parliament.

Going into the election, the Scottish Labour Party had the largest number of seats and had a coalition agreement with the Scottish Liberal Democrats with Jack McConnell as First Minister. The Scottish National Party won 47 seats in the election, which was the largest number of seats for any party in the election, but was not enough to form a majority government. The Scottish National Party then formed a minority government with Alex Salmond as First Minister.

This was the first time since the 1964 UK General Election in which the Labour Party did not get the highest number of votes in Scotland and it also gave the Scottish National Party it's largest ever number of votes. The final results were: Scottish National Party (47 Seats), Scottish Labour Party (46 Seats), Scottish Conservative Party (17 Seats), Scottish Liberal Democrats (16 Seats) and the Scottish Green Party (2 Seats). Parties which had won seats in the 2003 Scottish Parliament election including the Scottish Socialist Party and the Scottish Senior Citizens Party, lost all of their seats.

Scotland is divided into 73 constituencies with roughly the same number of people in each one. Each of these constituencies elects one Member of the Scottish Parliament (MSP) using the First Past the Post voting system. These 73 constituencies are grouped into eight regions. Each of these regions elects seven MSP's using proportional representation which means that the total number of MSP's is 129.

Scottish National Party - Alex Salmond

Scottish Labour Party - Jack McConnell

Scottish Conservative Party - Annabel Goldie

Scottish Liberal Democrats - Nicol Stephen

Scottish Green Party - Robin Harper / Shiona Baird

The next election to the Scottish parliament is set to be held on May 5th, 2011.


</doc>
<doc id="269947" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269947" title="Category:Bridges and tunnels in London">
Category:Bridges and tunnels in London


</doc>
<doc id="269951" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269951" title="Cash register">
Cash register

A cash register, or till, is a machine that holds money. Cash registers are usually found in stores and restaurants. Sometimes the cash register will only open if somebody is buying something. This is to try to stop the customer from stealing money from the employees. Most cash registers print a receipt for a proof of purchase.


</doc>
<doc id="269952" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269952" title="United Kingdom general election, 2010">
United Kingdom general election, 2010

The 2010 United Kingdom General Election was an election held on 6th May 2010 to elect 650 members to the House of Commons of the United Kingdom. The three party leaders are shown below.

The election resulted in a hung parliament, where no political party has an overall majority of seats. This is the first time this has happened since 1974. 

The Conservative Party won 307 out of the 650 seats available making them the largest party in the House of Commons. A coalition was then formed between the Conservative Party and the Liberal Democrats who together had enough seats for a majority. This is the first coalition government in the United Kingdom since World War II. 

The Leader of the Conservative Party David Cameron became Prime Minister of the United Kigdom on 11 May 2010 and the leader of the Liberal Democrats Nick Clegg became the Deputy Prime Minister. Before the election, the Leader of the Labour Party Gordon Brown was the Prime Minister.

This was the first British general election where the leaders of the three main parties took part together in a series of debates for television. The first debate was shown on ITV and was moderated by Alastair Stewart. It was on the subject of domestic affairs and polls taken after the debate showed that most people thought Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg had done the best and the Liberal Democrats then saw a large rise in support in opinion polls, even beating Labour for second place behind the Conservatives. 

The second debate, on the subject of Foreign Affairs was shown on Sky News and was moderated by Adam Boulton. Polls after this debate showed that Nick Clegg and David Cameron had done best with Gordon Brown slightly behind. The third and final debate was shown on BBC One and was moderated by David Dimbleby. It was on the subject of the economy and taxes and most opinion polls indicated that David Cameron had performed the best out of the three leaders.

The Conservative Party gained support from the following newspapers: the "Daily Express", the "Daily Mail", the "Sun", the "Daily Telegraph", the "Times", the "Daily Star", the "Evening Standard", the "Financial Times", "Sunday Express", the "Mail on Sunday", the "News of the World", the "Sunday Telegraph" and the "Sunday Times". The Liberal Democrats were supported by: the "Guardian", the "Observer" and the "Independent". Only the "Daily Mirror" and the "Sunday Mirror" supported the Labour Party and the "People" newspaper favoured a coalition.

This election saw the Conservative Party return to government for the first time since 1997 and also saw the Liberal Democrats get their first ever representation in government. Peter Robinson, the First Minister of Northern Ireland and leader of the Democratic Unionist Party unexpectedly lost his seat to the Alliance Party. The Green Party of England and Wales gained its first ever seat in the House of Commons and the Alliance Party of Northern Ireland gained its first seat in the House of Commons since 1974. Former Labour Party Home Secretaries Jacqui Smith and Charles Clarke both lost their seats. The Ulster Unionist Party and the Respect Party won seats in the 2005 General Election but lost their seats in the 2010 Election. 

The final results of the election were: 


The seat of North Down was won by an Independent candidate and the seat of Buckinghamshire was won by the Speaker of the House of Commons John Bercow, who is not considered to be of any political party.


</doc>
<doc id="269953" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269953" title="Wikipedia:Simple talk/Archive 89">
Wikipedia:Simple talk/Archive 89

Hey everyone!

I know I've talked to many of you about this before and a good amount of the regulars know that I'm working on fundraising (for those that don't know me I'm as well). This year we want to be as community and data driven as possible and are looking for input not only with localizing and translating but also with pointing out messages that don't won't work well in your regions and proposing messages that you think would work well! You can see some of the current suggestions (and propose your own) on the but I also want to encourage everyone to discuss and ask questions here (or on IRC, #wikimedia-fundraising, or email or wherever :) ). On the you will find links to all our stats and tests and more survey and other info then you could want :) I look forward to seeing more of you on Meta and please don't hesitate to contact me if you have any questions!. () 00:03, 22 October 2010 (UTC)

Why is it not possible to page move ? -- () 04:40, 23 October 2010 (UTC)

Still not possible. -- () 03:11, 28 October 2010 (UTC)

Hey, I was nomming a cat for deletion/discussion last night, and I discovered the following two things 


Can we get a CFD template that preloads? 17:26, 28 October 2010 (UTC)

Sorry if this is in the wrong place- I love Wikipedia, but really don't understand the 'tech side'. 
The need in question:

The present entry for Peter Anton is an artist from Connecticut.
There is *another* artist named Peter Anton who is from East Chicago, Indiana and would meet Wikipedias criteria for notability (he presently has a significant exhibit at the Intuit Center) . I would like to create a page for Peter Anton, East Chicago but don't know how to create a disambiguation page. Can anyone help me with this? Thanks mucho. () 08:36, 3 November 2010 (UTC)

How do I shote a website?

In the earlier discussion on the general quality of Simple articles, it was mentioned that we might want to focus on . With that in mind, I've created a talk page template - and an associated category for vital articles (I haven't placed it on all the vital articles yet in case it is deemed unnecessary later). I was also going to suggest we adopt some sort of assessment scheme for the vital articles below GA so we can more easily categorize them (using talk page templates) and track our progress. Plenty of the vital articles below GA are reasonably good - for example, Gustav Mahler, although most lack decent referencing. There are plenty which are very short, such as Katsushika Hokusai and Flamenco. I was thinking of introducing a system of assessment (which could later be expanded to non-vital articles).
This is a simplified version of the English Wikipedia's system, as you can see. () 12:07, 29 October 2010 (UTC)

Is anyone having problems with seeing pictures? I see some picture thumbnails, but can't view the picture when it is enlarged. Thanks, () 17:45, 4 November 2010 (UTC)

FYI at . () 03:45, 28 October 2010 (UTC)

Hello all, I would like to start a Wiki Project Articles for Creation to help anonymous users to create articles. It will be similar to [[:en:Wikipedia:WikiProject Articles for creation|the English Wikipedia process]. Would anyone be interested in joining? --[[User:Alpha Quadrant|Alpha Quadrant]] [[User talk:Alpha Quadrant|]] 02:11, 3 November 2010 (UTC)

As stated above, IPs can create articles here: at this community's activity level, it is easier to filter out bad articles than to throttle the ones coming in. I would also note that the existing WikiProjects are not very active- we do what we want to and there are generally too few contributors to make groups dedicated to particular subjects viable. To those of you who volunteered: thanks for your interest in helping this Wikipedia expand, it is much appreciated. You can also do so by finding articles in your subject of interest that do not exist, copying them from the English Wikipedia, and simplifying them (as I know Chemicalinterest has been doing at a rather impressive rate). More information [[WP:How to copy from another Wikipedia|here]]. Thank you. [[User:Sonia|sonia]][[User talk:Sonia|♫]] 18:27, 6 November 2010 (UTC)


Would it be good to replace the userpages of any editors who haven't edited in one year with ? --[[User:Chemicalinterest|Chem]][[User:Chemicalinterest/Articles I created|ical]][[User talk:Chemicalinterest/CRD|int]][[Special:EmailUser/Chemicalinterest|er]][[User:Chemicalinterest/Articles needed|est]] ([[User talk:Chemicalinterest|talk]]) 16:10, 10 November 2010 (UTC)

Why are there so many sleeping and sluggish WikiProjects? Some of them have so many members and haven't had any change in such a long time. --[[User:Chemicalinterest|Chem]][[User:Chemicalinterest/Articles I created|ical]][[User talk:Chemicalinterest/CRD|int]][[Special:EmailUser/Chemicalinterest|er]][[User:Chemicalinterest/Articles needed|est]] ([[User talk:Chemicalinterest|talk]]) 20:56, 12 November 2010 (UTC)

Would peer review be good to see whether this should be demoted from VGA? --[[User:Chemicalinterest|Chem]][[User:Chemicalinterest/Articles I created|ical]][[User talk:Chemicalinterest/CRD|int]][[Special:EmailUser/Chemicalinterest|er]][[User:Chemicalinterest/Articles needed|est]] ([[User talk:Chemicalinterest|talk]]) 17:44, 14 November 2010 (UTC)

Is there any way to avoid having to type in the word after every edit? It's making my life miserable. [[User:Christopher Connor|Christopher Connor]] ([[User talk:Christopher Connor|talk]]) 22:34, 16 November 2010 (UTC)

Hello all,

We do have an article called [[Illegal drugs]] that needs to be moved to a new name. The article talks about drugs that are taken for recreational purposes, and that are illegal to make possess and take in many countries. I add this comment here because I see no action being taken. IMO, there are a few problems:
In short, we need to move the article to a different name, [[narcotic]] and [[illegal drug trade]] have been proposed so far.The problem with narcotic is that some of the drugs are not narcotics, but stimulants. Illegal drug trade may have the same problem I am currently pointing out with "illegal drugs". Depending on where the article is moved/merged, we may need to update certain sections. --[[User:Eptalon|Eptalon]] ([[User talk:Eptalon|talk]]) 10:41, 17 November 2010 (UTC)

Just to let you know, I have started a discussion on the [[Wikipedia_talk:Proposed_good_articles#General_discussion_on_GA.2FVGA_process|GA/VGA process]]. Comments welcome, esp. the comments of the more regular users here. --[[User:Eptalon|Eptalon]] ([[User talk:Eptalon|talk]]) 10:20, 19 November 2010 (UTC)

Why is it that I have a lot of problems getting rid of the site notice most times? Am I the only one? [[User:Hazard-SJ| Hazard-SJ ]][[User talk:Hazard-SJ| ± ]] 20:49, 20 November 2010 (UTC)

The regular English Wikipedia does not allow IPs to create pages. I personally think the same, because then the articles (might) fill with tests or vandalism. Yes, accounts can vandalize too, but a study from ENWP shows that 95% of vandalism comes from [[IP addresses]].

Also, article creation is a right.

Here are my sources.

I created an article on [[tin(IV) bromide]] using the same keyboard-hammering method I use on almost all of my articles. I got this message:

Note: It looks like you have copied the text of this article from another wikipedia. This should usually be done differently: 
Ask someone to import the article 
Write a similar article, and link to the original, using interwiki links 
In general, articles from other Wikipedias are difficult to understand, and should not be copied to this Wikipedia without change 

If this edit is constructive, please click 'Save page' again, and report this error. --[[User:Chemicalinterest|Chem]][[User:Chemicalinterest/AIC|ic]][[User:Chemicalinterest/WP:CHEM|al]][[User talk:Chemicalinterest/CRD|int]][[Special:EmailUser/Chemicalinterest|er]][[User:Chemicalinterest/AN|est]] ([[User talk:Chemicalinterest|talk]]) 14:27, 22 November 2010 (UTC)

How do you build a Simple WikiProject? I want to build one. [[User:IanP|Loudclaw]] ([[User talk:IanP|talk]]) 07:14, 25 November 2010 (UTC)

Hi guys, it is your regular editor here, [[User:Hydriz|Hydriz]].

The [[wikt:Main Page|Simple English Wiktionary]] is currently conducting a vote for the change of its logo found on the top left corner of the website. Click [[wikt:Wiktionary:Simple talk#New Wiktionary logo|here]] to vote! Your comments are greatly needed as it is a very small community here. Thanks! [[User:Hydriz|Hydriz]] ([[User talk:Hydriz|talk]]) 06:58, 30 November 2010 (UTC)

Do we have the ability to add page edit notices, such as [[:en:Template:Editnotices/Page/Deaths in 2010]]? If so, could an admin add one to [[Deaths in 2010]] and [[2010]] to encourage citations? Many thanks--[[User:The Three Headed Knight|The Three Headed Knight]] ([[User talk:The Three Headed Knight|talk]]) 00:36, 1 December 2010 (UTC).

I know the project has been at a standstill for a long time, but I bought a headset, and I want to start recording some of our GAs and VGAs as spoken word articles. I think this would be especially useful for English language learners. Having said that, in articles with existing spoken word recordings, you see a small logo at the top right that links to the spoken word article. Many of the people who might not read English as well might ignore that logo or not know what it means. For our purposes, might a small template in italics at the top of these articles that says "A spoken version of this article is here" or something be better? [[User:Kansan|Kansan]] ([[User talk:Kansan|talk]]) 05:28, 1 December 2010 (UTC)

(<-) I think we should change the template to link to the exact revision of the article recorded. This would make it possible to get that exact revision, and to also show the changes that happened since then. As a matter of housekeeping, "old readings" shoulds be removed/redone, once there have been important changes. --[[User:Eptalon|Eptalon]] ([[User talk:Eptalon|talk]]) 12:15, 4 December 2010 (UTC)

[[Wikipedia:RecentChanges/Article Improvement|This]] needs to be updated. --[[User:Chemicalinterest|Chem]][[User:Chemicalinterest/AIC|ic]][[User:Chemicalinterest/WP:CHEM|al]][[User talk:Chemicalinterest/CRD|int]][[Special:EmailUser/Chemicalinterest|er]][[User:Chemicalinterest/AN|est]] ([[User talk:Chemicalinterest|talk]]) 15:04, 6 December 2010 (UTC)

Hi everyone. My name is toboar and I have recently made several edits and new articles. I aspire (want to be) an admin in the near furture and was wondering if I could have a mentor or someone to help me when I need it and take me under their wing. Thanks [[User:Toboar|Toboar]] ([[User talk:Toboar|talk]]) 22:22, 6 December 2010 (UTC)

Back in April, I made a proposed addition of a paragraph to [[Wikipedia talk:Reliable sources]]. This paragraph was basically a summarization of the English Wikipedia's policy on not giving undue weight to fringe theories ("WP:FRINGE" there). However, only one editor said anything about my proposal at the time (and it was a favorable opinion). I really do think it's time to make a community decision on it in light of the discussion on DYK about considering young earth creationism (which falls under the WP:FRINGE umbrella on English). [[User:Kansan|Kansan]] ([[User talk:Kansan|talk]]) 22:52, 6 December 2010 (UTC)

Why do some admins remove the user name from some of their comments? Is it to hide their IP address when they forget to log in? --[[User:Chemicalinterest|Chem]][[User:Chemicalinterest/AIC|ic]][[User:Chemicalinterest/WP:CHEM|al]][[User talk:Chemicalinterest/CRD|int]][[Special:EmailUser/Chemicalinterest|er]][[User:Chemicalinterest/AN|est]] ([[User talk:Chemicalinterest|talk]]) 19:30, 7 December 2010 (UTC)

A vandal vandalised the [[List of Greek gods and goddesses]], and when it was reverted by someone else, the edit summary did not show the same vandal . This discussion here is similar to what happened. [[User:Mr. Berty|Mr. Berty (seasons greetings!)]] / 17:33, 8 December 2010 (UTC)

Twinkle is not working while HotCat is On, is this known issue? or m i the only one with this problem. --[[User:Dalibor Bosits|Dalibor Bosits]] [[User_talk:Dalibor Bosits|]] 21:22, 7 December 2010 (UTC)

Why is checkuser considered such a sensitive right? When anon editors edit, anyone can see their IP address. Why would finding the IP of a logged-in user be so much different? --[[User:Chemicalinterest|Chem]][[User:Chemicalinterest/AIC|ic]][[User:Chemicalinterest/WP:CHEM|al]][[User talk:Chemicalinterest/CRD|int]][[Special:EmailUser/Chemicalinterest|er]][[User:Chemicalinterest/AN|est]] ([[User talk:Chemicalinterest|talk]]) 14:48, 10 December 2010 (UTC)

Wondering peoples opinions on disambiguation pages, particularly like this one: [[Ray Crawford]] where there is only one actual article, the other a red link. Should we have a disambig page for this or just link straight to the available article and perhaps a 'see also' link? --[[User:Normandy|Normandie]] 12:25, 8 December 2010 (UTC)
If people don't understand what disambiguation is, we should just create an article explaining the concept. That seems like a relatively easy fix [[User:Purplebackpack89#top|Purple]][[User talk:Purplebackpack89|backpack89]] 21:34, 15 December 2010 (UTC)

How about calling it something like a "Signpost" to the correct article? Keeping it simple... [[User:Normandy|Normandie]] 13:23, 16 December 2010 (UTC)

Somebody need to check out [[WP:VIP]]. One report has been on there since 10 am. [[User:Mr. Berty|Mr. Berty (seasons greetings!)]] / 17:15, 13 December 2010 (UTC)

[[en:Wikipedia:Editor assistance]]
[[zh:Wikipedia:互助客栈/條目探討]]

What should I do about unified login? I have made an account on the EN wiki but it really bugs me how when I visit the simple wiki the account transfers. I am worried I might be called a [[WP:Sockpuppetry|sockpuppet]] and be blocked. [[Special:Contributions/66.189.166.13|66.189.166.13]] ([[User talk:66.189.166.13|talk]]) 19:52, 15 December 2010 (UTC)

Somebody review s unblock request pleeeaaasee. Nobody out there. [[User:Mr. Berty|Mr. Berty (seasons greetings!)]] / 22:02, 16 December 2010 (UTC)

Is it okay to copy articles from the regular wikipedia so long as one simplifies the article, and explains where it comes from in the edit summary? Thanks!--[[User:Piast93|Piast]][[User talk:Piast93|93]] 00:07, 19 December 2010 (UTC)

Hi. I would like to propose that fair use images can be uploaded here, because there are loads of albums and company articles without any pictures, plus we all know fair use on commons is not allowed. I would love to hear your opinions. Thanks! [[User:Mr. Berty|Mr. Berty (seasons greetings!)]] / 08:42, 19 December 2010 (UTC)

Whenever I click new changes, I see the number 7 inside the ( ) next to the word DYK. I click the number excitedly, wondering how so much hooks got up on that page so fast—and find that there are less, as usual. However much I try to tell myself to remember, I always forget. But as nobody can fix my bad memory skills, we'd just as well fix the number next to the word DYK. I thought this problem had been brought up and solved last time. Can anyone fix it again? :) ♥ingly, [[User:Belinda|Bella]] 05:10, 20 December 2010 (UTC)

There have been a number of new pages which look like they have been created by an English class at a Japanese university, probably [[Kanda University of International Studies]]. They are on a number of Japanese businesses, products and customs. Several editors have offered assistance, [[User:Gotanda|Gotanda]] and [[User:Sonia|Sonia]]. As soon as we can confirm the class project we can put the class project template on the pages. In the meantime, please be kind and do not delete the pages yet. Last year we got some good articles from Nagoya so it is worth being patient.
Articles that might be part of this project include:

Thanks, [[User:Peterdownunder|Peterdownunder]] ([[User talk:Peterdownunder|talk]]) 05:16, 20 December 2010 (UTC)

 is not working. I've tried to copy it over from the enwp to try and fix it, but it still isn't working. What's wrong with it? [[User:Albacore|Albacore]] ([[User talk:Albacore|talk]] · [[Special:Contributions/Albacore|changes]]) 00:23, 21 December 2010 (UTC)

I have popped into [[mediazilla:|Bugzilla]] and found an interesting bug: [[bugzilla:26372|Bug 26372]]. It says that on all WMF wikis, whenever you type "Wikipedia:"(if on a Wikipedia), or "Project:" on the search bar at the top, you only get one search result.

I was wondering if it really is a bug. Do you have this issue? I have this bug. [[User:Hydriz|Hydriz]] ([[User talk:Hydriz|talk]]) 03:11, 21 December 2010 (UTC)
It is a bug which they claim from the Lucrene search. [[User:Hydriz|Hydriz]] ([[User talk:Hydriz|talk]]) 14:18, 21 December 2010 (UTC)

</doc>
<doc id="269954" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269954" title="Gabe Tuft">
Gabe Tuft

Gabriel Allan Tuft (born November 1, 1978 in San Francisco, Califonia) is a American professional wrestler who is currently working for WWE on its Raw brand under the ring name Tyler Reks. During his time in FCW, Tuft won both the FCW Florida Heavyweight Championship one time and the FCW Florida Tag Team Championship one time with Johnny Curtis.

Tuft debuted on ECW and was also in a pre-show battle royal at WrestleMania XXVI which was won by Yoshi Tatsu. Recently Tuft was on Team SmackDown at the 2010 version of Bragging Rights when they won the trophy for the second time in a row.


</doc>
<doc id="269958" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269958" title="Blake Griffin">
Blake Griffin

Blake Austin Griffin (born March 16, 1989) is an American basketball player. He is a power forward for the Los Angeles Clippers of the National Basketball Association (NBA). 

Griffin played college basketball for two years at the University of Oklahoma, then decided to enter the NBA Draft.

In the 2009 NBA Draft, the Clippers chose him with the first pick. However, Griffin broke a kneecap during the preseason and missed the entire 2009-2010 season. He finally played his first regular season NBA game on October 27, 2010. Griffin scored 20 points and had 14 rebounds, although the Clippers lost to the Portland Trail Blazers, 98-88.

Griffin quickly became known as a hard working player and a good dunker. He was chosen to be in the slam dunk contest during the 2011 NBA All-Star Weekend, and was also chosen to play in the 2011 NBA All-Star Game.



</doc>
<doc id="269965" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269965" title="Hedge">
Hedge

A hedge or hedgerow is a row of shrubs or trees. They are very close together. Some hedges are very old. Hedges can be used to separate fields. There are several plants that are used commonly in hedges. In many places a hedge cannot be taller than a certain number of feet.

Sometimes, hedges are made into mazes.


</doc>
<doc id="269969" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269969" title="Category:Sodium compounds">
Category:Sodium compounds

Sodium compounds are chemical compounds containing sodium ions.


</doc>
<doc id="269975" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269975" title="Karen Gillan">
Karen Gillan

Karen Sheila Gillan (born 28 November 1987) is a Scottish actress and former model. She is best known for playing the part of Amy Pond in the British science fiction series "Doctor Who".

Gillan was born and grew up in Inverness, Scotland. She learned to play the piano when she was seven. She started acting very young. She joined several local youth theatre groups. She also acted at her school, Charleston Academy. When she was sixteen, Gillan went to Edinburgh's Telford College to study acting. Later, she studied at the Italia Conti Academy of Theatre Arts drama school in London. Gillan moved to London when she was 18 to study at drama school.

Her cousin, Caitlin Blackwood, played the part of the young Amy Pond in at least three episodes of "Doctor Who". 

Before Gillan started acting on television, she worked in a London pub. She had had left Italia Conti for a television programme but was hired by a modelling agency.
Gillan worked as a model in 2007's London Fashion Week. She worked for designer Allegra Hicks' show.

Gillan's began acting on television doing small parts on several drama series. Her first larger role was as a part of the ensemble cast of the sketch comedy series "The Kevin Bishop Show". She worked for the series for two years. On the programme, she played many different characters. She also played celebrities such as Katy Perry and Angelina Jolie. She was on Channel 4's 'Stacked'. She played the part of Ginny. Gillan also was on TV in a main part in a horror programme "The Well". It was broadcast as a series of short movies on BBC Two. It was later a shown the internet on BBC.co.uk.

Gillian was cast as Amy Pond on the British sci-fi series "Doctor Who" in May 2009. Her first episode as Amy Pond was shown on 3 April 2010. Gillan had been in "Doctor Who" once before in the 2008 episode "The Fires of Pompeii" as a different character.

Gillian also acts in theatre. She first role was as Shirley in John Osborne's play "Inadmissible Evidence" at the Donmar Warehouse on October 16th 2011.

At the 2011 San Diego Comic-Con, Gillan said she will be on "Doctor Who" for its seventh series. On 15 December 2011, it was said that Gillan and Arthur Darvill (Rory Williams) would only be on the early part of seventh series in 2012.


</doc>
<doc id="269983" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269983" title="Cauchy distribution">
Cauchy distribution

The Cauchy-Lorentz distribution (after Augustin-Louis Cauchy and Hendrik Lorentz) is a continuous probability distribution. As a probability distribution it is usually called a "Cauchy distribution". Physicists know it as a "Lorentz distribution". It is used in spectroscopy to describe the spectral lines found there, and to describe resonance.


</doc>
<doc id="269987" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269987" title="Maze">
Maze

A maze is a puzzle. It is made of a complex system of paths. Mazes can be on paper. They can also be big enough to walk through. Labyrinths, which are similar, have one winding path instead of many paths like a maze. Sometimes balls are placed in small mazes which have to be moved to the end through the maze. 


</doc>
<doc id="269991" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269991" title="Emperor Norton">
Emperor Norton

Joshua Abraham Norton, or Emperor Norton (1819? - 1880) was a man who declared himself Emperor of the United States and Protector of Mexico. He was born in London to John and Sarah Norton. but no one knows his actual birthday or what year he was born in. 
Before he became emperor he was a citizen of San Francisco. Norton spent a lot of his early life in South Africa. Before he was emperor he made a living by being a businessman. He lost a lot of money by trying to control the rice market in San Francisco by buying all the rice he could find. This did not work because ships came with more rice. 

Emperor Norton I died on January 8, 1880. The reason of his death is unknown. He collapsed on the corner of California and Grant on his way to a lecture. The next day, he had his funeral. During Emperor Norton’s funeral, a solar eclipse took place. The whole city came to his funeral, and all of them mourned. Emperor Norton is now buried at Woodlawn Cemetery. This is what his gravestone says:

Writer Mark Twain based the character of The King in The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn on Norton.


</doc>
<doc id="270004" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270004" title="Gibbons v. Ogden">
Gibbons v. Ogden

Gibbons v. Ogden was a United States Supreme Court case from 1824. It gave Congress the power to control commerce.


</doc>
<doc id="270009" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270009" title="Template:Nutsection">
Template:Nutsection


</doc>
<doc id="270012" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270012" title="Wikipedia:Edits Per Day">
Wikipedia:Edits Per Day

A Wikipedian's value is measured by their EPD, or Edits Per Day. So raise your edit count! Worship the "Edit God"!

"Anti-vandalism" tools are NOT anti-vandalism tools at all. They are just tools used to relentlessly increase your edit count. So start Rollbacking, Twinkling, and Huggling!


</doc>
<doc id="270016" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270016" title="Quaesitosaurus">
Quaesitosaurus

Quaesitosaurus (meaning "abnormal or extraordinary lizard") was a huge, long-necked, whip-tailed, plant-eating dinosaur that was found in the Gobi Desert in Mongolia. Quaesitosaurus may have been about 75 feet (23 m) long. This sauropod dinosaur lived during the late Cretaceous Period, roughly 85-80 million years ago. "Quaesitosaurus" may be the same as "Nemegtosaurus". This environment was semi-arid during the Mesozoic Era.


</doc>
<doc id="270017" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270017" title="Torvosaurus">
Torvosaurus

Torvosaurus was a huge carnivore dinosaur, a meat eater equipped with sharp, pointed teeth in large are powerful jaws it was the biggest meat-eater in its habitat. This theropod also had long, sharp clawed hands, but its arms were a bit larger than those of T. rex. "Torvosaurus" probably ate large, such as Stegosaurus and sauropods. "Torvosaurus" lived during the late Jurassic period, about 144 million years ago. Allosaurus also lived during this time Fossils have been found in Colorado, Utah, and Wyoming.


</doc>
<doc id="270018" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270018" title="Life (BBC TV series)">
Life (BBC TV series)

Life is a biology show made by the BBC with many parts. The shows include the animals' aspect of the environment, as well as some examples of how the environment needs what it does.

An episode is divided into "parts", examples of how different animal species must adhere to the environment.



</doc>
<doc id="270021" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270021" title="Brassica oleracea">
Brassica oleracea

Brassica oleracea, or wild cabbage, is a species of "Brassica" native to coastal southern and western Europe.

Its tolerance of salt and lime, and its dislike of competition from other plants, restrict it to limestone sea cliffs, like the chalk cliffs on both sides of the English Channel. 

"B. oleracea" is believed to have been cultivated for several thousand years. It has been bred into a wide range of cultivars, including cabbage, broccoli, cauliflower, and more. Some of which are hardly recognisable as being members of the same genus, let alone species.
The plant is used because of its large food reserves, which are stored over the winter in its leaves. It is rich in essential nutrients including vitamin C.

The cultivars of "B. oleracea" are grouped into seven major cultivar groups, of which the Acephala Group remains most like the natural wild cabbage in appearance: 

All are in the same species. However, artificial selection has brought about genetic differences between the groups.

In places such as the Channel Islands and Canary Islands where the frost is minimal, and plants can grow all year round, some cultivars can grow up to 3 meters tall. These "tree cabbages" yield fresh leaves throughout the year, and the plant is not destroyed as with a normal cabbage. Their woody stalks are sometimes dried and made into walking sticks.

Some (notably brussels sprouts and broccoli) contain high levels of sinigrin which may help prevent bowel cancer. 


</doc>
<doc id="270024" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270024" title="PSP firmware">
PSP firmware

The PSP has firmware that can get an update. When one updates the firmware, the battery must be charged (to 3 bars, i.e. 60%), and the PSP should not be switched off.This may result in a brick and/or a constant startup BSOD or another screen "of death". As of August 10, 2011, the latest firmware is 6.60.


</doc>
<doc id="270027" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270027" title="Sintering">
Sintering

Sintering is a way of making things from powder. Powder is heated just before it would melt. That way, powder particles bind to each other and form a solid object.


</doc>
<doc id="270028" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270028" title="Template:Template sandbox/doc">
Template:Template sandbox/doc

<includeonly>
</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="270031" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270031" title="Category:Russian political parties">
Category:Russian political parties


</doc>
<doc id="270042" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270042" title="Covenant">
Covenant

A covenant is a formal agreement, a promise made made between two people. It is often used as a religious promise. It can also be an item which is a symbol of keeping the promise. Some covenants include stone tablets, written documents, and other sacred items. In Judaism, the Ark of the Covenant was a wooden box which held the stone tablets with the Ten Commandments written on them. The Jewish people saw the box as a symbol of God being with them and leading them.


</doc>
<doc id="270045" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270045" title="Least Concern">
Least Concern

Least Concern is a term used by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) to talk about animals that are not endangered. They do not need to be worried about as there are a lot of them.


</doc>
<doc id="270051" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270051" title="Cold turkey">
Cold turkey

Cold turkey is the act of completely giving up on a drug or substance all at one time. For example, people who quit smoking by stopping all at once instead of smoking less and less over time are quitting cold turkey.


</doc>
<doc id="270052" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270052" title="French Communist Party">
French Communist Party

The French Communist Party (, PCF) is a French left-wing political party. Founded in 1920, it had a large influence in the XXth century, especially after the Second World War, and is still important in the French political life, though it declined over years.

Its National Secretary is Pierre Laurent, since June 2010.

The French Communist Party was founded in 1920 after the Tours Congress of the French Section of the Worker's International (SFIO, today the Socialist Party), as the French Section of the Communist international (SFIC), by members who wanted to join the Third International. It took in 1921 the name of "Communist Party".

In 1936, it was a part of the Popular Front and supported its social reforms, but refused to participate in the governement.

During the Second World War, the PCF became a clandestine organisation and organised a massive armed resistance against the Nazi occupation. At the Liberation, the party was the most important in France and had several ministers in the Provisional Government. However, its support to independentist movement in French Indochina and to strikes isolated it from other parties.

From the 1930s to the 1980s, the French Communist Party's line is close to the Soviet Union's. The collapse of the USSR in 1991 also affects the PCF, whose electoral support decreases rapidly.

At the French 2007 legislative election, the PCF gained 4,29% of the votes, one of its worst results. However, the Communist party is still one of the most important party in some regions of France (Seine-Saint-Denis, Nord...), where it has been historically strong.

In 2009, the PCF created the "Left Front" () with the Left Party, and ran as a part of this alliance in the 2009 European Parliament election and the 2009 Regional election, with some success.




</doc>
<doc id="270055" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270055" title="Wikipedia:Requests for adminship/Hydriz">
Wikipedia:Requests for adminship/Hydriz


</doc>
<doc id="270063" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270063" title="Marcus Aurelius">
Marcus Aurelius

Marcus Aurelius Antoninus (26 April 121 – 17 March 180) was Roman Emperor from 161 to 180. He ruled with Lucius Verus as co-emperor from 161 until Verus' death in 169. 

He was the last of the Five Good Emperors, and is considered one of the most important Stoic philosophers. 

Marcus Aurelius' work "Meditations", written in Greek while on campaign between 170 and 180, is still revered. It serves as an example of how Aurelius approached the Platonic ideal of a philosopher–king, and how he symbolized much of what was best about Roman civilization.

At the start of his reign, the Empire, under the joint rule of Marcus and Lucius Verus, defeated a revitalized Parthian Empire in a war from 161 to 166. 

The unforeseen consequences for the Empire were great. The returning troops brought with them a plague (the so-called Antonine Plague), which may have been smallpox. It would eventually kill about 5 million people, and severely weaken the Empire. 

Aurelius fought the German tribes during a long war from 166 to 180. The pressure from the Goths moving west pushed settled Germanic tribes into invading Roman client states in Gaul, and across the Danube. 

The plague raging in the Empire limited Rome's ability to respond. The "Marcomanni" tribe entered Italy, which had not been invaded for nearly 200 years, and defeated the army of the Praetorian Prefect.

This disaster forced Marcus to collect forces from other frontiers, and move them against the "Marcomanni". The Roman army was commanded by Claudius Pompeianus, Marcus' son-in-law, with the future emperor Pertinax as one of his lieutenants. The invaders were thrown out of Italy, and Marcus began planning to cross the Danube into their territory.

Intense diplomatic activity followed, as the Romans tried to win over various barbarian tribes in preparation for a crossing of the Danube. A peace treaty was signed with some tribes, while others became Roman allies. In 172, Marcus defeated the "Marcommani", and in 173 their allies, the "Quadi", were defeated. It took until 174 for the "Quadi" to be subdued.

Marcus was now interrupted by a revolt in the east, led by the Roman general Avidius Cassius. He was suppressed by Marcus' army. Marcus then returned to Rome. A triumph was celebrated with his son Commodus. 

In 177 the "Quadi" rebelled again, and the "Marcommani" joined them. Marcus arrived on the scene in August 178, and in due course the Romans won a decisive battle in what is now Slovakia. The emperor Marcus died in 180, still fighting the German tribes.

Victories were achieved in the next couple of years, sufficient for Commodus to claim credit with a triumph. The battles had been fought by his generals.

The war had exposed the weakness of Rome's northern frontier. From then on, half the Roman legions (16 out of 33) would be stationed along the Danube and the Rhine. For the Germanic tribes, although for the moment checked, the Marcomannic wars were only the prelude. Later invasions in the 4th and 5th centuries would eventually end the Western Roman Empire.

Aurelius married his first cousin Faustina the Younger in 145. During their 30-year marriage Faustina bore 13 children. Only one son and four daughters outlived their father:


</doc>
<doc id="270068" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270068" title="Michael Howard">
Michael Howard

Michael Howard (born July 7, 1941) is a British politician who was the Leader of the Conservative Party from November 2003 to December 2005. He was also a cabinet minister in both Margaret Thatcher's and John Major's governments. He was a Member of Parliament for the constituency of Folkestone and Hythe from 1983 to 2010. In 2010, he entered the House of Lords as Baron Howard of Lympne.

Michael Howard was born in Gorseinon, which is a town in Wales. He studied Law at the University of Cambridge and became a Queen's Counsel in 1982. He then became a Member of Parliament at the 1983 General Election. His cabinet jobs included Secretary of State for Employment (1990-1992), Secretary of State for the Environment (1992-1993) and Home Secretary (1993-1997). When the Conservative Party lost the 1997 General Election, Michael Howard became a member of the shadow cabinets of William Hague and Iain Duncan Smith.

In 2003, the Leader of the Conservative Party Iain Duncan Smith was made to resign and Michael Howard was elected unopposed to become the Conservative Party leader. 'Unopposed' means that no-one other than Michael Howard was a candidate. Michael Howard was the Conservative candidate to become Prime Minister at the 2005 General Election. The Conservatives did not win the election, however they had 33 more seats in Parliament than they did before. Michael Howard resigned shortly after this and David Cameron replaced him as Conservative Party leader.


</doc>
<doc id="270072" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270072" title="Skagit Valley">
Skagit Valley

Skagit Valley is a valley in Washington in the United States. It contains the Skagit River. There was a plan to build nuclear power plants in Skagit Valley but the people didn't want them. 


</doc>
<doc id="270073" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270073" title="Tim Duncan">
Tim Duncan

Timothy "Tim" Theodore Duncan (born April 25, 1976) is a professional basketball player from the US Virgin Islands. He plays power forward and center for the San Antonio Spurs of the National Basketball Association (NBA). 

Duncan was a swimmer when he was young. In 1989, Hurricane Hugo destroyed the pool he used to practice swimming, and his mother died a year later. Duncan gave up on swimming after this and began playing basketball.

Duncan played college basketball for four years at Wake Forest University. After college, the San Antonio Spurs chose him with the first pick in the 1997 NBA Draft. Duncan helped the Spurs win NBA championships in 1999, 2003, 2005, and 2007. He was named the Most Valuable Player (MVP) in the NBA in 2002 and 2003.


</doc>
<doc id="270078" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270078" title="Spawn (biology)">
Spawn (biology)

Spawn is the eggs of some animals. Laying those eggs is called spawning. Animals that live in water, such as fish and amphibians, reproduce by spawning. When the spawn hatches, the young fish are called fry and the young amphibians are called tadpoles.


</doc>
<doc id="270084" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270084" title="Sawbridgeworth">
Sawbridgeworth

Sawbridgeworth is a small town in England. It is located in Hertfordshire. This is between Harlow and Bishop's Stortford. 


</doc>
<doc id="270110" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270110" title="List of North American dinosaurs">
List of North American dinosaurs

This is a list of dinosaurs whose remains have been recovered from North America. 

North America has a rich dinosaur fossil record with great diversity of dinosaurs. This may not mean the dinosaurs were more diverse or abundant; it may be simply because substantial resources have been devoted to the North American fossil record.

During the Triassic period, dinosaurs such as "Coelophysis", "Chindesaurus", "Gojirasaurus", and "Tawa" lived in North America. Fossils of "Tawa" have also been found in South America, which has important indications about paleogeography. During the Lower Jurassic, dinosaurs such as "Dilophosaurus", "Anchisaurus", "Ammosaurus", "Syntarsus", and the early thyreophoran "Scutellosaurus" lived in North America. The latter is believed to have been the ancestor of all stegosaurs and ankylosaurs. The Middle Jurassic is the only poorly represented time period in North America, although several Middle Jurassic localities are known from Mexico. Footprints, eggshells, teeth, and fragments of bone representing theropods, sauropods, and ornithopods have been found, but none of them are diagnostic to the genus level. 

The Upper Jurassic of North America, however, is the exact opposite of the Middle Jurassic. The Upper Jurassic Morrison Formation is found in several U.S. states, including Colorado, Utah, Wyoming, Montana, New Mexico, Oklahoma, South Dakota, and Texas. It is notable as being the most fertile single source of dinosaur fossils in the world. The roster of dinosaurs from the Morrison is impressive. Among the theropods, "Allosaurus", "Saurophaganax", "Torvosaurus", "Ceratosaurus", "Coelurus", "Ornitholestes", "Tanycolagreus", "Stokesosaurus", and "Marshosaurus" are found in the Morrison. An abundance of sauropods has been found there, including "Apatosaurus", "Diplodocus", "Barosaurus", "Brachiosaurus", "Camarasaurus", and "Amphicoelias", which is possibly the largest known dinosaur ever to exist. Two genera of stegosaurs, "Stegosaurus" and "Hesperosaurus", have been found there. Finally, ornithopods found in the Morrison include "Dryosaurus", "Camptosaurus", "Drinker", "Othnielia", and "Othnielosaurus". 

During the Lower Cretaceous, new dinosaurs evolved to replace the old ones. Sauropods were still present, but they were not as diverse as they were in the Jurassic Period. Theropods from the early Cretaceous of North America include dromaeosaurs such as "Deinonychus" and "Utahraptor", "Acrocanthosaurus", and "Microvenator". Sauropods included "Astrodon", "Pleurocoelus", and "Sauroposeidon". Ornithischians were more diverse than they were in the Jurassic Period. "Tenontosaurus", "Hypsilophodon", "Iguanodon", "Protohadros", and "Eolambia" are some of the ornithopods that lived during this time period. Ankylosaurs replaced their stegosaur cousins in the Cretaceous. Ankylosaurs from the early Cretaceous of North America include "Sauropelta" and "Gastonia". Therizinosaurs such as "Falcarius" are also known from the early Cretaceous of North America.

Finally, in the long Upper Cretaceous period, the greatest abundance and diversity of dinosaurs of all time lived in North America. During the early part of the Upper Cretaceous, the therizinosaur "Nothronychus" and the ceratopsian "Zuniceratops" lived. During the Campanian stage of the Late Cretaceous, an enormous diversity of dinosaurs is known. Theropods included the tyrannosaurs "Albertosaurus", "Gorgosaurus", "Daspletosaurus", "Appalachiosaurus", and "Dryptosaurus", and the dromaeosaurids "Dromaeosaurus", "Saurornitholestes", "Atrociraptor", and "Bambiraptor". Ceratopsians, such as "Pachyrhinosaurus", "Styracosaurus", "Centrosaurus" "Monoclonius", "Brachyceratops", "Pentaceratops", and "Leptoceratops" also existed. Among hadrosaurs, "Parasaurolophus", "Corythosaurus", "Lambeosaurus", "Saurolophus", and "Prosaurolophus" existed. During the latest Cretaceous, the Maastrichtian stage, the diversity of dinosaurs wasn't as great as the preceding Campanian stage. North American herbivorous dinosaurs from this time period include the titanosaur sauropod "Alamosaurus", the ceratopsians "Triceratops" and "Torosaurus", the pachycephalosaurs "Pachycephalosaurus", "Stygimoloch", "Dracorex", and "Stegoceras", the hadrosaurs "Edmontosaurus" and "Anatotitan". Predatory dinosaurs from this time period icluded the tyrannosaurids "Tyrannosaurus" and "Nanotyrannus" (which may just be a juvenile of the former), and the troodontid "Troodon".

This is a timeline of selected dinosaurs from the list above. Time is measured in Ma, megaannum, along the x-axis.


</doc>
<doc id="270111" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270111" title="List of South American dinosaurs">
List of South American dinosaurs

This is a list of dinosaurs whose remains have been recovered from South America.



</doc>
<doc id="270113" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270113" title="List of European dinosaurs">
List of European dinosaurs

Dinosaurs evolved partway through the Triassic period of the Mesozoic era, around 230 Ma (million years ago). At that time, the earth had one supercontinental landmass, called Pangaea, of which Europe was a part. So it remained throughout the Triassic. By the start of the Jurassic period, some 30 million years later, the supercontinent began to split into Laurasia and Gondwana. The largest inlet from Panthalassa, the superocean that surrounded Pangaea, was called the Tethys Ocean, and as this inlet cut deeper into the supercontinent, much of Europe was flooded.

By the Cretaceous, from 145 to 65 million years ago, the continents were beginning to approach their present shapes, but not their present positions, and Europe remained tropical. At times, it was a chain of island-microcontinents including Baltica and Iberia.

Europe is relatively rich in fossils from the Jurassic-Cretaceous boundary, and much of what is known about European dinosaurs dates from this time. As the timeline below illustrates, there are substantial gaps in our knowledge from the rest of the Mesozoic. The absence of dinosaur genera from this time is because few fossils have been discovered, and almost certainly not because Europe contained few types of dinosaur—except, perhaps, immediately after the Triassic–Jurassic extinction event.

This is a timeline of selected dinosaurs from the list above. Time is measured in Ma, megaannum, along the x-axis.


</doc>
<doc id="270114" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270114" title="List of Asian dinosaurs">
List of Asian dinosaurs

This is a list of dinosaurs whose remains have been found in Asia other than India, which was a different continent for much of the Mesozoic Era, the time period when the dinosaurs lived. More dinosaurs have been found in Asia than any other continent so far. 

 

This is a timeline of selected dinosaurs from the list above. Time is measured in Ma, megaannum, along the x-axis.


</doc>
<doc id="270116" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270116" title="Abelisaurus">
Abelisaurus

Abelisaurus is a genus of theropod dinosaur that lived in South America during the Late Cretaceous period. There is one known species, "Abelisaurus comahuensis". 

"Abelisaurus" was the first abelisaurid to be discovered, and gives its name to the family, the Abelisauridae. "Abelisaurus" is the type genus. Despite this, little is known about it. 

The first, and only, fossils discovered were several skull bones found in Argentina. Scientists put them back together in the lab to create a skull. The skull is similar to that of other members of its family. Like most abelisaurs, it is blunt and short in length, but tall in vertical height from a front view. "Abelisaurus" probably preyed on the large sauropod dinosaurs of the time, such as "Amargasaurus", in packs. It may also have hunted smaller plant-eating dinosaurs, such as the small ornithopod "Gasparinisaura".


</doc>
<doc id="270117" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270117" title="Category:Dinosaurs of South America">
Category:Dinosaurs of South America

This category is for dinosaurs that lived in the continent of South America.


</doc>
<doc id="270118" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270118" title="Wikipedia:Very good articles/1910 Cuba hurricane">
Wikipedia:Very good articles/1910 Cuba hurricane

The 1910 Cuba hurricane was said to be one of the worst tropical cyclones that has ever hit Cuba. The storm formed in the southern Caribbean Sea on October 9, 1910. It grew stronger as it moved northwest. It then made landfall on the western end of Cuba. The storm made a loop over open water, and then began moving towards the United States. After crossing Florida, the storm moved near the rest of the southeastern United States and passed out to sea.

Because of the storm's loop, some reports said it was actually two hurricanes. In Cuba, the storm was one of the worst disasters in the island's history. There was bad damage and thousands of people lost their homes. In Florida, the storm also caused damage and caused flooding in some areas. It is not known exactly how much damage the storm caused. However, losses in Havana, Cuba were over $1 million. At least 100 people died in Cuba alone.


</doc>
<doc id="270121" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270121" title="Gargoyleosaurus">
Gargoyleosaurus

Gargoyleosaurus ("gargoyle lizard") was an armoured ankylosaur) which walked on four legs and had a stiff tail. It had a series of spikes running along each side of its body. "Gargoyleosaurus" was about 10 feet (3 m) long and was roughly 3.3 feet (1 m) tall to the top of the shoulder it may have weighed about a ton. 

"Gargoyleosaurus" is found in the of the Morrison Formation (latest Upper Jurassic) in Wyoming. It lived about 155–144 million years ago.

This dinosaur had a long, narrow beak with teeth on both the upper and lower inner surface (most other ankylosaurs have teeth on only the lower beak). This plant-eater had protective body armour on the upper surface of its body and tail (hollow bony oval plates). 


</doc>
<doc id="270124" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270124" title="John Boehner">
John Boehner

John Andrew Boehner (pronounced /ˈbeɪnər/ BAY-nər; born November 17, 1949) is an American politician. Boehner was born in Reading, Ohio and was one of twelve brothers and sisters. Boehner worked in his family's bar and briefly served in the United States Navy before graduating from Xavier University in 1977. Later, he was a small businessman. 

Boehner is a member of the Republican Party. He served in the Ohio State House from 1985 to 1990. In 1990, he became a Congressman (a member of the United States House of Representatives. He represents the area north of Cincinnati, Ohio. Boehner served as chair of several important committees before becoming Minority Leader in 2006. While minority leader, Boehner was one of the main people who were critical of President Obama. When the Republicans took back the House of Representatives in the 2010 elections, Boehner became Speaker of the House.


</doc>
<doc id="270126" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270126" title="Othnielia">
Othnielia

Othnielia was an ornithopod dinosaur that measured about 4 ft (1.1 m) long, weighing about 50 pounds (22.5 kg). Othnielia had a horny beak and a small skull with self-sharpening cheek teeth. Othnielia may have had cheek pouches. 

This plant eater was bipedal (walked on two legs). It had thin legs and a stiffened tail that gave it speed and agility. It had five-fingered hands and four-toed feet, all clawed. It had large eyes and short arms. "Othnielia" resembled Hypsilophodon. Its fossils (two partial skeletons and teeth) were found in Colorado and Utah in rocks of the Late Jurassic age. 


</doc>
<doc id="270127" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270127" title="Coelurus">
Coelurus

Coelurus (meaning "hollow") is a poorly known genus. It was perhaps a bipedal theropod dinosaur 6 feet (1.8 m) long, weighing roughly 20 kg. Its femur (thigh bone) was 55 cm long. It was a carnivore that lived during the late Jurassic period, about 156 to 145 million years ago. Its bones were hollow and lightweight, so "Coelurus" was probably light and fast. Its fossils were found in Wyoming. "Coelurus" was named by paleontologist Othniel C. Marsh in 1879.


</doc>
<doc id="270131" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270131" title="Commodus">
Commodus

Commodus (Lucius Aurelius Commodus Antoninus, 31 August 161 – 31 December 192) was Roman Emperor from 180 to 192. He also ruled as co-emperor with his father Marcus Aurelius from 177 until his father's death in 180. 

His accession as emperor was the first time a son had succeeded his father since Titus succeeded Vespasian in 79. Commodus was the first emperor "born to the purple", that is, born during his father's reign.

The reign of Marcus Aurelius had been marked by almost continuous warfare, even though he preferred books to war. That of Commodus was comparatively peaceful in the military sense but was marked by political strife, and the arbitrary and capricious behaviour of the emperor himself. In the view of Dio Cassius, a contemporary observer, his accession marked the descent "from a kingdom of gold to one of rust and iron". The historian Edward Gibbon took Commodus's reign as the beginning of the decline of the Roman Empire. 
Despite his notoriety, Commodus's years in power are not well chronicled. 
Commodus remained with the Danube armies for only a short time before negotiating a peace treaty with the Danubian tribes. He then returned to Rome and celebrated a triumph for the conclusion of the wars on 22 October 180. 

Unlike the preceding Emperors Trajan, Hadrian, Antoninus Pius and Marcus Aurelius, Commodus had little interest in the business of administration. He left the running of the state to a succession of favourites, beginning at this time with Saoterus, a freedman from Nicomedia who had become his chamberlain.

This state of affairs lead to a series of conspiracies and attempted coups, which in turn eventually provoked Commodus to take charge of affairs, which he did in an increasingly dictatorial manner. 

Nevertheless, though the senatorial order came to hate and fear him, the evidence suggests that he remained popular with the army and the common people for much of his reign. He made lavish shows of gifts (recorded on his coinage) and he staged and took part in spectacular gladiatorial combats. 

One of the ways he paid for his mass entertainments was to tax the senatorial order, and on many inscriptions, the traditional order of the two nominal powers of the state, the Senate and People ("Senatus Populusque Romanus") is provocatively reversed ("Populus Senatusque...").

At the outset of his reign, Commodus, aged 19, inherited many of his father's senior advisers. He also had five surviving sisters, all of them with husbands who were potential rivals. Four of his sisters were considerably older than he; the eldest, Lucilla, held the rank of Augusta as the widow of her first husband, Lucius Verus.

The first crisis of the reign came in 182, when Lucilla engineered a conspiracy against her brother. Her motive is alleged to have been envy of the Empress Crispina. Her husband, Pompeianus, was not involved, but two men, alleged to have been her lovers, attempted to murder Commodus as he entered the theatre. 

They bungled the job. They were seized by the emperor's bodyguard, and executed; Lucilla was exiled to Capri and later killed. Pompeianus retired from public life. One of the two Praetorian Prefects, Tarrutenius Paternus, had actually been involved in the conspiracy, but was not detected at this time. In the aftermath, he and his co-Prefect Sextus Tigidius Perennis organised the murder of Saoterus, the hated chamberlain.

Commodus took the loss of Saoterus badly, and Perennis now seized the chance to advance himself by implicating Paternus in a second conspiracy. Executions followed. Perennis took over the reins of government and Commodus found a new chamberlain and favourite in Cleander, a Phrygian freedman who had married one of the emperor's mistresses, Demostratia. Cleander was in fact the person who had murdered Saoterus. 

After those attempts on his life, Commodus spent much of his time outside Rome, mostly on the family estates at Lanuvium. Though physically strong, he was mentally lazy, and his chief interest was in sport: taking part in horse racing, chariot racing, and combats with beasts and men, mostly in private but also on occasion in public.

In Britain in 184, the governor Ulpius Marcellus pushed the Roman frontier north to the Antonine Wall, but the soldiers revolted against his harsh discipline. Perennis had all the legionary legates in Britain dismissed. 

On 15 October 184 at the Capitoline Games, a Cynic philosopher publicly denounced Perennis before Commodus, who was watching. He was immediately put to death. According to Dio Cassius, Perennis, though ruthless and ambitious, was not personally corrupt and generally administered the state well. 

However, the following year, a detachment of soldiers from Britain (they had been drafted to Italy to suppress brigands) denounced Perennis to the emperor as plotting to make his own son emperor. They had been enabled to do so by Cleander, who was seeking to dispose of his rival. Commodus gave the soldiers permission to execute Perennis and his wife and sons. The fall of Perennis brought a new spate of executions. Ulpius Marcellus was replaced as governor of Britain by Pertinax; brought to Rome and tried for treason, Marcellus narrowly escaped death.

Cleander took power into his own hands and enriched himself by selling public offices: he sold and gave entry to the Senate, army commands, governorships, and even replacement consulships, to the highest bidder. 

Unrest around the empire increased, with large numbers of army deserters causing trouble in Gaul and Germany. A revolt in Brittany was put down by two legions brought over from Britain. In 187, one of the leaders of the deserters, Maternus, came from Gaul intending to assassinate Commodus at the Festival of the Great Goddess in March, but he was betrayed and executed. 

In the same year, Pertinax unmasked a conspiracy by two enemies of Cleander. As a result, Commodus appeared even more rarely in public, preferring to live on his estates. Early in 188, Cleander disposed of the current praetorian prefect, and himself took over supreme command of the Praetorians at the new rank of "a pugione" ("dagger-bearer") with two praetorian prefects subordinate to him. Now at the zenith of his power, Cleander continued to sell public offices as his private business. The climax came in the year 190, which had 25 suffect consuls—a record in the 1,000-year history of the Roman consulship—all appointed by Cleander (they included the future Emperor Septimius Severus).

In the spring of 190, Rome was afflicted by a food shortage, for which the official actually in charge of the grain supply managed to lay the blame on Cleander. At the end of June, a mob demonstrated against Cleander during a horse race in the Circus Maximus: he sent the praetorian guard to put down the disturbances, but Pertinax, who was now City Prefect of Rome, dispatched the "Vigiles Urbani" to oppose them. 

Cleander fled to Commodus, who was at Laurentum in the house of the Quinctilii, for protection, but the mob followed him calling for his head. At the urging of his mistress Marcia, Commodus had Cleander beheaded and his son killed. Other victims at this time were the praetorian prefect Julius Julianus, Commodus's cousin Annia Fundania Faustina, and his brother-in-law Mamertinus. Papirius Dionysius was executed too. 

Commodus continued to rule through a cabal, which now consisted of Marcia, his new chamberlain Eclectus, and the new praetorian prefect Quintus Aemilius Laetus, who about this time also had many Christians freed from working in the mines in Sardinia. Marcia is alleged to have been a Christian.

During 191, the city of Rome was extensively damaged by a fire that raged for several days, during which many public buildings including the Temple of Pax, the Temple of Vesta and parts of the imperial palace were destroyed.

Commodus presented himself as the fountainhead of the Empire and Roman life and religion. He also had the head of the Colossus of Nero adjacent to the Colosseum replaced with his own portrait, gave it a club and placed a bronze lion at its feet to make it look like Hercules, and added an inscription boasting of being "the only left-handed fighter to conquer twelve times one thousand men".

The emperor also had a passion for gladiatorial combat, which he took so far as to take to the arena himself, dressed as a gladiator. The Romans found Commodus' naked gladiatorial combats to be scandalous and disgraceful. It was rumoured that he was actually the son, not of Marcus, but of a gladiator whom his mother Faustina had taken as a lover at the coastal resort of Caieta. In the arena, Commodus always won since his opponents always submitted to the emperor. Thus, these public fights would not end in a death. Privately, it was his custom to slay his practice opponents. For each appearance in the arena, he charged the city of Rome a million sesterces, straining the Roman economy.

Military officials in Rome were enraged at his behavoiur in the arena. Often, wounded soldiers and amputees would be placed in the arena for Commodus to slay with a sword. Citizens of Rome missing their feet through accident or illness were taken to the arena, where they were tethered together for Commodus to club to death while pretending they were giants. These acts may have contributed to his assassination. 

Commodus was also known for fighting exotic animals in the arena, often to the horror of the Roman people. According to Gibbon, Commodus once killed 100 lions in a single day. Later, he decapitated a running ostrich with a specially designed dart. and afterwards carried the bleeding head of the dead bird and his sword over to the section where the Senators sat and gesticulated as though they were next. On another occasion, Commodus killed three elephants on the floor of the arena by himself. Finally, Commodus killed a giraffe which was considered to be a strange and helpless beast. "Commodus killed a camelopardalis or giraffe...the most useless of the quadrupeds."

In November 192, Commodus held Plebian Games in which he shot hundreds of animals with arrows and javelins every morning, and fought as a gladiator every afternoon, naturally winning all the bouts. In December he announced his intention to inaugurate the year 193 as both consul and gladiator on 1 January.

At this point, the prefect Laetus formed a conspiracy with Eclectus to supplant Commodus with Pertinax, taking Marcia into their confidence. On 31 December Marcia poisoned his food but he vomited up the poison; so the conspirators sent his wrestling partner, Narcissus, to strangle him in his bath. On his death, the Senate declared him a public enemy and restored the original names to the city of Rome and its institutions. Commodus' statues were thrown down.

Commodus was succeeded by Pertinax, whose reign was short lived, being the first to fall victim to the Year of the Five Emperors. Commodus's death marked the end of the Nervan-Antonian dynasty, and the beginning of the end for the Western Roman Empire.

There are a number of semi-fictional versions of his life. The most notable are the two films:




</doc>
<doc id="270139" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270139" title="Club Baloncesto Breogán">
Club Baloncesto Breogán

Club Baloncesto Breogán is a galician basketball team. It was founded in 1966. The team currently plays in league LEB, but in the past the team participated in European competitions.


This is the 2010-11 Breogán's squad.





</doc>
<doc id="270142" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270142" title="MediaWiki:Common.js/pagediff.js">
MediaWiki:Common.js/pagediff.js

if ( typeof pagediff == 'undefined' ) { // Guard against double inclusions


</doc>
<doc id="270143" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270143" title="Category:Sulfur compounds">
Category:Sulfur compounds

Sulfur compounds are chemical compounds containing sulfur ions.


</doc>
<doc id="270144" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270144" title="Category:Copper compounds">
Category:Copper compounds

Copper compounds are chemical compounds containing copper ions.


</doc>
<doc id="270149" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270149" title="XPilot">
XPilot

XPilot is multiplayer 2D space action video game. It is an open source game, and its first version was released in 1991.

"XPilot" was created in 1991 by Bjørn Stabell and Ken Ronny Schouten, students in computer science at the Tromsø university (Norway), as a multiplayer game similar to "Thrust". They received a lot of patches and feedback when they released the first public version. The game has been improved a lot by players from all the world and has many contributors. Originally only available on UNIX, it was ported on the Mac OS and Microsoft Windows. It has been forked and new versions appeared: XPilot 5 and XPilot NG (Next Generation).

In 2009 a version was released for iPhone and iTouch. Several projects are currently in progress: a Java version of XPilot, an optimisate version for the "Blood's Music" map and a project to improve the artificial intelligence.



</doc>
<doc id="270154" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270154" title="Andrei Kolkoutine">
Andrei Kolkoutine

Andrei Kolkoutine ( born in 1957, in Smolyaninovo, Primorsky Krai) is a Russian artist. In 1982 Kolkoutine graduated at the Repin Academy of Arts in Leningrad, named after Ilya Repin. Kolkoutine lives in southern Russia in the town of Nalchik. 
He belongs to the art group " FOSTER BROTHERS " together with two other artists - Andrey Efi and Eugeny Lindin.
The medium of his paintings is usually oil on canvas, but Kolkoutine also made a few sculptures and prints. Besides Russia, Kolkoutine has made exhibitions in Denmark, Germany, France and other European countries as well as the United States.

Kolkoutine settled into his current characteristic style by the end of the 1980’s in which he mixes traditions from the Russian icons with other art styles: suprematism from Malevich, cubism and naïve art. Kolkoutine states that he sought the special tones of colours which are seen in the old Russian icons, and he developed a method for making these tones by pasting a layer of neutral grey paint on the canvas before painting the colours. Geometrical and abstract elements are combined with figurative elements. Buildings and playing cards may appear at the bottom of the paintings as well as Cyrillic letters. Frames in different colours surrounding the motifs are often oblique. 

Often the motifs are either stylized biblical or simple working people from the Russian province; according to Kolkoutine the biblical characters are in principle the same kind as the provincial people (Bjørnager, 2006). The biblical motifs are also a reflection of his origin; they are distinctly orthodox. Jekatarina Seleznjova states that in her opinion the fundamental question asks in his paintings is ”Why are we here?” (Seleznjova, 2007), and thus despite the culturally characteristic motifs, Kolkoutine's paintings are supposed to touch something universally human. Kolkoutines paintings are both simple and complicated it is said.




</doc>
<doc id="270168" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270168" title="Phyllis Schlafly">
Phyllis Schlafly

Phyllis Schlafly is an American conservative. She is a political activist and a constutional attorney. She was born on August 15, 1924. Her best-selling book, "A Choice, Not an Echo", was written in 1964. She supported many other conservative candidates such as Barry Goldwater. She started the Eagle Forum in 1972. She was one of the most well-known "Anti-Feminists", a group of women who opposed equality for women in all thing. Since 1967, she published her own newspaper, the "Phyllis Schlafly Report". 


</doc>
<doc id="270169" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270169" title="Cult of domesticity">
Cult of domesticity

The cult of domesticity, also known as the cult of true womanhood (by people who like it), is a view about women in the 1800s. They believed that women should stay at home and should not do any work outside of the home. There were four things they believed that women should be:


These were very popular in the 1800s and in the 1950s. Now most women reject this view.


</doc>
<doc id="270171" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270171" title="Roe v. Wade">
Roe v. Wade

Roe v. Wade was a decision by the Supreme Court of the United States in 1973. It made abortion legal in many circumstances. The decision said that a woman's right to privacy extended to the unborn child. This meant that she could do what she wanted to with the child. The decision was 7-2, with Chief Justice Warren Burger and six other Justices voting for Roe, and justices William Rehnquist and Byron White voting against it. 

This decision caused a lot of debate. People divided into pro-life and pro-choice groups. Pro-life people said that abortions should not be allowed because it is the killing of unborn embryos. Pro-choice people said that a woman had the right to choose whether to have an abortion or not. 

Roe was limited by a later decision called "Webster v. Reproductive Health" (1989), which allowed regulation of abortion in some cases. Several states have attempted to pass laws to undo Roe, but most of these have been found unconstitutional. 


</doc>
<doc id="270172" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270172" title="Moral Majority">
Moral Majority

The Moral Majority was a political organization in the United States. It was made by Jerry Falwell. It tried to get conservative Christian views into laws by lobbying. It was one of the major organizations of the religious right. It was started in 1979, in response to "Roe v. Wade" and other events known as the "culture wars". It broke up in the late 1980s. It had four branches:


It broke up during Ronald Reagan's presidency because people did not think that the matter was so urgent. Other Christians also opposed it, as well as many liberal people.


</doc>
<doc id="270174" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270174" title="Jake Shields">
Jake Shields

Jake Shields (born January 9, 1979 in Mountain Ranch, California) is a American mixed martial artist that currently fights for the UFC in the welterweight division. Shields has also won many different titles including the Strikeforce Middleweight Championship, Shooto Middleweight Championship, Rumble on the Rock Welterweight Tournament Winner and the Elite XC Welterweight Championship.

Shields holds a black belt in Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu.



</doc>
<doc id="270186" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270186" title="Spontaneous Symmetry Breaking">
Spontaneous Symmetry Breaking

Spontaneous Symmetry Breaking is a way that scientists start off with something completely symmetrical and end up (without creating an outside force) with something non-symmetrical. Spontaneous means sudden or unexpected. Symmetry (Latin sym- meaning united, metric- meaning measure) refers to the fact that rules (known as symmetries) of physics that are changed. Breaking refers to the change of the symmetry. Spontaneous Symmetry Breaking commonly happens in the theoretical Higgs effect.

Spontaneous Symmetry Breaking can create a theoretical particle called a Higgs Boson. This is a particle which is predicted to be able to give mass to certain particles called bosons, like a photon. Also, many scientists believe in the Higgs Effect (which is very similar to Spontaneous Symmetry Breaking) to answer questions that are not answered in the Standard model of physics. The Standard model predicts that certain types of quarks should have a mass of zero, while in reality they have a non-zero mass value. Some scientists believe that Spontaneous Symmetry Breaking is the answer.

For Spontaneous Symmetry Breaking to happen, you need an environment which is completely symmetrical, and has at least two outcomes that are equally likely. Spontaneous Symmetry Breaking starts with two particles that are completely equal; their spin is equal, too. Mathematically, Spontaneous Symmetry Breaking can be extremely puzzling, since you start out with two identical things and end up with two non-identical things. However, in practice, it is not so puzzling. If you have two particles moving at each other with equal speed, it would seem impossible for either of them to do anything but be symmetrical. However, if each particle has an equal 50-50 chance to be spinning one way or another, it is possible–in theory and in practice–to have this symmetry broken. It begins with symmetry to start with because the particles have an equal and symmetrical 50-50 chance of spinning one way or another.

Scientists have been able to use Spontaneous Symmetry Breaking. However, it has not proven (or disproven) the theory of the Higgs Boson. The energy required to generate a Higgs Boson is simply too powerful for the particle accelerators that we have available. However, the future will probably reveal the existence or nonexistence of the Higgs Boson.


</doc>
<doc id="270189" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270189" title="Wikipedia:Administrators' noticeboard/Current issues and requests archive 35">
Wikipedia:Administrators' noticeboard/Current issues and requests archive 35

Checking in, been busy lately. @:~$ 09:17, 26 October 2010 (UTC)

Hello fellow admins, our abuse filters are now active; at the time of this writing, we do have two filters: One triggers on blacking pages (by new users) and the other triggers if a new user /ip removes large sections of an article. See and . The current idea would be to import the most useful ones from , and see how we fare, in about a week's time. -- () 11:41, 26 October 2010 (UTC)

...could maybe move Satyrs to just Satyr, which presently redirects to Greek mythology, please? Thanks, () 00:06, 28 October 2010 (UTC)

FYI:

There is a discussion on en.wikipedia about an editor, :w:en:User:Pumpie, who has been indefinitely blocked there for persistent editing (45,000 edits on en.wikipedia + 25,000 elsewhere) with inadequate English skills in spite of numerous requests to slow down or modify his behaviour:

That's a very long thread so you can just skip down to a comment made by Ryūlóng at 05:45, 3 November, where you'll see the topic shifts to whether Pumpie would be best served by coming to Simple to edit until his English skills improve. 

To date, nobody has determined just what Pumpie's native language is or if he has one; there have also been some complaints on other projects:

While some en.wikipedia editors have alluded obliquely to the possibility that Pumpie may just been pulling everyone's leg, he has always been very good-natured so people have been inclined to ascribe good faith to his efforts.
-- 12:56, 5 November 2010 (UTC)

He seems to have been bitten by several people. I would definitely let him come over here. -- () 13:23, 5 November 2010 (UTC)

Banned users are always allowed here, but are subject to a one strike rule. They screw up one time and we ban them here as well. - () 15:36, 5 November 2010 (UTC)

Is it considered an abuse of email privileges to send an editor a unique one-time chatty email? The email was not spam or sent repeatedly. Thanks, -- () 15:31, 8 November 2010 (UTC)

Can I have the flood flag? I want to mass add categories. -- () 23:42, 8 November 2010 (UTC)

Can I have it again? See for the progress of the categories. -- () 15:56, 9 November 2010 (UTC)
Administrators, could you help add a new parameter into the template: ? Add the rule of the road into the template please like the English Wikipedia. Thanks! () 03:35, 5 November 2010 (UTC)

I didn't finish adding all the chlorine compounds to . -- () 18:41, 15 November 2010 (UTC)

Hi, I am here to request for . I don't see any place to put this request in . Could you give me IP block exemption? My IP address is being blocked. Thanks. () 16:32, 20 November 2010 (UTC)

Hello. I'd like to ask people's opinions about whether request could be extended; Chenzw has indicated that I could seek a review (and as such I also emailed as an uninvolved bureaucrat, but any other is welcome here too). In my opinion it would be reasonable if it was extended, especially as it only needed two more votes, and as has been done in the past with other requests. Thanks for your comments. -- 05:44, 28 November 2010 (UTC)

Your bot thought I was vandalizing when I added co tent to the HTML article, why is this? --

Hello fellow admins,

I think we need to agree on a set of guidelines, when an RFA/RFCU can be extended, and for what time. I suggest the following:

If we want to be successful in the long run, we need to get away from on the spot decision, and moved towards a decision that is justifiable by a guideline, or similar. Just a note though. -- () 12:31, 28 November 2010 (UTC)

Hi all,

Here to propose a block/ban for the above user as it seems to me that he is seeing and treating Simple as a full on joke, and is only here so that he can get back onto en.wiki. See userpage.

We've been through this many times before, and every time we've come to the conclusion that we're not here to harbour users from other wikis for them to 'reform', which this seems to be another case of.

While face value says nothing has been done "per se" (I'm still diff hunting), I'm just not sure that this is giving off the right impression, as ever. There's a limit, after all...

Thoughts...?

User has been blocked for a period of two weeks due to their enwiki block (see:this) and subsequent comments and actions here. 00:20, 29 November 2010 (UTC)
The reason I blocked the user was preventative and not punitive! I object to the thought that I'd punish someone, I would have hoped people would know me better than that by now; guess not! First and foremost, the blocking rules state that a person blocked on another WMF project can be blocked here also without any warning. We sometimes give the user a chance (what we call the so-called "one-strike rule"). This "rule" is a courtesy only and not automatic. I have reviewed this users history both here and on enwiki and frankly came close to a pure indef block. However, due to some of the discussion above I chose to block for two weeks instead. This is preventative because the user has only been here a tiny amount of time and is already causing disruption of the project. The two week period allows the project to not be disrupted by this person who has already caused disruption and allows the user time to think about how they wish to proceed on simplewiki. Mr. Berty has stated multiple times here that he's "doing time" and here as a form of parole. I don't think we should be used like that, we already have a reputation as a site for "losers from elsewhere" (not my words, direct quote) and as being soft on troublesome users. People need to wise up and be harder on those who disrupt the project after getting blocked elsewhere. 16:25, 29 November 2010 (UTC)
For once, I agree with Peter on this issue. The two week block was unneeded. No block or indef. If he needs a block, the one-strike rule says we go indef. There was no blockable offense, and IMO, no block should have occurred while this discussion was going on, unless he was clearly disruptive. () 00:30, 30 November 2010 (UTC)
I'm curious. I'm not an expert on this matter, far from it, but we have a user who is banned (?) from the English Wikipedia? He comes here and we instead just block all his sock accounts and basically try to ""force"" him into not socking by limiting his options. I'm for a harder line on banned users coming from the English wikipedia over here expecting us to be a haven where they can show off to en that they're still around. Also, loving this "unindent" template! 16:05, 30 November 2010 (UTC)

Hi,

Can someone please update the ToW on ?

Thanks, () 04:48, 14 November 2010 (UTC)


Hello there,

one of our edit filtes (number 14) identifies possible copy/pastes. These will contain "[edit]", "[change]", or a number in brackets, in the added_lines. The problem is that it will also match "<nowiki>1234</nowiki>" (which we commonly have as link to year numbers. Another problem is that if I add another condition (& added_lines rlike..) filtering for the two bracket case, I cannot be sure that we are talking about the same match. The other option would be to match "alphanumerical or space, but not opening bracket" (or similar). Ideas welcome. -- () 10:47, 3 December 2010 (UTC)

I've blocked as it appears to be an unauthorized crosswiki bot, its only edits are to add ca interwiki. I did find an actual account at the though. Just thought I might give you a heads up, because I get the feeling the interwikis might be being added manually. 15:03, 5 December 2010 (UTC)

The page "Shrek" is being constantly vandalized this month by different IP. The last edits made this month were all reverted. Maybe a semi-protection would be good to preserve the history. Thanks.” () 01:43, 16 December 2010 (UTC)

Should get the bot flag? Thanks, -- () 14:03, 22 December 2010 (UTC)

As mentioned on Simple Talk, I have updated with material from the present Evolution article. What shows on the front page is two years out of date. Could someone put the new material up on the front page? Thank you. () 16:26, 22 December 2010 (UTC)

Evenin' all, Toboar says here that he is not the vandal. Somebody check this out please. Thanks, / 17:58, 22 December 2010 (UTC)
Toboar's been saying that ever since he got blocked: nothing new. -- () 21:30, 22 December 2010 (UTC)

Just checking in. I will return as scheduled in late March. Keep up the good work. Regards, @:~$ 11:04, 29 December 2010 (UTC)

Hi, there was a block against . But it is a shared IP address for a Belgium ISP. Could you just unblock it to allow the user: to login and give him/her the IP block exempt flag. (talk) 10:17, 3 January 2011 (UTC)

This page, which includes categories, is just a copy of our Fondue page. Seems a bit peculiar; should he have copied the un-formatted text instead? () 13:45, 5 January 2011 (UTC)

On English Wikipedia, has been found to have been pasting in copies of copyrighted text, please see the thread on the admin noticeboard. You may want to check his edits here to see if the same problem applies. () 00:49, 7 January 2011 (UTC)

Is this bot malfunctioning? @:~$ 20:48, 9 January 2011 (UTC)

Hi admins. I just want to report that a cross wiki vandal (which I will refer from here on as the "Philippine TV vandal") that was blocked from en.wiki, transferred here after I seek assistance in rangeblocking his/her IP addresses there. The vandal is posting hoax information regarding Philippine television and has an editing pattern that is easy to trace. The said vandal currently uses the IP ranges 121.54.xxx.xxx and 180.194.xxx.xxx in this wiki (sample hoax contributions are the Us Girls (Philippine TV program) and the Banahaw Broadcasting Corporation articles). 
I would like to seek the same assistance from the admins here to finally stop his destructive edits, since bots are keep on posting wikilinks in en.wiki pointing here with an article that was created by that vandal. Please see my summary report regarding this vandal and its editing patterns. Hoping for your swift action regarding this issue. Thanks. - () 11:47, 10 January 2011 (UTC)
, created userpage spamming for company "Exxelnet Solutions Pte Ltd". Not sure what we do about such things over here but the username policy says not create or use promotional usernames. () 05:28, 19 January 2011 (UTC)

Hi, back again with another request to update the ToTW. This week is:
en:Anna Louise Strong and Third World Academy of Sciences, zh:第三世界科學院. If an admin has time, could they please update the New Changes page? Thanks, () 21:33, 24 January 2011 (UTC)

There is an about the unbanning of . The community's comments are welcome. Regards, ( · · ) 09:44, 2 February 2011 (UTC)
I plan on doing a lot of typo fixing. Can I get the necessary flag please? -- () 15:38, 5 February 2011 (UTC)

Hi everyone, just to let you know, the Philippine TV hoax vandal has been back, creating hoax articles about Philippine TV and radio programmes. If you are ever in doubt, do let me know. All hoax pages created should be deleted. Refer any cases to me right here. Thank you.--n 14:24, 8 February 2011 (UTC)
Please move Mary Tudor of England to Mary Tudor, Queen of France and redirect the page Mary Tudor of England to Mary Tudor. There are two Mary Tudors of England and the current one is not the primary usage. () 17:19, 12 February 2011 (UTC)

This is just to let you know that and are sockpuppets of (e.g. ) who is blocked indefinitely across all wikis. () 20:29, 13 February 2011 (UTC)

Can someone semi-protect Valentine's Day because IP-hoppers are spamming it with commercial links? , , , and . () 00:53, 14 February 2011 (UTC)

Hello all, some time back we used to have a stanza in the deletion policy which read "Talk on talk page unrelated to main page", or similar. Since I had this case recently, I added a respective line to the deletion reason dropdown. The problem is now, what entry of the deletion policy would best fit there? - The deletion policy no longer has such an entry. Admins feel free to adapt the list entry I added, but I think we need something which goes in that direction, unrelated talk on talkpage occurs fairly often (also with articles that are vandalised). Any thoughts? -- () 15:24, 14 February 2011 (UTC)

Could someone move Vinegarroon to Thelyphonida over redirect? reason is 'as enWP'. I've taken the original redirect off, but it still doesn't work. Thanks, () 21:03, 15 February 2011 (UTC)



</doc>
<doc id="270192" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270192" title="Roman villa">
Roman villa

A Roman villa is a house that was built and inhabited during the Roman Republic or the Roman Empire. In general thehouse is built so that there is a courtyard, and all rooms are accessible from the coutrtyrd. The entrance also leads into the courtyard. An example of such a villa, called "villa rustica" is shown in the picture. Villas were owned by wealthy people. Some of them even had mosaics or a central heating system (called hypocaust). 


</doc>
<doc id="270194" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270194" title="Template:KUR">
Template:KUR


</doc>
<doc id="270196" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270196" title="The National Grange of the Order of Patrons of Husbandry">
The National Grange of the Order of Patrons of Husbandry

The National Grange of the Order of Patrons of Husbandry, also known as the Grange, is an organization for farmers. It is in the United States. It is made for them to more easily buy expensive things. It also tried to make laws that supported farmers. It was the most popular in the 1870's. The most people it ever had was one million. Today, it has 300,000 people. Its name comes from the French for "barn". 

The Grange was fairly active in politics. In the 19th century, many members of the Grange were involved in the Greenback and Populist movements. The Grange endorsed politicians well into the 20th century. Often, the endorsement of the State Grange was an important endorsement . 


</doc>
<doc id="270201" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270201" title="Roger Maris">
Roger Maris

Roger Maris [1935-1993] was a baseball player for the Indians, Athletics and the Yankees and the Cardinals. Maris spent his early years for the Indians and the Athletics. Being a great star, the Yankees signed him in 1960. In 1961, the Yankees won the world series. Sports writers called him and Mickey Mantle the M&M boys. After the 1966 season the Yankees traded him to the Cardinals. In 1967 the Cardinals won the World Series. After 1968 he retired.


</doc>
<doc id="270202" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270202" title="1949 World Series">
1949 World Series

The Yankees won the world series that year. They beat the Dodgers 4 games to 1. They won their 12th title.


</doc>
<doc id="270204" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270204" title="1950 World Series">
1950 World Series

In the 1950 world series the Yankees won the world series again. They beat the Phillies 4-0. They won their 13th title


</doc>
<doc id="270205" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270205" title="Archimedes' principle">
Archimedes' principle

Archimedes' principle is named after Archimedes of Syracuse, who first discovered this law. It relates buoyancy to displacement.

Archimedes' treatise, "On floating bodies", proposition 5 states:

For more general objects, floating and sunken, and in gases as well as liquids (i.e. a fluid), Archimedes' principle may be stated thus in terms of forces:

For a sunken object, the volume of displaced fluid is the volume of the object, and for a floating object on a liquid, the weight of the displaced liquid is the weight of the object.

Briefly: Buoyancy = weight of displaced fluid.

To use the principle to tell the difference between gold and another substance, the concept of mass (in practice, weight) must be added.

Apply this formula to a suitably pure piece of gold:

That gives you the density of the gold sample. The only unknown is the "density of the (gold) object"; the density of water is 1.

Repeat for the experimental object (non-gold), when you get a different (and usually lesser) density.

Now you can tell what is gold and what is not, and collect your reward from the King of Syracuse. That is why Archimedes shouted ""Eureka!"" 

We do not actually know if Archimedes used exactly this method. An alternative is to use a scale. On one side put the object to be tested (e.g. the crown). On the other side put gold of "equal weight". Immerse the scales. The gold will go down, and the crown up (if it is not gold). That is because, being less dense than gold, it occupies a larger volume and receives more buoyancy.



</doc>
<doc id="270206" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270206" title="Theoretical Particle">
Theoretical Particle

Theoretical Particles are particles that have been assumed or predicted to exist by scientists, but have not been proven in any experiment. Some, like the tachyon, probably don't exist, since they violate several laws of physics. However, many are still believed to exist. For example, the Higgs Boson is required by the standard model of particle physics (our best current understanding of the laws of physics), but it also has yet to be found in an experiment. All supersymmetric particles (such as a sfermion) are theoretical. Supersymmetrical particles are often abbreviated with an "s" in front of the particle name, like a sfermion. Particles found in antimatter are not theoretical particles because they "have" been found in numerous experiments.



</doc>
<doc id="270209" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270209" title="Supersymmetry">
Supersymmetry

Supersymmetry is a theory (commonly found in some forms of string theory) that says that when the universe was made, there was also the same number of theoretical "superparticles" created. If this theory is true, it would at least double the number of particles in the universe. Supersymmetry may create more than one copy, since there are many dimensions (some string theories predict up to 11). Supersymmetry is believed to exist by many scientists because it solves many inconsistencies in the Standard Model of physics. 

A superparticle is the supersymmetric copy of its counterpart (that is, regular matter). A superparticle also has a slightly different spin than its counterpart, by 1/2. Many scientists believe that in the Big Bang, superparticles were created for an almost immeasurably short amount of time (a ten trillionth of a ten trillionth of a nanosecond) before they effectively froze into space (this is their way of saying we don't really know where they went). Note that these "copies" of what we would call normal matter may or may not be identical copies (except for the fact that it will always have a half of a spin difference), depending on the correctness of "unbroken supersymmetry," which simply states that supersymmetric particles are copies of matter with a 1/2 spin difference.

If some of the principles of supersymmetry are correct, then it may be possible to recreate these superparticles with particle accelerators. This attempt could prove or disprove the ideas of supersymmetry.

In outer space, scientists have seen areas of matter that are completely dark. This is not normal, as all known matter reflects light–or absorbs it and reflects it in a different color. Light is a form of electromagnetism (the carrier particle of electromagnetism is a photon). Some scientists suspect that this means that the matter that is not giving off light may not even interact with electromagnetism. This would explain why they don't emit light, but not why no light would pass through them, as they simply don't interact with electromagnetism.

Many people wonder what "dark matter" is, and scientists do not really have an answer for them. However, a simple answer for this is that dark matter is matter that does not emit light. From now on, the above-mentioned matter will now be referred to as dark matter.

Around the mid 1930's, scientists predicted the existence of dark matter for variance reasons. For example, the spin of galaxies was nothing like how the visible matter would suggest it should. Also, some scientists noticed gravity fields from something that was not visible. They labeled it "dark matter." Many scientists accept that dark matter exists, but not all accept the connection between dark matter and supersymmetry.

If scientists could somehow make a link between supersymmetry and dark matter, this would raise many new questions. Electromagnetism is one of the four fundamental interactions, as is strong force.

Matter as we know it is held together by strong force (aka nuclear force). Strong force holds the protons and neutrons together in an atom, and is thought to be a result of the lighter mesons for the interaction between protons. Protons (and neutrons) themselves are made of quarks, which are in turn thought to be held together by gluons. As a result of all of this, an atom nucleus is formed.

Strong force is necessary for an atom nucleus to hold together because apart from the fact that the protons wouldn't stick together, protons actually repel each other because of their electromagnetic charge. (The same statement applies to quarks, but it is due to both charge and chromodynamic forces which are governed by W and Z bosons).

However, if a superparticle does not interact with electromagnetism, strong force would not be so necessary because the super-protons do not repel each other. However, this lack of interaction with electromagnetism would not allow electrons to orbit an atom nucleus. This poses many new questions about superparticles, as electrons are the reason that you cannot push your hand through a wall without the wall breaking; electrons are negatively charged and repel each other. In addition, electrons are fermions, which basically means that two electrons can't exist in the same place at the same time. Since no electrons would orbit the nucleus, it would be much easier to push two superparticle nuclei together. 

It is difficult to imagine how a superparticle could exist if it was only held together by strong force. This is one of the many problems with the supersymmetry theory.


</doc>
<doc id="270210" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270210" title="Antihydrogen">
Antihydrogen

Antihydrogen is an atom made of antimatter. Like normal matter, antihydrogen can bond and form molecules with other antimatter. (It would annihilate any normal matter that it touches). Antihydrogen has one positron–which is positively charged–orbiting an antiproton, which is negatively charged. This is opposite normal hydrogen, which has one negatively charged electron orbiting a positively charged proton.

"Antihydrogen" can also refer to the molecule called Antihydrogen, which is made of two bonded antiprotons.


</doc>
<doc id="270211" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270211" title="Antiproton">
Antiproton

Antiprotons are tiny particles of antimatter. They have a negative charge, and are the nucleus of an Antihydrogen atom. They are not theoretical, as they have been found in scientific studies. When they come in contact with regular protons, each are annihilated and a relatively massive amount of energy is generated.


</doc>
<doc id="270221" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270221" title="Template:Infobox Australian place">
Template:Infobox Australian place


</doc>
<doc id="270222" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270222" title="Template:Infobox Australian place/doc">
Template:Infobox Australian place/doc

<includeonly></includeonly>
<includeonly></includeonly>


All fields used by this template are optional. The following fields are available:
The infobox type affects the colour of the top bar of the infobox.

Any references should be placed within the respective "_footnotes" field and not within the field reserved solely for a numeric value. For example, place the reference used for the area of City X in the parameter and not in the parameter. Otherwise, an error may result. 

Certain fields require numeric values to be entered in an unformatted/raw fashion—i.e. 1000.0 NOT 1,000.0. If an expression error is present, simply remove any commas or spaces from the number.

This is the distance and approximate direction to another location. The '#' is replaced with a number between 1 and 5. Therefore distances for up to five locations can be listed using the range 'dist1' - 'dist5'. Direction from the locations can be specified use 'dir1' - 'dir5' and the locations can be listed as 'location1' - 'location5'. Each dist# must be partnered with an appropriate location#. Dir# is optional.


<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="270223" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270223" title="Template:Infobox Australian place/Blank">
Template:Infobox Australian place/Blank

This page shows some blank versions to use when adding the template to an article. Please note that these templates may not necessarily contain all the valid fields for an article type, but will contain the common ones. 

For adding a push-pin map to an existing page


</doc>
<doc id="270225" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270225" title="Template:Infobox Australian place/Examples">
Template:Infobox Australian place/Examples

These are some examples of Infobox Australian place.


</doc>
<doc id="270230" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270230" title="Template:Sydney weatherbox">
Template:Sydney weatherbox

<noinclude>

<noinclude/>

</doc>
<doc id="270231" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270231" title="Template:Weather box">
Template:Weather box

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="270232" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270232" title="Template:Weather box/doc">
Template:Weather box/doc

<includeonly>
</includeonly>
For questions, see the page. For shorter forms, see below: Concise forms.


Will convert and display metric values automatically.
Will covert and display imperial values automatically.
When one parameter of one system is filled in, then the corresponding value will be converted and displayed automatically.
There are shorter templates that invoke {{Weather box}} with 36 condensed parameters:


<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="270235" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270235" title="Template:Weather box/oneline">
Template:Weather box/oneline

<includeonly>Error: </includeonly>This template makes a table line with one value that is not dependent on the length of month<includeonly>, to specify humidity add the <code><nowiki>.</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="270238" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270238" title="Template:Weather box/line/date">
Template:Weather box/line/date

<includeonly>Error: </includeonly>This template makes a table line with two values that applies a length of month factor to the background color formula<includeonly>, to specify precipitation, rain, or snow, add the <code><nowiki>.</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="270240" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270240" title="Template:Weather box/oneline/date">
Template:Weather box/oneline/date

<includeonly>Error: </includeonly>This template makes a table line with one value that applies a length of month factor to the background color formula<includeonly>, to specify precipitation days add the <code><nowiki>.</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="270242" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270242" title="Template:Weather box/colt">
Template:Weather box/colt

<includeonly>background:<nowiki>#</nowiki>;color:<nowiki>#</nowiki>; font-size:85%;text-align:center;</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="270243" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270243" title="Template:Weather box/colpastel">
Template:Weather box/colpastel

<includeonly>background:<nowiki>#</nowiki>;color:<nowiki>#</nowiki>; font-size:85%;text-align:center;</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="270244" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270244" title="Template:Weather box/temperature">
Template:Weather box/temperature

<includeonly>
</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="270245" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270245" title="Template:Hexadecimal">
Template:Hexadecimal

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="270246" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270246" title="Template:Hexadecimal/doc">
Template:Hexadecimal/doc

This template makes it easy to convert from decimal to hexadecimal.
Use: codice_1 where x is the decimal number to be converted to a hexadecimal. Numbers greater than 268,435,455 or less than 0 will return an "N/A", decimals and fractions will be rounded down. A second parameter of codice_2 will replace the base with "hex". To opt out of the subscript use a second parameter of codice_3.

To convert a number to a base 16:
To convert a number to a base hex:
To convert an RGB color from decimal code to hex code:
<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="270247" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270247" title="Template:Weather box/colp">
Template:Weather box/colp

<includeonly>background:<nowiki>#</nowiki>;color:<nowiki>#</nowiki>; font-size:85%;text-align:center;</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="270249" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270249" title="Template:Weather box/colgreen">
Template:Weather box/colgreen

<includeonly>background:<nowiki>#</nowiki>;color:<nowiki>#</nowiki>; font-size:85%;text-align:center;</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="270250" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270250" title="Template:Weather box/precipitation">
Template:Weather box/precipitation

<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="270251" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270251" title="Template:Dec2hex">
Template:Dec2hex

0x

</doc>
<doc id="270252" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270252" title="Template:Dec2hex/doc">
Template:Dec2hex/doc

Works for all values in the range 0–4294967295.




<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="270253" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270253" title="Template:Dec2hex/1">
Template:Dec2hex/1


</doc>
<doc id="270254" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270254" title="Template:Hex2dec">
Template:Hex2dec


</doc>
<doc id="270255" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270255" title="Template:Hex2dec/main">
Template:Hex2dec/main

0

</doc>
<doc id="270256" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270256" title="Template:Hex2dec/main/doc">
Template:Hex2dec/main/doc

This subtemplate of is used to do the actual multiplication and addition needed to create a decimal number from a hexadecimal string. It is not meant to be called directly.

<nowiki></nowiki>
This template works in conjunction with the following templates:

<includeonly>
</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="270257" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270257" title="Template:Hex2dec/1">
Template:Hex2dec/1

1

</doc>
<doc id="270258" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270258" title="Template:Hex2dec/1/doc">
Template:Hex2dec/1/doc

This subtemplate of is used to determine the length of the input, up to 10 characters in length. It is not meant to be called directly.

This template works in conjunction with the following templates:

<includeonly>
</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="270259" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270259" title="Template:Hex2dec/2">
Template:Hex2dec/2

0

</doc>
<doc id="270260" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270260" title="Template:Hex2dec/2/doc">
Template:Hex2dec/2/doc

This subtemplate of converts a single character of a hex string into its decimal equivalent. This subtemplate is not meant to be called directly.

because on position 4 is value A and A=10. Position count is from left, with the first position=0 (not 1).

This template works in conjunction with the following templates:

<includeonly>
</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="270261" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270261" title="Template:Hex2dec/doc">
Template:Hex2dec/doc

<includeonly></includeonly>
Works for all values in the range 0x00–0xFFFFFFFF.

The template also accepts lowercase and padded hexadecimals with or without the prefix "0x":

This template works in conjunction with the following subtemplates:

<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="270263" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270263" title="Template:Decimal2Base">
Template:Decimal2Base

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="270264" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270264" title="Template:Decimal2Base/doc">
Template:Decimal2Base/doc

This template converts numbers from decimal to a given base.
Use:
<nowiki> </nowiki>
where n is the number in decimal and radix is the base you want to convert to.

Examples:
<nowiki> </nowiki>
yields .

<nowiki> </nowiki>
yields .

<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="270265" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270265" title="Template:Weather box/cold">
Template:Weather box/cold

<includeonly>background:<nowiki>#</nowiki>;color:<nowiki>#</nowiki>; font-size:85%;text-align:center;</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="270266" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270266" title="Template:Weather box/colh">
Template:Weather box/colh

<includeonly>background:<nowiki>#</nowiki>;color:<nowiki>#</nowiki>; font-size:85%;text-align:center;</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="270267" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270267" title="Template:Weather box/cols">
Template:Weather box/cols

<includeonly>background:<nowiki>#</nowiki>;color:<nowiki>#</nowiki>; font-size:85%;text-align:center;</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="270268" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270268" title="Template:Duodecimal">
Template:Duodecimal

<includeonly></includeonly>


</doc>
<doc id="270269" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270269" title="Template:Duodecimal/doc">
Template:Duodecimal/doc

This template makes it easy to convert decimal numbers into duodecimal.
Use: <nowiki> </nowiki> where x is the decimal number to be converted to duodecimal.

Example: <nowiki> </nowiki>yields . 
<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="270270" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270270" title="Namco Museum Remix">
Namco Museum Remix

Namco Museum Remix is a Wii video game. 

This game features 14 classic arcade games which are Cutie Q, Dig Dug, Galaxian, Gaplus, Mappy, Pac & Pal, Pac-Mania, Super Pac-Man and Xevious. There are a few remixed versions of games which are Pac'N Roll, Galaga, Motos, Rally X and Gator Panic.


</doc>
<doc id="270272" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270272" title="Template:Octal">
Template:Octal

<includeonly></includeonly>


</doc>
<doc id="270273" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270273" title="Template:Octal/doc">
Template:Octal/doc

This template makes it easy to convert decimal numbers to octal.
Use: <nowiki></nowiki>
where x is the decimal number.

Example: <nowiki> </nowiki> yields .

Numbers above 134217727 are disregarded.

<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="270274" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270274" title="Template:Binary">
Template:Binary

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="270275" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270275" title="Template:Binary/doc">
Template:Binary/doc

<includeonly></includeonly>
This template is for quickly converting a decimal number to binary. 

Use codice_1 where x is the decimal number. 

Example: <nowiki> </nowiki> yields .
Numbers greater than 131071 are not accepted, if you want to add functionality for them, go ahead or drop a note at .
<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="270277" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270277" title="Category:Numerical conversion templates">
Category:Numerical conversion templates


</doc>
<doc id="270278" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270278" title="Template:BoM Aust stats">
Template:BoM Aust stats

<includeonly></includeonly>


</doc>
<doc id="270279" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270279" title="Template:BoM Aust stats/doc">
Template:BoM Aust stats/doc

This template provides a quick and easy method of directly linking to specific pages on the Australian Bureau of Meteorology (BoM) website that provide climate statistics for hundreds of individual locations throughout Australia as well as providing a standardised format for the reference.

BOM data is used in hundreds, possibly thousands, of Australian related articles and use of this template means that should BoM change urls or page titles at some time, only this template will require updating, rather than requiring a need to change multiple articles.

Note: None of the parameters should be capitalised, in order to avoid the article being tagged as having a broken citation. For example, use "url", "title", etc. - not "URL", "Title", etc.

Example page used in this section:


<nowiki>

produces:

Spaces in the citation may be eliminated where not required. For example, the above example may be written as:

<nowiki>
<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="270280" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270280" title="Template:Min/27">
Template:Min/27


</doc>
<doc id="270281" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270281" title="Template:Min/27/doc">
Template:Min/27/doc

<includeonly>
</includeonly>

Evaluates and returns the minimum of a list of numeric values (with up to 27 parameters). The parameters can be numeric expressions that will be evaluated. Empty, missing, or skipped parameters are ignored.



<includeonly>
</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="270282" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270282" title="Category:Weather box">
Category:Weather box


</doc>
<doc id="270283" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270283" title="Template:Max/27">
Template:Max/27


</doc>
<doc id="270284" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270284" title="Template:Max/27/doc">
Template:Max/27/doc

<includeonly>
</includeonly>

Evaluates and returns the maximum of a list of numeric values (with up to 27 parameters). The parameters can be numeric expressions that will be evaluated. Empty, missing, or skipped parameters are ignored.



<includeonly>
</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="270285" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270285" title="Template:Currentdaymonthyear">
Template:Currentdaymonthyear

09 2017

</doc>
<doc id="270287" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270287" title="Leptoceratops">
Leptoceratops

Leptoceratops (meaning "slender horned face") was a stocky ceratopsian dinosaur that had a large skull are there was a horn on its beaked snout. It is known from 5 skulls and some skeletal material. "Leptoceratops" are during in the Late Cretaceous period, about 68-65 million years ago. Fossils have been found in Alberta, Canada, and Wyoming, in North America.


</doc>
<doc id="270289" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270289" title="Montanoceratops">
Montanoceratops

Montanoceratops (meaning "Montana horned face") was a ceratopsian dinosaur, walked on four legs, had a large head, a bulky body, a parrot-like beak, a small nose horn, cheek teeth, and a small frill on its head. Males may have had larger frills than females, indicating that the frill may have been used in courtship and mating.

"Montanoceratops" was up to 6 feet long (1.8 m) and weighed about 900 pounds (400 kg). "Montanoceratops" lived in the late-Cretaceous period, about 72 to 65 million years ago, toward the end of the Mesozoic, the Age of Reptiles. Fossils have been found in Montana and Alberta, Canada.


</doc>
<doc id="270291" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270291" title="Archelon">
Archelon

Archelon was huge marine turtle (Testudines) that was the size of a car. It lived during the Upper Cretaceous in the inland sea on part of North America. Fossils have been found in Kansas and South Dakota. 

This carnivore was up to long. It had a wide, flattened shell, paddle-like legs, a long, narrow head, weak jaws, and a short, pointed tail. 

"Archelon" are like other turtles, had a solidly-roofed skull with no opening (except for eyes, and nostrils). 


</doc>
<doc id="270292" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270292" title="Atlantic sturgeon">
Atlantic sturgeon

The Atlantic sturgeon ("Acipenser sturio") is a member of the Acipenseridae family. It is one of the oldest fish species in the world. It can be found from New Brunswick, Canada to the eastern coast of Florida. The numbers of Atlantic sturgeon have fallen because of overfishing and water pollution. It is considered threatened, endangered and even extinct in much of its original habitats. The fish live to 60 years of age, 15 feet in length and over 800 pounds in weight.


</doc>
<doc id="270296" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270296" title="Quantum fluctuation">
Quantum fluctuation

Quantum fluctuations are small variances in matter due to Heisenberg's uncertainty principle. This states that the more we know about where a particle is, the less we know about where it is going. Basically, small amounts of energy may change, and this is accepted in the scientific community.

Quantum fluctuations can result in theoretical photons being created from nothing. These photons have no actual energy value. Like all photons, these theoretical photons can split into an electron and a positron. However, normal photons must interact with matter for this to occur, whereas theoretical photons do not. Like normal matter and antimatter, this theoretical electron and positron annihilate each other. Unlike normal matter, however, they do not create any energy when they annihilate each other, but instead create an imaginary photon.


</doc>
<doc id="270297" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270297" title="Critical error">
Critical error

A critical error is an error which the OS cannot reasonably ignore so as to respond again. The critical error is often linked with a BSOD. These errors are known also as system failure. However, not all types of OS failure are critical errors. Freezing or deadlock are "NOT" usually considered critical. Critical errors can lead to error avalanches also.


</doc>
<doc id="270304" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270304" title="Iván Castro">
Iván Castro

Captain Iván Castro (born 1967) is a U.S. Army officer who did not leave the Special Forces after becoming blind. He is one of three blind officers who currently serve in the U.S. Army and the only blind officer in the United States Army Special Forces. Castro believes in helping wounded fighters return to a normal life, and has talked to Congress about this. He takes part in marathons and other races.

Castro was born in Hoboken, New Jersey. His parents were from Puerto Rico. In 1979, when he was 12 years old, he moved to Puerto Rico with his mother. After finishing military training, Castro went to university in Puerto Rico. While he was a student he went to lots of sports running competitions. After four years of university, Castro joined the US Army. He later trained to become an officer.

Castro is still active as a sportsman. He used to train with Major Phil Young, who was his leader in the Special Forces, and has done lots of races. The audiences often encourage him for his determination. He now trains with LT. Colonel Fred Dummar, who is his Battalion Commander. Together they have completed several marathons.

Castro has received lots of awards. Some of them are:




</doc>
<doc id="270307" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270307" title="Nigel Farage">
Nigel Farage

Nigel Paul Farage (born 3 April 1964) is a British politician. He is the leader of the UK Independence Party (UKIP), a political party that wants Britain to leave the European Union. He is a Member of the European Parliament for the South East England region and is the co-chair of the Europe and Freedom and Democracy group in the European Parliament.

Nigel Farage left the Conservative Party in 1992 after the Maastricht Treaty was signed by John Major's Conservative government. He was first elected as a Member of the European Parliament in 1999 and was re-elected in 2004 and 2009. In September 2006, he was elected to become the UKIP leader and was party leader during the 2009 European Parliament election where UKIP received the second highest number of votes after the Conservative Party.

In November 2009, Farage resigned as UKIP leader because he wanted to concentrate on being elected to the House of Commons at the 2010 General Election. At the general election, Farage failed to be elected and became the UKIP leader again in November 2010.


</doc>
<doc id="270309" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270309" title="European Parliament election, 2009 (United Kingdom)">
European Parliament election, 2009 (United Kingdom)

The 2009 European Parliament Election was held in all 27 countries that are part of the European Union on June 4, 2009. In the United Kingdom, 72 Members of the European Parliament (MEPs) were elected using proportional representation.

Notable results include the UK Independence Party coming second in a national election for the first time in its history and the far-right British National Party gained its first ever representation in an elected parliament.

Final results across England, Scotland and Wales are shown below:


In Northern Ireland, 3 MEPs were elected from Sinn Fein, the Democratic Unionist Party and the Ulster Unionist Party.

The next European Parliament Election will be held in 2014.


</doc>
<doc id="270321" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270321" title="Danny Alexander">
Danny Alexander

Daniel Grian 'Danny' Alexander (born 15 May 1972) is a British politician who is the Chief Secretary to the Treasury in the Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition government. He is the Liberal Democrat Member of Parliament for Inverness, Nairn, Badenoch and Strathspey.

Danny Alexander was born in Edinburgh and first became an MP at the 2005 General election. Between 2005 and 2010, Danny Alexander was the Liberal Democrats Shadow Secretary for Work and Pensions. When the Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition government was formed on 11 May 2010, Alexander was appointed as the Secretary of State for Scotland. He was made the Chief Secretary to the Treasury on 29 May 2010, due to the resignation of David Laws.



</doc>
<doc id="270323" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270323" title="James and Oliver Phelps">
James and Oliver Phelps

James Andrew Eric "Jaime" Phelps and Oliver Martyn John Phelps (born February 25, 1986) are identical twin English actors, best known for playing Fred and George Weasley in the "Harry Potter" film series, which are based on the books.


</doc>
<doc id="270326" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270326" title="Michael Moore (UK Politician)">
Michael Moore (UK Politician)

Michael Kevin Moore (born June 3, 1965) is a British politician who is the Secretary of State for Scotland in the Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition government. He is the Member of Parliament for Berwickshire, Roxburgh and Selkirk. He has been a Liberal Democrat MP since 1997.


</doc>
<doc id="270327" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270327" title="Year of the Five Emperors">
Year of the Five Emperors

The Year of the Five Emperors refers to the year 193 AD, in which there were five claimants for the title of Roman Emperor. The five were Pertinax, Didius Julianus, Pescennius Niger, Clodius Albinus and Severus.

The year 193 opened with the murder of Commodus on New Year's Eve, 31 December 192. The City Prefect Pertinax was proclaimed Emperor on New Year's Day, 1 January 193. 

Pertinax tried to restore discipline in the Praetorian Guard, and did not pay them what they had expected. He was assassinated by the Praetorian Guard on 28 March 193. They then auctioned off the post of Emperor.

Later that same day, Didius Julianus outmaneuvered Titus Flavius Sulpicianus (Pertinax's father-in-law and also the new City Prefect) for the title of Emperor. Flavius Sulpicianus offered to pay each soldier 20,000 sestertii to buy their loyalty (eight times their annual salary; also the same amount offered by Marcus Aurelius to secure their favours in 161). Didius Julianus however offered 25,000 to each soldier to win the auction and was proclaimed Emperor by the Roman Senate on 28 March.

However, three other prominent Romans challenged for the throne: Pescennius Niger in Syria, Clodius Albinus in Britain, and Severus in Pannonia. 

Severus marched on Rome to oust Didius Julianus and had him decapitated on 1 June 193, then dismissed the Praetorian Guard and executed the soldiers who had killed Pertinax. 

Consolidating his power, Severus battled Pescennius Niger at Cyzicus and Nicea in 193 and then defeated him at Issus in 194. 

Clodius Albinus initially supported Septimius Severus believing that he would succeed him. When he realised that Severus had other intentions, Albinus had himself declared Emperor in 195 but was defeated by Severus at the Battle of Lugdunum on 19 February 197.


</doc>
<doc id="270334" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270334" title="Severus">
Severus

Severus (Lucius Septimius Severus, 11 April 145 – 4 February 211) was Roman Emperor from 193 to 211.

Severus was born in Leptis Magna in the province of Africa. As a young man, Severus advanced under the reigns of Marcus Aurelius and Commodus. 

Severus seized power after the death of Emperor Pertinax in 193 during the so-called Year of the Five Emperors. After deposing the incumbent emperor Didius Julianus in a bloodless coup, Severus fought his rival claimants, the generals Pescennius Niger and Clodius Albinus. Niger was defeated in 194 at the Battle of Issus, and Albinus three years later at the Battle of Lugdunum. 

After solidifying his rule, Severus waged a brief war against the Parthian Empire, sacking their capital Ctesiphon in 197. In 202 he campaigned in Africa against the Garamantes, briefly taking their capital Garama and expanding the southern frontier of the empire radically. 

Late in his reign he fought the Picts in Caledonia and strengthened Hadrian's Wall in Britain. Severus died in 211 at Eboracum, succeeded by his sons Caracalla and Geta. With the succession of his sons, Severus founded the Severan dynasty, the last dynasty of the empire before the Crisis of the Third Century.


</doc>
<doc id="270341" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270341" title="Hadrosaur">
Hadrosaur

Hadrosaurs (meaning "bulky lizards") were the family of duck-billed herbivorous dinosaurs. They were the most common dinosaurs. 

Hadrosaurs ranged in size from 10 to 54.5 ft (3 to 16.6 m) long. They had horny, toothless beaks and hundreds of cheek teeth in the sides of their jaws. The duck-billed dinosaurs had the most teeth; they had up to about 960 cheek teeth. Hadrosaurs lived during the later Cretaceous, and their fossils have been found in North America, Europe, and Asia.

Hadrosaurs had a stiff tail that was probably used for balance. They had hoof-like nails on their feet, and bumpy skin. They ran on two legs, holding their tail and head in a horizontal position. They may have walked on all four legs while grazing. Hadrosaurs probably lived near bodies of water, migrating to high ground to lay eggs. It used to be thought that they had webbed hands, but this was an artifact of the fossilization process.



</doc>
<doc id="270344" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270344" title="Sundre, Alberta, Canada">
Sundre, Alberta, Canada

Sundre, Alberta, is a rural town of about 2,000 in population. It is a half hour drive east of the Rocky Mountains. The mayor of Sundre is Annette Clews. Sundre is home to the Pro Rodeo. Sundre has one public Kindergarten to grade 8 school called River Valley School with Chinooks Edge School Division. And there is one public high school called Sundre High School. There is so much to do in Sundre that you wouldn't expect in such a small town! There is Sundre Aquaplex, Sundre Hockey, Sundre Dance, Sundre Taekwondo, and much, much more! Sundre is pronounced Sun-dree. Sundre became a village in 1950 and a town in 1956.


</doc>
<doc id="270345" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270345" title="A Journey">
A Journey

A Journey is a book written by former British Prime Minister Tony Blair. It is about Tony Blair's time as leader of the Labour Party (1994-2007) and Prime Minister (1997-2007).

The book was published on September 1, 2010. All money made by the book was donated to the Royal British Legion, which is a charity that financially and socially helps people who have served or are serving in the British Armed Forces. The book is 624 pages long and has received mixed reviews from critics.


</doc>
<doc id="270347" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270347" title="Iain Gray">
Iain Gray

Iain Gray (born 7 June 1957) is a Scottish politician and leader of the Scottish Labour Party. He is the Member of the Scottish Parliament for East Lothian. Before going into politics he had been a teacher in Edinburgh and Mozambique.


</doc>
<doc id="270349" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270349" title="Mercedes-Benz E-Class">
Mercedes-Benz E-Class

The E-CLASS is a car manufactured by German car manufacturer Mercedes-Benz.


</doc>
<doc id="270350" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270350" title="Feira de Santana">
Feira de Santana

Feira de Santana is a city located in the state of Bahia, northeastern of Brazil. Between the Jacuípe and Pojuca Rivers, the city is a distribution center connecting the state capital, Salvador, with other cities and is a passage for the highway.



</doc>
<doc id="270351" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270351" title="Pagani">
Pagani

Pagani is an Italian Supercar manufacturer. Their newest car, the Zonda R is the fastest car to go round the Nürburgring.


</doc>
<doc id="270352" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270352" title="Vitória da Conquista">
Vitória da Conquista

Vitória da Conquista is a city located at the south-central of Bahia, state of Brazil northeast. The city is at 3.040 feet above sea level and lies at the semi-arid region, with low rainfall and periodic droughts.


</doc>
<doc id="270355" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270355" title="Baía de Todos os Santos">
Baía de Todos os Santos

Baía de Todos os Santos ("All Saints's Bay") is the biggest bay of Brazil with 25 miles (40 km) long and 20 miles (32 km) wide. The bay was first saw in November first, 1501, by the expedition of Amerigo Vespucci. It received this name because November first is the "All Saints Day". Located on Bahia, state of Brazil, it is considered a touristic place, visited by tourists from all over the World.


</doc>
<doc id="270363" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270363" title="Brad Keselowski">
Brad Keselowski

Bradley "Brad" Keselowski (born February 12, 1984) is an American racecar driver. Brad drives the #2 Miller Lite Dodge Charger for Penske Racing in the Sprint Cup Series and the #22 Discount Tire Company Charger in the NASCAR Nationwide series for Penske Racing. He used to driver for JR Motorsports, a team owned by Dale Earnhardt, Jr. from 2007 to 2009 in the Nationwide series. He also used to drive for Phoenix Racing and Hendrick Motorsports in the Sprint Cup Series. Keselowski is the 2010 NASCAR Nationwide series champion. 

Keselowski started racing in NASCAR in 2004 in the Craftsman Truck Series. He drove a few races the #29 for K Automotive Racing team. His first race was at Martinsville Speedway. He started 26th and finished the race in 33rd. His best finish of his first year was at the Mansfield Motorsports Speedway where he finished 16th.

In 2005, Keselowski raced the full season in the Craftsman Truck Series. He finished the season 21st in points. Keselowski raced the first two races of the 2006 season, but his race team could not afford to keep racing.

In 2007, Keselowski started racing in the Busch series. After driving for a few teams, Dale Earnhardt, Jr. called Keselowski asking him to drive his #88 United States Navy Chevrolet for JR Motorsports for the rest of the year.

Keselowski raced with with JR Motorsports in 2008, and got his first win came June 7, 2008 at Nashville Superspeedway. He finished the season third in the points. Keselowski made his first start in the Sprint Cup Series.He finished the race in the 19th position. He also raced the final race of the season at Homestead Miami Speedway, finishing 23rd.

Keselowski drove the #88 for JR Motorsports again in 2009. He also raced a few races in the Sprint Cup Series. Keselowki got his first Sprint Cup Series win driving the #09 for Phoenix Racing at Talledega Superspeedway.

Keselowski left JR Motorsports and Phoenix Racing after the 2009 season to drive the full season for the #12 Dodge in the Sprint Cup Series and the #29 Dodge in the Nationwide series for Penske Racing in 2010.
In 2011, Brad drove the #2 Miller Lite Dodge after teammate Kurt Busch and team owner Roger Penske agreed to move Busch to the number #22 car.


</doc>
<doc id="270370" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270370" title="Amphetamine">
Amphetamine

Amphetamine is a synthetic drug. The drug is a stimulant: it can help people keep the focus and stay awake. It also decreases appetite and fatigue. Chemically, it is similar to Methamphetamine. These drugs increase the level of dopamine and norepinephrine in the brain, which can create euphoria. The class of drugs containing Amphetamine includes prescription drugs commonly used to treat attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). It is also used to treat symptoms of traumatic brain injury (TBI) and the daytime drowsiness symptoms of narcolepsy, amongst others. Initially, amphetamine was more popularly used to reduce appetite and to control weight. 

Sometimes, the drug is used for fun or to boost performance. There are many different names that are used for amphetamines, a common one is speed. The European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction reports the typical retail price of amphetamine in Europe varied between €3 and €15 ($4 to $21.55 USD) a gram in half of the reporting countries. The name "amphetamine" is derived from its chemical name: alpha-methylphenethylamine.


</doc>
<doc id="270371" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270371" title="Computer freezing">
Computer freezing

Under deadlock or even crashing circumstances, the computer can stop responding and freeze. The user must hardboot the OS.Usually unsaved data is not saved after the failure.



</doc>
<doc id="270373" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270373" title="8 track tape">
8 track tape

The 8-track is a music format which first appeared in the 1960's. It is a tape format which was created so people could play music in their cars. Unlike cassettes, 8 tracks are a continuous loop of tape. They did not need to be turned over to keep playing. There were four programs of music on each tape with two tracks on each program to create stereo sound. When the track was over, a very thin peice of metal in the tape would be sensed. This would cause the part of the player that read the tape (the "head") to start reading the next track. 8 tracks became very popular in the early 1970s. They were used both in the home and car.

In the 1970s, the cassette tape was improved. It eventually had better quality than 8-tracks. By the late 1970s, cassettes became more popular than 8-tracks. In 1980, 8-tracks were rarely being made. They could still be bought through mail order record clubs until 1987. Today there are still a small number of people who collect 8 tracks.

The 8-track had many problems. Unlike cassettes, the rubber roller was in the cartridge. It would often wear out. This could cause a gooey substance in the tapes. This also caused the tapes to wear out quickly. The spacing between the tracks were very narrow. Music from tracks other than the one being played could often be heard. The sensing foil in the tape would sometimes break off. This would stop the tape from changing tracks.


</doc>
<doc id="270375" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270375" title="The plateau montreal">
The plateau montreal

The plateau is a neighborhood in Montreal just northeast of downtown. Originally it was a middle class neighborhood containing large Quebecois, Portugeese and Jewish population. In the 1980's many artists moved into the plateau attracted by low rent and the beautiful architecture. Today the plateau is a very expensive area to live in with many attractive shops and restaurants. The neighborhood maintains an old world charm with it's beautiful architecture. It is certainly one of the most beautiful places in Montreal.


</doc>
<doc id="270376" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270376" title="Côte-des-Neiges">
Côte-des-Neiges

Côte-des-Neiges is a working class neighborhood in Montreal, Canada. It is located north of downtown on the other side of Mount Royal. The west side of the neighborhood is very ethnic with many shops that cater to this population. Most of the people here live in apartment buildings built after 1945. The eastern part of Côte-des-Neiges is more Québécois and more of an upperclass neighborhood. North America's largest church, St. Joseph's oratory, is located here, as well as the University of Montreal.


</doc>
<doc id="270378" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270378" title="Wikipedia:Simple News/15-11-10">
Wikipedia:Simple News/15-11-10


</doc>
<doc id="270379" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270379" title="Wikipedia:Simple News/15-11-10/Announcements">
Wikipedia:Simple News/15-11-10/Announcements


</doc>
<doc id="270383" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270383" title="Head Rush (TV show)">
Head Rush (TV show)

Head Rush is a science show that shows many facts about science.




</doc>
<doc id="270384" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270384" title="Wikipedia:Simple News/15-11-10/Admins">
Wikipedia:Simple News/15-11-10/Admins


</doc>
<doc id="270389" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270389" title="Wikipedia:Simple News/15-11-10/Articles">
Wikipedia:Simple News/15-11-10/Articles


</doc>
<doc id="270391" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270391" title="Wikipedia:Simple News/Ancient Apparition/Articles/In the News/Simple News returns">
Wikipedia:Simple News/Ancient Apparition/Articles/In the News/Simple News returns

This month a couple of editors resurrected Simple News. We'll continue to bring you the same news as in past years, nothing's changed it's still being written by the community, for the community. You are all welcome to contribute if you like, stories can range anything from News items to Sports to Wikimedia Foundation related news. If you know of something interesting that you feel like writing about, and DO IT!

... that needs more hooks? If you know of or come across an interesting fact from any article that meets the requirements to be featured in the "Did you know" section of the main page, and submit it! The lovely folks at Did you know are always looking for more hooks and active contributors to join the project. So why sit there and wait? 

There's been an increase in vandalism by IPs since late October across all projects, on the Simple English Wikipedia vandalism is picked up by a dedicated group of users who participate in Recent changes patrol on the channel.

Most Simple News readers may not have seen or heard of me before, well I'm a user on the English Wikipedia (under the same username) and I've been editing for quite some time. This is the first, hopefully not the last, article that I've written for Simple News and I hope that with each one it brings you as much excitement to read (yeah right :P) as it does for me to write. 

Until next time!

— • • 02:37, 7 November 2010 (UTC)


</doc>
<doc id="270392" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270392" title="Wikipedia:Simple News/Template:Simple-News-article-start">
Wikipedia:Simple News/Template:Simple-News-article-start

__NOEDITSECTION__

</doc>
<doc id="270396" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270396" title="Template:Infobox NASCAR driver">
Template:Infobox NASCAR driver


</doc>
<doc id="270397" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270397" title="Template:Infobox NASCAR driver/doc">
Template:Infobox NASCAR driver/doc

This template has two types of variables to be called, those having to do with statistics, and those not having to do with statistics. All attributes are optional.
<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="270398" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270398" title="Sinornithosaurus">
Sinornithosaurus

Sinornithosaurus (derived from Latin and Greek, meaning 'Chinese bird-lizard') was a feathered dromaeosaurid dinosaur from the Lower Cretaceous Period of the Yixian Formation in what is now China.
This new fossil suggests that these dinosaurs may not have had scaly, reptile-like skin, but perhaps had a softer, downy coat. No fossil skin impressions of these dinosaurs had been found previously.


</doc>
<doc id="270399" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270399" title="Wikipedia:Simple News/Ancient Apparition/Articles/In the News">
Wikipedia:Simple News/Ancient Apparition/Articles/In the News

Simple News returns!
Wikipedia turns 10!

</doc>
<doc id="270400" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270400" title="Sinosauropteryx">
Sinosauropteryx

Sinosauropteryx 
is a genus of non-avialan dinosaur ("not" a bird). 

It is the first one found with the fossilized impressions of furry down or filamentous feathers. Overall, the filaments resemble the down-like feathers of some modern flightless birds.

"Sinosauropteryx" lived in China during the early Cretaceous period and was a close relative of "Compsognathus". It has been dated to 124.6–122 million years ago.

The fossils were from the famous Jehol biota of Sihetun, Liaoning Province, China, and represent an ancient lake bed. 

Most paleontologists do not consider "Sinosauropteryx" to be a bird, because phylogenetically, it lies far from the "clade" Aves, usually defined as "Archaeopteryx" plus modern birds. 

"Sinosauropteryx prima" is among the smallest known non-avian theropods, with the type specimen (a nearly mature individual) measuring only in length, including a very long tail.

Paleontologist Nick Longrich suggested that these specimens preserve remnants of the original colour pattern the animal would have had in life. He argued that the dark, banded stains on the tail were too evenly spaced to have been caused by random separation of the fossil slabs, and that they represent fossilized pigments present in the feathers.

The presence of dark feathers along only the top of the body may also reflect the colour pattern in life, indicating that "Sinosauropteryx prima" was countershaded with dark colour on its back and lighter colour on its underside, with bands or stripes on the tail for camouflage.

The main colour turned out later to be ginger.


</doc>
<doc id="270401" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270401" title="Wikipedia:Simple News/Template:Signpost-footer">
Wikipedia:Simple News/Template:Signpost-footer


</doc>
<doc id="270403" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270403" title="Template:Random subpage">
Template:Random subpage

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="270406" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270406" title="Unenlagia">
Unenlagia

Unenlagia was a theropod from the mid-Cretaceous, living about 90 million years ago. The first birds appeared 150 million years ago, evolving from dinosaurs long before "Unenlagia" lived. Therefore, it is not an ancestor of modern-day birds, but was an evolutionary dead-end. The most bird-like dinosaur ever discovered is the 90-million-year-old "Unenlagia comahuensis", a flightless, 4-foot tall, 7.5-foot-long carnivore.


</doc>
<doc id="270407" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270407" title="Subversion">
Subversion

Subversion means trying to break the established order of a society. Subversion works against structures of power, authority, exploitation, servitude, and hierarchy. A subversive is something or someone that has some possibility of turning against an organization or system.

Subversive activity is helping or supporting individuals, groups, or organizations that want to remove governments by force and violence. Subversive activity may be similar to treason, sedition, sabotage, or espionage.

Subversion is a crime in China. The government of the People's Republic of China prosecutes subversives under Articles 102 through 112 of the state criminal law. These laws describe behavior that can be a threat to national security. China has prosecuted many dissidents using these laws. Articles 105 and 111 are used the most often to silence political dissent. Article 105 makes it a crime to organize, make a secret plan, work against the national order, or tell rumors to make people fight the national order or overthrow the socialist system. Article 111 prohibits stealing, secretly collecting, purchasing, or illegally providing state secrets or intelligence to an organization, institution, or personnel outside the country.

There is no crime defined as "subversion" in British Constitutional law. There is a crime of treason. Legal experts have tried define subversion, but political and legal thinkers could not reach a general agreement.



</doc>
<doc id="270410" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270410" title="Wikipedia:Simple News/Ancient Apparition">
Wikipedia:Simple News/Ancient Apparition

__NOEDITSECTION__
This is my Simple News home page, I'll post links to articles I've written here when I've done so. If you have any suggestions for an article, write one yourself OR contact me or another contributor on their talk page. Cheers! — • 04:28, 7 November 2010 (UTC)

My In the News Articles:


</doc>
<doc id="270411" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270411" title="Wikipedia:Simple News/Newsroom/Suggestions">
Wikipedia:Simple News/Newsroom/Suggestions

Make suggestions for articles you'd like to appear in the next edition of Simple News, or you can and create one yourself!

</doc>
<doc id="270418" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270418" title="Michio Kaku">
Michio Kaku

Dr. Michio Kaku is a theoretical physicist who is well renowned on the Science Channel, particularly for Sci-Fi Science. He is known as a "sci-fi fan" on the SC.

Michio was born in San Jose, California. As a child, he took judo lessons. When he grew older, he graduated from college with a summa cum laude degree.

Michio is famous for his major field, theoretical physics.

Sci-fi is another field Michio studied. Some episodes of Sci-Fi Science, for instance, ponder alien invasion of the planet, or a new solar system.

The string theory is another thing that Kaku studied.

Michio continues to study theoretical physics, and release new Sci-Fi Science episodes.

A futurist is a notable scientist who can seemingly predict the future. Futurists often use PPPW to evaluate the future. The "three Ps and one W" represent, to futurists, "plausible", "possible", and "preferable". The "W" stands for "wildcard"(random) events.

A science popularizer, or a popularizer of science, is one who captures the scientific method and accuracy to preserve the language in the name of science.

Michio Kaku was also a famous author. He wrote books such as Physics of the Impossible and Hyperspace, Beyond Einstein, and Parallel Worlds.

Kaku also was a well-known media presenter. He broadcasted his Sci-Fi Science TV show on demand, for instance.



</doc>
<doc id="270421" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270421" title="Severan dynasty">
Severan dynasty

The Severan dynasty was a Roman imperial dynasty, which ruled the Roman Empire between 193 and 235. The dynasty was founded by the Roman general Septimius Severus, who rose to power during the civil war of 193, known as the Year of the Five Emperors.

Although Septimius Severus successfully restored peace following the upheaval of the late 2nd century, the dynasty was disturbed by unstable family relationships, and constant political turmoil. It foreshadowed the coming Crisis of the Third Century. It was the last lineage of the Principate founded by Augustus.

Dates represent status of "Augustus".

The end of the Severids marked the start of the Crisis of the Third Century.


</doc>
<doc id="270436" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270436" title="Crisis of the Third Century">
Crisis of the Third Century

The Crisis of the Third Century (235–284 AD) was a period in which the Roman Empire nearly collapsed under the combined pressures of invasion, civil war, plague, and collapse of the economy. The Crisis is sometimes called the "Military Anarchy" or "Imperial Crisis". 

The Crisis began with the assassination of Emperor Alexander Severus at the hands of his own troops in 235 AD. This started a fifty-year period in which 20–25 claimants to the title of Emperor, mostly prominent Roman Army generals, taking power over all or part of the Empire. 

By 258–260, the Empire split into three competing states, with the Gallic Empire including the Roman provinces of Gaul, Britannia and Hispania; and the Palmyrene Empire, including the eastern provinces of Syria Palaestina and Aegyptus; becoming independent from the Italian-centered Roman Empire proper between them. The Crisis ended with the ascension of Diocletian in 284.

The Crisis resulted in profound changes in the Empire's institutions, society, economic life, and eventually, religion. It is increasingly seen a transition period between the historical periods of Classical antiquity and late antiquity.


</doc>
<doc id="270438" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270438" title="Sci-Fi Science">
Sci-Fi Science

Sci-Fi Science is a science show hosted by Michio Kaku. As Kaku explains the principles of science, he suggests methods and shows various diagrams of the concept.

Michio Kaku starts by explaining a science concept, and shows diagrams later to demonstrate the principles.

The Sci-Fi in the show are such things as alien invasion and another Earth.


</doc>
<doc id="270460" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270460" title="Ecumenism">
Ecumenism

Over the years, Christianity has been split into many different movements. These separations are based on doctrine, on history, and what people do in everyday life. Ecumenism or Oecumenism is the idea that the different movements should work together more than they currently do. This idea is different from interfaith dialogue.


</doc>
<doc id="270470" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270470" title="Douglas DC-8">
Douglas DC-8

The Douglas DC-8 is an aircraft with four engines. It was the first jet plane made by the Douglas Aircaft Company. It was made from 1958 to 1972. There were 556 DC-8 planes built. Major users were Air Transport International, Astar Air Cargo and Johnsons Air. It was launched later than the Boeing 707.


</doc>
<doc id="270477" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270477" title="John Elliot (railway manager)">
John Elliot (railway manager)

Sir John Elliot (6 May 1898 – 18 September 1988) was a British transport and railway manager. Born John Elliot Blumenfeld, he was the son of the "Daily Mail" news editor R. D. Blumenfeld (who later became managing editor of the "Daily Express".) He changed his name to John Elliot in March 1923.


</doc>
<doc id="270478" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270478" title="Template:S-bus">
Template:S-bus

<includeonly>|-
! colspan="3" style="background: #ffcc66;" | Business positions</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="270479" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270479" title="Template:S-mil">
Template:S-mil

<includeonly>|-
! colspan="3" style="background: #CF9C65;" | Military offices
</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="270480" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270480" title="Template:Heads of public transport in London">
Template:Heads of public transport in London


</doc>
<doc id="270488" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270488" title="Sayeeda Warsi, Baroness Warsi">
Sayeeda Warsi, Baroness Warsi

Sayeeda Hussain Warsi, Baroness Warsi (surname pronounced "VAR-SEY"; born March 28, 1971 in Dewsbury, England) is a British politician and lawyer of Pakistani origins and is a member of the House of Lords. She is the Chairman of the Conservative Party and Minister Without Portfolio in the Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition government. She is the first Muslim woman to be a member of the British cabinet.


</doc>
<doc id="270489" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270489" title="Ulster Unionist Party">
Ulster Unionist Party

The Ulster Unionist Party or UUP for short is a centre-right political party in Northern Ireland. It wants Northern Ireland to stay in the United Kingdom and is also moderately against the European Union. It has 18 out of 108 seats in the Northern Ireland Assembely and 1 of 3 Northern Ireland seats in the European Parliament but has no seats in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom. It's current leader is Tom Elliott.

During the 2010 General Election and the 2009 European Parliament Election, the party allied itself to the UK Conservative Party and called itself Ulster Conservatives and Unionists - New Force.


</doc>
<doc id="270490" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270490" title="New South Greenland">
New South Greenland

New South Greenland,which is also known as Morrell's Land, was an appearance of land recorded by the American captain Benjamin Morrell. Morrel reported the sighting on the schooner "Wasp" in , during a sealing and exploration voyage in the Weddell Sea area of Antarctica. He provided precise coordinates and a description of a coastline. Morrel claimed to have sailed along the coastline for more than . The Weddel Sea is in the Antarctic. Because of icebergs, it was difficult to navigate, and few people did. The sighting was never investigated properly, at the time. Expeditions to Antarctica in the early 20th century proved that there was no land at the positions recorded by Morrell. 

At the time of Morrell's voyage the Weddel Sea had not been named and its geography and coastline was almost entirely unknown. This made the sighting plausible at the start. Morrell made obvious errors when he told about the new sighting. He also had the reputation of liking to invent new stories. These two aspects made many people sceptical about the sighting. In the German explorer Wilhelm Filchner's ship "Deutschland" was blocked by ice in the Weddel Sea and drifted into the area, where Morrell had reported the new land. Filchcher searched for the land, but found no trace of it. A sounding of the sea bottom revealed more than of water, indicating no land nearby. Three years later, trapped in the same waters with his ship "Endurance", Ernest Shackleton was able by similar means to confirm the land's non-existence.

Different explanations for Morell's error have been suggested. One of them is that Morrell wanted to deceive with this claimed finding. Morrell describes his sighting briefly, and seeks no personal credit or glory from the discovery. In his narrative, he gives all credit to his fellow sealing captain, Robert Johnson, for finding and naming the land two years earlier. Morrell may have been honestly mistaken, through miscalculation of his ship's position or by misremembering detail when writing the account after nine years. Alternatively, he may have made the common error of confusing distant icebergs with land, or been misled by the distorting effects of Antarctic mirage. In 1843 the distinguished British naval explorer James Clark Ross reported possible land in a position close to Morrell's; this land, too, would eventually be proven not to exist.

In the early 19th century the geography of Antarctica was almost completely unknown, but occasional sightings of land had been recorded. Benjamin Morrell sailed to the South Sandwich Islands. Morrel was appointed commander of the schooner "Wasp" for a two-year voyage of sealing, trading and exploration in the Antarctic seas and the southern Pacific Ocean in 1822. In addition to his sealing duties Morrell had, as he put it, "discretionary powers to prosecute new discoveries." He proposed to use this discretion to investigate the Antarctic seas "and to ascertain the practicality ... of penetrating to the South Pole." This would be the first of four long voyages that would keep Morrell at sea for most of the following eight years, although he would not revisit the Antarctic after the initial voyage.

"Wasp" sailed south from New York on 1822. She reached the Falkland Islands late in October, after which Morrell spent 16 days in fruitless searches for the nonexistent Aurora Islands, before heading for South Georgia, where the ship anchored on . In his account Morrell wrongly records the position of this anchorage, placing it in open sea about south-west of the island's coastline. "Wasp" then headed eastwards to hunt for seals. According to Morrell, the ship reached the remote Bouvet Island on . He found this elusive island without apparent difficulty. Historian H.R. Mill notes that Morrell's description of the island's physical features fails to mention the island's most singular characteristic—it is covered by a permanent ice sheet. Morrell then attempted to take the ship southwards. He reached think ice around 60°S and decided to turn northeast towards the Kerguelen Islands where he anchored on .

After several days of exploration and evidently profitable sealing, "Wasp" left the Kerguelens on 1823, sailing south and east to record her furthest eastern position at 64°52'S, 118°27'E on . From this point, according to his own account, Morrell decided to take advantage of strong easterly winds, and made a rapid passage westward back to the Greenwich meridian, 0°. His account is light on details, but indicates that a distance of more than was covered in 23 days. The credibility of this claim of such fast, direct travel in ice-infested waters has been widely disputed, particularly as Morrell quotes southerly latitudes during the voyage which later proved to be at least 100 miles inside the then undiscovered Antarctic continental mainland. On "Wasp" reached Candlemas Island in the South Sandwich Islands. After a few days spent in a search for fuel to feed the ship's stoves "Wasp" sailed southwards on , into the area later known as the Weddell Sea. Finding the sea remarkably free of ice, Morrell advanced to 70°14'S before turning north-westward on . This retreat, Morrell says, was due to the ship's lack of fuel; otherwise, he claims, in these open waters he could have taken the ship to 85°, or perhaps to the Pole itself. These words are very similar to those used by the British explorer James Weddell to describe his own experiences in the same area, a month earlier. This has led historians to believe that Morrel may have copied the section from Weddel's.

At 2 pm next day, 15 March, as "Wasp" cruised north-east in the sea that would later bear Weddell's name, Morrell records: "land was seen from the masthead, bearing west, distance 3 leagues" (about nine miles, 14 km). His account continues: "At half past we were close on with the body of land to which Captain Johnson had given the name of New South Greenland". Robert Johnson, a former captain of the "Wasp", had made an exploratory voyage along the western coast of the Antarctic peninsula in 1821. Johnson had called it "New South Greenland". Morrell casually refered to Johnston's description. This indicates that Morrell assumed that the land he was seeing was in fact the east coast of the pensinsula. At the time he wrote this, his position was about 14 degrees east of that pensinsula. The geographical features of the pensinsula were not known at the time of Morrell's voyage. Morrell describes seal hunting activities continuing along this coast during the remainder of the day. On the following morning sealing resumed as the ship moved slowly southward, and continued until Morrell called a halt "because of shortage of water and season far advanced". Mountains of snow, he observed, could be seen about further south.

Morrell turned north from a position he calculated as 67°52'S, 48°11W. Three days later, on , the ship passed what he took to be the northern cape of the land, at 62°41'S, 47°21'W. "This land abounds with oceanic birds of every description", wrote Morrell. He also records seeing 3,000 sea elephants. At 10 o'clock "Wasp" "bade farewell to the cheerless shores of New South Greenland"; there is no further mention of it in the long voyage account. "Wasp" sailed for Tierra del Fuego, then through the Magellan Strait into the Pacific Ocean, reaching Valparaiso, Chile, on 1823.

From the first navigations of the Southern Ocean in the 16th century, lands which subsequently proved to be nonexistent had from time to time been reported in these waters. Polar historian Robert Headland of the Scott Polar Research Institute has suggested various reasons for these false sightings, ranging from "too much rum" to deliberate hoaxes designed to lure rival ships away from good sealing grounds. Some may have been of large ice masses that were carrying rocks and other glacial debris—dirty ice can appear convincingly similar to land. It is also possible that some of these lands existed, but later became submerged after volcanic eruptions. Other sightings may have been of actual land, wrongly located through observational errors due to chronometer failure, bad weather or simple incompetence.

Doubt was cast over the existence of New South Greenland when, in 1838, the French explorer Jules Dumont d'Urville sailed over the position of Morrell's "north cape", but saw no indication of land. This evidence, and the general nature of Morrell's account—its obvious errors, and his reputation as a braggart "as great ... as any hero of autobiographical romance" in the words of British geographer Hugh Robert Mill, led many geographers thereafter to ignore his claims. This scepticism remained even after Sir James Clark Ross reported an appearance of land in 1843, not far from Morrell's alleged observation: Ross's sighting was occasionally proffered as supportive of Morrell's claim. There was no further penetration of the Weddell Sea until 1903, when William Speirs Bruce took "Scotia" to 74°1'S, but in a sector of the sea which did not bring him close to Morrell's or Ross's sightings. Bruce was, however, generally well-disposed towards Morrell, writing that his claims should not be rejected until absolutely disproved.

The first determined search for New South Greenland came during the Second German Antarctic Expedition, 1911–13, under Wilhelm Filchner. The expedition's ship, "Deutschland", had become trapped in heavy sea ice while attempting to establish a shore base at Vahsel Bay. Her subsequent north-westerly drift had, by mid-, brought her to a position east of Morrell's recorded sighting. Filchner left the ship on and, with two companions and sufficient provisions for three weeks, sledged westward across the sea ice in search of Morrell's land. Daylight was limited to two or three hours a day, and temperatures fell to −31 °F (−35 °C), making travel difficult. In these conditions the group covered , taking frequent sightings. They found no signs of land; a lead weight dropped through the ice reached a depth of before the line snapped, a depth which confirmed there was no land in the vicinity. Filchner concluded that what Morrell had seen had been a mirage.

On 17 August 1915 Sir Ernest Shackleton's ship "Endurance", trapped in the ice like "Deutschland" three years earlier, drifted to a point 10 miles west of Morrell's charted position. Here, a depth sounding recorded 1,676 fathoms (10,060 feet, 3,065 m), leading Shackleton to write: "I decided that Morrell Land must be added to the long list of Antarctic islands and continental coasts that have resolved themselves into icebergs". On a further sounding of 1,900 fathoms (11,400 feet, 3,500 m) gave Shackleton additional evidence of the non-existence of New South Greenland.

Although Filchner's and Shackleton's investigations and observations were accepted as conclusive proof that New South Greenland was a myth, there remained the question of Sir James Ross's reported appearance of land in a position around 65°S, 47°W. Ross's reputation was sufficient for this possibility to be taken seriously, and for his alleged sighting to be recorded on maps and Admiralty charts. In 1922 Frank Wild, leading the Shackleton-Rowett Expedition aboard "Quest" after Shackleton's death early in the expedition, investigated the location of Ross's sighting. Nothing was seen; prevented by ice conditions from reaching the exact spot, Wild took a sounding at 64°11'S, 46°4'W, which revealed of water. This showed that no land was near.

According to W.J. Mills, Morrell had the reputation among his contemporaries as "the biggest liar in the Southern Ocean". Mills calls the westward journey from Morrell's claimed farthest east position "impossible ... unbelievably fast, quite apart from lying south of the coastline for much of the way". In search of an explanation Mills suggests that since Morrell's account was written nine years after the voyage he may not have had access to the ship's log, and hence may "have felt constrained to invent details that appeared plausible" in order to sustain his narrative. This would explain the profusion of positional and date errors.

Hugh Robert Mill, writing in 1905 before the non-existence of New South Greenland had been proved conclusively, refers to the sheer absurdity of some of the incidents described in Morrell's account, and concludes that because of Morrell's blunders, and his habit of incorporating the experiences of others into his story, all his claims must be treated as not proven. Nevertheless he concedes that "a man may be ignorant, boastful and obscure, and yet have done a solid piece of work". Canadian geographer Paul Simpson-Housley adopts a more sympathetic approach. Although dubious about much of Morrell's account, Simpson-Housley suggests that the speeds claimed for the western journey, though fast, are not impossible. He believes that the claimed farthest south in the Weddell Sea, queried by Mill, is entirely plausible, given that James Weddell had sailed four degrees further south just a month earlier.

Another inclined to defend Morrell's integrity is the writer Rupert Gould, who included a lengthy essay on New South Greenland in his collection "Enigmas", published in 1929. The assumption that the New South Greenland sighting was simply invented by Morrell is dismissed, primarily on the grounds of the very little weight given to the discovery in Morrell's 500-page account. Gould writes: "If Morrell wished to gain an undeserved reputation as an Antarctic explorer, one would think he could have gone a better way about it than to bury his "pièces justificatives", after he had forged them, in an undistinguished corner of so bulky a book." In the relatively few pages devoted to the Antarctic, Morrell's account of his discovery is brief and entirely matter-of-fact, crediting it to Captain Johnson two years earlier rather than to himself.

Gould also discusses the possibility that what Morrell sighted was indeed the eastern coast of Graham Land, the so-called "Foyn Coast", despite its being 14° further west from position of the New South Greenland sighting. In support, Gould asserts that the peninsula's eastern coast corresponds very closely with the stretch of coastline described by Morrell. This theory supposes that Morrell miscalculated the ship's position, perhaps because he lacked the chronometer necessary for proper navigational observation. In his account Morrell writes that he was "destitute of the various nautical and mathematical instruments", but other parts of his narrative make it clear that the occasional dead reckoning calculation was the exception to the norm. In any circumstances a longitudinal error of 14° is very large, and the additional distance of about to the Foyn coast seems too great to have been covered within the ten-day voyage from the South Sandwich Islands, where the ship's position is recorded accurately. Even so, Gould maintains that a "balance of evidence" shows that what Morrell saw was the Foyn coast.

Filchner's view that the supposed sighting of New South Greenland could be explained by a mirage is echoed by Simpson-Housley. He suggests that Morrell and his crew saw a superior mirage. One form of superior mirage, sometimes described as a Fata Morgana, distorts distant flat coastlines or ice edges both vertically and horizontally, so they can appear to have tall cliffs and other features such as high mountain peaks and valleys. In his expedition account "South", Shackleton gives a description of a Fata Morgana observed on 1915, coincidentally as his ship "Endurance" drifted close to the recorded position of New South Greenland: "The distant pack is thrown up into towering barrier-like cliffs, which are reflected in blue lakes and lanes of water at their base. Great white and golden cities of Oriental appearance at close intervals along these cliff-tops indicate distant bergs ... The lines rise and fall, tremble, dissipate, and reappear in an endless transformation scene".

Morrell's four voyages finally ended on 1831, with his return to New York. He then wrote his "Narrative of Four Voyages", which was published the following year. He attempted to resume his seafaring career, seeking employment with the London-based shipping firm of Enderby Brothers, but his reputation had preceded him and he was rejected. Charles Enderby stated publicly that "he had heard so much of him that he did not think fit to enter into any engagement with him." Morrell also sought to join Dumont D'Urville's expedition to the Weddell Sea in 1837, but his services were again declined. He reportedly died in 1839, and is commemorated by Morrell Island, 59°27'S, 27°19'W, an alternative name for Thule Island in the Southern Thule sub-group of the South Sandwich Islands. Robert Johnson, who coined the name New South Greenland, disappeared with his ship in 1826, while investigating the Antarctic waters in the vicinity of what would later be known as the Ross Sea.



</doc>
<doc id="270491" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270491" title="London Underground 1972 Stock">
London Underground 1972 Stock

The London Underground 1972 stock is a fleet of trains used on the London Underground. The 1972 Stock was ordered to make up the shortfall in trains on the Northern line's 1959 Tube Stock fleet. It is, however, currently used on the Bakerloo line.



</doc>
<doc id="270497" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270497" title="Escalator">
Escalator

An escalator is a moving staircase – a conveyor transport device for carrying people between floors of a building. The device consists of a motor-driven chain of individual, linked steps that move up or down on tracks, allowing the step treads to remain horizontal.


</doc>
<doc id="270498" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270498" title="Central London">
Central London

Central London is the innermost part of London, England. 

The inner London boroughs were defined by the London Government Act 1963, and the definition is used for purposes such as the local government finance system. They correspond to the former area of the County of London. These inner London boroughs are:


The City of London was not part of the County of London and is not a London Borough but can be included. North Woolwich is an anomaly as it was part of the County of London but was transferred to Newham, an outer London borough, in 1965.


</doc>
<doc id="270499" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270499" title="Template:Column-width">
Template:Column-width

<includeonly>column-width: ; -moz-column-width: ; -webkit-column-width: ;</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="270500" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270500" title="California Proposition 19 (2010)">
California Proposition 19 (2010)

California's Proposition 19, (often shortened to "Prop 19"), also known as the "Regulate, Control & Tax Cannabis Act", was a ballot initiative on the November 2, 2010 California statewide ballot. The acts purpose is to decriminalized/legalized various marijuana-related activities, allow local governments to regulate these activities, collect marijuana-related fees and taxes, and authorized various criminal and civil penalties. It did not pass with 54% of California voters voting 'No', and 46% voting 'Yes'. 


</doc>
<doc id="270501" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270501" title="Template:Sub-regions of London">
Template:Sub-regions of London


</doc>
<doc id="270503" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270503" title="Square foot">
Square foot

A square foot is a way to measure area. It is the area made by a square that has 1 foot sides.



</doc>
<doc id="270505" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270505" title="Martin McGuinness">
Martin McGuinness

James Martin Pacelli McGuinness (born May 23, 1950 in Derry, Northern Ireland) is an Irish politician who is the Deputy First Minister of Northern Ireland. He is a member of Sinn Fein, which is a political party that wants Northern Ireland to join with the Republic of Ireland and leave the United Kingdom. He is the Member of Parliament and Member of the Northern Ireland Assembly for the constituency of Mid Ulster.

Martin McGuiness joined the Irish Republican Army (IRA) in 1970 and was put in prison for six months in 1973. He was elected the Member of Parliament for Mid-Ulster at the 1997 General Election but never took his seat in the House of Commons. This is because Sinn Fein members do not want to swear any oath to the Queen. McGuiness was one of Sinn Fein's top debaters at the Good Friday Agreement of 1998 and was elected as a Member of the Northern Ireland Assembely in 1998 for the constituency of Mid Ulster. He was the Minister of Education in the Northern Ireland executive from 1999 to 2002. On May 8 2007, following the St. Andrew's Agreement Martin McGuiness was made the Deputy First Minister of Northern Ireland. Ian Paisley of the Democratic Unionist Party was the First Minister until June 5, 2008 when he was replaced by Peter Robinson.


</doc>
<doc id="270508" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270508" title="Peter Robinson">
Peter Robinson

Peter David Robinson (born 29 December, 1948 in Belfast, Northern Ireland) is a politician in Northern Ireland who is the First Minister of Northern Ireland and leader of the Democratic Unionist Party (DUP). 

He was elected the Member of Parliament for the constituency of Belfast East during the 1979 General Election and was elected to the Northern Ireland assembly in 1998. He was the Minister for Regional Development from November 1999 to July 2000 and again from October 2001 to October 2002. Robinson was Minister of Finance and Personnel from May 2007 to June 2008. On May 31, 2008 the leader of the DUP Ian Paisley resigned and Peter Robinson was chose to replace him as First Minister and DUP leader. In January 2010, it was revealed that Peter Robinson's wife Iris Robinson who was also an MP had had an affair and attempted suicide in 2008 whilst she was a member of the British and Northern Irish parliaments. This scandal may have caused Peter Robinson to lose his Belfast East parliamentary seat at the 2010 General Election.


</doc>
<doc id="270519" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270519" title="Jacob Riis">
Jacob Riis

Jacob August Riis (May 3, 1849 - May 26, 1914) was a Danish-American photographer and journalist. Riis came to America in 1861 and worked in various odd jobs before going into journalism. Riis is most known for his photographs and writings on slums in New York City. Riis is usually thought of as one of the Muckrakers, a group of people who wanted to improve conditions in cities.


</doc>
<doc id="270521" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270521" title="Summa cum laude">
Summa cum laude

A summa cum laude is a Latin word for a college degree, meaning "Highest honors" in English.


</doc>
<doc id="270522" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270522" title="Template:TOChidden">
Template:TOChidden


</doc>
<doc id="270523" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270523" title="Template:TOChidden/doc">
Template:TOChidden/doc

This template is for page <nowiki></nowiki> (Table Of Contents) code to go into a collapsible box that has [show]/[hide] functionality with the default being that the box is collapsed (and the TOC hidden) thereby allowing for a single click on the [show] area for display. This provides editors an option to better pages with long TOCs so that the lead isn't by default occupied with a large amount of dead blank space. Place the template in the location where the TOC is to be displayed. Note that Show Preview will show the TOC; the page must first be saved before the TOC will be hidden.

The necessity of this template is often disputed, so apply it with consideration. A suggested alternative is .

<includeonly>

</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="270530" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270530" title="Category:Articles with hCards">
Category:Articles with hCards


</doc>
<doc id="270534" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270534" title="Wikipedia:What to do when blocked">
Wikipedia:What to do when blocked

Keep right on editing. The admins are way too noisy for you! If you get instead, tell the admins that they've lost their minds, that they're the ones to be blocked.

After your block, edit again, but do not vandalize. If you do you may even be permanently banned! But during your ban place the template.

</doc>
<doc id="270535" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270535" title="Bugzilla">
Bugzilla

Bugzilla is an internet software for recording bug reports. It is coded in CGI and is used by many programmers. It is free for everyone to use without having to pay any money.



</doc>
<doc id="270538" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270538" title="How It's Made">
How It's Made

How It's Made is a half-hour science show that shows 3-4 everyday items being made. It is shown on the Discovery channel.



</doc>
<doc id="270545" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270545" title="Mount Tongariro">
Mount Tongariro

Mount Tongariro is located in the central North Island of New Zealand. It has 12 cones on top of its mountain. It has erupted over 70 times in the last few years. Mount Tongariro has a height of 1,978.


</doc>
<doc id="270547" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270547" title="FreeRice">
FreeRice

FreeRice is a non-profit organization that donates rice to the hungry people around the world. Players choose an answer from a multiple-choice question. As the player gets more right answers, they advance in level. The highest level depends on the subject.

In 2008, FreeRice became economically sufficient to donate 20 grains of rice per answer instead of 10. Unfortunately, the economic landslide of 2009 reduced the grains per answer back down to 10.

FreeRice: Official Site


</doc>
<doc id="270588" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270588" title="Bobby's World">
Bobby's World

Bobby's World is an American animated television series. It ran from 1990 to 1998 on FOX Kids. It was set in 1979 in California. It was about the life of Bobby Generic ( ) and his imagination on how he sees the world. The show was made by Canadian actor-comedian Howie Mandel. Mandel also provided the voice of both Bobby and his father Howard Generic, who looks like a cartoon version of Mandel. It was made by Film Roman for Alevy Productions and Fox Kids, and later NBC Universal. The theme song for "Bobby's World" was made by John Tesh and Michael Hanna.

The character of "Bobby" can be traced back to Mandel's stand-up comedy performances; Mandel would commonly have the same voice as Bobby, often talking with an unseen "parent".

The voices of Kelly Generic (Bobby's sister) and Martha Generic (Bobby's mom) are based on two characters Gail Matthius played when she was a member on "Saturday Night Live" in 1980. Martha is based on the character Roweena, a chain smoking hair stylist with a Upper Midwestern accent who gets into arguments with her best customer Nadine (Denny Dillon), while Kelly Generic is based on the character Vicky, a valley girl who annoys others with her shallow questions and rambling stories and often is seen with her friend Debbie (also Dillon).

In the US, during the show's final season on-air, the show was open-captioned; this was intended as an aid to help younger children learn to read.

In an April 2006 online interview, Mandel expressed his desire for a possible re-launch of the series. Episodes can be seen in syndication, or on some websites.

According to a video posted on YouTube.com, Mandel mentions that they are working on new episodes.

On February 12, 2007, the character Bobby made a surprise appearance on an episode of "Deal or No Deal".

Episodes often consist of a short live-action segment either before or after the main story (and sometimes both before and after). The segment would include Mandel describing some aspect of the story and often relating it back to his personal childhood.

Sometimes during these segments, the character of Bobby would appear in animated form and converse with Mandel. Other times, a live action child would appear and exchange words with Mandel. Endings of the show also featured Mandel breaking the proverbial "fourth wall" by talking to viewers about the preceding episode. In some part of the episode, Bobby will break the fourth wall by telling the audience his perspective on life.


The following primetime animated television specials were made in the 1980s:


The Super Nintendo Entertainment System and Sega Game Gear made a video game from "Bobby's World", which was built by RSP and published by Hi Tech Entertainment. In the game, Bobby's mother tells him to clean his room. As he is cleaning his room Bobby starts daydreaming about a toy. After you beat a level, Bobby has another daydream about another toy that he puts away.

During its first run, "Bobby's World" was seen on Fox Kids. After it was stopped in 1998, reruns began playing on FOX Family until 2001, and reruns on NBC Kids began fall 2011.



</doc>
<doc id="270593" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270593" title="Caesalpinioideae">
Caesalpinioideae

Caesalpinioideae is a subfamily of the flowering plant family Fabaceae. Members of this family usually have zygomorphic flowers. 

Some classification systems, for example the Cronquist system, treat Fabaceae in a narrow sense, raising Mimosoideae to the rank of family as Caesalpiniaceae. The Angiosperm Phylogeny Group treats Fabaceae in the broad sense.


</doc>
<doc id="270595" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270595" title="Haptic technology">
Haptic technology

Haptic technology or haptics is a tactile feedback technology. It makes vibrations and movements which can make people think that there is a real object when there isn't. They are used to look into the sense of touch. Some video games use this to make it seem more real.

The word Haptic comes from the Greek Haphe, meaning "pertaining to the sense of touch", and comes from the Greek word haptesthai meaning "to contact” or “to touch”.

Existing computer technology to the human and computer information exchange has been used mainly audio-visual information. However, the user through the virtual reality want to be more specific and realistic information, and is designed to feel the passing touch and force haptic technology.

Haptis are divided into the 'force feedback' and 'tactile feedback'

'Force feedback' is the technology that user to feel the power and movements.
For example, the park that are dynamic in the movie in the film as a moving screen, move the chair forward speed and sense of the conflict that their audience will feel like scenes. This is an example haeptikseuui using force feedback.

'Tactile feedback' place in the field of medicine that is used a lot. On a computer screen and watch the virtual 3-dimensional anatomical structure of the patient directly to the affected part of the 3-D video in real-time sisulhal a notice on your computer screen. And the compressed air and electrical machinery, such as moving suyonggi using a small pin and, in fact, feels like touching the skin and is passed to implement the reality of the situation is almost similar to the environment.

In the future, the output of the computer device used to monitor, speakers, as well as standard haptic devices is expected to go. In addition, the leisure industry, with the 21st century haptic technology has many economical potential, haptic technology for the study will be very active.


</doc>
<doc id="270597" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270597" title="John Bercow">
John Bercow

John Simon Bercow (surname pronounce "BER-COE";born 19 January 1963 in Edgware, Middlesex, England) is a British politician who is the Speaker of the House of Commons of the United Kingdom. He is the Member of Parliament (MP) for the constituency of Buckingham. 

John Bercow was active in the Conservative Party from a young age and was a Conservative councillor, for Lambeth, from 1986 to 1990. He stood as a candidate to become an MP at the 1987 and 1992 General Elections but was not successful. At the 1997 General Election, Bercow was elected the Conservative MP for Buckingham. He served in the shadow cabinets of Iain Duncan Smith and Michael Howard. After the Speaker Michael Martin resigned on 22 June 2009, Bercow was elected as the Speaker.


</doc>
<doc id="270599" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270599" title="Michael Portillo">
Michael Portillo

Michael Denzil Xavier Portillo (born 26 May 1953 in Hertfordshire, England) is a British television presenter and former Conservative Party politician. 

Michael Portillo first became a Member of Parliament (MP) in a by-election in 1984, representing the constituency of Enfield Southgate. He very much liked Margaret Thatchers policies and was quite Eurosceptic, meaning that he was against the European Union. He became a cabinet member in 1992, holding the following positions: Chief Secretary to the Treasury (April 1992-July 1994), Secretary of State for Employment (July 1994-July 1995) and Defence Secretary (July 1995-May 1997). Many people thought he would try to become the leader of the Conservative Party in 1995 but he chose to stay loyal to John Major. At the 1997 General Election, Portillo lost his seat in the House of Commons to the Labour Party.

Portillo returned to the House of Commons after winning a by-election in 1999 for the constituency of Kensington and Chelsea. He then started to re-think many of his ideas and began to argue for a more socially liberal Conservative Party. He became the Shadow Chancellor of the Exchequer in February 2000 but he did not have a good relationship with party leader William Hague. He was a candidate in the 2001 Conservative Party leadership contest; he lost to Iain Duncan Smith. Portillo left the House of Commons at the 2005 General Election and has since hosted several television and radio programmes.


</doc>
<doc id="270600" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270600" title="Pontifex Maximus">
Pontifex Maximus

The Pontifex Maximus was the high priest of the Roman Republic and Empire. The words meant 'greatest bridge-builder'. It was a religious post under the Roman Republic, and a mostly ceremonial post under the Roman Empire. The term was later used in the Roman Catholic Church for the Pope.


</doc>
<doc id="270601" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270601" title="Carl-Henning Pedersen">
Carl-Henning Pedersen

Carl-Henning Pedersen (23 September 1913 – 20 February 2007) was a Danish painter and a key member of the COBRA movement which existed from 1948 to 1951. He was known as the "Scandinavian Chagall", and was one of the leading Danish artists of the second half of the 20th century.

Pedersen was born in Copenhagen and brought up in the poor area near Vigerslev Alle. He held radical political beliefs. He joined the International Folk High School in Elsinore in 1933, where he met self-taught painter Else Alfelt. They married in 1934, and their first daughter, Vibeke Alfelt, was born later that year. Else Alfelt encouraged Pedersen to paint, and he first exhibited at the Artists' Autumn Exhibition ("Kunstnernes Efterårsudstilling") in Copenhagen in 1936, where he showed four abstract works. His modernist style was at odds with the socialist realism preferred by his communist friends, who snubbed him: he argued with Bertolt Brecht about his art. His abstract works, with flat planes of colour, emulated the works of cubists and of Paul Klee.

Pedersen travelled on foot to Paris in 1939, where he saw works by Picasso and Matisse. He visited the exhibition of "degenerate art" ("entartete Kunst") in Frankfurt am Main on his way home, where he was inspired by the paintings on show, particularly the works of Chagall, which remained a strong influence on his art for the rest of his life. His second daughter, Kari-Nina, was born in 1940. He joined the Høst group during the Nazi occupation of Denmark, writing about medieval Danish murals for its journal, "Helhesten", and continued to produce controversial modern abstract works. 

Pedersen and Else Alfelt were founder members of the CoBrA movement in 1948 together with Asger Jorn, Karel Appel and others. The movement took its name from the European cities where its founders were based: Copenhagen, Brussels and Amsterdam. They remained with the group until it dissolved in 1951, producing free-form, spontaneous images in strong, fantastic colours. He won the Eckersberg Award in 1950 and the Guggenheim Award in 1958. A retrospective was put on at the Carnegie Institute in Pittsburgh in 1961, and he was Denmark's representative at the Venice Biennale in 1962. He won the Thorvaldsen Medal in 1963.

Pedersen moved into monumental art in the 1960s and 1970s, producing a large mosaic, "Cosmic Sea", for the H. C. Ørsted Institute at Copenhagen University, and a huge tiled wall decoration, "Fantasy Play Around the Wheel of Life", for the Angli courtyard in Herning.

Pedersen was known for resisting to sell his works. Instead, he donated thousands to the Carl-Henning Pedersen and Else Alfelt Museum, which opened in Herning in 1976. Further works were donated to the Danish National Gallery ("Statens Museum for Kunst") in early 2007.

Pedersen moved to Burgundy in the 1980s, but most of his work still came from Danish sources. He surprised many when he worked on the redecoration of the Gothic cathedral in Ribe, working on the murals, painted glass and mosaics to illustrate Bible stories from 1983 to 1987. He also produced bronze sculptures, and works in oils and watercolour.

He died in Copenhagen, after a long illness. He was survived by his second wife, Sidsel Ramson.




</doc>
<doc id="270611" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270611" title="Roman Senate">
Roman Senate

The Roman Senate was the longest-lasting institution in Ancient Rome. It began in the first years of the city, which was supposedly founded in 753 BC. It survived the kings, the Roman Republic (509 BC–27 BC), the Roman Empire (27 BC–395 AD and the fall of the Western Roman Empire (395–476 AD).

The Republic started as an advisory council, and reached its peak in the middle Republic, when it was the most powerful body in Rome. The Senate lost much of its power in the first period of the Empire, known as the "Principate".

After Diocletian, when the centre of government was moved out of Rome, the Senate became just a municipal body. The influence of the old idea lived on, and Constantine II set up a Senate in Constantinople.

The Senate passed decrees called "senatus consultum", which were advice from the Senate to a magistrate (senior official). They usually were obeyed in practice.

Through such advice, the Senate directed the magistrates, especially the Roman Consuls (the chief magistrates) in their handling of military conflicts. 

The Senate also had an enormous degree of power over the civil government in Rome. Only the Senate could authorize the disbursal of public funds from the treasury. As the Roman Empire grew, the Senate also supervised the administration of the provinces, which were governed by former consuls and praetors. It decided which magistrate should govern which province.

The senators were patricians, and so members by birth, or men of lesser birth who had notable achievements. Under the early kings, the Senate numbered 100, but grew to 900, then Augustus reduced it to 600. Even so only about 100 to 200 members were active at any given time. From time to time there were other sources of power in Rome, such as assemblies, magistrates, dictators and emperors, but the Senate always played a part.



</doc>
<doc id="270632" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270632" title="Cabinet of the United Kingdom">
Cabinet of the United Kingdom

In the government of the United Kingdom, the Cabinet is a group of 22 people led and chosen by the Prime Minister who are the main decision-makers in the British government. People in the cabinet usually have to be members of either the House of Commons or the House of Lords.

In the cabinet today, there is a coalition, which is when two or more parties make up the government. In this case there are two political parties; the Conservative Party and the Liberal Democrats.

David Cameron - Prime Minister, First Lord of the Treasury and Minister for the Civil Service.

William Hague - First Secretary of State and Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs

George Osborne - Chancellor of the Exchequer

Kenneth Clarke - Lord Chancellor and Secretary of State for Justice

Theresa May - Secretary of State for the Home Department and Minister for Women and Equality

Phillip Hammond - Secretary of State for Defence

Iain Duncan Smith - Secretary of State for Work and Pensions

Andrew Lansley - Secretary of State for Health

Michael Gove - Secretary of State for Education

Eric Pickles - Secretary of State for Communities and Local Government

Justine Greening - Secretary of State for Transport

Caroline Spelman - Secretary of State for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs

Andrew Mitchell - Secretary of State for International Development

Owen Paterson - Secretary of State for Northern Ireland

Cheryl Gillan - Secretary of State for Wales

Jeremy Hunt - Secretary of State for Culture, Olympics, Media and Sport

The Lord Strathclyde - Leader of the House of Lords and Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster

The Baroness Warsi - Minister without Portfolio (Minister of State)

Nick Clegg - Deputy Prime Minister and Lord President of the Council

Vince Cable - Secretary of State for Business, Inovation and Skills

Chris Huhne - Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change

Michael Moore - Secretary of State for Scotland

Danny Alexander - Chief Secretary to the Treasury


</doc>
<doc id="270637" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270637" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Wikipedia:Assume bad faith">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Wikipedia:Assume bad faith


</doc>
<doc id="270643" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270643" title="Zipper">
Zipper

A zipper, also known as a zip, is a fastener. It is used to hold clothes together. It can also be used in luggage bags, camping stuff, and sporting goods. It works by a slider either by pushing together two rows of teeth or separating the rows.


</doc>
<doc id="270644" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270644" title="Spiraeoideae">
Spiraeoideae

The Spiraeoideae is a subfamily of flowering plants in the order Rosales.

Most are shrubs, but there are some herbs. Most have simple leaves, but the genera "Aruncus" and "Sorbaria" have pinnately compound leaves.


</doc>
<doc id="270646" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270646" title="Category:Nitrogen compounds">
Category:Nitrogen compounds

Nitrogen compounds are chemical compounds that have nitrogen ions in them.


</doc>
<doc id="270649" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270649" title="Category:Mercury compounds">
Category:Mercury compounds

Mercury compounds are chemical compounds that have mercury ions in them.


</doc>
<doc id="270650" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270650" title="Category:Iron compounds">
Category:Iron compounds

Iron compounds are chemical compounds containing iron ions.


</doc>
<doc id="270651" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270651" title="Category:Chlorine compounds">
Category:Chlorine compounds

Chlorine compounds are chemical compounds containing chlorine ions.


</doc>
<doc id="270662" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270662" title="Category:Zinc compounds">
Category:Zinc compounds

Zinc compounds are chemical compounds containing zinc [ion]]s.


</doc>
<doc id="270663" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270663" title="Category:Chromium compounds">
Category:Chromium compounds

Chromium compounds are chemical compounds containing chromium ions.


</doc>
<doc id="270664" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270664" title="Category:Cobalt compounds">
Category:Cobalt compounds

Cobalt compounds are chemical compounds containing cobalt ions.


</doc>
<doc id="270665" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270665" title="Category:Manganese compounds">
Category:Manganese compounds

Manganese compounds are chemical compounds that have manganese ions in them.


</doc>
<doc id="270667" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270667" title="Category:Barium compounds">
Category:Barium compounds

Barium compounds are chemical compounds containing barium ions.


</doc>
<doc id="270670" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270670" title="Category:Fluorine compounds">
Category:Fluorine compounds

Fluorine compounds are chemical compounds containing fluorine ions.


</doc>
<doc id="270672" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270672" title="Category:Aluminum compounds">
Category:Aluminum compounds


</doc>
<doc id="270673" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270673" title="Category:Aluminium compounds">
Category:Aluminium compounds

Aluminium compounds are chemical compounds containing aluminium ions.


</doc>
<doc id="270674" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270674" title="Category:Silver compounds">
Category:Silver compounds

Silver compounds are chemical compounds containing silver ions.


</doc>
<doc id="270675" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270675" title="Analytical chemistry">
Analytical chemistry

Analytical chemistry is a branch of chemistry. It tries to analyze chemicals in different things. A sample job would be trying to see how much zinc is in a piece of brass. There are several tools, like chromatography, that analytical chemists use. Flame tests can be used for a basic analysis.


</doc>
<doc id="270683" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270683" title="Template:Infobox wanted">
Template:Infobox wanted


</doc>
<doc id="270698" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270698" title="Mussaurus">
Mussaurus

Mussaurus (meaning "mouse lizard") was a small, early, plant-eating prosauropod dinosaur that lived in southern Argentina during the Late Triassic Period, about 215 million years ago. It gets its name from the small size of the skeletons discovered so far.
No adult fossils have been unearthed. Only large-eyed hatchling (baby) "Mussaurus" have been found. They were only 9-16 inches long (18-37 cm); these are the smallest dinosaur skeletons yet found.


</doc>
<doc id="270700" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270700" title="Template:Lead">
Template:Lead


</doc>
<doc id="270701" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270701" title="Afrovenator">
Afrovenator

Afrovenator was a theropod dinosaur from the mid Jurassic Period of northern Africa. It was a bipedal meat-eating, three-fingered, stiff-tailed predator that had 2-inch-long bladelike teeth. It was related to Allosaurus. Fossils have been found in Abaka, Niger in the southern Sahara desert. A nearly complete "Afrovenator" was found in 1993. It is the most complete Cretaceous period carnivore found in Africa so far.


</doc>
<doc id="270702" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270702" title="Wikipedia:Lead section">
Wikipedia:Lead section

A lead section is, put in simple terms, is a summary of the contents ahead. It is generally not good to start an article with a heading. This, for example, is a "lead section".

An article with a lead looks like this:

Computer

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

A computer is a machine programmed to do tasks. Similar to a robot.

Use lead-related tags when either the lead needs to be reformatted, or rewritten, or missing.


</doc>
<doc id="270703" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270703" title="Superman (video game)">
Superman (video game)

Superman (also incorrectly known as Superman 64) is a 1999 video game for the Nintendo 64, where the player controls Superman, a fictional superhero. Superman must save his friends from Lex Luthor, his archenemy. Most of the game is spent flying through rings. The game has received very negative reviews from critics and has been stated as "one of the worst games of all time" for "lame" weapons in the non-ring levels, overcomplicated controls, and bad graphics.

The player assumes the role of Superman who is challenged to complete many tasks and puzzles throughout the 14 levels in the game. Most of the levels in the game are restricted to two types of gameplay; in some levels, referred to as "Ride Levels" in the game's instruction manual, Superman is instructed to fly through a series of hoops by Lex Luthor; in between, he is also tasked to perform certain feats such as battling Luthor's minions, the Dark Shadows, and rescuing civilians from natural or artificial disasters, firstly stopping two cars from trapping civilians.

In other levels, referred to as "Maze Levels" in the game's instruction manual, Superman has found one of his friends from within one of Luthor's outposts, and must escape with them and defeat a boss. These levels are generally more rooted in action-adventure, and make great use of puzzle-solving. The game's "virtual Metropolis" in which these stages take place is filled with what the developers called "Kryptonite fog" in an apparent effort by Lex Luthor to diminish Superman's abilities (which is actually distance fog and is used as a technique to mask the game's poor draw distance).

The game also includes two multi-player modes (a racing mode and a battle mode) that can be played with up to four people. In the battle mode, players must defeat their opponents by throwing various weapons and items at them. In the racing mode, players control a spaceship and rings shoot from the backside of one opponent.

"Superman" was originally shown at the E3 in 1997. In interview before the game was released, Eric Caen, co-founder of Titus Software, stated they were attempting to create the first "super hero" based video game where players really behave as a super hero. After the N64 version's negative response, Titus decided to completely redesign "Superman" for the PlayStation. Unfortunately, Titus lost the rights from the Warner Bros. for the Superman License, resulting in its cancellation in 1999. Given an exclusive look at the game, playstationmuseum.com stated that they had expected the worst, but they were pleasantly surprised by the "high quality graphics and animation" and awarded the game a rating of 90%.

Superman has received very negative reviews from critics. On GameSpot, the game is rated a 1.3/10. On GameRankings Agreggation, it is "one of the worst games of all time" for "lame" weapons in the non-ring levels, overcomplicated controls, and bad graphics.


</doc>
<doc id="270711" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270711" title="Æsir–Vanir War">
Æsir–Vanir War

In Norse mythology, the Æsir–Vanir War was a war that occurred between the Æsir and the Vanir, two groups of gods. The war ultimately resulted in the unification of the two tribes into a single tribe of gods. The war is an important event in Norse mythology.


</doc>
<doc id="270712" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270712" title="Delisle scale">
Delisle scale

The Delisle scale is a scale to measure temperature. It was introduced by French astronomer Joseph-Nicolas Delisle in 1732. Delisle used a thermometer that worked with Mercury. The unit is abbreviated "De" or "D". 0°De is equal to the boiling point of water under normal pressure. Delisle then measured the volume change of the mercury. At the start, the Delisle scale had 2400 degrees. Josias Weitbrecht recalibrated the theromometer in 1738, so that the melting point of ice was taken into account. Ice melts at 150°De. 

The Deslile scale counts downwards, from the boiling point to the melitng point. It was widely used in Russia in the 19th century.


</doc>
<doc id="270713" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270713" title="Wandering Albatross">
Wandering Albatross

The Wandering Albatross is a large seabird of the family Diomedeidae. It is also called the Snowy Albatross or White-winged Albatross. It is the largest member of the genus "Diomedea" (the great albatrosses) and has the largest wingspan of any living bird. It can be up to 11.5 feet (3.50 m) wide. According to the IUCN, it is a vulnerable species.

Wandering Albatrosses live together when breeding, which they do once every two years. They are monogamous, and usually mate for life. They can live for over 50 years, and adult mortality is only 5 to 7% a year (this is very low for birds). 

They make many different kinds of noises, such as screams, whistles, grunts and bill clapping. When they are looking for a mate, they spread their wings, wave their heads and tap their bills together. They feed at night on cephalopods, small fish, and crustaceans



</doc>
<doc id="270716" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270716" title="Roman Kingdom">
Roman Kingdom

The Roman Kingdom () was the monarchical government of the city of Rome and its territories. No written records from that time survive. The histories about it were written during the Republic and Empire and are largely based on legend. Therefore, not much is certain about the history of the Roman Kingdom. 

However, the history of the Roman Kingdom began with the city's founding, traditionally dated to 753 BC, and ended with the overthrow of the kings and the establishment of the Republic in about 509 BC.

What eventually became the Roman Empire began as settlements around the Palatine Hill along the river Tiber in central Italy. The river was navigable up to that place. The site also had a ford where the Tiber could be crossed. The Palatine Hill and hills surrounding it presented easily defensible positions in the wide fertile plain surrounding them. All these features contributed to the success of the city.

The traditional account of Roman history is that in Rome's first centuries, it was ruled by a succession of seven kings. The traditional chronology is discounted by modern scholarship. The Gauls destroyed all of Rome's historical records when they sacked the city after the Battle of the Allia in 390 BC or 387/6, so no contemporary records of the kingdom exist. All accounts of the kings must be questioned.

The power of the kings was almost absolute, though the Senate had some influence. There was one big exception: kingship was not hereditary.

Whenever a king died, Rome entered a period of "interregnum". Supreme power of the state would go to the Senate, which was responsible for finding a new king. The Senate would assemble and appoint one of its own members—the interrex—to serve for a period of five days with the sole purpose of nominating the next king of Rome. 

After the five-day period, the interrex would appoint (with the Senate's consent) another Senator for another five-day term. This process would continue until a new king was elected. Once the interrex found a suitable nominee to the kingship, he would bring the nominee before the Senate and the Senate would review him. If the Senate passed the nominee, the interrex would convene the Assembly and preside over it during the election of the King.

Once proposed to the Assembly, the people of Rome could either accept or reject him. If accepted, the king-elect did not immediately enter office. Two other acts still had to take place before he was invested with the full regal authority and power.

First, it was necessary to obtain the divine will of the gods respecting his appointment by means of the auspices, since the king would serve as high priest of Rome. This ceremony was performed by an augur, who conducted the king-elect to the citadel where he was placed on a stone seat as the people waited below. If found worthy of the kingship, the augur announced that the gods had given favorable tokens, thus confirming the king’s priestly character.

The second act which had to be performed was the conferral of the imperium upon the king. The Assembly’s previous vote only determined who was to be king, and had not by that act bestowed the necessary power of the king upon him. Accordingly, the king himself proposed to the Assembly a law granting him imperium, and the Assembly by voting in favor of the law would grant it.

In theory, the people of Rome elected their leader, but the Senate had most of the control over the process.

Romulus was Rome's first king and the city's founder, the two names are clearly linked. In 753 BC, Romulus began building the city upon the Palatine Hill. After founding and naming (as the story goes) Rome, he permitted men of all classes to come to Rome as citizens, including slaves and freemen without distinction.
To provide his citizens with wives, Romulus invited the neighboring tribes to a festival in Rome where he abducted the young women from amongst them (known as the "Rape of the Sabine Women"). After the ensuing war with the Sabines, Romulus shared the kingship with the Sabine king Titus Tatius.

Romulus selected 100 of the best men to form the Roman senate as an advisory council to the king. These men he called "patres", and their descendants became the patricians. He also divided the general populace into thirty "curiae", named after thirty of the Sabine women who had intervened to end the war between Romulus and Tatius. The "curiae" formed the voting units in the Roman assemblies: "Comitia Curiata".
In addition to the war with the Sabines and other tribes after the Rape of the Sabine Women, Romulus waged war against the Fidenates and Veientes.
After his death at the age of 54, Romulus was deified as the war god Quirinus and served not only as one of the three major gods of Rome but also as the deified likeness of the city of Rome.

The seventh and final king of Rome was Lucius Tarquinius Superbus. Tarquinius was of Etruscan birth. It was also during his reign that the Etruscans reached their apex of power. More than other kings before him, Tarquinius used violence, murder, and terrorism to maintain control over Rome. He repealed many of the earlier constitutional reforms of his predecessors.

A sex scandal brought down the king. Allegedly, Tarquinius allowed his son, Sextus Tarquinius, to rape Lucretia, a patrician Roman. Sextus had threatened Lucretia that if she refused to copulate with him, he would kill a slave, then kill her, and have the bodies discovered together, thus creating a gigantic scandal. Lucretia then told her relatives about the threat, and then committed suicide to avoid any such scandal. Lucretia’s kinsman, Lucius Junius Brutus (ancestor of Marcus Brutus), summoned the Senate and had Tarquinius and the monarchy expelled from Rome in 510 BC.

Etruscan rule in Rome thus came to a dramatic end in 510 BC, which also signalled the downfall of Etruscan power in Latium.

Lucius Junius Brutus and Lucius Tarquinius Collatinus, a member of the Tarquin family and Lucretia's widower, went on to become the first consuls of Rome’s new government. This new government would lead the Romans to conquer most of the Mediterranean world and would survive for the next 500 years until the rise of Julius Caesar and Octavian. 

Many years later during the Republican period, this strong Roman opposition to kings was used by the Senate as a rationalization for the murder of the agrarian reformer Tiberius Gracchus.


</doc>
<doc id="270723" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270723" title="Bromine compounds">
Bromine compounds

Bromine compounds are chemical compounds that have bromine ions in them. Bromine comes in several oxidation states: -1, +1, +3, +4, +5, and +7.

The most common -1 compounds are bromides. Ionic bromides are colorless solids (unless the cation is colored) that dissolve in water easily. Covalent bromides can be liquids or gases.


Unstable oxidizing agents, less stable than the hypochlorites.

Unstable oxidizing agents, less stable than the chlorites.


Stable oxidizing agents, similar to chlorates.

Very unstable oxidizing agents.


</doc>
<doc id="270725" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270725" title="Category:Bromine compounds">
Category:Bromine compounds

Bromine compounds are chemical compounds that have bromine ions in them.


</doc>
<doc id="270730" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270730" title="Hypobromite">
Hypobromite

Hypobromite is an ion. Its chemical formula is BrO. It contains bromine in its +1 oxidation state. It is an oxidizing agent. It is similar to hypochlorite. Hypobromites are the salts of hypobromous acid. Hypobromite is a disinfectant. Some white blood cells oxidize bromide to hypobromite with peroxide and use the hypobromite to kill germs. Bromides can be added to pools along with chlorine to make hypobromite, which disinfects the pools.

Hypobromites are made by dissolving bromine in a basic solution. Hypobromite disproportionates to bromate and bromide when heated.



</doc>
<doc id="270732" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270732" title="Hypobromous acid">
Hypobromous acid

Hypobromous acid is a chemical compound. It is also an acid. Its chemical formula is HBrO. It contains hydrogen and hypobromite ions. It is a weak and unstable acid. It is similar to hypochlorous acid. It disproportionates into bromate and bromide when heated or left to dry. It is made when bromine is added to warm water. It can kill many bacteria and deodorize. It works very well when it is with hypochlorous acid. 



</doc>
<doc id="270736" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270736" title="Bromous acid">
Bromous acid

Bromous acid is a chemical compound. It is an acid. Its chemical formula is HBrO. It contains hydrogen and bromite ions. It contains bromine in its +3 oxidation state.

It can be made by oxidizing hypobromous acid with hypochlorous acid. It can also be made by careful disproportionation of hypobromous acid. It can also be made by reacting hypobromous acid and bromic acid. They can be used to reduce permanganates to manganates. 



</doc>
<doc id="270738" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270738" title="Perbromic acid">
Perbromic acid

Perbromic acid is a chemical compound. It is an acid. Its chemical formula is HBrO. It contains hydrogen and perbromate ions.

Perbromic acid is a very unstable acid. It easily breaks down. It can be made by reacting perbromates with an acid. It releases oxygen and turns into bromic acid. It can also totally break down, releasing bromine gas.



</doc>
<doc id="270739" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270739" title="Bromite">
Bromite

Bromite is an ion. Its chemical formula is BrO. It is made by reacting bromous acid with a base. They easily disproportionate to bromates and bromides.



</doc>
<doc id="270741" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270741" title="Perbromate">
Perbromate

Perbromate is an ion. Its chemical formula is BrO. It contains bromine in its +7 oxidation state. It is a strong oxidizing agent. It is very unstable and turns into bromate and oxygen easily. It was first made by decay of a radioactive selenate. Later it was gotten by electrolysis of a bromate. It can also be made by oxidation of bromate with fluorine or xenon difluoride. 



</doc>
<doc id="270743" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270743" title="Bromate">
Bromate

Bromate is an ion. Its chemical formula is BrO. It contains bromine in its +5 oxidation state. It is more common than hypobromites, perbromates, and bromites. Sodium bromate is an example. Bromates are strong oxidizing agents.

Bromates are made by reacting bromides with ozone. They can also be made by electrolysis of a hot bromide solution. Chlorine dioxide can react with bromide when in sunlight to make bromate. Bromates can be made by reacting potassium hydroxide with bromine. This makes bromide and bromate. Bromates can be made by reacting bromic acid with a base.

It might be a carcinogen. It is made when bromide is in water and reacted with ozone or chlorine. Sometimes water with too much bromate has to be gotten rid of.



</doc>
<doc id="270744" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270744" title="Pablo Ruiz (Argentine singer)">
Pablo Ruiz (Argentine singer)

Pablo Ruiz (or simply Pablito Ruiz, born in Buenos Aires, on May 4, 1975, as Pablo Maximiliano Miguel Coronel Vidoz), is an Argentine singer, actor and dancer. His musical career began at age 10.



</doc>
<doc id="270745" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270745" title="Hugh Allison">
Hugh Allison

Hugh Allison is an actor, director, lighting designer, stage manager and writer working mainly in London. He runs three production companies: "blank pages", "HuRica Productions" and "The Yellowchair Performance Experience".














</doc>
<doc id="270750" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270750" title="Constructivism">
Constructivism

Constructivism was an artistic and architectural movement that originated in Russia from 1919 onward which rejected the idea of "art for art's sake" in favour of art for social purposes.

Constructivism as an active force lasted until around 1934, having a great deal of effect on the art of the Weimar Republic and elsewhere, before being replaced by Socialist Realism. Its motifs have sporadically recurred in other art movements since.


</doc>
<doc id="270751" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270751" title="Köhler's Medizinal-Pflanzen">
Köhler's Medizinal-Pflanzen

Köhler's Medizinal-Pflanzen is the German title of “the medicinal plants of Kohler” - the atlas of medicinal plants with the illustrations and the brief explanations, one of the most known reference books on the medicinal plants of the end of the 19th Century.

Complete title of atlas in the German language - “Köhler's Medizinal-Pflanzen naturgetreuen Abbildungen mit kurz erläuterndem Texte. Atlas zur pharmacopoea germanica, austriaca, belgica, danica, helvetica, hungarica, rossica, suecica, Neerlandica, British pharmacopoeia, zum Codex medicamentarius, sowie zur Pharmacopoeia of the United States of America”.

The three-volume publication was published by the publishing house Franz Kohler (Ger. Franz Eugen Köhler) “Gera-Untermhaus” at Gero in 1887.

In three volumes of atlas containing a four hundred colored botanical illustrations of medicinal plants. Together with the images of plants, the atlas includes detailed botanical descriptions and information about the medical effectiveness of these plants (Herbalism). High-quality chromolithographies accurately transfer to the component of plants and reflect the characteristic features of the corresponding forms. It is considered that this book - better meets the botanical illustrations of medicinal plants.

The publisher of reference book Franz Koehler was not the author or the illustrator of this work. Artist- illustrators - Müeller C.F. Schmidt, lithograph - K. Gunther. The first two volumes of publication were prepared with the participation of German botanist Gustav Pabst.

The fourth volume, initially outlined for the release, never was published. Later in the USA was published the analogous book, they sometimes and identify it with the fourth volume.


</doc>
<doc id="270762" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270762" title="Bobby's Big Move">
Bobby's Big Move

Bobby's Big Move is a half-hour animated television special based on a character "Bobby". It featured Howie Mandel as the voice of Bobby and Dad. The special was first broadcast March 8, 1983 on ABC. It has been released on both VHS and DVD home video. It also released on High-Definition Blu-Ray.

Set in late-'70s California, Bobby tells the young viewers a story about his life, When Martha and Howie decide its time to move to a bigger house, Bobby and Kelly team up to sabotage the whole thing so they won't have to leave their friends.


The animation for this first Bobby's World special and the second one, "Bobby's Big Oops", came from the famous "Peanuts" cartoon team of Bill Melendez and Lee Mendelson, giving them a look similar to the "Peanuts" cartoons. All future specials and the popular "Bobby's World" TV series were animated by Film Roman studios.





</doc>
<doc id="270763" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270763" title="Suprematism">
Suprematism

Suprematism is an abstract art movement started in Russia, 1915/1916. It focussed on basic geometric forms such as the square and circle. It is an example of geometric abstraction.

Suprematism was founded by Kazimir Malevich. In his book "The Non-Objective World", published abroad as a Bauhaus Book in 1927, Malevich described the inspiration which brought about the powerful image of the black square on a white ground:

He created a suprematist 'grammar' based on fundamental geometric forms; in particular, the square and the circle. In 1915, Malevich exhibited his early experiments in suprematist painting. The centerpiece of his show was the "Black Square", placed in what is called the "red/beautiful corner" in Russian Orthodox tradition, the place of the main icon in a house. "Black Square" was painted in 1915 and was a breakthrough in his career and in art in general. Malevich also painted "White on White" which marked a breakthrough from polychrome to monochrome suprematism.

Some of the titles to paintings in 1915 express the concept of a non-euclidean geometry which imagined forms in movement, or through time; titles such as: "Two dimensional painted masses in the state of movement." 

The "Supremus" group met from 1915 onwards to discuss the philosophy of suprematism and its development into other areas of life. There was some crossover with constructivism, with suprematists such as Lyuba Popova and especially El Lissitzky working on propaganda and industrial design. 

Lissitzky spread suprematist ideas abroad in the early 1920s.

Nikolai Suetin used suprematist motifs on works at the St. Petersburg Lomonosov Porcelain Factory where Malevich and Chashnik were also employed, and Malevich designed a suprematist teapot. The suprematists also made architectural models in the 1920s which offered a different conception of socialist buildings to those developed in constructivist architecture. 

Malevich's architectural projects were known after 1922 "Arkhitektoniki". Designs emphasized the right angle, with similarities to De Stijl and Le Corbusier, and were justified with an ideological connection to communist governance and equality for all. Another part of the formalism was low regard for triangles which were dismissed as ancient, pagan, or Christian.

This development in artistic expression came about when Russia was in a revolutionary state, ideas were in ferment, and the old order was being swept away. As the new order became established, and Stalinism took hold from 1924 on, the state began limiting the freedom of artists. From the late 1920s the Russian avant-garde experienced direct and harsh criticism from the authorities and in 1934 the doctrine of socialist realism became official policy, and prohibited abstraction and different artistic expression. 


</doc>
<doc id="270765" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270765" title="Category:Rubidium compounds">
Category:Rubidium compounds

Rubidium compounds are chemical compounds containing rubidium ions.


</doc>
<doc id="270766" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270766" title="Category:Nickel compounds">
Category:Nickel compounds

Nickel compounds are chemical compounds containing nickel ions.


</doc>
<doc id="270767" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270767" title="Category:Calcium compounds">
Category:Calcium compounds

Calcium compounds are chemical compounds containing calcium ions.


</doc>
<doc id="270769" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270769" title="Computer rage">
Computer rage

Computer rage is a heightened physiological response with associated feelings of anger and frustration resulting from using a computer or other complex electronic device. 
It may result in the physical assault of the computer or similar item, possibly leading to the device incurring more damage than it had before.

Computer rage may manifest itself in verbal abuse and occasionally physical violence towards the object, in some cases violent actions towards the hardware itself, usually either thumping the keyboard, shaking the monitor or banging the mouse on the table/desk. In online interactions, enraged persons may flame and abuse other users, shouting at them through headsets, sending rude messages, or rage quit (exiting a game prematurely out of anger). 

Computer rage may be caused by distress due to a hardware or software problem which the enraged person is unable to correct. Persons may bang or kick the computer in an attempt to get it to function normally, though this action carries the distinct risk of destroying the computer's hard disk drive via a head crash. Another common occurrence of computer rage is whilst playing computer games, mainly first-person shooters and mmorpgs. Computer rage is normally induced when a gamer either fails an objective or is killed repeatedly.

Tech support personnel and systems administrators may be subjected to customer's anger at a malfunctioning system, commonly including the aforementioned verbal abuse.




</doc>
<doc id="270772" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270772" title="Kazimir Malevich">
Kazimir Malevich

Kazimir Malevich (Kiev, 23 February 1879 15 May 1935) was a Russian painter and art theoretician. He was born in Ukraine of ethnic Polish parents. He was a pioneer of geometric abstract art and the originator of the avant-garde Suprematism movement.

In March 1913 a major exhibition of Aristarkh Lentulov's paintings opened in Moscow. The effect of this exhibition was comparable with that of Paul Cézanne in Paris in 1907, as all the main Russian avant-garde artists of the time (including Malevich) immediately absorbed the cubist principles and began using them in their works. 

Already in the same year the Cubo-Futurist opera "Victory Over the Sun" with Malevich's stage-set became a great success. In 1914 Malevich exhibited his works in the "Salon des Independants" in Paris.

In 1915, Malevich laid down the foundations of Suprematism. He published his manifesto "From Cubism to Suprematism". In 1916–1917 he took part in exhibitions of the "Jack of Diamonds" group in Moscow. Famous examples of his Suprematist works were exhibited there, including "Black Square" (1915) and "White on White" (1918). 

After the October Revolution, Malevich became a member of the Collegium on the Arts of "Narkompros", the commission for the protection of monuments and the museums commission (all from 1918–1919). 

He taught at the Vitebsk Practical Art School in the USSR (now part of Belarus) (1919–1922), the Leningrad Academy of Arts (1922–1927), the Kiev State Art Institute (1927–1929), and the House of the Arts in Leningrad (1930). He wrote the book "The World as Non-Objectivity" (Munich 1926; English trans. 1959) which outlines his Suprematist theories.

In 1927 he traveled to Warsaw, and then to Berlin and Munich, for a retrospective exhibition. This finally brought him international recognition. 

Malevich arranged to leave most of the paintings behind when he returned to the Soviet Union, because he could see what was going to happen.

Malevich thought a shift in attitude of the Soviet authorities towards the modernist art movement would take place after the death of Lenin. This proved correct. In a couple of years the Stalinist regime turned against forms of abstractism, considering them a type of 'bourgeois' art which could not express social reality. As a consequence, many of his works were confiscated and he was banned from creating and exhibiting similar art.

Critics derided Malevich for "negating everything good and pure: love of life and love of nature". Malevich responded that art can advance and develop for art's sake alone, regardless of its pleasure: art does not need us, and it never did.

Malevich's work only recently reappeared in art exhibitions in Russia after a long absence. Since then art followers have worked to reintroduce the artist to Russian lovers of painting. A book of his theoretical works with an anthology of reminiscences and writings has been published.

On 3 November 2008 a work by Malevich entitled "Suprematist Composition" from 1916 set the world record for any Russian work of art and any work sold at auction for that year. It sold at Sotheby’s in New York City for just over $60 million U.S. (far surpassing his previous record of $17 million set in 2000).


</doc>
<doc id="270775" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270775" title="Interhalogen">
Interhalogen

An interhalogen is a chemical compound. It is made by two halogens reacting with each other. Normally interhalogens are quite toxic and reactive. An example would be chlorine trifluoride or bromine monochloride.



</doc>
<doc id="270781" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270781" title="Chlorine trifluoride">
Chlorine trifluoride

Chlorine trifluoride is a chemical compound. Its chemical formula is ClF. It contains chlorine and fluoride ions. The chlorine is in its +3 oxidation state.

Chlorine trifluoride is a colorless gas, but it can be compressed to a light yellow liquid. Chlorine trifluoride is normally sold compressed. It is an interhalogen, and is very reactive. It can burn plastics, sand, skin, hydrogen sulfide, metals, phosphorus, and sulfur. Since it is a much stronger oxidizing agent than oxygen, it can burn things that normally can't burn, like concrete or sand. It reacts with water very violently to make hydrofluoric acid and hydrochloric acid. It can ignite glass after being in it for a while.

Chlorine trifluoride is made by reacting chlorine with fluorine. This makes other chlorine fluorides which have to be taken out.

Chlorine trifluoride is used to make uranium hexafluoride by reacting it with uranium metal. It was looked at as a rocket propellant. It was also looked at as a poison gas. It is too difficult to make and store, though. Chlorine trifluoride can be used to clean areas where semiconductors are made.

Chlorine trifluoride is extremely toxic and dangerous. It can catch many things on fire. The fires are almost impossible to put out. It reacts with most things.



</doc>
<doc id="270792" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270792" title="Nick Young">
Nick Young

Nick Young (born June 1, 1985 in Los Angeles, California) is an American basketball player that currently plays for the Washington Wizards of the NBA. He went to University of Southern California for college. 



</doc>
<doc id="270793" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270793" title="Evil empire">
Evil empire

The "Evil Empire" is a term which was used by the US president Ronald Reagan (1911-2004). It is a synonym for the Soviet Empire, which consists of the "republics" of the Soviet Union and the "Council for Mutual Economic Assistance" (Comecon). Members of this "council" were satellite states, which where formally independent, but always controlled into the right direction by the Soviet Union with military, if they considered it as necessary.

The first known usage of the term "Evil Empire" was in one of Reagan's speeches at 1983. He proposes to continue the endless war between good and evil. This emphasizes that you need both sides to agree for an nuclear freeze. If only the US reduced their nuclear weapons, it "would be a very dangerous fraud, for that is merely the illusion of peace". In contrast to this illusion he stands for the reality. This means for him "peace through strength".



</doc>
<doc id="270794" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270794" title="Containment">
Containment

The policy of containment was a diplomatic strategy of the United States to prevent the spread of the communism during the Cold War. Economic support should bind countries to the United States. This was a counteraction against the new Soviet sphere of influence.

In March 1947 the US president Harry Truman (1884-1972) announced support for countries which were threatened by military force. This speech is called "Truman Doctrine" nowadays. In detail he promised support for Greece and Turkey against the Soviet Union.

The most important part of the policy of containment was the "European Recovery Program" (1948), also known as "Marshall Plan", which should boost the European economy after the destruction in the Second World War using—most important—money, successful American economic models and less European trade barriers.


</doc>
<doc id="270795" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270795" title="Lower Austria">
Lower Austria

Lower Austria is a federal state of Austria. It's capital is St.Pölten. 
Lower Austria is the biggest federal state of Austria.


</doc>
<doc id="270798" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270798" title="Xangana language">
Xangana language

Xangana is a language of Bantu origin spoken primarily in South Africa and Mozambique.


</doc>
<doc id="270801" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270801" title="Werner Faymann">
Werner Faymann

Werner Faymann (*4th May 1960) is an Austrian politician. He belongs to the Social-Democratic Party in Austria.
His party won the elections of the National Assembly in 2008 and he is now the Federal Chancellor of Austria.

Homepage of the Austrian Chancellor


</doc>
<doc id="270805" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270805" title="Nicola Sturgeon">
Nicola Sturgeon

Nicola Sturgeon (born 19 July 1970 in Irvine, Scotland) is a Scottish politician. She is the Deputy First Minister of Scotland, Cabinet Secretary for Health and Wellbeing, Deputy Leader of the Scottish National Party (SNP) and Member of the Scottish Parliament (MSP) for Glasgow Govan.

Nicola Sturgeon studied at the University of Glasgow and attempted to become a Member of Parliament at the 1992 and 1997 General Elections. In 1999, she became an MSP representing the Glasgow region. She became the Deputy Leader of the Scottish National Party in 2004 and because Alex Salmond was still an MP, she was the SNP's leader in the Scottish Parliament until the 2007 Scottish Parliament election. At the 2007 election, Nicola Sturgeon became the MSP for Glasgow Govan and her party formed a minority government with Alex Salmond as First Minister.


</doc>
<doc id="270812" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270812" title="Social Democratic and Labour Party">
Social Democratic and Labour Party

The Social Democratic and Labour Party or SDLP is a centre-left political party in Northern Ireland. It's policies promote social democracy and the idea that Northern Ireland should leave the United Kingdom and join with the Republic of Ireland. It's leader is Margaret Ritchie and it currently has 3 Northern Ireland seats out of 18 in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom. It has 16 out of 108 seats in the Northern Ireland Assembely. 

The party rejected violence during the Troubles and was the most successful Republican party during the 1980's and 1990's.


</doc>
<doc id="270814" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270814" title="Narrator (disambiguation)">
Narrator (disambiguation)

Narrator might refer to:




</doc>
<doc id="270835" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270835" title="The Final Frontier">
The Final Frontier

The Final Frontier is an album by Iron Maiden. It was announced on 4 March 2010, along a concert tour.

It was recorded in The Bahamas and produced by Kevin Shirley. The album began being sold on 17 August 2010.

It sold very well, being the most popular album in 21 countries when it went on sale, as well as being one of the top five most popular albums in eight other countries.



</doc>
<doc id="270838" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270838" title="Taeyeon">
Taeyeon

Taeyeon (born March 9, 1989), real name Kim Tae-yeon, is a South Korean singer, and leader of the nine-member girl group Girls' Generation.


</doc>
<doc id="270839" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270839" title="Jessica (entertainer)">
Jessica (entertainer)

Jessica Jung (Korean name: Jung Su-yeon; Hangul: 정수연; Hanja: 鄭秀妍; born April 18, 1989), better known by her stage name Jessica, is an American singer, dancer, and a musical theatre / television actress.


</doc>
<doc id="270840" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270840" title="Windows Narrator">
Windows Narrator

Windows Narrator is a tool for the visually impaired. The user has four options to customize their experience.

The tool reads text, message boxes, and mimics user typing. The voice, pitch, and speed can all be tailored to the user's preferences. 



</doc>
<doc id="270841" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270841" title="Sunny (Korean singer)">
Sunny (Korean singer)

Sunny (born Lee Soon Gyu on May 15, 1989) is a South Korean singer, radio DJ, music show host and member of the Korean girl group Girls' Generation.


</doc>
<doc id="270842" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270842" title="Tiffany (Korean singer)">
Tiffany (Korean singer)

Stephanie Hwang (Korean name: Hwang Mi-young; Hangul: 황미영; Hanja: 黃美英; born August 1, 1989), best known simply as Tiffany, is an American singer and dancer.


</doc>
<doc id="270843" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270843" title="Hyoyeon">
Hyoyeon

Kim Hyo-yeon (born September 22, 1989), better known by her stage name Hyoyeon, is a South Korean recording artist and entertainer.


</doc>
<doc id="270844" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270844" title="Kwon Yuri">
Kwon Yuri

Kwon Yuri (born December 5, 1989) also known by her stage name Yuri, is a South Korean singer-songwriter, actress, model, and dancer.


</doc>
<doc id="270845" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270845" title="Sooyoung">
Sooyoung

Sooyoung (born February 10, 1990), real name Choi Soo-young, is a South Korean singer, dancer, actress, TV presenter, model, and DJ.


</doc>
<doc id="270846" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270846" title="Yoona">
Yoona

Im Yoon-a (林允兒, born May 30, 1990), commonly known as YoonA (윤아), is a South Korean singer, dancer, actress and model.


</doc>
<doc id="270847" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270847" title="Template:Uw-cyberbully3">
Template:Uw-cyberbully3


</doc>
<doc id="270848" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270848" title="Seohyun">
Seohyun

Seohyun (born on June 28, 1991 in Seoul as Seo Joo-Hyun 서주현) is a South Korean K-pop singer and entertainer as a member of the girl group Girls' Generation.


</doc>
<doc id="270851" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270851" title="Y10K">
Y10K

The Y10K, literally meaning the "Year 10,000 Problem", is an error machines and computers will encounter when the need to express five digits for the year arrives.

Some people practice the art of cutting the last two digits of a decade. For example, the "1970's" becomes just the "70's".
However, this becomes a problem, because to keep order, one will now need to take the last three digits, rather than two.

This is also a problem because the "000's" might be confused with the legit "00's", representing a new century. Also, the year can overflow with certain computer programs. On Microsoft Excel, for instance, in a cell the date 12/31/9999 is a legit date, but 1/1/10,000 causes a problem. The date "ten thousand" is unable to be supported, producing a large negative instead.

So far, the Long Now Foundation is able to preempt the Y10K by adding a "0" in front of the date. So the year 2000, would look like this: "02000". However, it would still be subsceptible to a "Y100K" problem.



</doc>
<doc id="270853" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270853" title="Araucaria">
Araucaria

Araucaria is a genus of evergreen coniferous trees in the family Araucariaceae. There are 19 species in the genus, with a scattered distribution. They are found in New Caledonia (where 13 species are endemic), Norfolk Island, eastern Australia, New Guinea, Argentina, Chile, and southern Brazil.

The present populations are relicts, and of restricted distribution. They are found in forest and shrubland, in exposed sites. These tall trees are living fossils, dating back to early in the Mesozoic era. 

Fossil records show that the genus also formerly occurred in the northern hemisphere until the end of the Cretaceous period. By far the greatest diversity exists in New Caledonia, due to the island's long isolation and stability.

Araucaria are mainly large trees with a massive erect stem, reaching a height of 30–80 m. The horizontal, spreading branches grow in whorls and are covered with leathery or needle-like leaves. In some species, the leaves are narrow awl-shaped and lanceolate, barely overlapping each other, in others they are broad and flat, and overlap broadly.


</doc>
<doc id="270855" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270855" title="9500">
9500

9500 is a year in the 10th millennium.



</doc>
<doc id="270856" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270856" title="Agathis">
Agathis

Agathis is a genus of evergreen, coniferous trees, the kauri. They grow mainly in the southern hemisphere, including southeast Asia, areas of the western Pacific, and Australasia.

"Agathis" is a relatively small genus, with only 21 known species. As a conifer, it produces pine cones. Mature "Agathis" can become quite large, reaching 130 feet (about 40 m) in height and 10 feet (about 3 m) in diameter.

The genus is part of the ancient Araucariaceae family of conifers, a group once widespread during the Jurassic period, but now largely restricted to the southern hemisphere.

Mature kauri trees have large trunks, forming a bole with little or no branching below the crown. In contrast, young trees are normally conical in shape, forming a more rounded or irregularly shaped crown as they mature.

In the logging industry it is generally referred to as commercial grade mahogany. Timber from the "Agathis" has several uses, including cabinet making, boat building, musical instruments, and in years past, artificial limbs. It also produces a wide variety of resins.


</doc>
<doc id="270858" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270858" title="9500 (number)">
9500 (number)

9,500 is a number. It comes after 9499 and before 9501. It is also an even number.


</doc>
<doc id="270859" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270859" title="Red Bull">
Red Bull

Red Bull is an energy drink. Red Bull is based on the Thai energy drink Krating Daeng, which translates as "Red Bull". Red Bull is the most popular energy drink in the world, based on its share of sales. The company was founded by Thai national Chaleo Yoovidhya and Austrian national Dietrich Mateschitz. Chaleo Yoovidhya and his son own 51 percent interest in the company. Mateschitz is responsible for the company's operations through the Austrian company Red Bull GmbH.

Red Bull's slogan is "it gives you wings". The product is strongly marketed through advertising, tournament sponsorship, sports team ownerships, celebrity endorsements, and with its record label. Red Bull sponsors Red Bull Air Race, "Red Bull Crashed Ice". It owns the sports team Red Bull Racing, Scuderia Toro Rosso, "EC Red Bull Salzburg", "FC Red Bull Salzburg", Red Bull New York, and "RB Leipzig". Red Bull started its own record label, "Red Bull Records".. 

In 2009 it was discovered that Red Bull Cola exported from Austria contained trace amounts of cocaine. Red Bull has also been criticized about the possible health risks of the drink.

Red Bull took many marketing and ingredient ideas from an energy drink in Thailand called Krating Daeng. Dietrich Mateschitz, an Austrian entrepreneur, developed the Red Bull Energy Drink brand. Mateschitz was the international marketing director for Blendax, a toothpaste company, when he visited Thailand in 1982 and discovered that Krating Daeng helped to cure his jet lag. Between 1984 and 1987, Mateschitz worked with TC Pharmaceutical (a Blendax licensee) to adapt Krating Daeng for the European market.

At the same time Mateschitz and Chaleo Yoovidhya founded Red Bull GmbH; each investing $500,000 of savings and taking a stake in the new company. Chaleo and Dietrich each held a 49% share of the new company. They gave the remaining 2% to Chaleo's son Chalerm, but it was agreed that Mateschitz would run the company. The product was launched in 1987, in a carbonated format.

Red Bull was launched first in Singapore in 1989 followed by Hungary, its second foreign market in 1992. It entered the United States market (via California) in 1997 and the Middle East in 2000. In 2008, "Forbes" magazine listed both Chaleo and Mateschitz as being the 260th richest persons in the world with an estimated net worth of $4.0 billion.

Red Bull contains taurine, glucuronolactone, caffeine, B vitamins, sucrose and glucose. Red Bull sugar-free also contains phenylalanine in place of sucrose and glucose.

Red Bull GmbH also manufactures Red Bull Cola, containing the coca leaf, which has sparked a controversy in Germany regarding minute traces of cocaine.

A review published in 2008 found no documented reports of negative or positive health effects associated with the amount of taurine used in energy drinks, including Red Bull, concluding that "The amounts of guarana, taurine, and ginseng found in popular energy drinks are far below the amounts expected to deliver either therapeutic benefits or adverse events. However, caffeine and sugar are present in amounts known to cause a variety of adverse health effects."

Commonly reported adverse effects due to caffeine used in the quantities present in Red Bull are insomnia, nervousness, headache, and tachycardia (see Caffeine intoxication).
A 2008 position statement issued by the National Federation of State High School Associations made the following recommendations about energy drink consumption, in general, by young athletes:

The results of a study conducted in 2008 showed that the ingestion of one, 250mL can of sugar-free Red Bull, in a sample of 30 healthy young adults, had an immediate detrimental effect on both endothelial function, and normal blood coagulation. This temporarily raised the cardiovascular risk in these individuals to a level comparable to that of an individual with established coronary artery disease.

Based on their results, researchers involved with the study cautioned against the consumption of Red Bull in individuals under stress, in those with high blood pressure, or in anyone with established atherosclerotic disease.
Red Bull representatives, however, stated that this observed increase in cardiovascular risk was not felt to be different from that associated with drinking a regular cup of coffee. They also stated that they believed that Red Bull must be safe, as it was felt the only way Red Bull could have such substantial global sales is if various health authorities had concluded the drink safe to consume.

There has been at least one case report of Red Bull overdose causing postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome in a young athlete.
A February 3, 2009 article in "The Daily Telegraph" called, "Red Bull 'may have triggered heart condition that killed student'"
reported on the death of a 21 year-old woman who died after drinking four cans of Red Bull as well as alcohol at "social levels". It was believed, but had not been proven, that she suffered from a rare heart condition called long QT Syndrome. She was on medication for epilepsy. A medical examination found that there were no illegal drugs in her system. The article quoted a doctor as saying, "The QT levels may have grown over a few years, or it may have been artificially pushed over the limit by caffeine".

In April and June 2009, batches of "Red Bull Cola" drinks imported from Austria were found to contain between 0.1 - 0.3 micrograms of cocaine per litre, according to Hong Kong officials. In Taiwan it was found that the importer was due to launch a marketing campaign the next day. Importing cocaine to the island is an offense that is punishable by death or a life sentence in prison. In Germany, 11 out of 16 states had already banned the drinks by May 25, 2009.

Testing of Red Bull Energy Drink and its variations has shown that a person with a low tolerance for cocaine would have to consume two million cans of the drink in a single sitting before becoming critically ill from the cocaine. However, this finding is legally irrelevant since distribution of cocaine is illegal in any quantity in Taiwan. At this point, no further action has been taken on the matter in Taiwan.

Red Bull claims to:

Red Bull's invigorating effects are attributed to its high caffeine content. A single can of Red Bull contains 80 mg/250 ml of caffeine. This is about the same as one cup of normal coffee, or slightly less depending on the brewing method The actual caffeine level in Red Bull can vary depending on country, as some countries have legal restrictions on how much caffeine is allowed in drinks.

Red Bull drinkers may experience adverse effects as a result of caffeine.

Red Bull has been subject to bans in France, Denmark and Norway. The ban has been lifted in Norway and Denmark. The French ban was challenged by the European Commission and (partially) upheld by the European Court of Justice in 2004.

Red Bull has an aggressive international marketing campaign. The numerous sponsored activities range from extreme sports like windsurfing, snowboarding, skateboarding, kayaking, wakeboarding, cliff-diving, surfing, skating, freestyle motocross, rally, Formula 1 racing, and breakdancing to art shows, music, and video games. In keeping with their target market of young males, Red Bull has also enlisted help from celebrities, such as Eminem that would appeal to this group (sponsoring the Red Bull "EmSee Battle Rap championships"). It also hosts events like the "Red Bull Flugtag" (German for "flight day" or "flying day") and other such contests. Red Bull also sponsors association football teams, with clubs in Austria, Germany, the United States and Brazil featuring the Red Bull trademark in their names. By associating the drink's image with these activities, the company seeks to promote a "cool" public image and raise brand power. In addition, the slender container is used to suggest a "sexier" image than some other cola counterparts. Hence, this one energy drink has helped create a market for over 150 related types of merchandise, like Red Rooster and Blue Lightning.

Red Bull's slogan, "it gives you wings", is widely used in these marketing activities. Claims about the drink's effects and performance have been challenged on various occasions, with the UK's Advertising Standards Authority imposing advertising restrictions in 2001 in response to complaints first recorded as early as 1997. Even with all of the concerns regarding Red Bull, in 2000 the corporation earned around $1 billion in worldwide sales and Red Bull held 65% of the market share. In Malaysia, however, Red Bull does not use its "Gives you wings" slogan, but instead a single one-word slogan, "Bullleh!", a word play on the Malay word "Boleh" (lit: "Can be done") and the word "Bull".

In the PlayStation 3's new social app, PlayStation Home, Red Bull has developed its own in-game island, specifically advertising its energy drink and the Red Bull Air Race event. In late November 2009, Red Bull brought out two new spaces, the Red Bull Illume space, and the Red Bull Beach space featuring the Red Bull Flugtag, both released on the same day.

In the video game "Worms 3D", Red Bull could be drunk by the worms, giving them the effect of faster movement.

Red Bull is displayed on virtual track-side billboards during gameplay and in the opening cinematic in the video game "Wipeout XL".


In 2009, Red Bull added mainstream sport athletes to its roster of sports endorsements. Reggie Bush was the first NFL athlete to endorse the product. The announcement was made at the Super Bowl.




</doc>
<doc id="270861" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270861" title="Safe mode">
Safe mode

Safe mode is a mode of startup in computers that allows the user to detect and fix errors. Many things don't run on safe mode. The purpose is to see whether any of the drivers added were causing the problem.


</doc>
<doc id="270862" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270862" title="Template:Millenniumbox">
Template:Millenniumbox


</doc>
<doc id="270863" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270863" title="Dryptosaurus">
Dryptosaurus

Dryptosaurus ("tearing lizard") was a theropod dinosaur of the Tyrannosauroidea type. It was found in Upper Cretaceous strata of Eastern North America. It was formerly known as "Laelaps".

It was given its name because it had 8-inch (21-cm) long finger claws. Fossils have been found in New Jersey. It is known only from a partial skeleton.


</doc>
<doc id="270864" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270864" title="Kagawa Prefecture">
Kagawa Prefecture

Kagawa was formerly known as Sanuki Province.

Drought is common in Kagawa history. For example, in 1973 the region was called "the Takamatsu desert".

Kagawa is in the northwest part of of Shikoku. The prefecture borders Ehime Prefecture in the southwest. Tokushima Prefecture is in the south. 

The prefecture built 17 dams between 1947 and 1974.

Kagawa has a coastline with many small islands on the Seto Inland Sea across from Okayama Prefecture.




</doc>
<doc id="270866" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270866" title="Shizuoka Prefecture">
Shizuoka Prefecture

Shizuoka prefecture was formed from the former Tōtōmi Province, Suruga Province and Izu Province provinces. 


Shizuoka is located on the east coast of Honshu facing the Pacific Ocean. The prefecture is bordered on the west by Aichi Prefecture and Nagano Prefecture. The northern borders of Shuzuoka are shared with Yamanashi Prefecture and Kanagawa Prefecture.

Mount Fuji is on the northern border of Shizuoka.

Suruga Bay is its main coastal feature. The Izu Peninsula forms the eastern side of the bay. 

Throughout history, every 100 to 150 years, an earthquake of disastrous proportions called the Tokai Earthquake has hit Shizuoka.



</doc>
<doc id="270867" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270867" title="Gion Festival">
Gion Festival

In July, the Gion Festival or Gion Matsuri is held every year in Kyoto. The festival is held at Yasaka-jinja (shrine).


</doc>
<doc id="270868" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270868" title="Aomori Prefecture">
Aomori Prefecture

Aomori is located on Tohoku and it is the northern most prefecture in Honshu.



</doc>
<doc id="270869" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270869" title="Ibaraki Prefecture">
Ibaraki Prefecture

Ibaraki Prefecture is part of Japan in the Kantō region.
The capital city is Mito.



</doc>
<doc id="270872" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270872" title="Red Bull (disambiguation)">
Red Bull (disambiguation)

Red Bull can refer to:


In association football:

In auto racing:

In ice hockey:




</doc>
<doc id="270876" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270876" title="Tammar Wallaby">
Tammar Wallaby

The Tammar Wallaby ("Macropus eugenii") are a small species of wallaby from Australia. They were the first macropods to be seen by Europeans. Francisco Pelsaert, captain of the Batavia, saw them when the ship was wrecked on the Abrolhos Islands in 1629. He said they looked like hopping cats. There are three sub-species of Tammar Wallaby:

The name Tammar comes from the word "tamma", meaning sheoak. The wallaby lives under sheoak plants.

Tammar wallabies became extinct on mainland South Australia in the 1930's. Extinction has been caused by habitat destruction, hunting, and foxes. In 1998 a small population of South Australian wallabies was found living on Kawau Island near Auckland, in New Zealand. This group had been established by former South Australian governor, Sir George Grey in 1862 as part of his own private zoo. In New Zealand these wallabies were seen as a pest, and scientists have been studying ways to get rid of them. 85 wallabies were taken back to South Australia. After extensive fox controls at Innes National Park, 10 wallabies were released in November 2004. Another 36 were released in June 2005. These first releases were tracked with radio collars. Another group has been put into a captive breeding program at Monarto Zoo.

Tammar Wallabies live in thick scrub during the day and come out into grassland to feed at night. They eat mainly grass and herbs. In dry areas they have been known to survive by drinking seawater. They range over an area of about five hectares.

They are about 50 centimetres in height, with a dark grey brown fur. They have reddish colour on their arms and sides, with pale grey fur on their bellies. They may also have a feint white line on their cheeks.

The wallabies have a very unusual breeding pattern. The fertilized eggs remain dormant inside the mother until the summer solstice when foetal development restarts. This is called embryonic diapause. All the young are born on the same day about 31 days later, at the end of January or the beginning of February.

The Tammar Wallaby is the marsupial chosen for the genome sequencing project. Scientists are studying the milk from the wallaby as they think it might contain a new and powerful antibiotic.


</doc>
<doc id="270877" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270877" title="Antonine Wall">
Antonine Wall

The Antonine Wall is a stone and turf fortification built by the Romans across the Midlands of Scotland, between the Firth of Forth (near modern Edinburgh) and the Firth of Clyde (near Glasgow).

The Antonine Wall is part of the UNESCO World Heritage Site called "Frontiers of the Roman Empire". It shares this listing with Hadrian's Wall and the German wall known as the Limes Germanicus. 

It was the northernmost frontier barrier of the Roman Empire. It spanned about 39 miles (63 km), and was about ten feet (3 m) high and fifteen feet (5 m) wide. There was a deep ditch on the north side. The barrier was the second of two "great walls" created by the Romans in Britannia. Its ruins are less visible than the better known Hadrian's Wall to the south.

Construction began in AD 142 at the order of Roman Emperor Antoninus Pius, and took about twelve years to complete. 
Pressure from the Caledonians may have led Antoninus to send the empire's troops farther north. The wall was protected by sixteen forts with a number of small fortlets between them; troop movement was facilitated by a road linking all the sites known as the Military Way. The soldiers who built the wall commemorated the construction and their struggles with the barbarians in a number of decorative slabs, twenty of which still survive. 

Despite this good start, the wall was abandoned after only twenty years. The garrisons were sent back to Hadrian's Wall. In 208 Emperor Septimius Severus re-established legions at the wall and ordered repairs; this has led to the wall being referred to as the Severan Wall. However, the occupation ended only a few years later, and the wall was never fortified again. Most of the wall and its associated fortifications have been destroyed over time, but some remains are still visible. Many of these have come under the care of Historic Scotland and the UNESCO World Heritage Site Committee.

This was the only attempt the Empire made to hold Scottish territory.


</doc>
<doc id="270879" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270879" title="Alliance Party of Northern Ireland">
Alliance Party of Northern Ireland

The Alliance Party of Northern Ireland is a liberal and non-sectarian political party in Northern Ireland. It is neutral on the issue of whether Northern Ireland should stay in or leave the United Kingdom. The party has 1 out of 18 Northern Ireland seats in the House of Commons and 7 out of 108 seats in the Northern Ireland Assembely. It's leader David Ford is the Justice Secretary in Northern Ireland's all-party government.

The party was founded in 1970 and gained it's first elected Member of Parliament (MP) at the 2010 UK General Election. It is close to the British Liberal Democrats.


</doc>
<doc id="270881" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270881" title="Paddy Ashdown">
Paddy Ashdown

Jeremy John Durham 'Paddy' Ashdown, Baron Ashdown of Norton-sub-Hamdon (born 27 February 1941 in New Delhi, British India) is a British politician and international diplomat. He was the leader of the Liberal Democrats from July 1988 to August 1999.

Paddy Ashdown was brought up in Northern Ireland and his Irish accent brought him the nickname 'Paddy'. He served in the Royal Marines from 1959 to 1972 and saw fighting in Borneo, Hong Kong and Northern Ireland. At the 1983 General Election, Paddy Ashdown became the Liberal Party Member of Parliament for the constituency of Yeovil. In 1988, when the Liberal Party merged with the Social Democratic Party to form the Liberal Democrats, Ashdown was elected the leader of the new party and led the party through the 1992 and 1997 General Elections. He resigned in 2000 and was given both a knighthood and a seat in the House of Lords. In the House of Lords, he was given the name Baron Ashdown of Norton-sub-Hamdon. From 2002 to 2006 he was the High Representative for Bosnia and Herzegovina.

His reputation was damaged slightly in 1992, when it was revealed that he had a six-month extra-marital affair with his secretary and many British newspapers exposed this in great detail. "The Sun" newspaper ran a famous headline which played on Ashdown's name, calling him 'Paddy Pants-Down'.


</doc>
<doc id="270882" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270882" title="Jim Murphy">
Jim Murphy

James Francis 'Jim' Murphy (born August 23, 1967 in Glasgow, Scotland) is a British politician who is the Shadow Secretary of State for Defence in Ed Milibands shadow cabinet. He is the Labour Party Member of Parliament (MP) for the constituency of East Renfrewshire.

He was first made a Member of Parliament at the 1997 General Election for the Eastwood constituency (East Renfrewshire from 2005 onwards). He held two cabinet posts: Minister of State for Europe (June 2007-October 2008) and Secretary of State for Scotland (October 2008-May 2010). He was made the shadow Secretary of State for Defence in October 2010.


</doc>
<doc id="270911" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270911" title="Ermine Street">
Ermine Street

Ermine Street is the name of one of the main Roman roads in Britain. It ran from London ("Londinium") to Lincoln ("Lindum Colonia") and York ("Eboracum"). The original Roman name for the road is not known. 

Ermine Street is also called the Old North Road from London to where it joins the A1 near Godmanchester.

The alternative route (in blue) was built to allow transport in all weather. The direct route crosses the Humber, a tidal estuary of the rivers Trent and Ouse. In bad weather crossing would have been impossible. The Humber is too wide for the Romans to have built a bridge, therefore some kind of ferry must have been used.


</doc>
<doc id="270912" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270912" title="Islamic Azad University">
Islamic Azad University

Islamic Azad University (Persian: دانشگاه آزاد اسلامی, "Dāneshgāh-e Āzād-e Eslāmi") is a private chain of universities in Iran. The university was founded in 1982. It tis the world's third largest university. 1.5 million students study there. The university has over 400 branches across Iran and also in other countries such as the Dubai and the United Kingdom. Over the years, the university has become wealthier. It is estimated to be worth between $20 and $25 billion.


</doc>
<doc id="270914" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270914" title="Sadiq Khan">
Sadiq Khan

Sadiq Aman Khan (born October 8, 1970 in Tooting, England) is a British politician who is the Shadow Justice Secretary in Ed Miliband's shadow cabinet. He is the Labour Party Member of Parliament (MP) for the constituency of Tooting.

He worked as a human rights solicitor until the 2005 General Election when he was elected as an MP. He became the Minister of State for Transport from June 2009 to May 2010 and when Ed Miliband became leader of the Labour Party, he was made the Shadow Justice Secretary.


</doc>
<doc id="270915" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270915" title="Vince Cable">
Vince Cable

John Vincent "Vince" Cable (born 9 May 1943 in York, England) is a British politician who is the Secretary of State for Business, Innovation and Skills in the Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition government. He is the Liberal Democrat Member of Parliament (MP) for the constituency of Twickenham.

Vince Cable studied economics at university and became an economic advisor to the Kenyan government in 1966. He was an advisor to the British government and to the Commonwealth Secretary-General in the 1970s and 1980s. He served as Chief Economist for the oil company Shell from 1995 to 1997. In the 1970's, Cable was active in the Labour Party and became a Glasgow councillor. However in 1982, he joined the Social Democratic Party (SDP) which would go on to form the Liberal Democrats and he unsuccessfully contested seats in the elections of 1983, 1987 and 1992 until being elected as the MP for the London constituency of Twickenham in the 1997 general election.

He was the main economics spokesperson for the Liberal Democrats from 2003 to 2010 and became the Liberal Democrat's Deputy Leader in 2006. In May 2010, a coalition government was formed between the Conservative Party and the Liberal Democrats and Vince Cable was made the Secretary of State for Business, Innovation and Skills. He has promised a 'very radical overhaul' of the state pensions system.


</doc>
<doc id="270919" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270919" title="Category:Roman roads in Britain">
Category:Roman roads in Britain


</doc>
<doc id="270923" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270923" title="Fosse Way">
Fosse Way

The Fosse Way was one of the main Roman roads in Britain. It linked Exeter ("Isca Dumnoniorum") in South West England to Lincoln ("Lindum Colonia") in the East Midlands. The road went via Ilchester ("Lindinis"), Bath ("Aquae Sulis"), Cirencester ("Corinium") and Leicester ("Ratae Corieltauvorum").

It joined Akeman Street and Ermin Way at Cirencester, crossed Watling Street at "Venonis" (High Cross) south of Leicester, and joined Ermine Street at Lincoln.

The word "Fosse" is derived from the Latin "fossa", meaning "ditch". For the first few decades after the Roman invasion of Britain in AD 43, the Fosse Way marked the western frontier of Roman rule in Iron Age Britain. It is possible that the road began as a defensive ditch that was later filled in and converted into a road, or possibly a defensive ditch ran alongside the road for at least some of its length.

It is remarkable for its extremely direct route. From Lincoln to Ilchester in Somerset is a distance of 182 miles. The road is never more than six miles from a straight line.

Place names with words like -cester or -chester are derived from the Latin "castra", meaning 'military camp. 'Street' is derived from the Latin "strata", meaning a paved road.

Fosse Way still exists. In places it is a major road, in others a country path. The A46 between Lincoln and Leicester is on the Fosse Way. From Bath to Ilchester the A37 follows the Fosse, and from Ilchester to Exeter the A30/A303 roads follow the Fosse for the most part.

The Roman road is, quite simply, the shortest route possible.


</doc>
<doc id="270928" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270928" title="Template:Judaism">
Template:Judaism


</doc>
<doc id="270930" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270930" title="Category:Religions">
Category:Religions

Pages with Religious content.


</doc>
<doc id="270931" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270931" title="Ann Widdecombe">
Ann Widdecombe

Ann Noreen Widdecombe (born 4 October 1947 in Bath, Somerset, England) is a former British politician. She was the Conservative Party Member of Parliament (MP) for the constituency of Maidstone and The Weald from 1987 to 2010.

She was first elected to the House of Commons at the 1987 General Election. From 1995 to 1997, she was the Minister of State for Prisons. Ann Widdecombe served in William Hague's shadow cabinet from 1997 to 2001 and retired as an MP at the 2010 General Election.

Throughout her political career, Ann Widdecombe was quite socially conservative and converted from the Church of England to Roman Catholicism in 1992 after the Church of England voted to allow female priests.


</doc>
<doc id="270933" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270933" title="Ian Paisley">
Ian Paisley

Ian Richard Kyle Paisley, Baron Bannside (born 6 April 1926 in Armagh, Northern Ireland) is a politician and church minister in Northern Ireland. He founded the Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) in 1971 and was its leader until May 2008. 

He founded the Free Presbyterian Church of Ulster in 1951 and was a Member of Parliament (MP) for the constituency of North Antrim from 1970 to 2010. He was the First Minister of Northern Ireland from May 2007 to June 2008 at the head of an all-party government.


</doc>
<doc id="270936" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270936" title="Armageddon">
Armageddon

Armageddon (greek:Ἁρμαγεδών Harmagedōn, Hebrew:הר מגידו, Har Megiddo, Arabic:أرمجدون, Latin:Armagedōn) is the place where the great war of the end of day will start.

Christians that believe that Jesus will come back to earth in the year 2000, translated the sentences of the Messiah and the Lamb of God, are the symbolism of Jesus, that will return to the earth to fight the Antichrist (or the Beast) in the battle of "Armageddon". After that war Satan (or the "Antichrist") will be thrown to the bottomless pit, or "Abyss" for a 1,000 years, known as the "Millennium Age". After Satan will be out of the pit, he will gather one man called "Gog and Magog" (In the texts he is named "God and Magog" but also named "Gog kind of Magog", in Jewish texts, the war of Gog and Magog means the attack of Gog kind of Magog to kill all the Jewish people, and God will kill him and his army. In Christianity, Gog and Magog are two separate people that are Evil.) from the Four corners of the Earth. They will trap the "Holy Ones" (means Christians) in the "Beloved City", (means Jerusalem). Then Fire will come from God and from the Heavens, and it will destroy Gog and Magog and will trap the Devil in "Gehenna" (Gehinom, Valley of Hinom, a place near Jerusalem, lake of fire and brimstone, also known as Hell).

The word "Armageddon" appears only once in the "Greek New Testament". This word comes from the Hebrew "Har Megiddo" (הר מגידו), which means - "Mountain of Megiddo". In Israel there is a small city, that is located in the Azrieli Vally, called Megiddo. The Mountain of Megiddo is a small mountain which had a big Roman fort.


</doc>
<doc id="270940" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270940" title="Bromine monochloride">
Bromine monochloride

Bromine monochloride, also known as bromine(I) chloride, bromochloride, or bromine chloride, is a chemical compound. Its chemical formula is BrCl. It contains bromine in its +1 oxidation state and chloride ions. 

It is a red-brown gas. It is an oxidizing agent. It is used in analytical chemistry to see how much mercury is in something. It can be used to kill bacteria and mold in industrial places. It is highly toxic.



</doc>
<doc id="270945" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270945" title="Bromine dioxide">
Bromine dioxide

Bromine dioxide, also known as bromine(IV) oxide, is a chemical compound. Its chemical formula is BrO. It contains bromine in its +4 oxidation state. It also contains oxide ions. 

It is a yellow or yellow-orange solid. It is very unstable. It turns into bromine and oxygen easily. It is similar to chlorine dioxide. It reacts with a base to make bromide and bromate.

It is made when an electric current is passed through a mixture of cold bromine and oxygen gases. It also can be made by reacting bromine in an organic solvent with ozone. 



</doc>
<doc id="270946" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270946" title="Calcium bromate">
Calcium bromate

Calcium bromate is a chemical compound. Its chemical formula is Ca(BrO). It contains calcium and bromate ions.

Calcium bromate is a colorless solid. It dissolves in water easily. It is an oxidizing agent. It is similar to calcium chlorate. 

It is made by oxidation (by electrolysis) of calcium bromide solution. It can also be made by dissolving bromine in hot calcium hydroxide solution. This also makes calcium bromide.

It is added to flour to make it better in some areas.



</doc>
<doc id="270947" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270947" title="Sodium bromate">
Sodium bromate

Sodium bromate is a chemical compound. Its chemical formula is NaBrO, which means that one molecule of it contains one atom of sodium and one ion of bromate.

Sodium bromate is a colorless solid. It is a strong oxidizing agent. 

Sodium bromate is made by reacting sodium hydroxide with bromic acid. It can also be made by electrolysis of a sodium bromide solution. It may be made by dissolving bromine in hot sodium hydroxide solution. This also makes sodium bromide.

It is used to dye hair. It is also used to dye other things. It can be used to dissolve gold.



</doc>
<doc id="270948" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270948" title="Potassium bromate">
Potassium bromate

Potassium bromate is a chemical compound. Its chemical formula is KBrO. It contains potassium and bromate ions.

Potassium bromate is a white solid. It is a strong oxidizing agent. It might be a carcinogen. 

It can be made by dissolving bromine in hot potassium hydroxide. It can also be made by electrolysis of potassium bromide solution. 

Potassium bromate is used to make wheat flour better. Some places have banned it from being added to flour because it might be a carcinogen. Normally when the bread is baked the potassium bromate is broken down. If there is too much, then some might be left over in the bread, which is bad. 



</doc>
<doc id="270957" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270957" title="San Luigi dei Francesi">
San Luigi dei Francesi

San Luigi dei Francesi is a French church in Rome. It was build by Giacomo della Porta who completed it in 1859. The church is found near the Roman Pantheon, Piazza Navona and the French Cultural Center. The main attraction are some Caravaggio paintings; The Calling of Saint Matthew, The Inspiration of Saint Matthew, and the Martyrdom of Saint Matthew.

The outside facade was also done by Giacomo della Porta as a decorative piece apart from the actual church. It shows French heroes and saints like Charlemagne and Saint Louis.

The church is also a burial site for Pauline de Beaumont, Frédéric Bastiat, and Cardinal François-Joachim de Pierre de Bernis.


</doc>
<doc id="270964" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270964" title="Amadeus (movie)">
Amadeus (movie)

Amadeus is a movie made in 1984 directed by Milos Forman. This movie won eight Oscars. This is a biography of two great music composers - Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart and Antonio Salieri.



</doc>
<doc id="270972" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270972" title="Eva Maler">
Eva Maler

Eva Maler is a German actress and writer currently living in London.





</doc>
<doc id="270980" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270980" title="Bromic acid">
Bromic acid

Bromic acid is a chemical compound. It is also an acid. Its chemical formula is HBrO. It contains hydrogen and bromate ions.

Bromic acid cannot be found pure. It can be found in a solution though. It is very corrosive and a strong oxidizing agent. It is similar to chloric acid.

Bromic acid is made by adding a strong acid to a bromate such as sodium bromate.

Bromic acid can be used to make bromates, although it is not normally used.



</doc>
<doc id="270981" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270981" title="Bromine pentafluoride">
Bromine pentafluoride

Bromine pentafluoride is a chemical compound. Its chemical formula is BrF. It contains bromine and fluoride ions. The bromine is in its +5 oxidation state.

Bromine pentafluoride is a pale yellow liquid. It is a powerful oxidizing agent. It reacts with water to make bromic acid and hydrofluoric acid. 

It can be made by reacting hot bromine with fluorine. This makes some bromine trifluoride. Potassium bromide can be reacted with fluorine. This makes bromine pentafluoride and potassium fluoride.

It is used to look at the isotopes of oxygen. It can add fluoride ions to other chemical compounds. It can be used as an oxidizing agent in rockets. 

Bromine pentafluoride is very corrosive. Just a little kills most animals. It can ignite powdered metals. 



</doc>
<doc id="270982" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270982" title="Bromine trifluoride">
Bromine trifluoride

Bromine trifluoride is a chemical compound. Its chemical formula is BrF. It contains bromine and fluoride ions. The bromine is in its +3 oxidation state.

It is a yellow liquid. It absorbs water. It reacts when it is placed in water. It can be dissolved in concentrated sulfuric acid. It conducts electricity. It can dissolve other fluorides. 

It is made by reacting cold fluorine with bromine. Hot fluorine makes bromine pentafluoride. 

It is used to make uranium hexafluoride for uranium making. This makes the uranium able to explode in an atomic bomb.



</doc>
<doc id="270983" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270983" title="Kingsmeadow">
Kingsmeadow

Kingsmeadow is an association football stadium in Kingston upon Thames, London. It has been used since 1989. There are four parts to it. It could hold 4,720 people as of 2009. It has a grass surface.


</doc>
<doc id="270984" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270984" title="Leaders of the Conservative Party">
Leaders of the Conservative Party

The Leader of the Conservative Party is the most senior politician within the Conservative Party of the United Kingdom. The post is currently held by David Cameron who is also the Prime Minister at the head of a Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition government. There was no proper leader of the Conservative Party until 1922:

"Those asterisked ( * ) were considered the overall leader of the party."



Date in brackets shows when each person became leader.


</doc>
<doc id="271006" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271006" title="White people">
White people

White people, also known as Caucasian, are a kind of people with light skin. They are a race of people. Most whites of European origin.

In the South, until 1965, the Jim Crow laws divided whites from blacks. Blacks were banned from many places.


</doc>
<doc id="271015" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271015" title="Kazuyo Sejima">
Kazuyo Sejima

Kazuyo Sejima is a Japanese architect. Sejima studied at Japan Women's University and worked in the office of Toyo Ito. Then, she started her own company, Kazuyo Sejima and Associates in 1987. In 1995, she started another architecture firm with Ryūe Nishizawa in Tokyo called SANAA. Nishizawa had worked for Sejima before. The name of this company comes from the first letters of the members: (Sejima and Nishizawa and Associates). Sejima became Director of the Architecture Sector for the Venice Biennale. She organized the 12th Annual International Architecture Exhibition, which was held in 2010. She is the first woman to ever have that position. She also won the Pritzker Prize in 2010, together with Ryūe Nishizawa.


Sejima is a Visiting Professor at both Tama Art University and at Keio University in Tokyo. She was a professor with Nishizawa at the School of Architecture at Princeton University, in Princeton, New Jersey from 2005 to 2008. She has also worked there as an advisor for several years.




</doc>
<doc id="271018" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271018" title="Sanaa (disambiguation)">
Sanaa (disambiguation)

Sanaa may mean:


</doc>
<doc id="271019" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271019" title="SANAA">
SANAA

SANAA (Sejima and Nishizawa and Associates) is an architecture company in Tokyo. Kazuyo Sejima and Ryūe Nishizawa started it in 1995. In 2010, Sejima and Nishizawa won the Pritzker Architecture Prize. This is the highest award in architecture.






</doc>
<doc id="271021" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271021" title="Category:Japanese architects">
Category:Japanese architects

This page is for architects from Japan.


</doc>
<doc id="271030" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271030" title="Notoceratops">
Notoceratops

Notoceratops (meaning "southern horned face") was a ceratopsian dinosaur known only from a late Cretaceous jaw bone. "Notoceratops" walked on four sturdy legs, had a large head, a bulky body, a parrot-like beak, cheek teeth, and a small frill on its head. 

Notoceratops was named by Augusto Tapia in 1918 from a partial lower jaw found in Chubut, Argentina. This original "Notoceratops bonarelli" is missing and there is some doubt as to whether or not this fossil was actually a ceratopsian. 


</doc>
<doc id="271031" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271031" title="Kumamoto Prefecture">
Kumamoto Prefecture

The area of Higo Province was renamed Kumamoto during the Meiji Restoration.


Kumamoto Prefecture is located in the middle of Kyūshū The western border of Kumamoto is the Ariake inland sea and the Amakusa archipelago. Fukuoka Prefecture and Ōita Prefecture are in the north. Miyazaki Prefecture is in the east. Kagoshima Prefecture is in the south.

Mount Aso (1592 m) is an active volcano in the eastern part of the prefecture.




</doc>
<doc id="271032" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271032" title="Christian Mortensen">
Christian Mortensen

Thomas Peter Thorvald Kristian Ferdinand Mortensen (August 16, 1882 – April 25, 1998), known as an adult as Christian Mortensen, was a Danish-American supercentenarian. Having died at the age of 115 years and 252 days, Mortensen is the oldest man who has ever lived whose age was undisputed. (The Guinness Book of World Records ranks him second to the Shigechiyo Izumi, whose age is now disputed, with a note in recent editions that the latter's age was uncertain). Mortensen was the first undisputed recorded man to reach age 114.

Mortensen was baptised in Fruering Church on December 26, 1882. Besides his baptismal record, other records include the 1890 and 1901 census enumerations in Denmark, and church confirmation in 1896.


</doc>
<doc id="271042" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271042" title="Violante Beatrice of Bavaria">
Violante Beatrice of Bavaria

Violante Beatrice of Bavaria (23 January 1673 – 30 May 1731) was the wife of the Ferdinando de' Medici, Grand Prince of Tuscany, the heir to the Grand Duchy of Tuscany. 

She was the youngest child of Ferdinand Maria, Elector of Bavaria and Henrietta Adelaide of Savoy and was a sister to Louis XIV's daughter-in-law. 

She married Ferdinando de' Medici on 9 January 1689 and became known as the Grand Princess of Tuscany. Her husband died on 31 October 1713 and she did not have any children. She was put in charge of Siena in 1717 and died in 1731.


</doc>
<doc id="271043" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271043" title="Category:House of Medici">
Category:House of Medici


</doc>
<doc id="271044" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271044" title="Category:House of Wittelsbach">
Category:House of Wittelsbach


</doc>
<doc id="271045" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271045" title="Maria Anna Victoria of Bavaria">
Maria Anna Victoria of Bavaria

Maria Anna Victoria of Bavaria (28 November 1660 – 20 April 1690) was the wife of Louis, the Grand Dauphin. She had three sons including Louis, Duke of Burgundy and Philip V of Spain. She was the sister of Violante Beatrice of Bavaria. 

She was a daughter of Ferdinand Maria, Elector of Bavaria and Henrietta Adelaide of Savoy.


Thus, through Burgundy and Anjou, Louis ensured the continuation of the senior Bourbon line on the throne of France and the establishment of the cadet Spanish Bourbon dynasty respectively.


</doc>
<doc id="271046" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271046" title="4th millennium">
4th millennium

The 4th millennium is a period of time that will start on January 1, 3000 and end on December 31, 4000.


</doc>
<doc id="271047" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271047" title="Category:1690 deaths">
Category:1690 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="271048" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271048" title="Category:1673 births">
Category:1673 births


</doc>
<doc id="271049" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271049" title="Category:1731 deaths">
Category:1731 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="271053" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271053" title="10000">
10000

The year "10000" is a year that begins on January 1, 10000 and ends on December 31, 10000.

The year 10000 can also be written as 10 X 10.


</doc>
<doc id="271054" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271054" title="10th millennium">
10th millennium

The 10th millennium is a period of time that will start on January 1, 9001, and end on December 31, 10000.


</doc>
<doc id="271055" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271055" title="Geometric abstraction">
Geometric abstraction

Geometric abstraction is a form of abstract art based on the use of geometric forms in non-representational compositions. This art is not meant to depict our everyday visual world, but instead uses the shapes of basic geometry.

Wassily Kandinsky, one of the forerunners of pure non-objective painting, was among the first modern artists to explore this geometric approach in his abstract work. Other examples of pioneer abstractionists such as Kazimir Malevich and Piet Mondrian have also embraced this approach towards abstract painting.

Geometric abstraction is not just an invention of 20th century avant-garde artists or movements. It is present in many cultures throughout history both as decorative motifs and as art pieces themselves. 

Islamic art, in its prohibition of depicting religious figures, is a prime example of this geometric pattern-based art. It existed centuries before the modern movement in Europe, and in many ways influenced this Western school. Geometric patterns were often used in the architecture of Islamic civilisations from the 7th century-20th century, to visually connect spirituality with science and art. 

Abstract art has also historically been likened to music in its ability to convey emotional or expressive feelings and ideas without reliance upon or reference to recognizable objective forms already existent in reality. Wassily Kandinsky has discussed this connection between music and painting, as well as how the practice of classical composition had influenced his work, at length in his seminal essay "Concerning the Spiritual in Art".

Expressionist abstract painting, as practiced by artists such as Jackson Pollock, is the opposite of geometric abstraction. 

Artists who have worked extensively in geometric abstraction include Josef Albers, Theo van Doesburg, Wassily Kandinsky, Kazimir Malevich, Piet Mondrian, Barnett Newman, Kenneth Noland, Bridget Riley, Alexander Rodchenko, Sophie Taeuber-Arp, among others.




</doc>
<doc id="271057" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271057" title="Year 2038 Problem">
Year 2038 Problem

The Year 2038 Problem, or Y2.038K, is a problem machines and computers have when the year hits 2038. 32-bit time stores the number of seconds since January 1, 1970. If the value goes above a certain number, the date resets to a very negative number, showing the date in 1901 instead of 2038.


</doc>
<doc id="271062" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271062" title="Josef Albers">
Josef Albers

Josef Albers (March 19, 1888 – March 25, 1976) was a German-born American artist and educator. His work in Europe and the United States was highly influential. and far-reaching art education programs of the 20th century.

Albers was born in Bottrop, Westphalia (Germany). He studied art in Berlin, Essen, and Munich, before enrolling as a student at the prestigious Weimar Bauhaus in 1920. He began teaching in the preliminary course of the Department of Design in 1922, and was promoted to Professor in 1925, the year the Bauhaus moved to Dessau. His work at this time included designing furniture and working with glass. 

With the closure of the Bauhaus under Nazi pressure in 1933, Albers emigrated to the United States. In 1950 Albers was appointed head of the Department of Design at Yale University. In 1963 he published "Interaction of Color" which presented his theory that colors were governed by an internal and deceptive logic. A key idea, which he proved by examples, was that our perception of color is not constant. It is influenced by the juxtaposition (placing together) of one color with another. This interested artists interested in optical illusions (Op art).

Albers is best remembered for his work as an abstract painter and theorist. Most famous of all are the hundreds of paintings and prints that make up the series "Homage to the Square". In this rigorous series, begun in 1949, Albers explored chromatic interactions with flat colored squares arranged inside each other. This was a union of geometric abstraction with experiments in color.


</doc>
<doc id="271070" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271070" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Marcoot, Alabama">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2010/Marcoot, Alabama


</doc>
<doc id="271071" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271071" title="Political Parties in France">
Political Parties in France

France has a multi-party system, which means that several political parties must form coalitions in order to form a government. This is because it would be very difficult for any one party to win a majority of seats in the French National Assembly. Since the 1980s, there have been two major coalitions; one is a collection of right-wing parties and the other is a collection of left-wing parties..

National Front ("Front National") - Promotes strong law enforcement, anti-immigration, Euroscepticism and a return to traditional French values.

Union for a Popular Movement ("Union pour un Mouvement Populaire") - Promotes conservatism, liberal-conservatism, libertarianism and nationalism.

National Centre of Independents and Peasants ("Centre National des Indépendants et Paysans") - Promotes Social conservatism, Liberal conservatism and National conservatism.

Hunting, Fishing, Nature, Tradition ("Chasse, Pêche, Nature, Traditions") - Promotes traditional rural values which include giving people the right to hunt and fish freely and the refusal of environmental legislation. Is also conservative and Eurosceptic.

Movement for France ("Mouvement pour la France") - Promotes strong law enforcement, conservatism, anti-immigration and Euroscepticism.

Democratic Movement ("Mouvement démocrate") - Promotes centrism, social liberalis and is Pro-European.

New Centre ("Nouveau Centre") - Promotes Christian democracy and liberalism.

Radical Party ("Parti Radical") - Promotes liberalism.

The Greens ("Les Verts") - Promotes Environmentalism, Social progressivism and social democracy.

Socialist Party ("Parti Socialiste") - Promotes Social democracy, Democratic socialism and socialism.

French Communist Party ("Parti communiste français") - Promotes eurocommunism, communism and democratic socialism.

Unitarian Left ("Gauche Unitaire") - Promotes anti-capitalism and democratic socialism.

Left Party ("Parti de gauche") - Promotes democratic socialism, republicanism, anti-capitalism and environmentalism.

Radical Party of the Left ("Parti Radical de Gauche") - Promotes left-wing radicalism and social liberalism.

Citizen and Republican Movement ("Mouvement républicain et citoyen") - Promotes left-wing nationalism, social democracy, Euroscepticism and socialism.

New Anticapitalist Party ("Nouveau parti anticapitaliste") - Promotes Anti-capitalism, Democratic socialism and Eco-socialism.

Workers' Struggle ("Lutte Ouvrière") - Promotes Trotskyism and communism.




















</doc>
<doc id="271072" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271072" title="Dae Jung-Sang">
Dae Jung-Sang

Dae Jung-Sang (Hangul:대중상, Hanja:大仲象, ? - 698) was a Korean Goguryeos noble. He was the father of BalHae's founder, Dae Jo-Young. He was killed by Lee HaeKo.


</doc>
<doc id="271079" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271079" title="Philip V of Spain">
Philip V of Spain

Philip V of Spain (19 December 1683 - 9 July 1746) was the second son of Louis, Grand Dauphin and Maria Anna Victoria of Bavaria. He was a grandson of Louis XIV and Marie Therese of Austria and was King of Spain from 1700 – 1724 and again from 1724 – 1746. He succeeded Charles II of Spain who was childless and mad. 

He lost the Kingdom of Naples to Charles VI, Holy Roman Emperor and the Kingdom of Sicily to Victor Amadeus II. He died at his the Royal Palace of Madrid.

Philip was the first Bourbon king of Spain. His entire reign of 45 years and 21 days is the longest in modern Spanish history.

He married Maria Luisa of Savoy in 1701 and had four children:


He remarried in 1714 to Elisabeth Farnese and had seven children:



</doc>
<doc id="271080" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271080" title="Category:1746 deaths">
Category:1746 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="271081" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271081" title="Category:People from Versailles">
Category:People from Versailles


</doc>
<doc id="271084" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271084" title="Louis I of Spain">
Louis I of Spain

Louis I of Spain (25 August 1707 – 31 August 1724) was the King of Spain and eldest son of Philip V of Spain and Maria Luisa of Savoy. 

Born in Madrid, he was the heir to the throne from birth. He was a first cousin of Louis XV of France as well as the future Charles Emmanuel III of Sardinia. 

He was King of Spain from 14 January 1724 to 31 August 1724 when he died of smallpox. He married his father's cousin Louis Élisabeth d'Orléans but had no children. 



</doc>
<doc id="271086" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271086" title="Category:1724 deaths">
Category:1724 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="271087" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271087" title="Category:Spanish House of Bourbon">
Category:Spanish House of Bourbon


</doc>
<doc id="271088" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271088" title="Louise Élisabeth d'Orléans">
Louise Élisabeth d'Orléans

Louise Élisabeth d'Orléans (11 December 1709 – 16 June 1742) was the wife of Louis I of Spain. She was a daughter of Françoise Marie de Bourbon and Philippe, Duke of Orléans, Regent of France. She married Louis, then known as the Prince of Asturias on 20 January 1722. She had no children and became Queen of Spain in 15 January 1724 before her husband died the same year of smallpox. She was sent back to France where she died ignored in Paris in 1742. 


</doc>
<doc id="271091" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271091" title="Maria Luisa of Savoy">
Maria Luisa of Savoy

Maria Luisa of Savoy (17 September 1688 – 14 February 1714) was the first wife of Philip V of Spain. She loved her husband a lot and gave him four children. She had a lot of influence in the government but died exhausted in 1714. Her husband remarried to Elisabeth Farnese in December 1714.

She married Philip V in 1701 and had four children:



</doc>
<doc id="271092" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271092" title="Category:1688 births">
Category:1688 births


</doc>
<doc id="271096" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271096" title="Elisabetta Farnese">
Elisabetta Farnese

Elisabetta Farnese (25 October 1692 – 11 July 1766) was the second wife of Philip V of Spain. Phillip's first wife, Maria Luisa of Savoy, had died in February 1714. Elisabetta married the king in December 1714. She had lots of influence over the state till her husband's death in 1746. She acted as Regent in 1759 when her eldest son Charles III of Spain became king and was travelling from Naples. 




</doc>
<doc id="271098" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271098" title="Category:1692 births">
Category:1692 births


</doc>
<doc id="271099" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271099" title="Category:1766 deaths">
Category:1766 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="271102" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271102" title="Political Parties in Scotland">
Political Parties in Scotland

Most political parties in Scotland can be put into two groups: Unionists and Nationalists. Nationalists want Scotland to become an independent country and to stop being part of the United Kingdom whereas Unionists want Scotland to stay in the United Kingdom.

The following parties are parties represented at either the British House of Commons, the Scottish Parliament and/or the European Parliament.




These are parties who contested the 2007 Scottish Parliament election but did not gain representation









</doc>
<doc id="271106" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271106" title="Dino De Laurentiis">
Dino De Laurentiis

Agostino De Laurentiis, usually credited as Dino De Laurentiis (8 August 1919 – 10 November 2010), was an Italian Academy Award-winning movie producer.

He was born at Torre Annunziata in the province of Naples. He grew up selling spaghetti produced by his father. He studied at the Centro Sperimentale di Cinematografia in Rome. His studies were interrupted by the Second World War. 

His first movie was "L'ultimo Combattimento" in 1940. He has produced nearly 150 movies. In 1946 his company, the Dino de Laurentiis Cinematografica, moved into movie production. In the early years, De Laurentiis produced neorealist films such as "Bitter Rice" (1946) and the Fellini classics "La Strada" (1954) and "Nights of Cabiria" (1956). Neorealist is a style about the poor and working class. In the 1960s, De Laurentiis built his own studio facilities. During this period, De Laurentiis produced such films as "Kiss the Girls and Make Them Die", "Navajo Joe" (1966), and "Barbarella" (1968).

In the 1970s, De Laurentiis moved to the US. He created his own studio, De Laurentiis Entertainment Group (DEG), based in Wilmington, North Carolina. During this period De Laurentiis made a number of successful and acclaimed films, including "Serpico" (1973), "Death Wish" (1974), "Mandingo" (1975), "Three Days of the Condor" (1975), "The Shootist" (1976), Ingmar Bergman's "The Serpent's Egg" (1977), "Ragtime" (1981), "Conan the Barbarian" (1982) and "Blue Velvet" (1986). 

It is for his more infamous productions that De Laurentiis's name has become known: The "King Kong" (1976) remake, which was a commercial hit, "Lipstick", the killer whale film "Orca" (1977); "The White Buffalo" (1977); the disaster movie "Hurricane" (1979); the remake of "Flash Gordon" (1980); "Halloween II" (the 1981 sequel to John Carpenter's 1978 classic horror film); David Lynch's "Dune" (1984); and "King Kong Lives" (1986). De Laurentiis also made several adaptations of Stephen King's works during this time, including "The Dead Zone" (1983), "Cat's Eye" (1985), "Silver Bullet" (1985) and "Maximum Overdrive" (1986); "Army of Darkness" (1992) was produced jointly by De Laurentiis, Robert Tapert and the movie's star Bruce Campbell. 

De Laurentiis also produced the first Hannibal Lecter film "Manhunter" (1986), "Hannibal" (2001) and "Red Dragon" (2002), a remake of "Manhunter". He also produced "Hannibal Rising" (2007).

In 2001 he received the Irving G. Thalberg Memorial Award from the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences.

Laurentiis died on 10 November 2010 at his residence in Beverly Hills, California.

He had four children with his first wife, actress Silvana Mangano, who died in 1989. He later married movie producer Martha Schumacher with whom he had two daughters. One of the children from his first marriage, Raffaella De Laurentiis, is also a producer; another, Federico De Laurentiis (28 February 1955 – 15 July 1981), died at 26 in an airplane crash. His granddaughter is Giada De Laurentiis, host of "Everyday Italian", "Behind the Bash", "Giada at Home" and "Giada's Weekend Getaways" on Food Network. His nephew is Aurelio De Laurentiis, a film producer and the chairman of SSC Napoli football club.

Selected filmography from 1965 to the present.



</doc>
<doc id="271116" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271116" title="Ferdinando de' Medici, Grand Prince of Tuscany">
Ferdinando de' Medici, Grand Prince of Tuscany

Ferdinando de' Medici, Grand Prince of Tuscany (9 August 1663 – 31 October 1713) was the son of Cosimo III de' Medici, Grand Duke of Tuscany and Marguerite Louise d'Orléans. Ferdinando was heir to the Grand Duchy of Tuscany, with the title Grand Prince from his father's accession in 1670 until his death in 1713. He married Violante Beatrice of Bavaria in 1689 but the marriage remained childless. He died of syphilis aged 50. 

His older brother Gian Gastone de' Medici, then became Grand Prince and later was the Grand Duke of Tuscany. 


</doc>
<doc id="271122" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271122" title="Supernatural (TV series)">
Supernatural (TV series)

Supernatural is an American horror, drama, fiction TV series created by Eric Kripke. It first aired on September 13, 2005 on The WB and now it is part of The CW series. The show stars Jared Padaleck as Sam Winchester and Jensen Ackles as Dean Winchester. The show follows the two of them as they hunt demons and other figures of the paranormal, but not Bigfoot and aliens. The series is produced by the Warner Bros. Company with the help of Wonderland Sound and Vision. The current executive producers are Eric Kripke and McG, who also directs, and Robert Singer. The fourth producer, Kim Manners died of cancer in the production of the fourth season.



</doc>
