<doc id="24302" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24302" title="Folk music">
Folk music

Folk music is music that is played or sung by ordinary people (not professional musicians). It is traditional music that people learn by listening to other people playing it and then copying them. We say that the tradition is “orally transmitted” or “handed down orally”, meaning that the music is not written down but taught by speaking (“oral” means “belonging to the mouth”). Every country has its own traditional music. Folk song is part of folk music. ( And, a folksinger is a person who can sing folk songs.)

In the 1960s a new type of music was started by Bob Dylan who mixed traditional folk song with rock and roll. This music is sometimes called “folk” . 

Folk music is music for everybody to play and listen to. In this way it is different from classical music which is mainly developed by professional musicians for a smaller group of people. Folk music is part of a popular culture, although the term “popular music” or “pop music” today refers to a kind of music which people can hear through television, radio and other means of recording.

In many parts of the world nearly all music is folk music. The term “folk music” is usually used for European and American music which is part of an oral tradition. 
Folk music as an oral tradition, is much less important than it used to be, in part, because of new technology (radio, television etc , and recordings of music ). 
Folk tunes are now often written down, and they have influenced other kinds of music, so that the differences between various types of music are harder to see.

In older times folk music was part of “communal recreation”. This means that small communities such as villages or families would relax by playing and singing music together. People would often make up a new song or new piece of music, or make changes to music that they already knew. In this way music was always changing. People would get musical ideas from other groups nearby. This is why folk music from neighbouring countries often sound similar.

Ballads were a popular kind of folk music. These were folk songs which told a story (they were “narrative”). Sometimes they had a refrain after each verse so that everybody could join in. Ballads told stories of love, myths or folklore. This is how stories were handed down from one generation to another.

Instrumental folk music was used for dancing. Some of the instruments may have been very simple, such as a pair of sticks, rattle or a simple drum. Other instruments may include fiddle (the folk word for “violin”), bagpipes, harp, zither, or various wind instruments, depending on the time of history and the country.

Some singing was polyphonic, i.e. there were two or more parts (voices). Very often two voices would sing in parallel (going up and down together). In countries such as Russia people sang in three or four parts, e.g. in the tradition of “podgolosnaya” (“underneath the voice”). In countries such as Britain this polyphonic tradition did not exist. Folk songs there were sung by one singer, unaccompanied.

Folk music used different scales. These are called modes. The Ionian mode (like our major scale) was the most common in Western Europe. In some parts of Eastern Europe modes with several semitones were used.

Folk music also includes simple children’s songs and lullabies.

Folk music was sung by people as they worked. In the early days of European immigration in America the pioneers sang as they travelled, cowboys sang as they worked, slaves sang in the cottonfields.

In the 18th century folk music started to have an influence on classical music (or “art music”). People from the higher classes started to be interested in folk music because they were conscious of being part of a tradition. Composers such as Mozart and Schubert wrote folk dances for orchestras or small groups of instruments.

Folk music was used by many composers in the Romantic period. Gustav Mahler used folk song in a lot of his music. In the early twentieth century some composers travelled around collecting folk music which was being played or sung by people in the country. They often used some of these ideas in their music. Bartok did this in Hungary as well as in Bulgaria and in the United States, and people such as Cecil Sharp and the composer Ralph Vaughan Williams collected folk music in England. In the United States the influence of jazz on classical music is all part of the story of folk music.


</doc>
<doc id="24304" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24304" title="Abraham">
Abraham

Abraham (originally Abram) is a character in the Bible and Quran. There, he is said to be the father of all Jews. This is because he is their ancestor. The story about Abraham is a part of the Jewish, Christian and Islamic religions. In Islam he is considered as one of the 5 great prophet.

Abraham is the father of Isaac & ishmael and the grandfather of Jacob. Abraham is believed to be the founding patriarch of the Israelites, Ishmaelites and Edomites. Abraham was the third son of Terah and the grandson of Nahor. Abraham's older brothers were named Nahor and Haran.


</doc>
<doc id="24305" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24305" title="Tao Te Ching">
Tao Te Ching

Tao Te Ching (Chinese: 道德經 <nowiki>[</nowiki><nowiki>]</nowiki>) is the Chinese Tanmoy Laozi (or Lao Tzu, which literally means "old master"). Laozi was a sage (a wise man) and he was a record-keeper. The title can mean "The Book of the Way and its Virtue." People believed the book was written around 600 BCE.

It is an important text to Chinese culture. It is very important in Chinese philosophy (way of thinking) and religion. It is the main book for Taoism, which is both a philosophy and part of Chinese folk religion. It also influenced other philosophies in and around China.

There are many ways to translate the book's title, because each Chinese word has a few meanings:


The book is constructed of a series of poems, each containing a rule , way or belief to becoming successful.

The Tao Te Ching is a short book of about 5,000 Chinese characters. It has 81 short chapters. It has two parts: Part One is the Tao Ching (道經), which is chapters 1–37; Part Two is the Te Ching (德經), which is chapters 38–81.

The Tao Te Ching is the second most translated book in history, behind only the Bible. Why are there hundreds of translations? The text is short. The language is not clear - the author wanted it to be unclear because he is talking about things that are hard to describe. There are many interpretations, or ways to understand what the book says.




</doc>
<doc id="24306" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24306" title="Bacon">
Bacon

Bacon is a type of meat that comes from pigs. It is taken from the sides, back, or belly of the pig. It is often cut in thin slices, unlike other cured or smoked pork products. It is usually fried or grilled. It can also be microwaved. 

In the USA, back bacon and smoked ham is sometimes called Canadian bacon.

Bacon contains high amounts of fat. Since bacon contains pork, eating it may be against the beliefs of certain religions. In some cultures and religions (such Islam and Judaism), eating pork may be considered "unclean". Because of this, other varieties of bacon are also made out of turkey or chicken instead. Turkey bacon and chicken bacon usually contain half of the fat of pork based bacon.


</doc>
<doc id="24308" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24308" title="Molotov-Ribbentrop pact">
Molotov-Ribbentrop pact

The Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact was signed by Vyacheslav Molotov (Russian foreign minister) and Joachim von Ribbentropp (German foreign minister) on 23 August, 1939. The pact promised that neither Russia nor Germany would attack the other. It also divided Poland between them.

However, after the pact (treaty) was signed, Hitler broke it in 1941. This was part of a series of conflicts in World War II.


</doc>
<doc id="24311" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24311" title="Vyacheslav Molotov">
Vyacheslav Molotov

Vyacheslav Mikhailovich Molotov (Russian: Вячесла́в Миха́йлович Мо́лотов) (March 9 1890 – November 8, 1986) was a Soviet politician and diplomat. He was a leading figure in the Soviet government from the 1920s, when he came to power. He was a protégé of Joseph Stalin, until the 1950s. Nikita Khrushchev dismissed him from office. He was the main Soviet signatory of the Molotov-Ribbentrop pact of 1939. This pact was signed between Germany and the USSR, and it was a promise not to attack each other. The pact lasted about two years, until Germany started the invasion of the Soviet Union on June 22 1941.


</doc>
<doc id="24322" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24322" title="Babylonia">
Babylonia

Babylonia was a city state in Mesopotamia in the second millenium BC, over 3000 years ago. Its capital city was Babylon, which meant "The Gate of the Gods". They built an empire out of the lands of the former Akkadian empire.

Mesopotamia is the region of the two rivers, Euphrates and Tigris. At that time the region also included the city states of Assyria to the north, and Elam to the south-east. It is part of the Fertile Crescent in the Middle East. It was there people first lived together in a civilization, with farming, cities and writing. 

The Babylonians had a written language that they used for trade and communication. They got it from the Sumerians, who invented it. The Babylonians used the same cuneiform system of pressing triangular shapes into soft clay. They wrote in two different languages: the Sumerian for religious purposes and Akkadian for official purposes.

Hammurabi was a king of Babylon who fought wars and made Babylonia into an empire by putting Assyria under a vassal (puppet) king. He created the earliest written set of laws, called the "Code of Hammurabi". It has 280 judgments and can be seen today in the Louvre, a museum in Paris. Whereas the earlier Sumerian punishments had not been harsh, Babylonian law was quite severe. The death penalty was given for theft, murder, and other crimes.

The houses in Babylon had open roofs, so that on hot nights, the family could sleep there. The living rooms, dining rooms, and the kitchens were, of course, downstairs. Lamps burned with olive oil, and every house had a chapel for burial and worship ceremonies. Since Mesopotamia had only clay for use in building, the strong wooden supports for the houses were imported from Lebanon. Eventually, people began baking their bricks and improved the strength of their buildings.

Later, Babylon was sacked by the Hittite king Musilis I, which led to the so-called 'Dark Ages' of the Bronze Age, where there is little evidence in writing. The date of the sacking of Babylon is debated by archaeologists, who have proposed no fewer than four chronologies. Possible dates for the sack of Babylon are:
The difficulty is to line up the Mesopotamian dates with the Ancient Egyptian dates.

After the Hittite destruction, Babylon was ruled by Kassites for 576 years. Next it was ruled by Elam, and then regained its independence for about three centuries. They were then conquered by the Neo-Assyrians. A century later they again became free, to form the Neo-Babylonian or Chaldean Empire. This constant conquest and re-conquest is partly due to geography. There are no natural boundaries except the rivers, and it is easy to get at the cities from north or south.

The king Nebuchadnezzar II, whose reign of 43 years made Babylon once more the mistress of the civilized world, conquered Phoenicia in 585 BC. 

The Babylonian empire was finally brought to an end by Cyrus the Great of Persia. 

It was in 549 BC that Cyrus put an end to the empire of the Medes. Three years later Cyrus had become king of the Achaemenid Empire (Persia), and was engaged in a campaign in northern Mesopotamia. 

In 539 BC Cyrus invaded Babylonia. A battle was fought at Opis in the month of June, where the Babylonians were defeated; and immediately afterwards Sippara surrendered to the invader. Two days after the capture of Sippara, "the soldiers of Cyrus entered Babylon without fighting". Cyrus did not arrive until the 3rd of "Marchesvan" (October), Gobryas having acted for him in his absence. Gobryas was now made governor of the province of Babylon.

Cyrus now claimed to be the legitimate successor of the ancient Babylonian kings and the avenger of their god Bel-Marduk. The invasion of Babylonia by Cyrus was doubtless helped by the presence of foreign forced exiles like the Jews, who had been planted in the midst of the country.

One of the first acts of Cyrus was to allow these exiles to return to their own homes, carrying with them the images of their god and their sacred vessels. The permission to do so was embodied in a proclamation, whereby the conqueror endeavored to justify his claim to the Babylonian throne. The feeling was still strong that none had a right to rule over western Asia until he had been consecrated to the office by Bel and his priests; and accordingly, Cyrus henceforth assumed the imperial title of "King of Babylon."

Like the Sumerians, the Babylonians ate vegetables, fruits, meat, and fish. They also ate bread and enjoyed toasting and eating the pesky but crunchy locusts which destroyed their precious crops.

The Babylonians loved art. Beautiful vessels ornamented with sparkling gold were buried with the kings. In those days books dealt with floods which were thought to be caused by sin, or about the journey of Abraham. 
Science, too, improved well: they invented the first calendar, the 60-minute hour, and the advance multiplication table.

Life was rich, full, and usually peaceful. People rarely thought about war or how to protect the city. As a result, Babylon was conquered in 730 BC by the Assyrians and Kassites. This great civilization then ended.



</doc>
<doc id="24323" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24323" title="Joachim von Ribbentrop">
Joachim von Ribbentrop

Ulrich Friedrich Wilhelm Joachim von Ribbentrop (born Ulrich Friedrich Wilhelm Joachim Ribbentrop) (30 April 1893–16 October 1946) () was Foreign Minister of Germany from 1938 until 1945. He was executed by hanging for war crimes after the Nuremberg trials.


</doc>
<doc id="24326" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24326" title="Noise">
Noise

Noise is another word for sound. It usually means it is not wanted. Noise can also mean data (information) that does not have a meaning, like "white noise".
Noise is perceived by our ears. They can be damaged by noise.


</doc>
<doc id="24328" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24328" title="Karma">
Karma

Karma is a word meaning the result of a person's actions as well as the actions themselves. It is a term about the cycle of cause and effect. According to the theory of Karma, what happens to a person, happens because they caused it with their actions. It is an important part of many religions such as Hinduism and Buddhism. 

Karma is about all that a person has done, is doing and will do. Karma is not about punishment or reward. It makes a person responsible for their own life, and how they treat other people.

The "Theory of Karma" is a major belief in Hinduism, Ayyavazhi, Sikhism, Buddhism, and Jainism. All living creatures are responsible for their karma - their actions and the effects of their actions.

 Karma is the universal principle of cause and effect. Our actions, both good and bad, come back to us in the future, helping us to learn from life’s lessons and become better people. In religions that include reincarnation, karma extends through one's present life and all past and future lives as well. 

Karma is basically energy. One person throws out energy through thoughts, words and actions, and it comes back, in time, through other people. Karma is the best teacher, forcing people to face the consequences of their actions and thus improve and refine their behavior, or suffer if they do not. Even harsh karma, when faced in wisdom, can be the greatest spark for spiritual growth. The conquest of karma lies in intelligent action and unemotional response. 

The process of action and reaction on all levels—physical, mental and spiritual—is karma. One must pay attention to thoughts, because thought can make karmas—good, bad and mixed.

“I say kind words to you, and you feel peaceful and happy. I say harsh words to you, and you become ruffled and upset. The kindness and the harshness will return to me, through others, at a later time.”

“An architect thinks creative, productive thoughts while drawing plans for a new building. But were he to think destructive, unproductive thoughts, he would soon not be able to accomplish any kind of positive task even if he desired to do so.”

Hindus look at time as a circle, as things cycle around again. Karma is a very just law which, like gravity, treats everyone the same. The law of karma puts man at the center of responsibility for everything he does and everything that is done to him. Understanding the way karma works, Hindus try to live a virtuous life. This is called dharma.

There are three types of karma in Hinduism:

Karma is considered one of the natural laws of the mind, just as gravity is a law of matter. Just as God created gravity to bring order to the physical world, He created karma as a divine system of justice that is self-governing and infinitely fair. It automatically creates the appropriate future experience in response to the current action. 

Several different views exist in Hinduism regarding the role of divine beings. In Hinduism, many see the deities or devas as playing some kind of role. Other Hindus, such as the Mimamsakas, reject such notions and see karma as acting independently, considering the natural laws of causation sufficient to explain the effects of karma. 

Some interpretations of the Bhagavad Gita suggest an intermediate view, that karma is a law of cause and effect yet God can mitigate karma for His devotees. It is said in Bhagavad Gita that only the karma that is done with a sense of doership and with attachment to the karma could cause good or bad reactions. Karma that is done with an attitude of duty and without attachment to the results will not create any effect and will move one closer to God.

Another view holds that a Satguru, acting on God's behalf, can mitigate or work out some of the karma of the disciple.




</doc>
<doc id="24338" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24338" title="Western Hemisphere">
Western Hemisphere

The Western Hemisphere is a geographical term for the half of the Earth that is located west of the Prime Meridian. Pretend that the earth is cut in half, from the North Pole, through England, to the South Pole. The Western Hemisphere is the half to the west. The other half is called the Eastern Hemisphere.



</doc>
<doc id="24346" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24346" title="Molotov cocktail">
Molotov cocktail

A Molotov cocktail, also known as a petrol bomb, benzine torch, molotov grenade or a Molotov bomb, is the generic name for different kinds of simple incendiary weapons. They are relatively easy to make. For this reason, they are commonly associated with irregular military forces and rioters. Most of those bombs are used far more often to commit basic arson. In urban slang, they are often referred to as a "homemade frag".

A Molotov cocktail consists of a glass bottle partly filled with a flammable liquid. The liquid will typically be gasoline, alcohol, methanol or ethanol. The mouth of the bottle is closed with a cork or other type of tight sealing made of rubber, glass, or plastic, and a cloth rag is fixed securely around the mouth. The weapon is used by first soaking the rag in a flammable liquid immediately before using it, lighting the rag, and throwing the bottle at the target. The bottle breaks when it lands, spilling the flammable liquid over the target, which is then ignited by the burning rag.

Many substances may be added to the basic Molotov cocktail to enhance its use as a weapon. These include:

Molotov cocktails are similar to napalm bombs in principle. Napalm was originally made by combining flammable naphthalene and petrol with a thickening agent palmitic acid. The latter two are the main ingredients of Molotov cocktails. When gasoline is used as the main ingredient, motor oil is commonly added to help the gasoline cling to the target.

The name "Molotov cocktail" is derived from Vyacheslav Mikhailovich Molotov, a Soviet politician. He was the People's Commissar for Foreign Affairs, or the Foreign Minister, of the Soviet Union.

During the early part of World War II, when Finland refused to surrender some land to the Soviet Union, the Soviets invaded. The poorly equipped and heavily-outnumbered Finnish Army faced Red Army tanks in what came to be known as the Winter War. The army borrowed an improvised incendiary device from the 1936–39 Spanish Civil War. In that conflict, the Spanish Nationalists under the orders of General Francisco Franco had used the weapon against Soviet T-26 tanks. Those tanks helped the Spanish Republicans in a failed 1936 Soviet assault near Toledo, 30 km from Madrid.

When Molotov claimed in radio broadcasts that the Soviet Union was not dropping bombs but rather delivering food to the starving Finns, the Finns started to call the air bombs satirically "Molotov bread baskets". Soon they responded by saluting the advancing tanks with "Molotov cocktails." At first the term was used to describe only the burning mixture itself, but the term was soon applied to the combination of both the bottle and its contents. This Finnish use of the hand- or sling-thrown explosive against Soviet tanks was repeated in the subsequent Continuation War. Molotov cocktails were eventually mass-produced by the Finnish military, bundled with matches to light them.

These weapons saw widespread use by all sides in World War II. They were very effective against light tanks, and very bad for enemy morale. The following is a first-hand description of their effects, written during the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising in 1943:

During the 1948 Arab–Israeli War, members of the Israeli Kibbutz Degania managed to stop a Syrian tank assault by using Molotov cocktails. They were frequently used against Soviet tanks with great efficiency in the Hungarian Revolution of 1956. 

The weapon has been used against tanks effectively because of the conformation of parts of tanks, particularly around the undersides and fuel tank "entrances". A Molotov cocktail could blow up the fuel tank, destroying the machine, particularly for older (before 1940) tank models. Molotov cocktails are much more effective against gasoline engines than diesel engines' tanks. This is because diesel has a high flashpoint of 64 °C – making it more difficult to ignite compared to petrol. Some Soviet tanks actually had an entry to the gas tank on the side of the vehicle, which could be opened by combatants in close quarters, letting out the highly flammable liquid and making destruction of the tank even easier. Note that these tactics were only effective due to the advantage guerrillas had in close quarters; tanks can barely maneuver in such conditions and are not able to counter quick-moving enemies armed with incendiary bombs. 

Petrol bombs were widely used throughout the Troubles in Northern Ireland in riot situations, directed towards the RUC or the British Army. As well as occasional situations where they continue to be used against the PSNI and army, they are frequently used in sectarian attacks on homes and businesses by both communities. Fireworks and homemade grenades, known as blast bombs now commonly accompany petrol bomb attacks on the security forces.

As such things can cause a lot of damage, and actually kill people, it is illegal in most countries to make or possess them. When they are used against property, this usually counts as "arson". When they are used against people, the charges range from manslaughter to murder.

Given the recent terrorism laws, such things could also fall under anti-terror legislation.

Molotov cocktails were put to use recently during the riotous 2005 civil unrest in France. Another situation with popularity for them is the Palestinian Intifada.

In Sydney, during the Cronulla Riots, rioters carrying Molotov cocktails were apprehended when they carried open bottles in a bus. The resulting smell of petrol alerted the driver, who in turn alerted the police.

During the Columbine High School massacre, the two gunmen built and threw several Molotov cocktails; however, none of them exploded. It is presumed that this was due to their being overfilled.




</doc>
<doc id="24347" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24347" title="Flammability">
Flammability

Flammability or inflammability means that something can be set on fire easily. It will burn easily. The words come from Latin. The word at the base is "in-flammare" (late Latin). It means something like "to put fire to a thing".

"Inflammable" and "flammable" are used to mean the same thing. People sometimes get confused and think that "inflammable" means "not flammable" because the prefix "in" is often used to mean "not". For example, something that is inhuman is not human. Since many people do not know that "inflammable" means "burns easily", "flammable" is used more often in public places as a warning.


</doc>
<doc id="24352" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24352" title="Template:Esoteric">
Template:Esoteric

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="24357" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24357" title="Arson">
Arson

Arson is a crime. When someone sets fire to a property (a building) they do not own and they want to cause damage, it is called arson. A person who commits arson is an arsonist.


</doc>
<doc id="24358" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24358" title="Cocktail">
Cocktail

A cocktail is a kind of mixed drink. Usually, it is made with alcoholic drinks such as vodka, gin or rum. Since such spirits do not have much taste of their own (at around 40% alcohol), other are added. Common ingredients are fruits, fruit juice, sugar, crushed ice, and ice cubes. If the cocktail is served in a bar or nightclub, it is often garnished with a piece of fruit, for example, a gin and tonic could be garnished with lemon, a Piña Colada with pineapple and a cherry.

Most cocktails were invented in the late 19th or early 20th centuries. People began drinking a lot of cocktails in the United States in the 1920s due to Prohibition. Around that time, cocktails from Cuba, such as the mojito, became popular around the world.

Cocktails made without alcohol are also made.

Because all the ingredients give their flavor to the finished drink, a cocktail is only as good as the worst ingredient.

There are many kinds of cocktails. They include:

There is a group called the IBA that determines what common cocktails are, and how they should be made



</doc>
<doc id="24359" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24359" title="1103">
1103


</doc>
<doc id="24361" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24361" title="Sneeze">
Sneeze

A sneeze is a reaction in the nose in which air and mucus (the liquid found in the nose) are forced out quickly. It often happens after breathing dust or other small things into the nose. When people sneeze, their eyes close. This is a natural reflex which keeps the eyes from being bulged by the great pressure of air which is being released through the sinus cavity (the area the nostrils lead into). A common thing to say to people when they sneeze is "Bless you!" or in the United States sometimes "Gesundheit!" (from German, meaning "Good health"). There is a story that the blessing started with Pope Gregory VII (540–604 AD). He said a blessing might stop people from getting the bubonic plague which was killing people in Rome at the time. When people sneeze the speed is about 150 kilometers per hour or more. The heart does not stop.


</doc>
<doc id="24365" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24365" title="Puma">
Puma

Pumas ("Puma concolor"), also called cougars or mountain lions, are large wild cats that live on the west coast of Canada, in the western half of the United States, including Alaska and Florida, and most of Central and South America. Cougars are mainly tan-coloured, and can be up to 9 feet long although average length is 6 - 8 feet. They can weigh from 29 kilograms to 90 kilograms. (The males are larger.) Most pumas live 21 years. Although pumas are very large and some are larger than humans, the puma is classified is a small cat. That means that, in scientific terms, the puma is more closely related to the Domestic Cat than they are to Lions. Unlike the big cats in the genus "Panthera", the puma cannot roar. Instead, it can growl, hiss, screech, and purr. Since pumas are, in the biological sense, small cats, they are capable of purring continuously. The big cats can only purr while breathing out. 

Cougars are carnivores because they eat only meat. They hunt deer, raccoons, squirrels, foxes, rabbits and skunks. They can also eat mice, beavers, coyotes, birds and porcupines. They hunt at night. Cougars can see better at night than people can. They can hear well too. Cougars stalk their prey. That is, they walk slowly and quietly, they hide and then when close, they jump or run fast to catch their prey. They live and hunt alone. Female cougars take care of their babies until they are old enough to fend for themselves. Baby cougars are called cubs.

Cougars live in the mountains and forests far from people. However, encounters with humans do happen sometimes. Cougars have been known to attack humans. 26 people have been killed by cougars in North America in the last 30 years. However, what cougars have done to people is nothing compared to what people have done to cougars. Cougars used to be found all over eastern North America. However, they were hunted to extinction there by the beginning of the 1900's. However, recent sightings of cougars have been reported from Michigan, New Brunswick, southern Indiana, Kentucky, and Vermont. For now, the only confirmed, unambiguous population of cougars east of the Mississippi River is in Florida, where a subspecies of the cougar called the Florida Panther lives. 

Schools that have a cougar for a mascot are:



</doc>
<doc id="24370" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24370" title="Google Talk">
Google Talk

Google Talk is a Windows application for Voice over IP and instant messaging, offered by Google. It is built on the XMPP platform. A web-based version is also available online.



</doc>
<doc id="24372" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24372" title="Armour">
Armour

Armour (or armor) is a protective covering or clothing used to try to prevent injury when being attacked. Armour can be worn by a person, or it can be used to protect machines, animals, even buildings. Armour has always been made from the strongest materials available at the time, but weight has always been a problem. Early armour was made from leather, then later metals were used (e.g. mail or plate armour). Some modern armour, like bullet-proof vests, are made from plastics that do not stretch or break, such as Kevlar. These plastics may be woven into a cloth and used in layers, which makes them even stronger.

Armour put on vehicles is usually made of metal and can include one layer over another with open spaces in between (spaced armour) or multiple layers of metal; ceramics (baked clay), and other materials. Another type of armour uses blocks of explosive that explode when another explosion goes off near it. This explosive armour protects by pushing against the other explosion. Vehicle armor is often angled to increase the amount of armour that must be shot through to get inside and to make the shot bounce off rather than piercing the armour.

Tanks have the heaviest armour of all land vehicles. Other military vehicles have armour, but not as much as a tank. 

Sometimes armour is put in non-military vehicles, such as limousines used by leaders of a country or by anyone who thinks they might be attacked, eg film stars or presidents of major companies.

In the past, armour has also been used in wars to protect animals such as dogs, elephants, and horses. Today, police dogs and horses sometimes wear woven plastic bullet-proof vests.

Many sports involve violent physical contact and may be highly dangerous if the players are unprotected. Such sports include ice hockey, American football and kendo. Sports armour is usually made from hard plastic.


</doc>
<doc id="24374" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24374" title="North Star Computers">
North Star Computers

North Star Computers was one of the earliest manufacturers of microcomputers. Before they started making their first computer, the "North Star Horizon", they made floppy disk drives for S-100 bus computers. They included a disk operating system called "North Star DOS" (or "N*DOS"). The Horizon used the North Star disk controller and operating system. It was one of the first microcomputers that had multi-user features.

Their second computer, called the "North Star Advantage", ran CP/M, and had the keyboard and monitor built-in. The graphics were very powerful for their time. When the IBM PC came out, North Star made an MS-DOS compatible processor card that could be added to the "Advantage".

Their third computer, the "North Star Dimension", was multi-user like the "Horizon", but MS-DOS based.

Because their products in the early 1980s were only MS-DOS compatible, not fully PC compatible, they never sold very many, and the company went out of business.


</doc>
<doc id="24377" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24377" title="Mario Bros.">
Mario Bros.

Mario Bros. is a game made in 1983. In the game, Mario and/or Luigi must defeat enemies by jumping on them from below and then kicking them, when they are knocked down. It is not only the first game to feature Luigi as a playable character, it also is the first game in which Mario is named Mario. It was later remade for other game consoles at the time. "Mario Bros." was also included with the four "Super Mario Advance" games.


</doc>
<doc id="24379" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24379" title="Oval">
Oval

An oval is a shape. An oval is a figure that looks like an egg. 



</doc>
<doc id="24381" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24381" title="Risk">
Risk

Risk is the possibility of something bad happening. People use the word "risk" when they are actually talking about "probability"; it means, they want to say how likely something is to happen.

People often take risks. This means that they do something that is risky, i.e. that might be dangerous. There is a possibility that something bad might happen. 

In epidemiology, risk is defined as the number of events divided by the number of people prone to that event. For example, if the risk of neonatal death in a population is reported as 1/1000, it means that from each 1000 babies born, 1 is likely to die.

Risk is different from prevalence. Prevalence refers to the number of people with a disease in a population, while risk means the number of "new" cases, divided by the number of people who could possibly become a case (for example, those who had a chance to be exposed to the disease).

A risk assessment is a list of things that could go wrong. In many Western countries, when teachers take children on an outing they may have to fill in a risk assessment form which lists all the possible dangers and says what they should do to stop bad things from happening (e.g. accidents or children getting lost).



</doc>
<doc id="24382" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24382" title="Focus">
Focus

Focus is a word that means many things. 



</doc>
<doc id="24403" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24403" title="Pipe organ">
Pipe organ

The pipe organ is a keyboard instrument in which the sound is made by air blowing through pipes. A person who plays the organ is called an organist. The organist plays the instrument using both the hands and the feet. The hands play the keyboards (called manuals), while the feet play pedals which also make notes. 

Organs have been made for many centuries. They are usually found in places for Christian worship such as churches and cathedrals, although they may also be found in places like town halls and concert halls or even large private houses. Very small organs can be called “chamber organs”. Organs in large churches, cathedrals or halls are very large instruments indeed, and are built especially for the building they are in. They are called “pipe organs” to distinguish them from modern “electronic organs”.

No two organs are ever quite the same, and they vary greatly from one country to another and one historical period to another. The information here is about organs from Europe, Britain and America.

In a pipe organ, the musical notes are made by blowing air through pipes. Every organ must have pipes, something to blow the air and a way of controlling which pipes are played. 

The pipes are made of metal or wood. They are lined up in rows in the "organ case" which can be as big as a room. The metal pipes are round tubes. They can be made of different types of metal, but the most common type is an alloy (or mixture of metals) called "spotted metal" because it has round shiny spots on it. For some reason this alloy makes pipes that sound very good. Very small pipes can sometimes be made of silver, like flutes. Some organs also have some pipes made of brass that sound like trumpets. Most organs have a lot of wooden pipes. The wooden pipes have four flat sides and make a sound different from that of the "spotted metal" pipes. They are not usually seen; they are neatly lined up behind the large metal pipes at the front of the organ which are sometimes painted with colours and patterns. All the pipes have to be made with an end that tapers at the bottom where the air blows in. 

Each pipe can play only one note which depends on its size. The small pipes play high notes and the large pipes play low notes. Each pipe has its own special sound which depends on the material it is made from (whether it is wood or brass or spotted metal) and on the shape of the pipe. The pipes are arranged in "ranks" so that all the pipes of the same shape and material can be controlled to play a tune together, without all the others. 

To blow air through the organ, there are boxes called "wind chests". When the organist is playing, he/she can see a little gauge that tells whether there is enough air. The wind chests can be kept full in two ways. The old-fashioned way is to have an enormous set of "bellows" which are pumped up and down by a person using a large handle. This sucks in air and fills the wind chest. Pumping the bellows of a large pipe organ is heavy work. For this reason, most organs nowadays have an electric motor and a large fan which fills the wind chest. 

The organist uses keyboards like those on a piano to play the organ. A small organ may have just one keyboard, but many organs have two keyboards and a very big one may even have five. Organists do not call them keyboards; they call them "manuals". An organist will talk about "a four-manual organ" (which means it is a large one). The manuals are arranged on the organ "console", and the organist sits on a bench in front of the console to play. Apart from the manuals there are two other important parts of the console. There are a set of long wooden pedals which the organist can play with his/her feet. Each pedal plays a different note. 

On either side of the manuals there are rows of "stops" which look like knobs. The stops can be pulled out or pushed in. When a stop is pulled out, it turns on some sets of pipes. The organist can choose whether to play loud pipes or soft pipes, flute-sounding pipes or brassy pipes, sweet pipes or harsh-sounding pipes. As the organist plays, he/she does not just have to think about the right notes. He/she also has to think about the sort of "voice" that the organ should play in. He/she can play different ranks of pipes together by pulling out several stops. Some pipes, usually the biggest decorated pipes at the very front of the organ, are used only for the grandest music. By tradition, these pipes are the symbol of the "Voice of God". 

When the organist presses the keys of the organ, the sound comes from the air blowing through the pipes. This is because a valve (an opening with a one-way door) opens up to let the air into the pipe, and closes again when the organist stops pressing that key. This can happen in several ways. Traditional organs have what is called a "tracker action". The trackers are thin wooden rods and wires which move backwards and forwards, opening and shutting all the valves. They are worked by levers under the keyboard. A tracker action organ has to have the console right near the organ, usually under the big front pipes. 

A more modern development was to have a "tubular pneumatic" action, in which the console could be away from the organ, but connected to it by tubes through which air could be pushed to open the valves. In the most modern pipe organs, the manual is connected to the organ pipes by electric wires. The power to open and shut the valves is controlled by electro-magnetic switches. The console does not have to be close to the organ. This makes it possible for the organist to sit in a position where he/she has good contact with the people in the church, or with other musicians.

A very small organ may only have one manual (keyboard). Most organs have at least two. In English and American Organs the lower manual is the main one and is called the "Great". The upper manual is called the "Swell" because it operates pipes which are inside a “swell box” which has that can be opened or closed. This makes the music get louder or quieter (crescendo or diminuendo). The organist operates the swell box with a pedal which (rocks to and fro). It is in the centre just above the pedal board. On old English organs the swell box is operated by a lever at the side. This is quite difficult to use. Most of these have now been replaced by central swell boxes.

If there is a third manual, it is called the "Choir" in English-speaking countries. Originally the English called them “chair organs” because they were a separate instrument. The organist had to turn round and face the other way to play it. It is thought that the word "chair" gradually changed to "choir" because it was often used to accompany the choir. In German organs the third manual was called the “Positiv”. The name “Rückpositiv” (“back positive”) was used because the pipes were behind the organist’s back as he/she sat facing the main organ. These started to become popular again with organ builders in the 1950s when it was felt that the Romantic organ was not suitable for old music, and some organ builders started using Baroque principles again so that the music of composers such as Bach could sound like it used to. The Choir manual is nearest to the player, the Great is in the middle and the Swell is farthest away. The Choir or Positiv often contains soft stops which are suitable for accompanying the choir. On French organs from the late 19th century onwards, the three manuals are arranged differently: the Great (“Grande Orgue”) is nearest to the player, the “Positif” is the middle manual and is like a smaller version of the Great, and the Swell (“Recit”) is the top manual. This makes it easy for the organist to build up the music, getting louder gradually, by starting at the top and gradually coming down.

The fourth manual is called the "Solo" because the stops on this manual are used to play out the tune as a solo. This manual is even farther away from the player than the Swell. Large cathedral organs usually have four manuals. The Solo will probably have a very loud stop indeed called the “Tuba” or “Tuba Mirabilis”. 
If there is a fifth manual it may be called the "Echo" because it has very quiet stops that echo. Alternatively, especially on American organs, it might be a "Bombarde". The Bombarde usually contains loud, bold reed stops, including stops called 'Bombarde'. For instance: a State Trumpet or Pontifical Trumpet might be placed on this manual which can be heard above all the other stops playing. The Bombarde is borrowed from French Organs where it is a standard stop on nearly all the manuals and pedals. Having a Bombarde Manual is something of a luxury for an organist. It can be found, for example, on the organ of Westminster Abbey.

It is extremely unusual to have more than five manuals, but in America there are a few very large organs. The Wanamaker organ at Macy's store in Philadelphia has six manuals. The world’s largest organ is in the Atlantic City Convention Hall. It has seven manuals and over 33,000 pipes. However, the largest organ in the world does not work since it would be too expensive to run it.

Having two or three manuals makes it possible to have quick changes of sound during a piece. The player can also play on two manuals at once: one with the left hand and one with the right. This is particularly useful to make a tune louder than the accompaniment (on a piano this can be done by pressing harder). The manuals can also be coupled together, for example, pulling out the “Swell to Great” stop will make all the sounds from the Swell come out on the Great as well. On an organ with mechanical action the keys of the Swell will be seen “playing by themselves” like a pianola, but on some older organs it can be hard work for the organist’s fingers when the manuals are coupled as it makes the action very heavy.

The notes on the pedals are arranged like the notes on a keyboard, but are obviously much bigger. The player needs to learn to play by 'feel', otherwise he will have to spend all his time looking at his feet. He plays each note, either with the toe or the heel and either on the inside of the foot or the outside. The American and British Standard organ contains 30 notes giving a range of nearly 2 ½ octaves (C to F, or sometimes C to G: 32 notes). They are not quite in a straight line but fan out a little to make it easier to play (it is called a ", pedalboard"). In German and French organs and organs built before 1920, the pedalboard will be straight without any fan curvature to it. Many organists find that this makes it more difficult to play. Organists need a good pair of shoes: ones which have good narrow heels and preferably pointed toes. The soles need to be fairly slippery, but not too much, so that the player can slide the foot from one pedal to another. Organists usually like to keep a pair of shoes which are worn only for playing the organ so that the soles do not have grit or dirt from the street. 
The stops on an organ console give different sounds, like the instruments of an orchestra, and have names which tell the organist what kind of sound they will produce. The stops are usually to the left and right of the organist and they are pulled out (“drawstops” or “pulls” because they are “drawn” i.e. pulled). Some organs have “tab stops” or “rocker stops” which are in front of the player and can be rocked forwards and backwards for on/off.

The stops of an organ can be divided into families.

The "chorus" stops are the foundation stops, the basic ones which are good for building up the big, solid sound. A "diapason" or "principal" is a chorus stop.

The "flute" stops sound like flutes in an orchestra. They are gentler than the diapasons and sound good for very quick and light music.

The "reeds" are stops like the "oboe", "clarinet", "trumpet", "fagotto", "trombone". Each pipe has a reed inside. Their sound is very strong and nasal (like speaking through the nose).

The "strings" are quiet stops which sound like string instruments. These are stops like the "violone" and "gamba".

There is another way of grouping the stops. Each stop will have a number underneath the name. The number may be 16, 8, 4, 2, 1 or even 2 2/3 or 1 3/5. If the number is 8 this is called an “eight foot stop”. This is the normal pitch: the note will sound as it is written, e.g. when playing Middle C the sound will be Middle C. A 4 foot stop will sound an octave higher than written, a 2 foot stop will be two octaves higher. A 16 foot stop will sound an octave lower than an 8 foot stop. 8 foot is therefore the normal pitch, and the others are added to it to make a larger, brighter sound. 16 foot stops are normal in pedal parts.

Mutation stops are stops in which a note does not sound a whole number of octaves above the normal pitch. Examples are the Tierce 1 3/5 (which sounds 2 octaves and a third above) and the Nazard or Twelfth 2 2/3 (one octave and a fifth).

An organist needs to learn which combinations of stops sound good together and how to balance them well. Each organ is different and has its own character.

The combination of stops that an organist chooses for a particular piece of music is called the “registration”. The list of all the stops that a particular organ has is called the “specification”. The specification of an organ shows the names of the stops for each of the manuals and for the pedals, as well as the list of couplers.
Organs also have buttons called “pistons” which help to change the registration in the middle of a piece. There are “toe pistons” operated by the feet, and “thumb pistons” which are placed just below each manual so that they can be pushed by the thumb while the fingers keep playing. Large organs often have “general pistons” which change any combination of stops across the organ. These are often be computerised so that players can set them up differently depending on the music they are going to play. If several players regularly use the instrument they can each have their own personal settings for the pistons which they can lock so that no one else can change them.

Each stop controls a row of pipes, called a “rank”. Each rank makes a different sound (one row for the “diapason” sound, another row for the “flute”, another for the “trumpet” and so on). The stops control the air flow through the ranks. Some stops may control more than one rank. For instance, a Mixture stop of three ranks will have 182 pipes (3 ranks of 61 pipes each) and in some organs the Celeste is a 2 rank stop. The celeste pipes are tuned slightly sharper than the rest of the organ so that, when played together with another quiet stop such as the Salicional, there will be a pleasant throbbing beat because two pipes are slightly out of tune with one another. Organ Pipes are normally made of metal or wood. High quality metal organ pipes usually contain 75 percent tin or more, and the rest is lead. The Pipes are placed on windchests inside an "organ case" in a special room called an Organ chamber. A windchest is a box-like device which contains pallets that are opened and closed to admit air to a pipe so that it sounds. The pallets are operated by pull wires and rollers in the case of a tracker instrument but may also be operated by pneumatics or direct electric action using magnets.

There is always air being pumped into the windchest when the organ is switched on. In the days before electricity someone (an organ blower) had to pump the air into the windchest using bellows. This was hard work. Large organs would have needed more than one organ blower to do this job.

No other instrument has developed in such a wide variety of ways as the organ. If Bach, who lived in the early 18th century, had gone from his home in Germany to France, he would have found it impossible to play his music properly on French organs. If Couperin, who lived at the same time, had gone from his home in France to Germany, he would not have been able to play his music on the organs that Bach was using. Neither of them could possibly have played on an organ in England at the time. For one thing, English organs in the 18th century still had no pedals. This means that organists need to know a lot about what organs were like in other countries in other centuries in order to know what registrations to use when playing music by composers of the past. 

The earliest organs were water organs invented in Ancient Greece. The Romans used them in circuses and gladiator combats because they were loud. They were still popular in some countries a few hundred years ago, for example, in pleasure gardens.

In the Middle Ages large organs were built in the huge Gothic cathedrals in Britain. These instruments did not have different stops: all the ranks sounded at once. They were played by a slider mechanism. Only in the 11th, 12th and 13th centuries did they start to use a keyboard. The so-called "Mixture Organ" (or "Blockwerk") still sounded several pitches at once. Very small organs called "portatives" (because they could be carried) were used in . "Positives" were a bit bigger and were used to accompany singing in the church. The "Regal" was like a portative but it had reeds and no pipes. It could be put on a table.

By about 1450, the organs that were being built in Germany and the Netherlands had two or three manuals and pedals. There were stops so that the player could choose which ranks he wanted to sound. The collection of pieces called the "Buxheimer Orgelbuch" (about 1470), is one of the first collections we have of organ music. French organs, too, were developing. In England, organs were quite small. Composers like John Bull, William Byrd and Orlando Gibbons wrote music for chamber organs. In the Netherlands Jan Pieterszoon Sweelinck was a very famous organist and teacher. 
The Baroque period was a great period for organ music in Germany. Organs there were built on the "Werkprinzip" (literally: "work principle") which meant that each keyboard with its pipes was built separately, like two or three different organs, although they were played from the same console. Organs like these were built by the famous Arp Schnitger (1648-1719). Many famous German composers wrote organ music, especially Johann Pachelbel (1653-1709) in South Germany and (Dietrich Buxtehude) (1637-1707) in North Germany. The great composer Johann Sebastian Bach (1685-1750) learnt from these composers and wrote some of the most famous organ music of all times. The great organ builder Gottfried Silbermann (1683-1753) lived during this time and built organs with a very beautiful tone. Instead of a keyboard called a Choir (or Chair Organ) he built an "Oberwerk" which was above the "Hauptwerk" (Great). 

French organ builders at this time were very interested in colour (meaning: different sounds). Many stops were reeds that had names like Cornet, Tierce and Prestant. When all the stops of the Principal chorus played together it was called the "Plein jeux". This was like the medieval Blockwerk. All the reed chorus together was called "Grands jeux". This would have sounded very loud and was used for dialogues and fugues. Composers included Nicolas de Grigny (1672-1703), Louis Marchand (1669-1732), Louis Nicolas Clérambault (1676-1749), Louis Claude Daquin (1694-1772) and François Couperin (1683-1733).

In England there was not much interest in developing the organ. It was used for accompanying the choir. There were no pedals. Pieces for organ were called voluntaries. Henry Purcell wrote a few organ pieces. 
Organ composition reached a great peak in the work of J.S.Bach, but then people started to lose interest. Not many developments took place in organ-building during the Classical music period. Although Mozart played the organ and called it the “King of Instruments” he did not often write music for it. Among the organ builders at this time were Joseph and Claude-Ignace Callinet who built the organ at Notre-Dame's (St. Etienne, Loire) in 1837. 
The organ in 19th century Germany started to be used for imitating the sound of an orchestra. People also started to be interested in playing the music of J.S. Bach. Many Classical organs were re-built and sometimes they lost their original character. Organs in different countries started to sound the same.

Gradually, composers started writing for the organ again. Felix Mendelssohn (1809-1847) wrote some excellent sonatas and preludes and fugues which were inspired by Bach’s music and made other composers want to write organ music. Robert Schumann (1810-1856) and Franz Liszt (1811-1886) wrote for the organ and later in the century Max Reger (1873-1916) and Sigfrid Karg-Elert (1877-1933).

In France, the organ builder Aristide Cavaillé-Coll (1811-1899) was a real genius. His organs had lots of new ideas including the Barker lever (which made it easier to play on coupled manuals) and placing families of stops on to separate chests. Organists could change their registrations quickly, pushing in or pulling out the stops that they needed. Composers included César Franck (1822-1890), Charles-Marie Widor (1845-1937) and Louis Vierne (1870-1937). The last two wrote long works in several movements which they called Symphonies because they were full of colourful sounds like those in a symphony orchestra. There were usually three manuals called "Grand", "Positif" and "Récit" placed in that order (with Grand nearest to the player). The Grand had warm foundation stops and big reeds (it was like combining the classical plein jeux and grand jeux). The Positif had string stops as well as a solo reed, and the Récit had lighter reeds.

In England, Samuel Wesley (1766-1837) wrote some important organ music inspired by J.S. Bach, and his son Samuel Sebastian Wesley (1810-1876) was influenced by Continental Romantic composers such as Mendelssohn. In 1851, the organ builder Henry Willis built a large organ for Crystal Palace Exhibition. It had three manuals and a pedal board. This set the standard in English organ building for the future.

During the 20th century organ builders became more and more interested in returning to some of the ideas of the Baroque and Classical periods. Many organs now have electric action, but a good mechanical action has the advantage that the player feels more close to the instrument that he is playing. Some large 20th century organs are able to play many kinds of organ music. Other 20th century organs were built as copies of Baroque or Classical instruments, but this means these instruments are mainly suitable for Baroque or Classical music, and are not well suited for music of the 19th and 20th centuries. 

In the 19th century, many organs in England and America were placed in corners of churches where they could not be heard very well. In the 20th century, organ builders thought more about the best position for the organ, so that the sound would fill the main part of the church, thenave. 
Among the most famous 20th century organ composers are Marcel Dupré (1886-1971, Jehan Alain (1911-1940) and Olivier Messiaen (1908-1992) in France, Paul Hindemith (1895-1963) in Germany, and Edward Elgar (1857-1934) and Herbert Howells (1892-1983) in England. The Czech composer Petr Eben (1929-2007) was one of the most important organ composers at the end of the 20th century, writing in an individual style.

As well as the obvious use of the organ for accompanying church choirs and singing the organ has often been used to accompany instruments. In the Baroque period small organs were used to accompany solo instruments or small groups of instruments or orchestras. This kind of accompaniment was called continuo. Occasionally composers have written organ concertos in which the organ is the solo instrument and the orchestra accompanies. Handel wrote several of these. In modern times Francis Poulenc wrote an organ concerto. There is an important organ solo in Symphony no 3 by Saint-Saëns. Other orchestral works sometimes have organ parts. Organists have often made organ “transcriptions”, i.e. arranged music written for other instruments so that it can be played on the organ.






</doc>
<doc id="24413" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24413" title="Celtic">
Celtic

The words Celt and Celtic can have many meanings. 

Pronounced /kel-(tik)/:


The following should only be pronounced /selt(ik)/:



</doc>
<doc id="24416" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24416" title="Manx language">
Manx language

The Manx language, (known in Manx as "Gaelg" or "Gailck"), is a language spoken in the Isle of Man. 

It is a Celtic language of the Goidelic language family. It is in the same family as Scottish and Irish.

Manx is spoken mainly by people who learn it through interest. It died out as a natural community language in the 20th century. The last of the old native speakers died in 1974.

Manx is protected under the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages.

Manx was beginning to differ from Middle Irish in about 900 - 1600 AD, and it is called Yn Ghaelg / Yn Ghailck by Manx speakers. There became fewer and fewer Manx speakers during the 19th century and the language was replaced by English. In 1901, 9% of the people in the Isle of Man were said to speak Manx but in 1921 the number dropped to only 1%. 

Today, Manx is used as the only language taught at five of the Isle of Man’s pre-schools. Manx is taught as a 2nd language at all of the Island's primary and secondary schools.

There is now 1 school that teaches all of its lessons in Manx. The census of 2001 said that 2.2% of the population of the island could speak the language. There are currently 54,000 second language Manx speakers, mainly in the U.S. 


</doc>
<doc id="24417" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24417" title="Goidelic languages">
Goidelic languages

The Goidelic languages or Gaelic languages are a language family of the Celtic languages. They are spoken in Scotland, Ireland and the Isle of Man.

There are three Goidelic languages:



</doc>
<doc id="24418" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24418" title="Manx (cat)">
Manx (cat)

The Manx is a breed of domestic cat. It either has no tail at all, a "rumpy", or it has a very short tail, a "stumpy". This is because of a natural difference in spine length. The back legs are also longer than the front legs. The breed comes from the Isle of Man, where it was found as early as three hundred years ago.

The Manx's character is nervous.
The Manx's appearance is round on the whole.


</doc>
<doc id="24428" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24428" title="Horn">
Horn

Horn can mean several things:



</doc>
<doc id="24429" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24429" title="Agave">
Agave

Agaves are succulent plants. Succulent plants store water in their leaves. Cacti (more than one cactus) are one kind of succulents; agaves are another kind. There are quite a few such kinds of succulent plants.

Agaves grow mainly in Mexico. The agave plants have their leaves in a rosetta arrangement. They flower only once, produce seeds and die off.

Tequila is made from agaves. Pulque is beer made from agave juice.


</doc>
<doc id="24431" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24431" title="Applesauce">
Applesauce

Applesauce (or apple sauce) is a sauce that is made from stewed and mashed apples. Peeled or unpeeled apples can be used and different spices or additives like cinnamon can be used. Sugar or high fructose corn syrup is sometimes added to the applesauce to sweeten it. Applesauce can be fine or coarse textured, and can include large pieces of apple. It is easy to make at home, and it is also sold already made in supermarkets as a common food or as a snack for children and people who have false teeth or other problems with eating solid food. Parents often feed it to their babies because teeth are not needed to eat it. It is sometimes recommended to fight diarrhoea, since it is high in dietary fibre.

In the United Kingdom, apple sauce is normally used as a sauce for ham, pork, and gammon.


</doc>
<doc id="24432" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24432" title="Charles Richter">
Charles Richter

Charles Francis Richter (April 26, 1900 – September 30, 1985) was an American seismologist, someone who studies earthquakes. He is known for creating the Richter scale of magnitude, which says how big an earthquake is.


</doc>
<doc id="24433" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24433" title="1104">
1104


</doc>
<doc id="24437" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24437" title="Charles II of England">
Charles II of England

Charles II (29 May 1630 –6 February 1685), was king of England, Ireland, and Scotland, from 1649 to 1685. His father was Charles I of England, who was executed after losing a war with Parliament. 

Prince Charles was the King's eldest son. As a little boy, he was made Prince of Wales as a sign that he would one day be king. By the time he grew into a young man, his father was already at war with Parliament. Prince Charles did not take much part in the fighting. His mother, Henrietta Maria, was French, and she took her children to France when the war broke out, to keep them safe. Prince Charles was only eighteen when he heard that his father was dead. This made him King, and he started calling himself King Charles II straight away, but Parliament was still in control of Britain and would not let him take his throne. 

In 1651, Charles II returned to Britain and fought Parliament at the Battle of Worcester. He was defeated, but he was not caught by the enemy because he hid in an oak tree. Later, he was forced to disguise himself as a servant. A young lady called Jane Lane helped him to escape, and he sailed to Holland where his supporters were. He kept his own royal court there until 1660.

While Charles was in Holland, Britain was being ruled by Oliver Cromwell, an ordinary man who had been chosen as leader of the country by Parliament. Cromwell was very strict, so the people soon grew tired of him. When Cromwell died in 1658, his son Richard was chosen to be the next leader. Richard Cromwell was ineffective, and King Charles II was asked to come back and rule Britain.

In 1660, Charles II was brought back to Britain and took his throne. Many of his enemies were punished for having executed his father and fought against him, but Richard Cromwell was allowed to go and live quietly away from London. Charles was popular and was called "The Merry Monarch" because he changed many of the laws that Cromwell had made and allowed people more freedom to enjoy themselves. He liked to go to the theatre, played cards and enjoyed sports such as horse racing. Some people thought that a king should be more serious and not spend so much time and money on pleasure.

There were also some people who did not like King Charles II because of his religious beliefs. He had been brought up by his mother, who was a Roman Catholic, while most people in the country were Protestant. He married a princess from Portugal, Catherine of Braganza. They did not have any children, but Charles refused to divorce Catherine because he respected her and he did not agree with divorce. Before he was married, he had several girlfriends and lovers, and even after he was married he went on having lovers, who were called "mistresses". The most famous of these was an actress called Nell Gwyn. Several of Charles's lovers had babies, but none of these children were allowed to follow Charles as king, because they were "illegitimate", meaning that they had been born to parents who were not married to each other.

The most popular of Charles II's children was James Scott. Charles gave him the title Duke of Monmouth. James's mother had been Charles's girlfriend when he was living in Holland, and some people said that they had been secretly married. If this had been true, then James would have been allowed to be king when Charles died. There were many who wanted this to happen, because they did not like the thought of Charles's younger brother being the next king. This brother, who was also called James, was a Roman Catholic and was not popular.

Charles II died quite suddenly, and his son James, Duke of Monmouth, started a rebellion in the hope of becoming the next king. He was defeated by the royal army, which supported Charles's brother James. The Duke of Monmouth was executed by having his head chopped off, and Charles's brother became the next ruler, King James II.

By Marguerite or Margaret de Carteret
By Lucy Walter (c.1630–1658)
By Elizabeth Killigrew (1622–1680), daughter of Sir Robert Killigrew, married Francis Boyle, 1st Viscount Shannon in 1660
By Catherine Pegge
By Barbara Villiers Palmer (1641–1709), wife of Roger Palmer, 1st Earl of Castlemaine created Duchess of Cleveland in her own right
By Nell Gwyn (1650–1687)
By Louise Renée de Penancoet de Kérouaille (1649–1734), created Duchess of Portsmouth in her own right (1673)
By Mary 'Moll' Davis, courtesan and actress of repute
Other probable mistresses:


</doc>
<doc id="24438" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24438" title="Crunk">
Crunk

Crunk is a type of hip hop music. It started in the Southern United States. It can also be used as an adjective.
it is a mixture of Miami bass, Southern rap, and electronica. It became popular in the mid-2000s and was made famous by rapper and producer Lil' Jon. Crunk is a mixture of the words: crazy and drunk.


</doc>
<doc id="24439" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24439" title="Pimp">
Pimp

A pimp is a man who controls one or more prostitutes, in order to make money from them. 


</doc>
<doc id="24440" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24440" title="Asian">
Asian

An Asian is someone from Asia or someone with an Asian branch of ethnicity. They are commonly associated with looking 'hot' from a distance. They are stereotyped with being very smart, especially in the field of math


</doc>
<doc id="24441" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24441" title="Vice versa">
Vice versa

Vice versa is a Latin word meaning "the other way around." It literally translates to "with position turned." For example: the black vase goes on the white table and vice versa means the black vase goes on the white table and the white vase goes on the black table.


</doc>
<doc id="24443" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24443" title="Category:Latin words used in English">
Category:Latin words used in English

Sometimes Latin words are borrowed by English. These words are Latin words that are used in English, too.


</doc>
<doc id="24447" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24447" title="Allan Kardec">
Allan Kardec

Allan Kardec (Hippolyte Léon Denizard Rivail October 3, 1804 - March 31, 1869) was a French philosopher and teacher. He dedicated the last 15 years of his life to organise a philosophical doctrine called Spiritism. He was a great divulger of the educational ideas of Pestalozzi in the 19th century. Published books of grammar, mathematics and suggestions for the improvement of public education in France. He was a teacher of physiology, astronomy, physics and chemistry and the classes were in your own home, in Paris.

In 1854, Rivail started studying a phenomena that some people called as "paranormal" or "supernatural", that were very common in that time. Other people actually tell that these phenomenas are unknown natural´s law. 

His pedagogical sense made him create a philosophy in which the spiritual manifestations were useful to social and moral improvements of men. Inspired by this idea, he dedicated his last years to organise a philosophical system with a strong educational appeal: the Spiritism (fr. "Spiritisme").



</doc>
<doc id="24451" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24451" title="Hyves">
Hyves

Hyves is a website where people can have contact with friends online. It can be used to make new friends or to stay in touch with old friends. It was started in 2004 and has over 9 million users; most of them are Dutch. That is the reason why it is very popular in the Netherlands.
Pictures and videos can be put and shared on it. Hyves is similar to Facebook or the German VZ Networks.



</doc>
<doc id="24453" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24453" title="Sex organ">
Sex organ

The sex organs, which scientists call the genitalia or genitals, are the parts of the body that allow sexual reproduction (the making of young) to take place. They are also for urination (peeing), to remove waste products from the body. While all animals have sex organs, this article is about the sex organs of human beings.

The genitals are the main parts of the human body that make men and women different. Some parts of the genitals are outside the body, while other parts are inside. In a man, his external genitals are the penis and the scrotum (a bag that contains the testicles). Inside his body the testicles produce sperm and a substance called testosterone which makes a person grow into a man and to feel like a man. Other glands produce a fluid called semen. The part of a woman's genitals that is outside her body is called the vulva. Inside her body are the vagina, which holds the penis during sexual intercourse; the uterus (womb), in which a baby grows when the woman is pregnant; the ovaries, which produce ova (egg cells) and a substance called estrogen which makes a person grow into a woman and to feel like a woman; and the Fallopian tubes, which connect the ovaries to the uterus.

If a man and a woman want to reproduce sexually, they have to engage in sexual intercourse. This involves placing the man's erect penis into the woman's vagina. When the man ejaculates, his semen flows into the woman. If a sperm in the semen reaches the woman's Fallopian tubes and fuses with an ovum, this causes the woman to become pregnant. A man and woman can also have sexual intercourse for pleasure, without wishing to have a baby. Men and women, and gay couples (two women or two men) can also use their sex organs in other ways for pleasure.

The sex organs are the parts of the body that allow sexual reproduction (the making of young) to take place. They are also for urination (peeing), to remove waste products from the body. All animals have some kind of sex organs. This article is about the sex organs of human beings. In humans, the sex organs are in the lower abdomen, at the part of the body where the legs join the torso.

The scientific name for the sex organs is "genitalia" or "genitals". They are also commonly called the reproductive organs. The genitals include both organs that can be seen on the outside of the body (the primary genitalia or external genitalia), as well as internal organs (the secondary genitalia or internal genitalia). Sometimes, however, the words "genitalia" or "genitals" are used to refer only to the external sex organs. The sex organs are informally referred to as the private parts or privates.

Males and females have different sex organs. In fact, the genitals are the main parts of the human body that make men and women different.

A man's genitals are made up of many parts. The parts that can be seen on the outside of a man's body are his penis, which is shaped like a banana or a sausage; and his scrotum, which is a bag that hangs beneath the penis and contains the two testicles.

Inside a man's body, the testicles make tiny cells called sperm, which are needed for sexual reproduction. The testicles also make a hormone called testosterone. This is a chemical that makes a person grow into a man and feel like a man. The testicles are glands, which are special parts of the body that make chemicals. Other glands that make up the genitals are the prostate, seminal vesicles and bulbourethral glands (also called the Cowper's glands). Together, these glands make a white, sticky fluid called semen that sperm float in. Finally, a man's body contains ducts (tubes) such as the two vasa deferentia or ducta deferentia, which carry sperm out of the testicles; and the urethra, which carries semen through the penis and out of the body. The urethra also carries urine away from the bladder.

In reproduction the job of the penis is to carry sperm from the testicles into a woman's body so that a sperm can join together with the woman's ovum (egg cell) to form a new cell that will grow into a baby. The process of fusion of a sperm and an ovum is called fertilization. A man's penis is usually soft, quite short and hangs down. When a man becomes aroused (sexually excited), the inside of his penis fills with blood. This causes the penis to become bigger, thicker and harder and to stand upright, and is called having an erection. When a man has an erection, he is able to have sexual intercourse by putting his penis into a woman's vagina. During an erection, a valve stops urine from entering the urethra so that only semen flows along it. This is why it is very difficult for a man to urinate when he is having an erection.

Young boys can have erections, but their bodies do not start producing sperm until they have reached puberty. This usually happens when they are in their teens.

The part of a woman's genitals that is on the outside of her body is called the vulva. The main parts of the vulva are two sets of fleshy "lips" called the labia. The outer labia can be seen at the front of the woman's body. On an adult woman, they are generally covered with some hair. Between the outer labia are the inner labia which do not have hair and are very sensitive. At the front of the inner labia is the outside part of the clitoris which is covered by the clitoral hood. During sexual intercourse, the clitoris gives feelings of pleasure to the woman.

Most of a woman's genitals are tucked inside her body. Behind the labia is a tube called the vagina, which cannot be seen on the outside of the body. (People often incorrectly use the word "vagina" to refer to the vulva.) When a man and a woman have sexual intercourse, the man's penis is placed into the woman's vagina. When a woman menstruates (has her menstrual period), blood and other fluid from the uterus pass out from her body through the vagina. If a woman uses a tampon (a specially-made wad of material) to absorb this fluid, she puts it into her vagina. The vagina is also called the birth canal, because when a pregnant woman has a baby, it passes through the vagina.

Like a man, a woman has a tube called the urethra connecting the bladder to the vulva through which urine is removed from the body. The opening of the urethra is between the clitoris and the opening to the vagina.

In many women, the opening of the vagina is partly or completely blocked by a thin tissue called the hymen. Some women are born without a hymen. The hymen usually breaks when a woman has sexual intercourse for the first time, causing some bleeding. In some cultures, a broken hymen is taken as a sign that a girl has had sex. However, a broken hymen is not a clear sign of sexual intercourse because other activities such as exercise can also cause the hymen to break. In some women, the hymen may remain unbroken even after sex.

At the top of the vagina is the cervix which is a ring of muscle separating the vagina from the uterus or womb. The cervix allows menstrual fluid to flow from the uterus into the vagina, and during sexual intercourse it allows semen from a man's penis to flow from the vagina into the uterus. The uterus is a very muscular and stretchy organ in which babies grow during pregnancy. When a woman is not pregnant, each month the lining of the uterus grows thicker, then breaks down, causing her to menstruate. Connected to the top of the uterus are two Fallopian tubes, on the left and right. These tubes join the uterus to the two ovaries. The ovaries produce ova, or egg cells, that are needed for reproduction. Each month, an ovum travels from one of the ovaries into a Fallopian tube. If, after the woman has had sexual intercourse with a man, the ovum fuses with a sperm and implants in the wall of the uterus, the woman will become pregnant. The ovaries also produce the female hormone estrogen which causes a person to grow into a woman and to feel like a woman.

Young girls do not start producing ova and menstruating until they have reached puberty. Like boys, this usually happens in their teens. Once a woman starts menstruating, she is capable of becoming pregnant.

The sex organs or genitals are used for sexual reproduction and for sexual intercourse. For sexual reproduction to happen, a man and a woman need to have sexual intercourse with each other. A man's penis becomes erect when he is aroused, for example when he sees a naked woman or is touched by her. When a woman is aroused, her clitoris and vulva also swell, and the inside of her vagina produces mucus, a substance that makes it slippery. To reproduce, the man places his penis inside the woman's vagina and moves it backwards and forwards. The woman may also move her hips back and forth, or in a circular motion. The friction caused by this movement, together with the warmth and pressure of the vagina, causes the man to have pleasurable feelings in the penis, which grow stronger and stronger. When the feelings are at their strongest, the man is said to be having an orgasm. At this point, muscles in the man's body contract strongly again and again to push semen through the urethra. The semen then ejaculates or shoots out from the end of the penis into the woman's vagina. The woman may also have an orgasm, which causes the vagina to tense up and relax repeatedly. Scientists are not sure why women have orgasms. Some believe that the orgasm helps the sperm in the man's semen to swim up the vagina into the cervix, so that it is more likely that a sperm cell will fuse with an egg cell. Others think that the female orgasm causes the vagina to hold on to the penis more tightly, which makes sex more exciting for the man and causes him to ejaculate more quickly or to produce more semen; or that it encourages a woman to have sex more often as it feels good. Both of these events would make pregnancy more likely to happen. After the man has ejaculated, the blood flows out of his penis and it becomes smaller and soft again.

Sometimes, a man and a woman may have sexual intercourse because it gives them pleasure, without wishing for the woman to become pregnant. They may try to stop fertilization from happening by using methods of contraception or birth control. Common methods of birth control include the man wearing a condom on his penis, and the woman taking birth control pills that stop her ovaries from releasing egg cells.

Apart from the man putting his penis into the woman's vagina, the sex organs can be used in other ways in sexual intercourse. The man and woman can rub each other's sex organs with their hands. They can use sex toys such as dildos or vibrators. They can also engage in oral sex. When a man uses his mouth, lips and tongue to touch a woman's clitoris and vulva, this is called cunnilingus. When a woman uses her mouth, lips and tongue to touch a man's penis, this is called fellatio. A man can also put his penis into a woman's anus. This is called anal sex.

People who are gay or homosexual also use their genitals to have sexual intercourse with each other. Two women can rub each other's sex organs, put sex toys into them, or perform oral sex on each other. Two men can also rub each other's sex organs, or perform oral sex or anal sex on each other.

When a man strokes his own penis or a woman rubs her clitoris and vulva in order to feel good or to reach orgasm, this is called masturbation.

The sex organs are also used for urination, which is one of the ways in which the body removes waste products. Both men and women have a bladder, which is an organ that stores urine. In a man, a thin tube called the urethra passes from his bladder right through his penis. In a woman, the urethra opens into the vulva. When a person urinates, urine flows from the bladder through the urethra and out of the body.



</doc>
<doc id="24459" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24459" title="Laurence Olivier">
Laurence Olivier

Laurence Kerr Olivier, Baron Olivier, OM (22 May 1907 – 11 July 1989) was an English actor.

Olivier married English actresses Jill Esmond, Vivien Leigh and Joan Plowright.

Olivier's ashes are buried in Westminster Abbey.


</doc>
<doc id="24462" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24462" title="Spiritism">
Spiritism

Spiritism is a philosophical doctrine organized by the French professor Allan Kardec. Its main characteristics are:






</doc>
<doc id="24488" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24488" title="Alexa">
Alexa

Alexa is an Internet service that measures how many Internet users visit a website. At Alexa.com, people can enter a website address and Alexa will show them how well-visited the website is. It can also tell them how its popularity has changed over time.



</doc>
<doc id="24489" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24489" title="Poodle">
Poodle

A poodle is a breed of dog. They are very smart, and are one of the most popular kinds of dogs. Many people own them or show them. Poodles were once used as hunting and sporting dogs, but now they are mostly pets. Poodles do not shed as much fur as some dogs, so they are good pets for people who are allergic to dogs.

Poodles are also popular because they come in many different colors and sizes. They are most often white or black; but can be orange, called "apricot"; dark gray, called "blue"; and other colors. There are also some rare colors, such as chocolate brown, and brindle. 

Poodles are bred in many different sizes. The three main sizes from largest to smallest are Standard, Miniature, and Toy. There are also other sizes, like the very small Teacup, that are not official. This means that these other sizes cannot be part of professional dog shows.


</doc>
<doc id="24492" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24492" title="Irish language">
Irish language

Irish or "Gaeilge" is a language spoken in Ireland. Irish is a Celtic language. This means that Irish is similar to Scottish Gaelic, Breton, Cornish, Manx and Welsh. Many people who speak Irish can understand some Scottish Gaelic, but not Welsh. This is because the Celtic languages are divided into two groups. One group is called the p-Celtic languages and the other is called the q-Celtic languages. Irish and Scottish Gaelic are q-Celtic languages and Welsh is a p-Celtic language. Irish has no yes or no words. There were great poets who wrote in Irish. Their poems became the songs of the people. People told stories about the heroes of old times. Many of the poems were about them. At one point Queen Elizabeth I of England and Ireland promoted Irish with a view to using it to translate the Bible into that language and tried to learn it herself. Christopher Nugent, ninth Baron of Delvin gave her a primer about it. 
Until the nineteenth century, most people in Ireland spoke Irish, this changed after 1801 because after Ireland joined the United Kingdom its state schools were incorporated into the British system and required to only teach or even allow English speaking. The Roman Catholic Church also began to discourage Irish and Daniel O'Connell, though a nationalist and an Irish speaker himself, discouraged it, because most job opportunities were in the USA and the British Empire. 

Today, Irish is the first official language of the Republic of Ireland, although in practice English retains a dominant position in government. It is not spoken by most Irish people outside the Gaeltacht for day to day life, but a lot of people speak it daily also or when among friends or family. It has to be taught in all schools in Ireland.

The newest Gaeltacht in Ireland is on the Falls Road in Belfast City where the whole community has been making Irish their first language for several years. This area is called the Gaeltacht Quarter .
There are around 1.5 million speakers. The places where Irish is spoken a lot are called Gaeltachts or, in Irish, "Gaeltachtaí". Around 70% of the people in these areas can speak Irish. 



</doc>
<doc id="24493" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24493" title="Irish">
Irish

Irish could mean:



</doc>
<doc id="24495" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24495" title="Max and Ruby">
Max and Ruby

Max and Ruby is a 2002 animated television series. It is aimed at a preschool children. The series was created by children's book author / illustrator Rosemary Wells. It is based on the fictional world of her "Max and Ruby" books. The episodes show stories about three year old Max, an anthropomorphised toddler bunny, and his big sister, seven year old Ruby, a patient young lady. The show has a good message for its audience by showing Max and Ruby playing together and using respect and love in solving their problems. 


Max gets into trouble in almost every episode, but Ruby gives him a helping hand.

in 2001,a pilot episode aired and appeared as a regular episode in 2002.


</doc>
<doc id="24507" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24507" title="1716">
1716



</doc>
<doc id="24508" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24508" title="400">
400



</doc>
<doc id="24509" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24509" title="1147">
1147



</doc>
<doc id="24510" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24510" title="Apollo program">
Apollo program

The Apollo program (or Project Apollo) was a project by the United States' National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA). The goal was to send a human to explore the Moon and bring him home to earth safe. It was started by U.S. President John F. Kennedy in 1961. The first person to walk on the Moon was Neil Armstrong of Apollo 11 on June 20, 1969. 

One reason the program started was that the Soviet Union was the first country to send a person into outer space. Since this was during the Cold War, many in the U.S. thought that the U.S. needed to stay ahead of the USSR in space exploration.

The Apollo program ended in 1972. After that, NASA began to work on the Space Shuttle program, the International Space Station, and many unmanned space exploration projects.


</doc>
<doc id="24512" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24512" title="NASA">
NASA

NASA or the National Aeronautics and Space Administration is the part of the United States government that deals with space and aeronautics, the operating and designing of planes. NASA has had many successful missions including the ISS and Apollo 11 which put the first man on the Moon in 1969. NASA started on July 29, 1958. NASA's motto is: "For the benefit of all".

NASA was preceded by the "National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics"(NACA). NACA was a U.S. federal agency founded on March 3, 1915 to undertake, promote, and institutionalize aeronautical research. On October 1, 1958 the agency was dissolved, and its assets and personnel transferred to the newly created National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA).

NASA was founded to compete with the Soviet Union in the space race. A space race is a period in history when two countries compete or have a race to explore space. A space race can be for reasons of war or just for exploration. In the 1950s and 1960s there was a space race between the USA and the Soviet Union - now called Russia. The Soviets started first launching Sputnik 1, the first object made by people to enter space, in October 1957. The Americans were worried by this. It caused a crisis known as the Sputnik Crisis as the Americans feared the Russians might start building weapons in space. This all happened at a time called the Cold War when the USA and the Soviet Union were always very close to war.

Originally NASA was very small with only four laboratories and around eighty people working there. In 1960 they set up the Mercury project. The Mercury Project was a series of space missions designed by NASA. They were mostly to test if humans could survive in space. After they proved it was possible for people to live in space they moved on. They recruited a German engineer and scientist called Wernher von Braun to help build their rockets. Von Braun had worked to help the Nazis build test rockets during World War II. On May 15th 1961 astronaut Alan Shepard became the first American in space. Less than a year later John Glenn became the first American to orbit or circle the Earth, in a spacecraft called Friendship 7. Once the Mercury Project proved that humans could live in space the Gemini Project was started. But less than year after it began it was replaced with the Apollo Program.

The Apollo Program was started by President John F Kennedy in the 1960s. The program was made of 16 missions designed to send a man to the Moon and return him safely back to Earth. The first Apollo mission, Apollo 1, ended in disaster when a fire in the command module killed all the astronauts onboard. 
The Apollo 8 and 9 missions went to the moon. They tested equipment and took photos but did not land. The projects main success came in 1969 when Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin landed on the Moon as part of Apollo 11. The mission was a big success for NASA and over six million people watched it worldwide.

In the 1980s and 1990s NASA began to concentrate on building Space Shuttles. Four Shuttles were built by 1985. The first to launch was the space shuttle Columbia in October 1981. At this time the public began to lose interest in the space program and NASA faced budget cuts. They had planned for the space shuttles to cost less as they could be used more than once. But eventually it turned out the Space Shuttles were more expensive as building them in the first place cost more money than normal. There was further problems for NASA after the Space Shuttle Challenger disintegrated while in mid-air over the Atlantic Ocean, near Florida. All seven astronauts on board died in the disaster. The incident is known as the Challenger Disaster.

The Challenger Disaster forced NASA to think about the way they worked. The entire Space Shuttle fleet was suspended for a year after the disaster. It was also around this time that NASA launched the Hubble Space Telescope into orbit. Hubble became one of NASA's greatest achievements when it took a photo known as the Hubble Deep Field. The HDF is sometimes called by scientists 'the most important image ever taken'

NASA also now works with the Russian space agency quite often. When the Space Shuttle fleet was grounded after the Columbia disaster in 2003 Russian rockets continued to take up parts to the International Space Station. Costing over 10 billion dollars so far NASA has lost much public interest in this project.

In 2010 NASA is going to shut down the space shuttles and replace it with another rocket.

NASA's continuing operations include missions to the planets Mars, Saturn and Pluto. Missions to Jupiter are also planned for the near future. The New Horizons spacecraft flew past Jupiter in February 2007, studying some of the planets moons. On July 14, 2015 the craft will fly by Pluto, take high resolution pictures of the planet's surface and analyse the chemical properties of its atmosphere or air. 

NASA announced in 2004 that they plan to have a permanent Moon base by 2020. A senior NASA administrator also stated in 2007 that NASA aims ""to put a man on Mars by 2037"".

However in early 2010, President Barack Obama cancelled the Constellation project that was aiming to have humans return to the moon's surface by 2020. He said the project was 'behind schedule and lacking in innovation' At the same time he cut back the amount of money NASA will be getting from the government in 2011.

NASA has launched over 500 missions in its 50-year history. There have been over 150 missions with humans onboard or "manned" missions. NASA spacecraft such as Cassini-Huygens and the Voyager program have visited every planet in the Solar System. Four NASA spacecraft have left the Solar System, Voyager 1, Voyager 2, Pioneer 10 and Pioneer 11. As of 2010 Voyager 2 is 113.46 AU or around 17,000,000,000 kilometers away from Earth.



</doc>
<doc id="24517" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24517" title="Advaita Vedanta">
Advaita Vedanta

Advaita Vedanta is a type of Hinduism. People who believe in Advaita believe that their soul is never really different from God. The Sanskrit word for soul is "Atman" and the Sanskrit word for God is "Brahman". The most famous Hindu philosopher was named Adi Shankara who lived in India more than a thousand years ago. Adi Sankara learned the sacred texts of Hinduism, like Vedas and Upanishads under his teacher Govinda Bhagavadpada and later wrote extensive commentaries of Hindu sacred texts called Upanishads. In these commentaries, he proposed the theory of Advaita, saying that the Upanishad actually teach that the individual soul (called Atman) is not different from God (called Brahman). He also taught that there is only one essential principle called Brahman (means God) and everything else is a kind of expression of that one Brahman. Because of this theory of one being, his teachings became popular as the "Advaita" ("a" = not, "dvaita" = two, means no-two or non-dual). The way he said this to people was ""Atman is Brahman."" 

Adi Shankara was very smart and knew that people would wonder how he could say such an odd thing. He realized that many people would ask him, "If a person's soul is really one with God all along, then what makes a person feel so separate from God?" His answer to this was that we are ignorant of our real self being God because we see through a kind of filter -- like looking through a dirty piece of glass -- and he called this filter we look through, "maya", which means "illusion" in Sanskrit. Shankara said that our ignorance makes us feel very separate from God, and even from everything around us. Shankara suggested that the best way people can find the truth is for them to try to clear their thinking of all ignorant thoughts, be very good, and think very hard about who they really are. He said that if a person did all these things he would realize that God was himself all along. 

This is a very different idea from some other religions where we are told we are separate from God and need to go to Him. In Advaita, the idea is that people never really were separate from God, but their ignorance made them see it that way.

Not all Hindus believe in Advaita Vedanta. Many others believe there is a difference between a person's soul and God, just like in many other religions. 



</doc>
<doc id="24520" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24520" title="Parthenon">
Parthenon

The Parthenon is a temple in the middle of the Acropolis in Athens, Greece (Europe). It was a temple to Athena for nearly 2000 years. The name "Parthenon" means "the virgin's place" in Greek. It was built between 447 BC and 432 BC during the reign of Pericles. It is considered one of Greece's greatest architecture accomplishments. 

Thomas Bruce, 7th Earl of Elgin took the some of the sculptures, now called the Elgin Marbles, from the Parthenon in 1759. They have been on display in the British Museum since 1816.

The building was constructed using limestone foundations and 22 000 tons of pentelic marble. 

The building was designed by the architects Ictinus and Callicrates. It has 46 doric columns which support the roof, with 8 across the front and back, and 17 on each side.


</doc>
<doc id="24532" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24532" title="Neutral">
Neutral

Neutral is a word that comes from Latin "ne-uter". The Latin word means "neither (of two)".

The word neutrality can have different meanings too:






</doc>
<doc id="24535" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24535" title="Category:1974 deaths">
Category:1974 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="24544" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24544" title="Physical anthropology">
Physical anthropology

Physical anthropology deals primarily with looking at how the human body has changed over the course of time. It compares the human body to that of other primates. Studies of physical anthropology often include looking at the theories of Evolution. 


</doc>
<doc id="24550" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24550" title="Jackal">
Jackal

Jackals are canids found in Africa and Asia. They are nocturnal carnivorous and eat small mammals, birds and reptiles. To hunt, they can run at speeds of 16km/h (10mph).

Jackals are monogamous (each male live with only a female), and a pair defends its territory from other pairs. They mark the territory with urine and feces. The territory may be large enough to hold some young adults who live with their parents until they have their own territory. Sometimes, jackals join small packs (groups), for example to hunt a big animal, but normally hunt alone or as a pair.

Today they are very common on safaris, and are also found next to human settlements (villages).

There are four species of jackals:

A canid from Ethiopia and Eritrea, the Ethiopian Wolf ("Canis simensis"), is sometimes called Simian Jackal, but it is really a wolf. The Ethiopian Wolf is one of the rarest and most endangered of all canids.


</doc>
<doc id="24555" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24555" title="Template:Shortcut">
Template:Shortcut


</doc>
<doc id="24556" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24556" title="Milwaukee, Wisconsin">
Milwaukee, Wisconsin

Milwaukee is the largest city in the state of Wisconsin. Milwaukee is also the 22nd-largest in the United States. The city is the county seat of Milwaukee County. It is on the southwestern shore of Lake Michigan, and is about 90 miles (145 kilometers) north of Chicago. As of 2009, about 604,133 people lived in Milwaukee.

The city got its name from the Indian word "millioke", which is thought to mean "the good land" or "gathering place by the water".

Shepherd Express


</doc>
<doc id="24559" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24559" title="Diogenes syndrome">
Diogenes syndrome

Diogenes syndrome is a behavioral disorder. It is not a disease, it is a psychological condition. People who have it do not look after themselves enough any more, this is called self-neglect. They do not wash, perhaps do not shave, etc. So they develop a strong odor (scent). Since they neglect their hygiene, other diseases related to poor hygiene usually accompany the disorder.

Very often this disorder affects old people who live alone.

Diogenes Syndrome is named after the behavior (but not necessarily the ideals) of Diogenes of Sinope. It is thought to be the end stage of personality disorder.



</doc>
<doc id="24560" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24560" title="Marx and Engels Internet Archive">
Marx and Engels Internet Archive

The Marxists Internet Archive (also known as MIA or Marxists.org) is a volunteer based non-profit organization that has an Internet archive of Marxist writers and other similar authors (socialists, etc.) on their website . The texts are available in many different languages.



</doc>
<doc id="24563" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24563" title="NATO">
NATO

The North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), also called the North Atlantic Alliance, the Atlantic Alliance, or the Western Alliance, is an international organization for peace and defense established in 1949, from the North Atlantic Treaty signed in Washington, D.C., USA, on April 4, 1949. Its headquarters are in Brussels, Belgium. Its other official name is the same name in French, "Organisation du Traité de l'Atlantique Nord" ("OTAN").

NATO has two official languages, English and French, defined in Article 14 of the North Atlantic Treaty. 
Its members in the beginning were: The United States, Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, France, the United Kingdom, Canada, Portugal, Italy, Norway, Denmark and Iceland. Three years later, on 18 February 1952, Greece and Turkey also joined.
In 1954 the Soviet Union suggested that it should join NATO to preserve peace in Europe. The NATO countries did not agree as it would destroy the purpose of NATO.

When West Germany joined the organization on 9 May 1955 it was described as "a decisive turning point in the history of our continent" by Halvard Lange, Foreign Minister of Norway at the time. Indeed, the result was the Warsaw Pact, signed on 14 May 1955 by the Soviet Union and its satellite states as response to NATO. This hardened the positions of the two opposing sides of the Cold War.

After the Cold war in 1999 three former communist countries, Hungary, the Czech Republic, and Poland joined the NATO. On 29 March 2004 seven more Northern European and Eastern European countries joined NATO: Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania and also Slovenia, Slovakia, Bulgaria, and Romania. 

Croatia and Albania received NATO membership invitation on 3 April 2008. Republic of Macedonia received only conditional invitation because it was vetoed by Greece due to Republic of Macedonia's name dispute with Greece.




</doc>
<doc id="24573" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24573" title="Felidae">
Felidae

Felidae is a family of mammals, in the order Carnivora. Animals that belong to Felidae are called "felines".

A example of a feline is the cat.
More examples of felines are the big cats - the lion, tiger, leopard, jaguar, snow leopard, clouded leopard, puma, and cheetah - and other wild cats, for example the lynx, caracal, and bobcat. All felines, also the small pet cat, are predators that can hunt many animals.

There are 37 species of felines in the world today. The tiger is largest member of the Felidae family found in nature, aside from the Liger, a Lion/Tiger mix.



</doc>
<doc id="24574" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24574" title="Category:Felines">
Category:Felines

These articles are about felines: the big cats and wild cats. See for the domestic (pet) cat.


</doc>
<doc id="24580" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24580" title="Category:Sportspeople">
Category:Sportspeople

Athletes


</doc>
<doc id="24582" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24582" title="1668">
1668


</doc>
<doc id="24583" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24583" title="Andrei Sakharov">
Andrei Sakharov

Andrei Dmitrievich Sakharov (Russian: Андре́й Дми́триевич Са́харов, May 21 1921 – December 14 1989), was a Soviet nuclear physicist. He was also a well-known dissident and human rights activist. Sakharov was an advocate of civil liberties and reforms in the Soviet Union.

Sakharov was a very clever scientist. He graduated from college during World War II but was kept out of the army to do scientific research for the government. Sakharov helped the Soviets develop the hydrogen bomb in the 1950s. But he also made many peaceful uses of nuclear power.

The bomb he had helped make started Sakharov to be a dissident. He argued with Khrushchev against nuclear tests that were not needed. He was afraid that these tests put people's lives and healths in danger without need. He began asking, too, for more freedom of speech. The government removed him from his secret work and as his special job as a scientist. Sakharov began to see what unhappy lives most Soviet citizens led.

Persecution only made him speak out more. He asked for more religious liberty (freedom) and defended others who had spoken out and been put into jail. The secret police began to watch him and to make files of information against him. After Sakharov criticized activities of the USSR's Arab allies, Arab terrorists came to his apartment and held him, his wife, and his stepson for an hour. "Do you want to kill us?" cried Sakharov's wife. "We can do worse things than kill you," they replied. After the terrorists left without doing anything, Sakharov tried to tell the police about it. The police did not really care.

The only thing that protected Sakharov was many people knew about him outside the Soviet Union. The Communists were afraid that if something happened to him, it would get a bad image of the USSR. But when Sakharov criticized the Soviet of Afghanistan in 1979, they became very angry and took him to the city of Gorky. There he was watched by the police outside his apartment. He tried to go on a hunger strike, not eating anything. The Soviet Union was afraid he might die, so they force-fed him (forcing him to eat).

Sakharov kept on asking for "glasnost" (openness). In 1986, Mikhail Gorbachev, who agreed with Sakharov and thought there should be "glasnost", let the dissident scientist return home. Sakharov continued to call for reform, and on December 12, 1989, he publicly (in front of everybody) demanded an end of Communism. Two days later he died. But two years later his demand became true as the Communist government ended.


</doc>
<doc id="24587" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24587" title="1686">
1686

Year 1686 was a common year that started on a Tuesday when using the Gregorian calendar.






</doc>
<doc id="24588" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24588" title="1149">
1149


</doc>
<doc id="24589" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24589" title="1st century">
1st century

The 1st century was the century that lasted from 1 to 100.

During this period Europe, North Africa and the Near East fell under increasing domination by the Roman Empire. It continued expanding under the emperor Claudius (43). The reforms introduced by Augustus during his long reign stabilized the empire. Later in the century the Julio-Claudian Dynasty, which had been founded by Augustus came to an end with the death of Nero in 68. There followed the famous Year of Four Emperors, a brief period of civil war and instability, which was finally brought to an end by Vespasian, 9th Roman emperor, and founder of the Flavian Dynasty.

China continued to be dominated by the Han Dynasty, despite a 14-year interruption by the Xin dynasty under Wang Mang. Han rule was restored in 23. Wang Mang's rule represents the watershed between the Western/Former Han and the Eastern/Later Han. The capital was also moved from Chang'an to Luoyang.





According to the New Testament, during the reign of Tiberius, Jesus, a Jewish religious leader from Galilee, was crucified in Jerusalem on the charge of blasphemy for claiming to be the Son of God. But "God raised him from the dead" three days later, see Resurrection of Jesus. Over the next few decades his followers, following the Great Commission, including the apostle Paul, carried his message throughout the Greek-speaking regions of Asia Minor, eventually introducing it to Rome itself. Roman rulers began to persecute the new sect almost immediately (the emperor Nero accused the Christians of starting the fires that destroyed much of Rome in 64 AD), and would continue to do so for centuries, sometimes vigorously, and other times passively. Christian tradition records that all of Christ's apostles except John the Evangelist suffered martyrdom.

In the 4th century, Christianity was eventually taken up by the emperor Constantine. One of his successors Julian the Apostate renounced it for paganism and again persecuted the Church. However, by the end of the 4th century, Emperor Theodosius I proclaimed Christianity as the state religion of the Roman Empire.

Note: years before or after the 1st century are in "italics".


</doc>
<doc id="24591" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24591" title="Template:Cite book">
Template:Cite book


</doc>
<doc id="24592" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24592" title="Template:Qif">
Template:Qif


</doc>
<doc id="24596" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24596" title="Equidae">
Equidae

Equidae is a family of odd-toed ungulate mammals. The family has only one surviving genus: "Equus". Horses, donkeys and zebras belong in this genus.

Animals of the "Equus" genus can have hybrid children, but the children are mostly sterile.

They can have many different colours.


</doc>
<doc id="24632" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24632" title="Lynx">
Lynx

Lynx is the name of four species of wild cats. Not all biologists agree about the taxonomy (scientific classification) of lynx in use today. "Kitten" is a baby cat or lynx.

Lynxes have short tails, and usually some hair on the ears. They have large paws (feet) padded for walking on snow, and long whiskers on the face. The color of the body is from light brown to grey and is sometimes marked with dark brown spots, especially on the legs. They weigh about 5 kg or about 11 pounds (approximately the size of a large Domestic Cat) and can weigh up to about 30 kg (66 pounds).

The lynx live in the high altitude forests with many shrubs, reeds and grass. It hunts only on the ground, but it can climb trees and swim. 

It can be found in the some places in northern Scandinavia, in North America and also in the Himalayas. Since the 1990s people try to move part of the population of the Eurasian Lynx to Germany. It can also be found in Białowieża Forest (northeastern Poland), and southern Spain.

Since 1999, the Colorado Division of Wildlife try to move other wild lynx population from Canada back to the United States.

Usually, lynxes live alone, but a group can travel and hunt together. They sleep in crevices (openings in rocks) or under rocks. It gives birth to 2 to 4 kittens at a time. It eats birds and mammals, for example, rabbits, sheep and goats.


The Marbled Cat, "Pardofelis marmorata", is sometimes also called a kind of lynx.
The Caracal or Desert Lynx and the Jungle Cat are similar to the lynx, but they are not much of a relative.

The Iberian Lynx is the most endangered feline in the world. There are only two populations (together, 300 animals), in the southern Spain.
Hunting lynxes is illegal in many countries.



</doc>
<doc id="24641" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24641" title="Shania Twain">
Shania Twain

Shania Twain (born August 28, 1965 in Timmins, Ontario, Canada) is a Canadian musician. She is a very successful singer/songwriter in the country and pop music genres. 

She has released thirty-five singles from four studio albums, one greatest hits album, and one soundtrack album.


</doc>
<doc id="24642" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24642" title="The Grass Roots">
The Grass Roots

The Grass Roots were a pop music group, popular in the 1960s. They formed in Los Angeles, USA in 1964.


</doc>
<doc id="24643" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24643" title="Dionne Warwick">
Dionne Warwick

Dionne Warwick (December 12, 1940) is an American R&B singer.


</doc>
<doc id="24644" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24644" title="Barenaked Ladies">
Barenaked Ladies

Barenaked Ladies are a Canadian band. They formed in Toronto, Canada in 1988. The band is made up of four males, even though the name may be misleading. In 1991, the band was taken off the program for a New Year's Eve concert in Toronto because someone thought the name was unsuitable. The band started as a duo with Ed Roberstson and Steven Page. Lead singer Page left the band in 2009 to begin a solo career. He was also arrested in 2008 for possessing the illegal drug cocaine. The current band members are:

Ed Robertson is also the host of a television show, called "Ed's Up" in which he travels around Canada by plane. A light plane he was flying crashed into trees in 2008, but Roberston and the other passengers were not hurt.

The band have made 14 albums:



</doc>
<doc id="24645" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24645" title="Paul Revere and the Raiders">
Paul Revere and the Raiders

Paul Revere and the Raiders were a pop group who were popular in the 1960s. They started in Portland, Oregon in 1960.


</doc>
<doc id="24649" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24649" title="Category:1080">
Category:1080


</doc>
<doc id="24650" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24650" title="Category:1081">
Category:1081


</doc>
<doc id="24651" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24651" title="Category:1104">
Category:1104


</doc>
<doc id="24652" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24652" title="Category:1103">
Category:1103


</doc>
<doc id="24653" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24653" title="Category:1102">
Category:1102


</doc>
<doc id="24654" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24654" title="Category:1138">
Category:1138


</doc>
<doc id="24655" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24655" title="Category:1149">
Category:1149


</doc>
<doc id="24656" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24656" title="Category:1163">
Category:1163


</doc>
<doc id="24657" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24657" title="Category:1185">
Category:1185


</doc>
<doc id="24658" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24658" title="Category:1222">
Category:1222


</doc>
<doc id="24659" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24659" title="Category:1302">
Category:1302


</doc>
<doc id="24660" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24660" title="Category:1300s">
Category:1300s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 1300s which begins in the year 1300 and ends in the year 1309.

Note that 1300 is actually the last year of the 13th century; 1301 is the actual first year of the 14th century.


</doc>
<doc id="24661" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24661" title="Category:180s births">
Category:180s births

This category consists of people who were born in the 180s.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="24662" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24662" title="Category:180s">
Category:180s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 180s which begins in the year 180 and ends in the year 189.


</doc>
<doc id="24663" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24663" title="Category:139 births">
Category:139 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 139.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="24664" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24664" title="Category:139">
Category:139


</doc>
<doc id="24665" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24665" title="Category:130s births">
Category:130s births

This category consists of people who were born in the 130s.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="24666" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24666" title="Category:130s">
Category:130s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 130s which begins in the year 130 and ends in the year 139.


</doc>
<doc id="24667" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24667" title="Category:234 deaths">
Category:234 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="24668" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24668" title="Category:234">
Category:234


</doc>
<doc id="24669" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24669" title="Category:230s deaths">
Category:230s deaths

This category consists of people who died in the 230s, starting from the year 230 to the year 239.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="24670" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24670" title="Category:230s">
Category:230s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 230s which begins in the year 230 and ends in the year 239.


</doc>
<doc id="24671" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24671" title="Category:1490">
Category:1490


</doc>
<doc id="24672" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24672" title="Category:1550">
Category:1550


</doc>
<doc id="24673" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24673" title="Category:155 births">
Category:155 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 155.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="24674" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24674" title="Category:155">
Category:155


</doc>
<doc id="24675" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24675" title="Category:150s">
Category:150s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 150s which begins in the year 150 and ends in the year 159.


</doc>
<doc id="24676" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24676" title="Category:150s births">
Category:150s births

This category consists of people who were born in the 150s.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="24677" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24677" title="Category:1569">
Category:1569


</doc>
<doc id="24678" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24678" title="Category:1571">
Category:1571


</doc>
<doc id="24679" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24679" title="Category:1585 births">
Category:1585 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1585.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="24680" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24680" title="Category:1590 births">
Category:1590 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1590.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="24681" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24681" title="Category:1590">
Category:1590


</doc>
<doc id="24682" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24682" title="Category:1599 births">
Category:1599 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1599.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="24683" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24683" title="Category:1599">
Category:1599


</doc>
<doc id="24684" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24684" title="Category:1604">
Category:1604


</doc>
<doc id="24685" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24685" title="Category:161 births">
Category:161 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 161.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="24686" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24686" title="Category:161">
Category:161


</doc>
<doc id="24687" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24687" title="Category:1634 deaths">
Category:1634 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="24688" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24688" title="Category:1634">
Category:1634


</doc>
<doc id="24689" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24689" title="Category:1630s deaths">
Category:1630s deaths


</doc>
<doc id="24690" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24690" title="Category:1660 deaths">
Category:1660 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="24691" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24691" title="Category:1660">
Category:1660


</doc>
<doc id="24692" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24692" title="Category:1654">
Category:1654


</doc>
<doc id="24693" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24693" title="Category:1668">
Category:1668


</doc>
<doc id="24695" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24695" title="Category:223 deaths">
Category:223 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="24696" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24696" title="Nintendogs">
Nintendogs

Nintendogs is a video game for the Nintendo DS. In "Nintendogs", the player has dogs. They give the dogs food and drinks if a dog is good one might get to feed them a dog biscuit or a jerky treat but be careful, do not feed them too many of these wonder treats because then the dog would not want to walk anymore. The dogs can be washed, taken for a walk, taught to do tricks and put into contests. The contests are: agility trial, disc competition and obedience trial. One can find out how to compete in these contests by looking at their care books, under Supplies. At the start of the game one can choose a type of dog and give it a name. One can pat another player's dog to get trainer points, if a player gets 4,000 trainer points he might get a present.

There are four versions of the game each with different breeds.
They are: dalmatian and friends, chihuahua and friends, Labrador and friends and dashund and friends. All breeds are unlockable in every version and a player can unlock dogs by increasing his trainer points. However, he can only have three dogs at home. To get more the player must drop off one at the Dog Hotel. Every player can only drop off five dogs at a time.

If the player does not play the game for a long period of time, the dog may run away. So players need to play with their dogs daily. 


</doc>
<doc id="24698" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24698" title="Luigi">
Luigi

Luigi is a video game character. He is Mario's brother. It is said that Luigi is taller, but Mario is older. Luigi wears overalls a green shirt and a green hat with an "L" on it. In most games, Luigi is like Mario, with small changes (for example, he throws green balls of fire instead of orange ones)


Playable only in two-player:

Playable in one-player or two-player:

In Super Smash Brothers Melee (NGC) and Super Smash Brothers Brawl (Wii) Luigi is a hidden character available for play once unlocked.


</doc>
<doc id="24700" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24700" title="RAID">
RAID

RAID is an acronym that stands for Redundant Array of Inexpensive Disks or Redundant Array of Independent Disks. RAID is a term used in computing. With RAID, several hard disks are made into one logical disk. There are different ways this can be done. Each of the methods that puts the hard disks together has some benefits and drawbacks over using the drives as single disks, independent of each other. The main reasons why RAID is used are:


It is not possible to achieve all of these goals at the same time, so choices need to be made.

There are also some bad things:


Most of the work on RAID is based on a paper written in 1988. 

Companies have used RAID systems to store their data since the technology was made. There are different ways in which RAID systems can be made. Since its discovery, the cost of building a RAID system has come down a lot. For this reason, even some computers and appliances that are used at home have some RAID functions. Such systems can be used to store music or movies, for example.

A hard disk is a part of a computer. Normal hard disks use magnetism to store information. When hard disks are used, they are available to the operating system. In Microsoft Windows, each hard disk will get a drive letter (starting with C:, A: or B: are reserved for floppy drives). Unix and Linux-like operating systems have a single-rooted directory tree. This means that people who use the computers sometimes do not know where the information is stored.

In computing, the hard disks (which are hardware, and can be touched) are sometimes called "physical drives" or "physical disks". What the operating system shows the user is sometimes called "logical disk". A physical drive can be split into different sections, called disk partitions. Usually, each disk partition contains one file system. The operating system will show each partition like a logical disk. 

Therefore, to the user, both the setup with many physical disks and the setup with many logical disks will look the same. The user cannot decide if a "logical disk" is the same as a physical disk, or if it simply is a part of the disk. Storage Area Networks (SANs) completely change this view. All that is visible of a SAN is a number of logical disks.

In the computer, data is organised in the form of bits and bytes. In most systems, 8 bits make up a byte. Computer memory uses electricity to store the data, hard disks use magnetism. Therefore when data is "written" on a disk, the electric signal is converted into a magnetic one. When data is read from disk, the conversion is done in the other direction: An electrical signal is made from the polarity of a magnetic field.

A RAID array joins two or more hard disks so that they make a logical disk. There are different reasons why this is done, the most commons ones are:


RAID is done by using special hardware or software on the computer. The joined hard disks will then look like one hard disk to the user. Most RAID levels increase the redundancy, this means that they store the data more often, or they store information on how to reconstruct the data. This allows for a number of disks to fail without the data being lost. When the failed disk is replaced, the data it should contain will be copied or rebuilt from the other disks of the system. This can take a long time. The time it takes depends on different factors, like the size of the array.

One of the reasons why many companies are using RAID is that the data in the array can simply be used. Those using the data need not be aware they are using RAID at all. When a failure occurred and the array is recovering, access to the data will be slower. Accessing the data during this time will also slow down the recovery process, but this is still much faster than not being able to work with the data at all. 
Depending on the RAID level however, disks may not fail while the new disk is being prepared for use. A disk failing at that time will result in losing all the data in the array. 

The different ways to join disks are called "RAID levels". A bigger number for the level is not necessarily better. Different RAID levels have different purposes. Some RAID levels need special disks and special controllers.

In 1978, a man called Norman Ken Ouchi, who worked at IBM, made a suggestion describing the plans for what would later become RAID 5. The plans also described something similar to RAID 1, as well as the protection of a part of RAID 4.

Workers at the University of Berkeley helped to plan out research in 1987. They were trying to make it possible for RAID technology to recognize two hard drives instead of one. They found that when RAID technology had two hard drives, it had much better storage than with only one hard drive. However, it crashed much more often.

In 1988, the different types of RAID (1 to 5), were written about by David Patterson, Garth Gibson and Randy Katz in their article, called "A Case for Redundant Arrays of Inexpensive Disks (RAID)". This article was the first to call the new technology RAID and the name became official.

RAID uses a few basic ideas, which were described in the article "RAID: High-Performance, Reliable Secondary Storage" by Peter Chen and others, published in 1994.

Caching is a technology that also has its uses in RAID systems. There are different kinds of caches that are used in RAID systems:


In modern systems, a write request is shown as done when the data has been written to the cache. This does not mean that the data has been written to the disk. Requests from the cache are not necessarily handled in the same order than they were written to the cache. This makes it possible that, if the system fails, sometimes some data has not been written to the disk involved. For this reason, many systems have a cache that is backed by a battery.

When talking about a mirror, this is a very simple idea. Instead of the data being in only one place, there are several copies of the data. These copies usually are on different hard disks (or disk partitions). If there are two copies, one of them can fail without the data being affected (as it still is on the other copy). Mirroring can also give a boost when reading data. It will always be taken from the fastest disk that responds. Writing data is slower though, because all disks need to be updated.

With striping, the data is split into different parts. These parts then end up on different disks (or disk partitions). This means that writing data is faster, as it can be done in parallel. This does not mean that there will not be faults, as each block of data is only found on one disk.

It is possible to calculate different kinds of checksums. Some methods of calculating checksums allow finding a mistake. Most RAID levels that use redundancy can do this. Some methods are more difficult to do, but they allow to not only detect the error, but to fix it.

Many of the ways to have RAID support something is called a "hot spare". A hot spare is an empty disk that is not used in normal operation. When a disk fails, data can directly be copied onto the hot spare disk. That way, the failed disk needs to be replaced by a new empty drive to become the hot spare.

RAID works by spreading the data over several disks. Two of the terms often used in this context are "stripe size" and "chunk size". 

The "chunk size" is the smallest data block that is written to a single disk of the array. The "stripe size" is the size of a block of data that will be spread over all disks. That way, with four disks, and a stripe size of 64 kilobytes (kB), 16 kB will be written to each disk. The chunk size in this example is therefore 16 kB. Making the stripe size bigger will mean a faster data transfer rate, but also a bigger maximum latency. In this case, this is the time needed to get a block of data.

Many controllers (and also software) can put disks together in the following way: Take the first disk, till it ends, then they take the second, and so on. In that way, several smaller disks look like a larger one. This is not really RAID, as there is no redundancy. Also, spanning can combine disks where RAID 0 cannot do anything. Generally, this is called "just a bunch of disks" (JBOD).

This is like a distant relative of RAID because the logical drive is made of different physical drives. Concatenation is sometimes used to turn several small drives into one larger useful drive. This can not be done with RAID 0. For example, JBOD could combine 3 GB, 15 GB, 5.5 GB, and 12 GB drives into a logical drive at 35.5 GB, which is often more useful than the drives alone.

In the diagram to the right, data are concatenated from the end of disk 0 (block A63) to the beginning of disk 1 (block A64); end of disk 1 (block A91) to the beginning of disk 2 (block A92).
If RAID 0 were used, then disk 0 and disk 2 would be truncated to 28 blocks, the size of the smallest disk in the array (disk 1) for a total size of 84 blocks.

Some RAID controllers use JBOD to talk about working on drives without RAID features. Each drive shows up separately in the operating system. This JBOD is not the same as concatenation.

Many Linux systems use the terms "linear mode" or "append mode". The Mac OS X 10.4 implementation — called a "Concatenated Disk Set" — does not leave the user with any usable data on the remaining drives if one drive fails in a concatenated disk set, although the disks otherwise operate as described above.

Concatenation is one of the uses of the Logical Volume Manager in Linux. It can be used to create virtual drives.

Most modern hard disks have a standard called Self-Monitoring, Analysis and Reporting Technology (S.M.A.R.T). SMART allows to monitor certain things on a hard disk drive. Certain controllers allow to replace a single hard disk even before it fails, for example because S.M.A.R.T or another disk test reports too many correctable errors. To do this, the controller will copy all the data onto a hot spare drive. After this, the disk can be replaced by another (which will simply be a hot spare).

The setup of the disks and how they use the techniques above affects the performance and reliability of the system. When more disks are used, one of the disks is more likely to fail. Because of this, mechanisms have to be built to be able to find and fix errors. This makes the whole system more reliable, as it is able to survive and repair the failure. 

RAID 0 is not really RAID because it is not redundant. With RAID 0, disks are simply put together to make a large disk. This is called "striping". When one disk fails, the whole array fails. Therefore, RAID 0 is rarely used for important data, but reading data from the disk can be faster with striping because each disk reads part of the file at the same time.

With RAID 0, disk blocks that come after one another are usually placed on different disks. For this reason, all disks used by a RAID 0 should be the same size. 

RAID 0 is often used for Swapspace on Linux or Unix-like operating systems.

With RAID 1, two disks are put together. Both hold the same data, one is "mirroring" the other. This is easy, fast configuration whether implemented with a hardware controller or by software.

RAID Level 5 is what is probably used most of the time. At least three hard disks are needed to build a RAID 5 storage array. Each block of data will be stored in three different places. Two of these places will store the block as it is, the third will store a checksum. This checksum is a special case of a Reed-Solomon code that only uses bitwise addition. Usually, it is calculated using the XOR method. Since this method is symmetric, one lost data block can be rebuilt from the other data block and the checksum. For each block, a different disk will hold the parity block which holds the checksum. This is done to increase redundancy. Any disk can fail. Overall, there will be one disk holding the checksums, so the total usable capacity will be that of all disks except for one. The size of the resulting logical disk will be the size of all disks together, except for one disk which holds parity information.

Of course this is slower than RAID level 1, since on every write, all disks need to be read to calculate and update the parity information. The read performance of RAID 5 is almost as good as RAID 0 for the same number of disks. Except for the parity blocks, the distribution of data over the drives follows the same pattern as RAID 0. The reason RAID 5 is slightly slower is that the disks must skip over the parity blocks.

A RAID 5 with a failed disk will continue to work. It is in "degraded mode". A degraded RAID 5 can be very slow. For this reason an additional disk is often added. This is called "hot spare" disk. If a disk fails, the data can be directly rebuilt onto the extra disk. RAID 5 can also be done in software quite easily.

Mainly because of performance problems of failed RAID 5 arrays, some database experts have formed a group called BAARF—the "Battle Against Any Raid Five".

If the system fails while there are active writes, the parity of a stripe may become inconsistent with the data. If this is not repaired before a disk or block fails, data loss may occur. An incorrect parity will be used to reconstruct the missing block in that stripe. This problem is sometimes known as the "write hole". Battery-backed caches and similar techniques are commonly used to reduce the chance for this to occur.

This was used with very large computers. Special expensive disks and a special controller are needed to use RAID Level 2. The data is distributed at the bit-level (all other levels use byte-level actions). Special calculations are done. Data is split up into static sequences of bits. 8 data bits and 2 parity bits are put together. Then a Hamming code is calculated. The fragments of the Hamming code are then distributed over the different disks.

RAID 2 is the only RAID level that can "repair" errors, the other RAID levels can only detect them. When they find that the information needed does not make sense, they will simply rebuild it. This is done with calculations, using information on the other disks. If that information is missing or wrong, they cannot do much. Because it uses Hamming codes, RAID 2 can find out which piece of the information is wrong, and correct only that piece. 

RAID 2 needs at least 10 disks to work. Because of its complexity and its need for very expensive and special hardware RAID 2 is no longer used very much.

Raid Level 3 is much like RAID Level 0. An additional disk is added to store parity information. This is done by bitwise addition of the value of a block on the other disks. The parity information is stored on a separate (dedicated) disk. This is not good, because if the parity disk crashes, the parity information is lost.

RAID Level 3 is usually done with at least 3 disks. A two-disk setup is identical to a RAID Level 0.

This is very similar to RAID 3, except that the parity information is calculated over larger blocks, and not single bytes. This is like RAID 5. At least three disks are needed for a RAID 4 array.

RAID level 6 was not an original RAID level. It adds an additional parity block to a RAID 5 array. It needs at least four disks (two disks for the capacity, two disks for redundancy). RAID 5 can be seen as a special case of a Reed-Solomon code. RAID 5 is a special case, though, it only needs addition in the Galois field "GF(2)". This is easy to do with XORs. RAID 6 extends these calculations. It is no longer a special case, and all of the calculations need to be done. With RAID 6, an extra checksum (called polynomial) is used, usually of "GF (2)". With this approach it is possible to protect against any number of failed disks. RAID 6 is for the case of using two checksums to protect against the loss of two disks.

Like with RAID 5, parity and data are on different disks, for each block. The two parity blocks are also located on different disks. 

There are different ways to do RAID 6. They are different in their write performance, and in how much calculations are needed. Being able to do faster writes usually means more calculations are needed.

RAID 6 is slower than RAID 5, but it allows the RAID to continue with any two disks failed.

RAID 6 uses two parity blocks. These are calculated in a special way over a polynomial. "Double parity" RAID (also called "diagonal parity" RAID) uses a different polynomial for each of these parity blocks. Recently, the industry association that defined RAID said that double parity RAID is a different form of RAID 6.

RAID-DP is another way of having double parity.

RAID 1.5 (not to be confused with RAID 15, which is different) is a proprietary RAID implementation. Like RAID 1, it only uses two disks, but it does both striping and mirroring (similar to RAID 10). Most things are done in hardware.

RAID 5E, RAID 5EE and RAID 6E (with the added "E" for "Enhanced") generally refer to different types of RAID 5 or RAID 6 with a hot spare. With these implementations, the hot spare drive is not a physical drive. Rather, it exists in the form of free space on the disks. This increases performance, but it means that a hot spare cannot be shared between different arrays. The scheme was introduced by IBM ServeRAID around 2001.

This is a proprietary implementation. It adds caching to a RAID 3 or RAID 4 array.

Some Intel main boards have RAID chip that have this feature. It uses two or three disks, and then partitions them equally to form a combination of RAID 0, RAID 1, RAID 5 or RAID 1+0 levels.

This is the name for the driver that allows to do software RAID with Linux. In addition to the normal RAID levels 0-6, it also has a RAID 10 implementation. Since Kernel 2.6.9, RAID 10 is a single level. The implementation has some non-standard features..

Sun has implemented a file system called ZFS. This file system is optimised for handling large amounts of data. It includes a Logical Volume Manager. It also includes a feature called RAID-Z. It avoids the problem called "RAID 5 write hole" because it has a copy-on-write policy: It does not overwrite the data directly, but writes new data in a new location on the disk. When the write was successful, the old data is deleted. It avoids the need for read-modify-write operations for small writes, because it only writes full-stripes. Small blocks are mirrored instead of parity protected, which is possible because the file system knows the way the storage is organised. It can therefore allocate extra space if necessary. There is also "RAID-Z2" which uses two forms of parity to achieve results similar to RAID 6: the ability to survive up to two drive failures without losing data.

With RAID different disks can be put together to get a logical disk.The user will only see the logical disk. Each one of the RAID levels mentioned above has good and bad points. But RAID can also work with logical disks. That way one of the RAID levels above can be used with a set of logical disks. Many people note it by writing the numbers together. Sometimes, they write a '+' or an '&' in between. Common combinations (using two levels) are the following:


With six disks of 300 GB each, a total capacity of 1.8TB, it is possible to make a RAID 5, with 1.5 TB usable space. In that array, one disk can fail without data loss. With RAID 50, the space is reduced to 1.2 TB, but one disk of each RAID 5 can fail, plus there is a noticeable increase in performance. RAID 51 reduces the usable size to 900 GB, but allows any three drives to fail.

There are different ways to make a RAID. It can either be done with software, or with hardware.

A RAID can be made with software in two different ways. In the case of Software RAID, the disks are connected like normal hard disks. It is the computer that makes the RAID work. This means that for each access the CPU also needs to do the calculations for the RAID. The calculations for RAID 0 or RAID 1 are simple. However, the calculations for RAID 5, RAID 6, or one of the combined RAID levels can be a lot of work. In a software RAID, automatically booting from an array that failed may be a difficult thing to do. Finally, the way RAID is done in software depends on the operating system used; it is generally not possible to re-build a Software RAID array with a different operating system. Operating systems usually use hard disk partitions rather than whole hard disks to make RAID arrays.

A RAID can also be made with hardware. In this case, a special disk controller is used; this controller card hides the fact that it is doing RAID from the operating system and the user. The calculations of checksum information, and other RAID-related calculations are done on a special microchip in that controller. This makes the RAID independent of the operating system. The operating system will not see the RAID, it will see a single disk. Different manufacturers do RAID in different ways. This means that a RAID built with one hardware RAID controller cannot be rebuilt by another RAID controller of a different manufacturer. Hardware RAID controllers are often expensive to buy.

This is a mix between hardware RAID and software RAID. Hardware-assisted RAID uses a special controller chip (like hardware RAID), but this chip can not do many operations. It is only active when the system is started; as soon as the operating system is fully loaded, this configuration is like software RAID. Some motherboards have RAID functions for the disks attached; most often, these RAID functions are done as "hardware-assisted RAID". This means that special software is needed to be able to use these RAID functions and to be able to recover from a failed disk.

There are different terms that are used when talking about hardware failures:

The failure rate is how often a system fails. The "mean time to failure" (MTTF) or "mean time between failures" (MTBF) of a RAID system is the same as that of its components. A RAID system cannot protect against failures of its individual hard drives, after all. The more complicated types of RAID (anything beyond "striping" or "concatenation") can help keep the data intact even if an individual hard drive fails, though.

The "mean time to data loss" (MTTDL) gives the average time before a loss of data happens in a given array. Mean time to data loss of a given RAID may be higher or lower than that of its hard disks. This depends on the type of RAID used.

Arrays that have redundancy can recover from some failures. The "mean time to recovery" shows how long it takes until a failed array is back to its normal state. This adds both the time to replace a failed disk mechanism as well as time to re-build the array (i.e. to replicate data for redundancy).

The "unrecoverable bit error rate" (UBE) tells how long a disk drive will be unable to recover data after using cyclic redundancy check (CRC) codes and multiple retries.

There are also certain problems with the ideas or the technology behind RAID:

Certain RAID levels allow to extend the array by simply adding hard disks, at a later time. Information such as parity blocks is often scattered on several disks. Adding a disk to the array means that a reorganisation becomes necessary. Such a reorganisation is like a re-build of the array, it can take a long time. When this is done, the additional space may not be available yet, because both the file system on the array, and the operating system need to be told about it. Some file systems do not support to be grown after they have been created. In such a case, all the data needs to be backed up, the array needs be re-created with the new layout, and the data needs to be restored onto it.

Another option to add storage is to create a new array, and to let a logical volume manager handle the situation. This allows to grow almost any RAID system, even RAID1 (which by itself is limited to two disks). 

The error correction mechanism in RAID assumes that failures of drives are independent. It is possible to calculate how often a piece of equipment can fail and to arrange the array to make data loss very improbable.

In practice, however, the drives were often bought together. They have roughly the same age, and have been used similarly (called "wear"). Many drives fail because of mechanical problems. The older a drive is, the more worn are its mechanical parts. Mechanical parts that are old are more likely to fail than those that are younger. This means that drive failures are no longer statistically independent. In practice, there is a chance that a second disk will also fail before the first has been recovered. This means that data loss can occur at significant rates, in practice.

Another problem that also occurs with RAID systems is that applications expect what is called "Atomicity": Either all of the data is written, or none is. Writing the data is known as a "transaction".

In RAID arrays, the new data is usually written in the place where the old data was. This has become known as "update in-place". Jim Gray, a database researcher wrote a paper in 1981 where he described this problem.

Very few storage systems allow "atomic write semantics". When an object is written to disk, a RAID storage device will usually be writing all copies of the object in parallel. Very often, there is only one processor responsible for writing the data. In such a case, the writes of data to the different drives will overlap. This is known as "overlapped write" or "staggered write". An error that occurs during the process of writing may therefore leave the redundant copies in different states. What is worse, it may leave the copies in neither the old nor the new state. Logging relies on the original data being either in the old or the new state, though. This permits backing out the logical change, but few storage systems provide an atomic write semantic on a RAID disk.

Using a battery-backed write cache can solve this problem, but only in a power failure scenario.

Transactional support is not present in all hardware RAID controllers. Therefore many operating systems include it to protect against data loss during an interrupted write. Novell Netware, starting with version 3.x, included a transaction tracking system. Microsoft introduced transaction tracking via the journalling feature in NTFS. NetApp WAFL file system solves it by never updating the data in place, as does ZFS.

Some sectors on a hard disk may have become unreadable because of a mistake. Some RAID implementations can deal with this situation by moving the data elsewhere and marking the sector on the disk as bad. This happens at about 1 bit in 10 in enterprise-class disk drives, and 1 bit in 10 in ordinary disk drives. Disk capacities are steadily increasing. This may mean that sometimes, a RAID cannot be rebuilt, because such an error is found when the array is rebuilt after a disk failure. Certain technologies such as RAID 6 try to address this issue, but they suffer from a very high write penalty, in other words writing data becomes very slow.

The disk system can acknowledge the write operation as soon as the data is in the cache. It does not need to wait until the data has been physically written. However, any power outage can then mean a significant data loss of any data queued in such a cache. 

With hardware RAID, a battery can be used to protect this cache. This often solves the problem. When the power fails, the controller can finish writing the cache when the power is back. This solution can still fail, though: the battery may have worn out, the power may have been off for too long, the disks could be moved to another controller, the controller itself could fail. Certain systems can do periodic battery checks, but these use the battery itself, and leave it in a state where it is not fully charged.

The disk formats on different RAID controllers are not necessarily compatible. It may therefore not be possible to read a RAID on different hardware. Consequently a non-disk hardware failure may require using identical hardware, or a backup, to recover the data.

This guide was taken from a thread in a RAID-related forum. This was done to help point out the advantages and disadvantages of choosing RAID. It is directed at people who want to choose RAID for either increases in performance or redundancy. It contains links to other threads in its forum containing user-generated anecdotal reviews of their RAID experiences.









</doc>
<doc id="24703" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24703" title="Leonid Brezhnev">
Leonid Brezhnev

Leonid Brezhnev was a leader of the Soviet Union. Born in 1906, Brezhnev was dictator of the Soviet Union from 1964 until his death in 1982. During the Second World War in Russia, Brezhnev acted as a spy, instead he spied on his own countrymen for political reasons. 

Unlike Nikita Khrushchev, the leader of the Soviet Union before him, Brezhnev did not agree with the process of destalinization, and did not support reform. Under Brezhnev, the Soviet economy almost completely consisted of military spending. Because all of the country's resources were going to the military, just like under Joseph Stalin consumer wants were ignored. The standard of living began to fall.

Brezhnev died on November 10, 1982.


</doc>
<doc id="24722" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24722" title="Approximation">
Approximation

An approximation is a version of a piece of information that does not describe it exactly, but is close enough to be used. An approximation may be used either when the exact piece of information is not known, or when it's too long or complicated and people need something simpler.

For example, if you wanted to add 2.0002 and 2.0003, you can add 2 and 2, and it would be an approximation.


</doc>
<doc id="24731" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24731" title="PhpBB">
PhpBB

phpBB is a commonly used, free computer software for forums. As the name suggests, phpBB is written in PHP, with the use of one of SQL compatible databases. 



</doc>
<doc id="24773" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24773" title="World Health Organization">
World Health Organization

The World Health Organization (WHO) is part of the United Nations (UN), working on international public health, with headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland. The WHO was established by the UN on April 7, 1948. World Health Day is celebrated on April 7.



</doc>
<doc id="24782" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24782" title="Jerboa">
Jerboa

A jerboa is a small jumping desert rodent of Asia and northern Africa that resembles a mouse with a long tufted tail and very long back legs.


</doc>
<doc id="24810" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24810" title="Aesop">
Aesop

Aesop, or Æsop (from the Greek "Αἴσωπος" "Aisopos"), known only for his fables, was by tradition a slave of African descent who lived from about 620 to 560 BC in Ancient Greece. Aesop's Fables are still taught as moral lessons and used as subjects for various entertainments, especially children's plays and cartoons.

Nothing was known about Aesop from credible records. The tradition was that he was at one point freed from slavery and that he eventually died at the hands of Delphians. In fact, the obscurity shrouding his life has led some scholars to deny his existence altogether.

His most famous fable in America is a parable of the tortoise and the hare. In this story, a rabbit challenges a tortoise to a race. The rabbit is sure of its victory and as a result, depending on the version of the story, in some way completes the race slower than the turtle. Often, the hare takes a nap or takes too many breaks. The persistent tortoise, despite being slower, wins because it persevered.
"Aesop's Fables" or "Aesopica" refers to a collection of fables credited to Aesop. Aesop's Fables has also become a blanket term for collections of brief fables, usually involving personified animals.

The fables remain a popular choice for moral education of children today. Many stories included in Aesop's Fables, such as "The Fox and the Grapes" (from which the idiom "sour grapes" was derived), "The Tortoise and the Hare" and "The Shepherd Boy and the Wolf" (also known as "The Boy Who Cried Wolf"), are well-known throughout the world.




</doc>
<doc id="24812" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24812" title="Template:Cookbook">
Template:Cookbook


</doc>
<doc id="24813" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24813" title="Template:Wikibookspar">
Template:Wikibookspar


</doc>
<doc id="24814" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24814" title="Template:FishBase genus">
Template:FishBase genus

"". "FishBase." Ed. Ranier Froese and Daniel Pauly. version. N.p.: FishBase, .

</doc>
<doc id="24815" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24815" title="Template:Taxobox">
Template:Taxobox

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="24816" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24816" title="Template:Row">
Template:Row


</doc>
<doc id="24817" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24817" title="Template:Section">
Template:Section


</doc>
<doc id="24823" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24823" title="Smell">
Smell

The term smell may refer to one of the following articles:



</doc>
<doc id="24824" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24824" title="Olfaction">
Olfaction

Olfaction is the sense of smell. The sense of smell is how a man or animal notices a smell (or odour or odor) by using the nose. Animals have much better noses than people. Animals can detect small particles in the air or sometimes water that people can not. 

People have special cells in the nose that can detect some chemicals. These cells are called olfactory epithelium. All vertebrates have these cells. The smell is first processed by the olfactory bulb in the olfactory system. Then this information is given to the brain. 

In insects, smells are sensed by sensilia on the antennae and first processed by the antennal lobe. 



</doc>
<doc id="24827" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24827" title="Teaspoon">
Teaspoon

A teaspoon is a spoon used for stirring tea, measuring sugar, and playing games such as spoons. They are also called flatspoons in American English. Longer teaspoons can be used to eat ice cream and other desserts, too. It is usually covered with silver or stainless steel.

It is also a unit of measurement, now equal to 5 millilitres, but the original customary measure was 4.93 ml.


</doc>
<doc id="24840" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24840" title="Camembert">
Camembert

Camembert is a village in France. It is located in Normandy. It is in the Orne "département" of the Lower Normandy region in France. It is most famous as the place where Camembert cheese originated. In 1999, 199 people lived there.


</doc>
<doc id="24842" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24842" title="Camembert cheese">
Camembert cheese

Camembert cheese, more generally known as Camembert, is a French soft cheese. It originated in the village of Camembert in Normandy. Since 1983, the name "Camembert de Normandie" has been protected as Appellation d'Origine controlée (AOC).

Camembert is made from unpasteurized cow's milk, and is ripened by the moulds "Penicillium candida" and "Penicillium camemberti" for at least three weeks. It is produced in small rounds, about 250 grams in weight, which are wrapped in paper and boxed in thin wooden boxes.

When fresh, it is quite crumbly and relatively hard, but it characteristically ripens and becomes more runny and strongly flavoured as it ages.

Camembert can be used in many dishes, but it is popularly eaten uncooked on bread or with wine or meat, to enjoy the subtle flavour and texture which do not survive heating. 

Camembert was reputedly invented in 1791 by Marie Harel, a farmer from Normandy. However, the origin of the cheese we know today as camembert is more likely to rest with the beginnings of the industrialisation of the cheese-making process at the end of the 19th century. In 1890, an engineer, M. Ridel invented the wooden box which was used to carry the cheese and helped to send it for longer distances, in particular to America where it became very popular. These boxes are still used today.

Before fungi were properly understood, the colour of Camembert rind was a matter of chance, most commonly blue-grey, with brown spots. From the early 20th century onwards the rind has been more commonly pure white, but it was not until the mid-1970s that pure white became standard.

The cheese was famously issued to French troops in the First World War, becoming firmly fixed in the French popular culture as a result. It has many other roles in French culture, literature and history. It is now internationally known, and many local varieties are made around the world.

The cheese is said to have inspired Salvador Dalí to create his famous painting, "The Persistence of Memory". Its "melting" watches were inspired by the sight of a melting wheel of over-ripe Camembert.

The Camembert de Normandie was granted a protected designation of origin in 1992 after the original AOC in 1983.



"Camembert: A National Myth" by Pierre Boisard ISBN 0-520-22550-3 claims that Camembert was one of the first globalised, homogenised and standardised foods.


</doc>
<doc id="24886" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24886" title="Shiva">
Shiva

Shiva is one of the three main gods in Hinduism. Shiva is known as the destroyer god because he removes all evil from the world. His wife is the goddess Parvati. He has a blue neck because, according to Hindu legend, he swallowed a poison in order to save the universe. He has three eyes, the third eye is on his forehead. Shiva is one third of the Hindu trinity including Brahma and Vishnu. Lord Shiva lives in the Himalayas. Ganesha and Kartikeya are his sons.

UIONYIODEYINTOPLESH:


</doc>
<doc id="24895" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24895" title="ASCII art">
ASCII art

ASCII art is art made out of ASCII characters. This can be simple art like "<3" (it looks almost like a heart if you turn your head sideways), or it can be more complex, with characters carefully placed out, containing many lines of characters. 
ASCII art was originally used to "draw" pictures on computers that only allowed ASCII characters. 
Smilies are considered ASCII art. 



</doc>
<doc id="24896" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24896" title="Riddle">
Riddle

A riddle can be classed as a statement with a solution. This solution, however, need not have a logical solution. Solving riddles usually involve thinking about the question with great concentration, and putting it into a context. 

E.g. "If seven nines are ace, how many by thorn"



</doc>
<doc id="24907" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24907" title="Novalis">
Novalis

Novalis is the pseudonym of Georg Philipp Friedrich Freiherr von Hardenberg (May 2, 1772 - March 25, 1801), who was a writer and philosopher of the early German Romanticism.


</doc>
<doc id="24908" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24908" title="Body piercing">
Body piercing

Body piercing or just piercing is a form of body modification, where humans of either gender pierce their skin to put jewellery through the hole later. There are many different reasons some people have piercings, such as religious or other cultural purposes. Many people, especially in North America and Europe, choose to be pierced for ornamental, or sexual pleasure.

In early records, it was not common to discuss the use of piercings or their meanings. However, body adornment and modification are estimated have been around for more than 5000 years , found in mummies like Ötzi the Iceman, Europe's oldest natural mummy estimated to be about 5,300 years old. Piercing of the ears, nose, and tongue have a long history in many ancient cultures, and lip piercing and stretching were more common in African tribes, especially for cultural identification.
Body piercings of any kind were not popular in Western cultures in the beginning of the 20th century. After World War II, the gay subculture used piercings as a fashion statement. 


</doc>
<doc id="24909" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24909" title="Physical">
Physical

Physical can mean:


</doc>
<doc id="24910" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24910" title="Elonka Dunin">
Elonka Dunin

Elonka Dunin is an American woman who was born in 1958. Her job is to make computer games at Simutronics Corporation, in Missouri. She also knows a lot about famous puzzles, especially a puzzle called Kryptos, which no one knows all the answers to yet.

In 2006, she wrote a book with hundreds of puzzles in it, called "The Mammoth Book of Secret Codes and Cryptograms".



</doc>
<doc id="24911" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24911" title="Category:Designers">
Category:Designers

Designers are people who make things.


</doc>
<doc id="24914" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24914" title="Supernova">
Supernova

<onlyinclude>

A supernova is when a very big star explodes. This happens when a star totally runs out of energy to make heat and light. The biggest of these stars we know of are called Hypergiants and smaller ones are called supergiants. They are very big and because of gravity they press on their centers very hard and use up their energy very quickly, so they usually only live for a few million years. Then they become a black hole or a neutron star. Small stars do not explode. They cool and shrink down into a white dwarf star.

Supernovas are very big explosions. When the star explodes, it will be brighter than all other stars around it. If a supernova explosion happened near the Earth, we could see it in the sky even during the day.

Supernova explosions happen rarely. In our own galaxy, the Milky Way, the last supernova happened in the year 1604. We can see supernovas in other galaxies too. Every year we see 300 supernovas in other galaxies, because there are so many galaxies.</onlyinclude>

Without supernovas there would be no life on Earth. This is because many of the chemical elements were made in supernova explosions. These are called "heavy elements". Heavy elements are needed to make living things. The supernova is the only way heavy elements can be made. Other elements were made by fusion in stars. Heavy elements need very high temperature and pressure to form. In a macho supernova explosion the temperature and pressure are so high that heavy elements can be made. Scientists call this "supernova nucleosynthesis".

It could be dangerous if a supernova explosion happened very close to the Earth. The explosion is very big and many kinds of dangerous radiation are formed. But we do not have to be afraid. Only very big stars can explode as supernovas. There are no stars big enough near the Earth and if there was it would take millions of years for it to happen.

Scientists can learn things from supernova explosions. Astronomers and scientists who study cosmology often look at supernovas. They can also tell us about physics.

SN 1572 was seen by Tycho Brahe. This supernova helped astronomers learn that things in space could change. SN 1604 was seen by Johannes Kepler. It was the last supernova close enough to be seen at Earth without a telescope. SN 1987A is the only supernova so close that scientists could find neutrinos from it. 


</doc>
<doc id="24915" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24915" title="Folk">
Folk

Folk can mean:


In music:


</doc>
<doc id="24916" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24916" title="Victorian">
Victorian

Victorian may mean:


</doc>
<doc id="24917" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24917" title="Bethlehem">
Bethlehem

Bethlehem is a city on the West Bank in Palestine. It is most famous as the place where Jesus was born. It is located five miles away from Jerusalem in Israel.


</doc>
<doc id="24920" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24920" title="Disco">
Disco

Disco is a style of pop music that was most popular from the mid-1970s to the early 1980s. People usually dance to disco music at bars called disco clubs. The word "disco" is also used to refer to the style of dancing that people do to disco music, or to the style of clothes that people wear to go disco dancing. Disco music was an up-tempo form of music which included elements of soul, funk and Latin music. It had a strong beat meant for dancing, a steady four-on-the-floor rhythm, and a big bass line, and orchestral instrumentation often included string sections.

Disco was at its most popular in the United States and Europe in the late 1970s and early 1980s. Disco was brought into the mainstream by the hit movie "Saturday Night Fever," which was released in 1977. This movie, which starred John Travolta, showed people doing disco dancing. Many radio stations played disco in the late 1970s. By the early 1980s, disco had started to fall out of popularity, and other genres, such as dance, Hi-NRG and post-disco grew in popularity. Nevertheless, disco still exerts an influence on modern day dance music, and still has occasional moments of popularity. Additionally, a different form of disco arose in Europe, known as Euro disco, which obtained some popularity.

Disco music blends pop music with funk music, soul music, Latin music such as salsa, and rock and roll. Disco music usually consists of a singer, electric guitars, synthesizer keyboards, electric bass guitar, and a drummer or electronic drum machine. Disco music is often very simple music, with a strong beat and a strong "bass line". Disco music often has many electronic effects.

Disco dancing is often sexually suggestive. When people go disco dancing, they usually wear tight trousers, leather shoes or boots, and glittery clothes. Women going disco dancing often wore tight clothes that revealed body parts such as their thighs or the upper part of their chest. Men going disco dancing often opened up the buttons of their shirts to show the upper part of their chest.

Disco music is played at disco clubs. In the late 1970s, there were famous disco clubs such as Studio 54 in New York City. Disco clubs have a large dance floor and a large pa system. A Disk Jockey (or "DJ") plays records of disco music through powerful amplifiers with a number of high wattage speakers. Disco music was usually played very loud, with lots of low bass frequencies. Disco clubs usually had coloured lights that flashed with the music called scanners, and mirror balls with hundreds of small mirrors, that reflect light onto the dancers and all corners of the room.

Most people who went disco dancing at disco clubs drank alcohol such as champagne and rum. Many people consumed illegal drugs such as cocaine or marijuana, so that they would become intoxicated. People who went disco dancing often had many sexual relationships with people that they would meet at the disco club.


</doc>
<doc id="24921" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24921" title="Albert II, Prince of Monaco">
Albert II, Prince of Monaco

Prince Albert II (March 14,1958-) is the ruler of Monaco. He became ruler after his father Rainier III died in 2005. He is the only son and second child of Rainer and his wife Grace Kelly.


</doc>
<doc id="24922" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24922" title="Rex Warner">
Rex Warner

Reginald Ernest Warner or Rex Warner (9 March 1905-24 June 1986) was a classical English writer and translator.


</doc>
<doc id="24923" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24923" title="Hugh Cook">
Hugh Cook

Hugh Cook (born 1942) is a Canadian writer.



</doc>
<doc id="24924" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24924" title="Franz Boas">
Franz Boas

Franz Boas (July 9, 1858 – December 21, 1942) was a German-born American anthropologist.


</doc>
<doc id="24925" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24925" title="Zapotec people">
Zapotec people

The Zapotec are a native tribe of people from Mexico. People think there are between 300.000 and 400.000 people. Most of them live in the state of Oaxaca. Most of them speak either Zapotec dialect continuum or the Chatino language. Before Christopher Columbus came to America, the Zapotec civilisation was highly developed. It also included a system of writing. 




</doc>
<doc id="24926" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24926" title="IMAX">
IMAX

IMAX is a kind of movie projection system, which shows movies on a very large screen. It was first introduced in Japan in 1970.



</doc>
<doc id="24930" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24930" title="Esotericism">
Esotericism

Esotericism is about secret knowledge for a small group of people. Esotericism also describes mystical, spiritual or occult viewpoints (point of view). Esotericism studies Gnosticism, Yoga, Alchemy, Magic, Astrology, Meditation, Mysticism, and Occultism. Many followers of Abrahamic faiths, particularly Christianity and Islam, have criticized much of Esotericism calling it black magic.


</doc>
<doc id="24931" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24931" title="Hugh Cook (science fiction author)">
Hugh Cook (science fiction author)

Hugh Walter Gilbert Cook (born 1956) is a science fiction author. Cook was born in Essex, England, and moved to New Zealand. Then in 1997 he moved to Japan.


</doc>
<doc id="24932" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24932" title="Jainism">
Jainism

Jainism is an ancient religion of India that teaches non-violence towards all living beings. Its philosophy and practice rely mainly on self-effort in progressing the soul on the spiritual ladder to divine consciousness. Any soul which has conquered its own inner enemies and achieved the state of supreme being is called "jina" which means conqueror or victor. 

Jainism is also called "Shraman (self-reliant) Dharma" or the religion of Nirgantha (who does not have attachments and aversions) by ancient texts. It is refered to in Hindi जैनधर्म (Jain Dharma), and in Tamil சமணம்(Samanam).
Jainism was revived by a lineage of 24 enlightened ascetic leaders called tirthankaras culminating with Parshva (9th century BC) and Mahavira (6th century BC). In the modern world, it is a small but influential religious group with about 4.2 million followers in India,
and successful growing immigrant communities in North America, Western Europe, the Far East, Australia and elsewhere.

Jains successfully sustained this ancient religion to this era and have significantly influenced and contributed to ethical, political and economic spheres in India. Jains have an ancient tradition of scholarship and have the highest degree of literacy in India; Jain libraries are the oldest in the country. Tamil Jains and Tulu Jains who are native to their region residing in places of TamilNadu and Karnataka early since 1st century BC. Even though South Indian Jains are distinguishable in some of their routines and practices from North Indian Jains, the core philosophies and belief systems are the same for both cultures.


</doc>
<doc id="24939" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24939" title="Category:Pottery">
Category:Pottery


</doc>
<doc id="24941" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24941" title="Sect">
Sect

A sect is a small religious or political group that separates from a larger group. Sects have many of the same beliefs and practices as the original group, but often have some different doctrines. In contrast, a denomination is a large religious group.


</doc>
<doc id="24951" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24951" title="Caracal">
Caracal

The Caracal, also called Persian lynx or African lynx, is a wild cat. Caracals are similar to lynxes, but are more related to the Serval. Caracals are the fastest of the small cats.

The Caracal is 65 cm in length (about 2 feet), plus 30 cm tail (about 1 foot). It has longer legs and a look very similar to a lynx. The colour of its fur may be wine-red, grey or sand-coloured (a type of yellow). There are also black caracals. Young caracals have red spots on the fur, but the only markings adults have are black spots above the eyes. A special part of the caracal body are its long black ears - the word "caracal" come from the Turkish word "karakulak" ("black ear"). Their ears are controlled by 20 different muscles, to help them find the animals they hunt.

Caracals live in Africa and West Asia. Their habitat is dry steppes (areas without trees, covered with grass or shrubs) and semi-deserts, but also can live in places similar to woodlands, savannas, and scrub forests. They live alone or with a mate in a territory. 

A caracal may live without drinking for a long time - they get the water from the body of the animals they eat. It hunts at night (but in winter they also hunt in the daytime) for rodents, birds, and hares. It is not usual, but sometimes they hunt small antelopes or young ostriches. They prefer to eat only the external meat of the mammals they hunt, and do not eat the internal organs, and they also do not like eating fur. But they eat the feathers of small birds and rotten meat. 

They can hunt birds very well; a caracal is able to snatch a bird in flight, sometimes more than one at a time. Caracals can jump and climb every well, which enables them to catch hyraxes better than any other carnivore. 

Because they can learn tricks and get accustomed to live with humans, caracals are sometimes kept as pets (especially in the United States and some European countries). Farmers in Africa do not like them, because sometimes they enter in farms and eat chickens and other animals. So they make their dog chase the caracal.

It is not easy to see caracals in nature because they hide very well. Drivers in countries where caracals live, for example, Kenya and Botswana, see many animals next to roads, but it is very rare a sighting of a caracal. 

There are many species of caracals. See them and where they live:


</doc>
<doc id="24953" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24953" title="Eel">
Eel

True eels are teleost fish. They have long and narrow bodies like snake. Adult eels can be as short as 10 cm or as long as 3 m. It depends on their species. The large eels can weigh up to 65 kg.

Eels have fewer fins than other fish. They do not have all the belly and chest fins. The back and anal fins are long and usually connected to the tail fin. The fins do not have spines.

The shoulder bones are separate from the skull. The scales have smooth edges or are absent.

Eels hatch from eggs. Baby (larval) eels are flat and transparent (clear). They are called "leptocephalus" (Greek for "thin head"). A young eel is called an elver. For a long time people did not know where eels came from, because baby eels look very different from adults. They thought the babies were a different species.

Most eels prefer to live in the shallowest parts of the ocean. They live at the bottom of the ocean, sometimes in holes. Eels in the "Anguillidae" family come to fresh water to there. Eels in the "Nemichthyidae" family swim about 500 m below the ocean surface. Eels in the "Synaphobranchidae" family live as deep as 4000 m below the surface.

Most eels are predators. They hunt their prey.

True eels belong to the order (group) Anguilliformes (Latin for "eel-shaped").

This order has 4 suborders (smaller groups) called "Anguilloidei", "Nemichthyoidei", "Congroidei", and "Synaphobranchoidei".

The suborders are separated into 19 families. The families are divided into 110 genera. The genera are then divided into species.

There are 400 species of eels in all.

Freshwater eels ("unagi") and marine eels (Conger eel, "anago") are used in Japanese food. Eels are used in Cantonese (Hong Kong) food and Shanghai food.

Some people eat the European eel and other eels that live in lakes all around the world. A traditional London food is "jellied eels." The Spanish meal, "angulas", consists of deep-fried elvers.

Hand netting (catching with nets) is the only legal way of catching eels in England. It has been done for thousands of years on the River Parrett and River Severn.

Eel skins are used to make some wallets and purses.


</doc>
<doc id="24954" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24954" title="Template:FishBase order">
Template:FishBase order

"". "FishBase." Ed. Ranier Froese and Daniel Pauly. version. N.p.: FishBase, .

</doc>
<doc id="24957" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24957" title="Easter egg">
Easter egg

An Easter egg is an egg, eaten and used for decoration during the Easter holidays. The egg was a symbol of the earth to celebrate spring. It was used by early Christians as a sign of the resurrection (rising from the dead) of Jesus.

The use of painted and decorated Easter eggs was first recorded in the 13th century. The church did not let people eat eggs during Holy Week, but chickens still laid eggs during that week. Because there was nothing else to do with the eggs, they were used for Easter decoration.

In modern times, chocolate eggs with a colorful wrapping are given to children to be eaten. In the United Kingdom, children receive on average 8.8 chocolate Easter eggs every year. It is unclear where this tradition comes from. Most likely, it comes from a pagan fertility ritual during spring. Sometimes on Easter, children go on egg hunts to look for Easter eggs. They can look for them indoors or outdoors.

An easter egg is also the name of something secret added in computer programs, such as a joke, a picture, or a message that can be uncovered.

Although there have been claims that Easter eggs came from the pagan symbols, there is no solid evidence for this. At the Passover, a hard-boiled egg dipped in salt water is a symbol of both new life and the Passover sacrifice offered at the Temple in Jerusalem. In Christian times, the egg was a symbol of new life just as a chick might hatch from the egg. The Easter egg tradition may have celebrated the end of the privations of Lent. In the Medieval Europe, people were not allowed to eat eggs on fast days. It was traditional to use up all of the eggs that they had before Lent began, and this also made the tradition of Pancake Day. Eggs were viewed as symbols of new life and fertility through the ages. It is believed that for this reason many ancient cultures, including the Ancient Egyptians, Persians, and Romans, used eggs during their spring festivals. In Eastern Christianity, both meat and dairy are still not allowed to be eaten during the fast, and eggs are seen as "dairy" too.

It was during Easter that everybody was trying to get rid of the eggs before the fast. Eggs were given as gifts for children and servants, and used for decoration. And this is probably the reason why eggs came to be associated with Easter.


</doc>
<doc id="24958" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24958" title="Lemur">
Lemur

Lemurs are primates and prosimians (not monkeys). The word "lemur" comes from the Latin word "lemures", which means "ghosts". This name refers to many of the nocturnal lemur species and their large eyes.
Lemur may be any member of the four lemuriform families, but it is also the genus of one of the lemuriform species. There are two so-called "flying lemurs", but they are not real lemurs.

Lemurs live "only" on the island of Madagascar and some smaller islands next to it, for example the Comoros. They weigh from 30g to the 10kg. Larger species have all become extinct since human groups moved to Madagascar. Usually, the smaller lemurs are active at night (nocturnal), and the larger ones are active during the day (diurnal).

Lemurs are white and black with a ring tail. They are about 1.5 meters tall and weigh about 2 to 3.5 kilograms. They move quietly, usually at night, sometimes letting out eerie wailing cries, which some people think is the reason why they got their names.

Lemurs mostly eat fruit, leaves, and other plant parts. They live in family groups of 5 to 42 members which is called a troop. Females are dominant and remain in the same troop for life. Males move between troops. The female's gestation period lasts four to five months, and they usually have between one and two babie. Lemur mothers nurse their babies until they are about four months old. Then they begin to feed the babies solid food such as fruit. Lemurs spend most of their time in the trees. Some are fantastic leapers, flinging themselves from tree to tree. Lemurs live for about 27 years. 

Lemurs communicate with a variety of hoots. They will also send messages with scents (smells). When a male lemur wants to scare another male away, he first rubs its tail on the smelly glands under its arms and then waves the tail in the other male's face. These are called "stink fights".

Today, there are approximately 32-35 living lemur species. All lemurs are endangered species, because people destroy their habitat and hunt them.




</doc>
<doc id="24959" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24959" title="Good Friday">
Good Friday

Good Friday is a religious holiday usually observed by Christians. It is also called Holy Friday, Black Friday, or Great Friday. It is observed to remember the crucifixion of Jesus Christ, his death, and his rising from the dead. The holiday is often at the same time as the Jewish holiday of Passover.

The estimated year of Good Friday is AD 33, by two different groups, and at first as AD 34 by Isaac Newton by the differences between the Biblical and Julian calendars.

According to the Bible, Jesus was arrested in the Garden of Gethsemane by the Temple Guards. This was done through the help of his , Judas Iscariot. Judas received money (30 pieces of silver) () for Jesus. He had told the guards that whomever he kisses was the one they were to arrest. Jesus was brought to the house of Annas. Annas was the father-in-law of the high priest at that time, Caiaphas. There he was questioned. However, it was with little result. Tied up, he was sent to Caiaphas the high priest, where the Sanhedrin had come together ().

Lots of people came and said conflicting things about Jesus to make him look bad. As he heard these, Jesus said nothing. At last, the high priest tells Jesus, "I you, by the Living God, to tell us, are you the Anointed One, the Son of God?" Jesus said yes: "You have said it, and in time you will see the Son of Man seated at the right hand of the Almighty, coming on the clouds of Heaven." The high priest ripped his clothes, crying out that Jesus had blasphemed God. The trial ended with a sentence of death (). While they were questioning Jesus, Peter was waiting in the courtyard. He also said that he did not know Jesus three times to people standing by. According to the Bible, Jesus already knew that Peter would say this.

In the morning, the people brought Jesus to the Roman governor Pontius Pilate. They said he was troubling the nation. They also said he tried to stop people from paying taxes to Caesar, and wanted to make himself a king (). Pilate questioned Jesus. He told the people that Jesus had nothing to be sentenced for. When he learned that Jesus was from Galilee, Pilate said that Jesus should be judged by the ruler of Galilee, King Herod. At that time, Herod was in Jerusalem for the Passover Feast. Herod questioned Jesus, but Jesus did not answer. Herod sent Jesus back to Pilate. Pilate told the people that neither he nor Herod have found Jesus guilty. Pilate wished to have Jesus whipped, then let him go ().

It was a custom during the feast of Passover for the Romans to let one prisoner go free as requested by the Jews. Pilate asked the crowd whom they would like to go free. The crowd asked for Barabbas, another prisoner. He had gone to prison for murdering people. Pilate asked what they would have him do with Jesus. At this, and they demanded, "Crucify him!" (). Pilate's wife warned Pilate to "have nothing to do with this man" (). She had had a dream about him earlier that day.

Pilate had Jesus whipped, then tried to let him go. The chief priests demanded that Jesus be sentenced to death "because he claimed to be God's son." This filled Pilate with fear. He brought Jesus back inside the palace and demanded to know from where he came ().
Coming before the crowd one last time, Pilate declared Jesus innocent. He washed his own hands in water to show he has no part in this. However, Pilate handed Jesus over to be crucified so that the crowd would not get angry () and that he could keep his job.
Jesus carried his cross a place of the Skull, or "Golgotha" in Hebrew. In Latin it is called "Calvary". There he was crucified with two criminals ().

Jesus is hung on the cross for six hours in extreme pain. During his last 3 hours on the cross there is darkness over the whole land (; ; ). At last, Jesus cried, "It is finished". He then "gave up his spirit". There is an earthquake. Tombs break open, and the curtain in the Temple is torn from top to bottom. The centurion on guard at the crucifixion declares, "Truly this was God's Son!" () 

Joseph of Arimathea, a member of the Sanhedrin and secret follower of Jesus, who had not said yes to his death, went to Pilate. He asked for the body of Jesus (). Another secret follower of Jesus and member of the Sanhedrin named Nicodemus brought a mix of spices and helped wrap the body of Christ (). Pilate asked the centurion to make sure that Jesus is dead (). A soldier pierced the side of Jesus, causing blood and water to flow out (). At this, the centurion told Pilate that Jesus was dead ().

Joseph of Arimathea took the body of Jesus, wrapped it in a clean linen shroud, and placed it in his own new tomb that had been carved in the rock (). The tomb was in a garden. Nicodemus () also came bringing 75 pounds of myrrh and aloes, and placed them in the linen with the body of Jesus, according to Jewish burial customs (). They rolled a large rock over the entrance of the tomb (). Then they went back home and rested, because at sunset began Shabbat (). According to the Bible, on the third day, Sunday, which is now known as Easter Sunday (or "Pascha"), Jesus rose from the dead.

Special prayer services are often held on this day with readings from the Gospel accounts of the events leading up to the crucifixion. Major Christian churches say that Christ's crucifixion as a voluntary act, which he did for everyone who believed in him, and also one by which, together with resurrection on the third day, death itself was crushed.




</doc>
<doc id="24960" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24960" title="Archaea">
Archaea

The Archaea (or "Archea") are a group of single-celled organisms. The name comes from Greek αρχαία, "old ones". They are a major division of living organisms.

Archaea are tiny, simple organisms. They were originally discovered in extreme environments (extremophiles), but are now thought to be common to more average conditions. Many can survive at very high (over 80 °C) or very low temperatures, or highly salty, acidic or alkaline water. Some have been found in geysers, black smokers, oil wells, and hot vents in the deep ocean. Recent research has found ammonia-eating archaea in soil and seawater. 

In the past they had been classed with bacteria as prokaryotes (or Kingdom Monera) and named archaebacteria, but this classification is a mistake. The Archaea have an independent evolutionary history and show many differences in their biochemistry from other forms of life. They are now classified as a separate domain in the three-domain system. In this system, the three distinct branches of evolutionary descent are the Archaea, Bacteria and Eukaryota.

Archaea are, like bacteria, prokaryotes: single-celled organisms that do not have nuclei and cell organelles of the eukaryote type.

Interesting facts about archaea:



</doc>
<doc id="24962" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24962" title="Wikipedia:Simple talk/Archive 2">
Wikipedia:Simple talk/Archive 2

Maybe you want to read the .

What the purpose of this wikipedia? I am a native Russian speaker, and I cant say this
"simple English" any bit easier for me than the conventional English. I even cant get the difference.-- 06:27, 9 December 2005 (UTC)

I think that we all should just relax and read the wikipedia stuff!

First of all, I archived this. It hasn't been changed in almost a week. I'm new to this wikipedia. I'm from English, and came here to help out, because I think it's a good project. Apparently a lot of people don't think that, and somehow they consider this a constructed language. So, are talk messages supposed to be simple also? -- 16:56, 11 August 2005 (UTC)

How about adding a link to http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:Random in the navigation box like in http://en.wikipedia.org?

Is there an online Simple English text inspector?

In the (now archived) Talk page someone asked a question in 2004. TPK asked if we could have a "Featured Article of the Week". Another person said there were not enough good and simple pages to have that. (There was not enough for a new one every week.)

But there is a problem with this wikipedia. If people read SimpleEnglish to learn English it is hard to find "good" and "simple" pages. If people browse or click "Show any page" they might find unsimple pages. They might find pages that are too short or too long. They might find pages that are not fun to read. They might find pages that "just suck". ;)

Maybe we should have a place on the Main Page that says: here are some good and simple articles to read. Then people who are learning English will find them better.

I want to say one more thing. I learned something "very" good by writing for Simple English. I talk to many people in my job that do not speak good English. I have only been writing for Simple English since May 2005. But now if I talk to people who do not know much English, I do better. I write Simple English, but now I can "talk" simple too! I think about "how" I say things. I also see better what words are unsimple. It makes my job "much" easier. Since I am a doctor, it lets me help people more too. So thanks!

And I think simple English is better here, Prozac. 00:28, 12 August 2005 (UTC)

I see there are admins. Anyways I was thinking perhaps we could have an article of the week as en uses article of the day. We have less articles so week or maybe month seems better. 12:30, 20 August 2005 (UTC)

Thanks for advice

I hate it when people simply copy things over (with red-linked categories and articles) without simplifying at all. It just create more work for everybody else. I've spent way too much time already removing unsimple versions of templates that we already have but am left with a few. Does any feel that are needed? At the very least, they are not simplified at all. If so, we need to create categories (with simple names) and proceed from there. Also, I guess that , and need to be simplified. I'm asking here (and not going through the deletion process) because there articles are policies and procedures that I feel should be discussed. -- () 21:33, 20 August 2005 (UTC)

I know we're sort of but it seems to have just been Netoholic in disagreement. Does anyone else have an opinion against creating a Category:Stubs, especially since already exists and is in use? Besides, even if I created the category today and changed the template, only newer articles or articles with a stub tag that have been edited would show up there. Older articles would not automatically recall the template. -- () 21:37, 20 August 2005 (UTC)

I'd go for Category:Stubs but not the subcategories. 04:44, 25 August 2005 (UTC)

I hate stub-sorting with a passion. Even the is frankly useless because the vast majority of people "just don't edit that way". They instead find an article they are interested in and update it. They click a link, and do it again. They do not drill into obscure categories looking for things to improve. It is a phenomenal waste of editing effort to do any work sorting stubs. I consider that sort of task busy-work by editors who don't seem to be able to expand articles themselves. The real workers here have no use of such a system. Please use a simple, one-line stub message, if needed, but don't make it into a project. -- 20:29, 26 August 2005 (UTC)

May I suggest be updated, perhaps similiar to that on ? It looks a lot clearer.

Do we have a policy on eras? My personal preference is for BCE. On en Wiki a duel policy is the only workable one but I think we need to decide on one and stick to it even if that should be BC. 01:59, 5 September 2005 (UTC) I forgot to log in when I signed. 00:26, 7 September 2005 (UTC)

I think BCE and CE are even more pov terms, because they assume that dating years from Christ is or should be "Common Era" to all countries, even the ones that have different dating systems. At least, BC is honest about what it means. 23:17, 7 March 2006 (UTC)

Dear Wikipedians,

I need your help to look at date formats for your language. I created a large list of formats . Please take a look and fix any mistakes or add any new formats. This will help interwiki bot to match , , , , and all other sites together.

"What's needed:" Look at every format for your language, fix any mistakes, note any exceptions (some languages have 1st, 2nd, 3rd, etc naming schemas, or year 1 is written as '1 (year)' unlike all other years).

Also, I would like to receive a bot status on your site for my bot . It will be mostly involved in interwikies.

Thank you!!!

You can contact me at (-- 22:28, 24 September 2005 (UTC))
On October 3, is supposed to be fact-checked and proofread so it can be published. More importantly, it has to be readable by 8-12 year olds. The only problem is, we're far from being finished. If there's anyone here interested in helping out, please jump in. We could really use the help! -- 00:55, 25 September 2005 (UTC) ()

can u please give me a simple forum about animal-'chicken'?

I am new to Simple English. I wrote the page in the Full English Wikipedia. It became a featured article some time ago. I am writing the Aramaic page for this Wikipedia now (please check the simplicity of my English). I think it will be useful for people who find Full English difficult and who want to write pages in the Wikipedias of other languages. They will translate Simple English more easily. I think it would be a good idea if we put a template at the top of the talk pages in the Full English Wikipedia to draw translators to our articles for this reason. I suggest something like this:

What do you think? -- 13:11, 13 October 2005 (UTC)

Hello,

I ate egg in this morning. Therefore I do not want to eat egg in the afternoon. Can I say "This time I would like to eat toast"?

I wonder if "This time" can be used in English.

Thanks and best regards

Alex

Yes, you can, as far as I know.
However, it's simpler and more 'elegant' if you just say 'Now I would like to eat toast.' 02:14, 30 October 2005 (UTC)

It looks like the "i" in "pages i worked on" at the top of the screen is lower case. If possible, this should be changed to a capital "I". As this wikipedia is here to help people learn English, we shouldn't have incorrect grammar. Does anyone know how this can be changed? — 07:35, 27 October 2005 (UTC)

Why not modify to turn off the automatic decapitalization completely, like the German Wikipedia did? –  04:07, 27 November 2005 (UTC)

The edit page (the page where you can make changes) has a some non-simple text at the bottom. It talks about the legal aspects of wikipedia, and warns not to add writing which is owned by someone else. Is there a way of changing this to simpler language? — 07:35, 27 October 2005 (UTC)

Can this article from the main English Wikipedia be made prominent to all contributors of the Simple English version ? Then (wishful thinking) less clean up will be needed later on.-- 01:47, 28 October 2005 (UTC)

I have recently joined wikipedia simple English and there is one thing i noticed which is really lacking. History! I am currently a high school student in Advanced European History. I am also currently learning German and i am finding the best way to learn German is by reading history. I think That if people trying to learn English saw their history and knew their history, it would be easier for them to understand the article and to learn some more English. I am a very avid reader of history and would love to see some more. Does anyone in the community here think this is a good idea?

I think more history articles is a great idea! Unfortunately I'm not an expert in history, but I certainly hope someone who knows a lot about history comes and writes some great history articles for us! ~unregistered newbie

What is Simple English's policy on 'no source' images? 06:24, 29 October 2005 (UTC)

I come from the English Wikipedia. On the English version, the links weren't underlined, but you could change this by going to 'my preferences' ('my settings'). The option doesn't seem to be here in Simple English Wikipedia.

It's under My settings --> Misc. 

I want to say something about the fragment "From Wikipedia, a free encyclopedia written in simple English for easy reading", which is on the every page of Simple English Wikipedia. I think that "for easy reading" should be omitted.

Reasons: 
-- 14:30, 22 November 2005 (UTC)
""Simple English uses fewer words and easier grammar than the original English Wikipedia. This is not its only difference. It is focused on readers who tend to be quite different people with different needs: students, children, adults with learning difficulties, and translators."" 15:41, 22 November 2005 (UTC)

Out of interest, why should translators need to use Simple English? The quote above gives the impression that translators, like children and people with learning difficulties, may need to have articles simplified. (See Leo if you speak German.) Has a poll been conducted to see if translators actually use Simple Wiki any more than others? I'm a translator and I can't imagine how it would be any help to me in my work. 

Hello. The create article links do not work. When this gets back working I will write an article on Formula One. 21:30, 26 November 2005 (UTC)

 is a very complex word for use on the Simple Wikipedia (e.g. Orlando (disambiguation), New York (disambiguation)). There was a small discussion about changing things roughly a year ago at , but nothing much came of that discussion. I think that the word should not be used at all on the Simple Wikipedia, either in article titles, or in the disambiguation template. 

For some words or phrases, a single usage is so predominate that it makes sense to have that usage as the direct link for that word or phrase (New York, possibly). In most cases, however, I think that it would be much better for the Simple Wikipedia to have the primary link go to the disambiguation page (like the Mercury page), with each separate use getting a more specific identification (e.g. Mercury (planet)). That should keep the number of pages that require a disambiguation tag to a minimum. Those pages that do require a disambiguation tag should be called something like [New York (other meanings)] or [New York (other pages)], instead of New York (disambiguation).

The also needs to be rewritten and simplified. I may try to do that within the next week. 19:00, 27 November 2005 (UTC)

Hi, I think that there is some problem with the page (:

When I'm searching some word, I got this text over the results:

Good luck & greetings for your project 15:16, 4 December 2005 (UTC)

I am a native Russian speaker and your "Simple English" does not seem any bit easier for me. I even cant get the difference. And what the purpose of these stupid comments on the main page for such international words as biology, geography, architecture and so on? These words are understandable for anybody. I think if a person can understand this wikipedia, he of course will understand the conventional English one. Most difficulty in learning English is not international words, but English-specific ones and grammar. For example, understanding the word "people" is more difficult than "anthropology". If you learn Russian, what would be more easy for you - "antropologia" or "nauka o ludiakh"? -- 23:53, 10 December 2005 (UTC)

This is pointless: You seem to believe the literacy rate around the world is MUCH higher than I believe it is, and that the so-called 'international words' are similar in ALL the world's languages, while I know they are not. If and the articles linked under 'see also' don't help you understand the goal here, I don't know what will--apparently not me. 08:18, 14 December 2005 (UTC)

This Wiki is a nice idea, however, I would encourage anyone who would like to learn English to challenge themselves by exploring the EN Wiki. The best way to handle the issue of teaching someone English is to create a Wiki called "Wikipedia for those who want to learn English" or something like that, and developing a series of lessons that teach English. Additionally, the place can serve as a resource for people willing to learn, and wishing to discuss and understand topics that already exist on the EN Wiki. The creators of the Simple English Wiki may be solving a problem that does not exist. --Anonymous (2/9/06)

As long as Current events isn't getting updated, it seems like it shouldn't be in the left nav column of every page. Can someone remove it? 17:47, 14 December 2005 (UTC)

I noticed that
all used small letters. 

Since this Wikipedia is made for people with poor English, I think it would be better if these used the correct capital letters (for example, "Pages I worked on").

When you type in an article name that doesn't exist it seems to give back bad html code. I think someone needs to fix . BrokenSegue 22:48, 17 December 2005 (UTC)
"Unsimple" isn't English and sets a bad example. Are we trying to write Newspeak or something? I am going to fix the places where it occurs. 03:31, 18 December 2005 (UTC)

http://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/Requests_for_new_languages#Real_BASIC_English

"There have been a total of 92 page views, and 81,340 page edits since the wiki was setup. That comes to 5.95 average edits per page, and 0.00 views per edit." 

Anyone want/able to make the "[edit]" action simply "[change]"? "[edit]" makes the page unlike the "change this page" seen on top.

C&p was used to move the content of the incorrectly titled Golden Retriver to the correct Golden Retriever, so the histories should be merged, but it will require admin intervention to do it. 01:32, 3 January 2006 (UTC)

Need an administer to delete this page Anglo-Spanish War only content on page is poop.-- 21:16, 4 January 2006 (UTC)

The content of Hungarian was c&p moved to Hungarian language, then edited, so needs a history merge at the new location. The redir at Cleveland, Ohio has been edited, so Cleveland can't be moved there without deleting the redir. I think I've noticed one other, but can't remember what it was at the moment. 17:27, 15 January 2006 (UTC)

According to this edit, it appears that the user with the offensive name was renamed to . However, nothing shows up in the . This happened after the MediaWiki software was upgraded to show user renamings. How is that possible? Did someone edit the database directly, as opposed to using ? -- 19:08, 16 January 2006 (UTC)

Maybe as an Aid a Spoken Article Project should be started for the Simple English Wikipedia, since the articles are shorter and easier to read, it might be possible to produce more spoken articles and with a wider scope than in the English Wikipedia -- 11:22, 20 January 2006 (UTC)

Thinking about it know, a good start would be the Knowledge Group Pages listed in the Simple English Wikipedia Main Page -- 11:38, 20 January 2006 (UTC)

Is Simple IRC "ever" used? 15:54, 21 January 2006 (UTC)

I think that there are not enough images on this Wikipedia. If our aim is to help people learning English or other people that may have difficulties understanding certain parts of English, we should have a lot more images here to help people understand the meanings of what's written. Perhaps a WikiProject should be set up? 20:26, 21 January 2006 (UTC)

The whole situation has been complicated completely unnecessarily, with server-wasting redirs involved. GNU (disambiguation) has been created, but it will never be reached unless the exact term is searched for (highly unlikely), or the new dab header at wildebeest is clicked, and since the OS is the only other choice at the dab page, the newly disambig'd title GNU (acronym) is also unnecessary (and would be better as GNU (operating system) or somesuch if it "was" necessary), so it would be better/faster/more efficient if the dab header there just offered a direct link to the OS. Can an admin please move things back to the nice, simple, efficient GNU/gnu (sans all parentheticals) structure that it was (and that EN uses)? Someone typing "GNU" or "gnu" in the Search box will get to the exact same articles as this new setup, but without the extra server hits. 20:18, 22 January 2006 (UTC)

_ _ I'm an editor & admin on en:, and the predominant contributor to the "structure" of en:'s "List of people by name". In that role i also do a lot of editing of the descriptions at the end of each entry, largely to effect what i have lately been calling "low-resolution" causes of notability. (To take some extreme cases, people are sometimes described using "judoka" or "Taoiseach", which IMO are sometimes sources of worry, to those seeking adjacent entries, that they are slipping over the bio they seek, and almost always pointless visual and mental distractions, since the people they are used to describe can be distinguished from the similar names with a few "familiar" words. At present,i would replace the former by "martial-arts practitioner" and the latter by "Irish politician" -- unless two people of the same name meet the respective description.) What brought me here is the thot that paralleling some vocabulary list here (it turns out to be BE 1500) might be a useful standard or discipline in that effort. <br>
_ _ More interestingly, i note that the List of people by name here is seriously "under-stocked" and under-structured. E.g.: 
<br> 
This suggests to me porting the en: list, and its infrastructure templates, onto simple. As i've already suggested, and "2." below will flesh out some, i have an interest in simplifying the descriptions anyway, so this would not be a straight dump job that the existing editors here would have to clean up or tolerate. It would also give simple: the benefit of the extensive LoPbN structural innovations over about the last 3 years, which make the entries much more accessible and IMO more likely to be used. Offhand, i would suggest that each existing en: entry should be copied into its natural place in the en: list, for a side-by-side comparison, and the redundant line discarded, or the two merged, before making any change on simple:. (Where an en: description is unsuitable for simple:, it may make sense to build both descriptions into a single template transclusion, that would display the one appropriate to whichever of these two Wikipedia sub-sites it appears on; i won't describe now how to accomplish that. Suffice it to say that it would simplify joint maintenance between simple: and en:.)<br>
_ _ I'd appreciate two kinds of response:
<br>-- 09:26, 23 January 2006 (UTC)<br>

Is there a list of articles that have been d i r e c t l y translated from the Simple English Wikipedia into other languages or vice versa? I teach a translation class and know that this would be very helpful for my students. I am particularly interested in translations of/from articles from the German Wikipedia. 

If not, are there any public resources online that address this need?
<br><br>

The page badly needs reformatting. The templates are all randomly thrown together, making them hard to find. This project is growing rapidly, and things that are used so often need to be easy to find.

I've quickly put together a page with categories at . Let me know what you think. 18:58, 25 January 2006 (UTC)

I think that it is important that Simple English Wikipedians (people who work on the Simple English Wikipedia) do not call the English Wikipedia "the main English Wikipedia" or "the main Wikipedia in English." It is true that the English Wikipedia is much larger than this one. It is also more complex and more famous. That does not mean it is better or more "main" than this one. It is only a different Wikipedia. Call it English Wikipedia and call this one Simple English Wikipedia. Do not give it more credit than it deserves. Do not give Simple English Wikipedia less credit than it deserves. We are also important. I want to make it clear that I am also on the English Wikipedia. Happy editing! --| 09:49, 27 January 2006 (UTC)

I think that the community portal is a bit too basic, lacking many useful pages and not looking very good for new users. So, once again I've done my own version at . Please let me know what you think on the talk page. Thanks, 20:45, 1 February 2006 (UTC)

There are 7000 articles in this Wikipedia. Now it's time to expand the . -- 21:52, 1 February 2006 (UTC)

This is probably not the right place to put it, but the ip 85.12.68.94 has used the article Neuron as a platofrm of exchange with other users from the same IP (basically spamming it). I think it would be a good idea to:

For contributions look here

I've noticed several sets of articles that seem to be referring to the same thing, so they should probably be merged, and in some cases moved. I don't have much familiarity with these subjects, so before I start slapping {move} and {merge} notes based on my guesses, I thot I'd check here to see if others have a better idea of how these things should actually me taken care of (since I started this list, I've also added some issues that don't involve duplication):












I guess I should put my opinion out there: If there is a compelling reason to use an article title that doesn't match EN, I don't think we should be constricted by their choices. On the other hand, if the possible titles have more or less equal arguments, I do think it is worth matching EN, as it makes the interwiki links easier, and is more convenient for people that work on both projects. 22:00, 3 February 2006 (UTC)


 22:47, 3 February 2006 (UTC)

How about a Schools portal? I know they're normally for specific topics, but I personally think that helping school pupils is more important than being simple for translators. 19:04, 4 February 2006 (UTC)

New schools 'gateway' created at , teachers' guide at and 7-page student tutorial at . The tutorial is made up of short pages with colourful icons, to make Wikipedia policies and other stuff slightly more interesting. Everything could still be improved, so please take a look!

Also, my needs reviewing again to check whether it's OK if anyone's got time. 18:29, 11 February 2006 (UTC)

Hello. I have started a new article under the word Minister, which I would like to ask if someone who has been on here longer than me, can read this page and see if you think it uses easy enough words for people to understand. I usually write for the main English Wikipedia and as this is the first time I have written here, i just need a reviewer to make sure it's ok. Thank you for your help. 01:42, 5 February 2006 (UTC)

how do i become one?

Why can`t I installate a {world news} template? It goes even in Latin (see my page in Latin and in the other languages).

Is there any way to reload cached special pages like and ? When I'm fixing them it would be useful to see which ones I have left. 11:03, 17 February 2006 (UTC)

On every page were at the bottom is written "This page was last changed ... for details." the following three links aren't in a row as on other pages. -- 11:41, 22 February 2006 (UTC)

Can an admin delete the move-created redir at Frankfurt and move Frankfurt/Main to Frankfurt? I've already started the associated cleanup, and will finish it after it gets moved. 00:35, 24 February 2006 (UTC)

I know everyone's going to hate me for saying this because it's in 607 of our articles, but is the word 'external' Simple English? Can it be replaced with something like 'outside'? 22:54, 24 February 2006 (UTC)

Shall we change to 'Other websites' then? A lot of these conversations seem to end up with no decisions. 16:21, 19 March 2006 (UTC)

There's a rather large picture of a penis on the front page. If we could remove that, it'd be perfect. Thank you. 22:45, 10 March 2006 (UTC)

You'd think that when this wiki is made for children, this part of Wikipedia would be decorated with children's colors, designs, and you know the rest. Like, why isn't the globe-logo colored with rainbow colors, and why aren't the fonts Comic Sans, or any other child-like fonts?

SE Wikipedia looks like it's still for adults. Can the design be changed? (After all, the Arabic Wikipedia at http://ar.wikipedia.org has a different, latticework background than the other Wikipedias do.) -- 08:49, 12 March 2006 (UTC)

PS: And please don't forget to leave me a message at on the English Wikipedia. Thanks.

At some point in time I thought image uploads were disabled. Are they enabled again? - If so, why? -- 12:17, 15 March 2006 (UTC)

Why are the image pages here (for images on the Wikimedia Commons) not displaying a link to the Commons page? -- | 16:19, 21 March 2006 (UTC)

When you search for something, at the top of the results page there is text reading "For more information about searching Wikipedia, see $1." Could someone please fix this? :) 02:04, 23 March 2006 (UTC)

I'm trying to create an account, but the Captcha image isn't displaying. If I cut and paste the URL for the image itself, I get the following page:

Anyone else having this problem? Can a technician please look into this? — 12:06, 29 March 2006 (UTC)

Hello, I just saw that this page is over 100k in size. could we perhaps archive some of the older discussions? -- 12:34, 8 April 2006 (UTC)

</doc>
<doc id="24963" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24963" title="Jared Diamond">
Jared Diamond

Jared Mason Diamond (born September 10, 1937) is an American author and scientist. He is famous for writing a book named "Guns, Germs, and Steel", which in 1997 won a Pulitzer Prize.

Diamond was born in Boston, Massachusetts. His father was a doctor and his mother was a teacher. He received his college degree from Harvard University in 1958, and then he received a doctorate degree from the University of Cambridge in 1961.

In 1966, he became a teacher at UCLA, a university in Los Angeles, California. He has also traveled to some islands called New Guinea, which are far away from the United States, in the South Pacific Ocean. Diamond is famous for knowing a lot about the birds that lived on that island, and he has traveled there many times.

Diamond is very famous for the things that he writes. He is able to write about science in ways that many people can understand, and he has written many articles for famous magazines like "Discover" in the United States. 

He also writes books. One of his first books was called "The Third Chimpanzee", which talked about the way that people evolved from monkeys, and how many things are the same between humans and monkeys.

His most famous book is "Guns, Germs, and Steel". In his book, Diamond explained why he thought that different parts of the earth had people on them at different times, and why some people in some parts of the world had more science or farming than people in other parts of the world. The book went over thousands of years of human history.

In 2004, he wrote another book, called, "Collapse: How Societies Choose to Fail or Succeed." In this book, Diamond wrote about why he thought that some groups of people from many hundreds of years ago were able to have their groups get very big and strong, while other groups fell apart. His book talked about what people today can maybe learn from the studying the problems from history.






</doc>
<doc id="24964" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24964" title="Iglesia ni Cristo">
Iglesia ni Cristo

The Iglesia ni Cristo (IPA: ) (or INC; Filipino for Church of Christ) is a church which was made in the Philippines by Felix Manalo in 1914. The INC says it was made by Jesus Christ. The church does not believe in the religious teachings of the Trinity, including the teaching that Jesus is God.

Felix Manalo joined many religious organizations as a young adult. He said that God gave him a mission to teach the gospel and to bring back the first church made by Jesus. The INC began with a handful of followers on July 27, 1914 in Punta, Santa Ana, Manila, with Manalo as highest minister. It has now spread to many different countries. 

Some of the teachings INC believes in are:



</doc>
<doc id="24966" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24966" title="Municipal court">
Municipal court

In some countries, a municipal court is a court with limited jurisdiction, both in people and laws. Most commonly, municipal courts only deal with the laws and citizens of one city or town. But in some places they make decisions for an entire county, and may be involved with early hearings of cases that will be tried in a higher court. Some things that often involve municipal courts are traffic tickets, leash laws, and building code violations and death.

Municipal courts in Mississippi are "Judge Alone" courts. This means that judges alone hear the presented cases and offenders(and alleged offenders)have no right to jury trials. In felony cases in Mississippi, the Municipal court holds a preliminary hearing and then sends the case to the grand jury of the state. The Municipal court is not a court of record and its cases are summarized by docket.

There are no municipal court facilities in the state. All courthouses are done at the county level. For example if a speeding ticket violation occurred, it automatically goes to the county seat in which the violation occurs whether it is in a municipality or unincorporated. In the case of some elongated counties like Chatham County, there is an alternate courtroom in Siler City as well as Pittsboro, the county seat. In other cases where there are multiple large population centers like in Guilford County, court cases are handled in Greensboro and High Point. Although a federal issue, traffic violations occurring in military bases are not subject to civilian courts. 


</doc>
<doc id="24968" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24968" title="Emma Goldman">
Emma Goldman

Emma Goldman (June 27, 1869 – May 14, 1940) was one of the most well-known anarchists from the late 1800s and early to mid 1900s. 

Emma Goldman was an anarchist, so she did not like governments. She was known as an anarcho-communist because she also had communist ideas. She believed that people should run their own lives, and that everyone should be equal. She also was a supporter of feminism and was one of the first people to support gay rights. She was also an atheist.

She originally supported the use of violence to bring about revolution, but later in life decided that violence should only be used for self-defense.

She was born in modern-day Lithuania (at the time it was part of Russia). She moved to Rochester, New York with her sister when she was 17. 

At first she worked in a textile factory and married her co-worker Jacob Kersner. Their marriage was short and Goldman moved to New York City and became a member of the anarchist community. She became good friends with Alexander Berkman (another anarchist) and helped him plan the attempted-assassination of Henry Clay Frick, a rich man who treated his workers badly. Berkman was unsuccessful and spent fourteen years in prison, but Goldman was not punished. 

Goldman did face many legal troubles though. In 1893 she was convicted of starting a riot and spent a year in prison. She was arrested in 1901 for allegedly conspiring in the assassination of President McKinley, but was never found guilty.
In 1916 she was spent time in prison for giving out information on birth control (which was a crime at the time). In 1917 she was arrested and spent two years in prison for not supporting World War I. 

In 1919, Goldman and Berkman were deported (sent back) to Russia because the American government thought they were too dangerous. The Russian Revolution had just happened and Goldman was hopeful that Russia might end up being a good place. She ended up deciding that the revolution in Russia was not as good as she thought and that the Bolsheviks tricked many of the people in Russia. She thought the Bolsheviks were too controlling and were too powerful. She also did not like that the Soviet Union put lots of anarchists in jail for not agreeing with them.

She and Berkman left after two years and Goldman lived in many places in Europe, including England and France. In 1936 she moved to Spain to help the anarchists fight the fascists during the Spanish Civil War.

She died in Toronto May 14, 1940 of a stroke. She is buried near Chicago.


</doc>
<doc id="24970" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24970" title="Computer engineering">
Computer engineering

Computer engineering is the science of making computers and their parts. Computer engineers are always trying to make new parts smaller and better.

Computers are electrical machines. Therefore, Computer engineering is related to Electrical engineering and Computer science. If you study Computer engineering, you learn about the hardware and software of computers. You will learn circuit theory and electronic circuits, too. Because Computer engineering is closely linked with Electrical engineering, the fields are found in the same department at many universities. 

Computer engineering is often compared to Computer science. Computer engineering is about computer hardware and some software. Computer science is about computer software only. Computer engineers study Computer engineering, but software engineers study Computer science.

Computer engineering is a difficult major in college, but computer engineers are needed.. Software engineering companies, telecommunications firms, designers of digital hardware, and many other companies hire Computer engineering majors right out of college and pay them well.

Computer engineering students learn about computers and computer related system design and development. The computer related systems are software systems, hardware systems and systems of software and hardware in combination. Students also need to learn fundamental science subjects and mathematics.


</doc>
<doc id="24971" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24971" title="Spanish Civil War">
Spanish Civil War

The Spanish Civil War (July 18, 1936–April 1, 1939) was a war in which the Spanish General Francisco Franco and his troops successfully took control of Spain. A lot of different groups worked together with the Spanish Republic (the government of the time) to stop him, including socialists, communists, anarchists, and other leftist groups. The fascist governments of Germany and Italy provided troops and supplies for Franco, while the communist Soviet Union sold the Republican forces weapons. Lots of people from other countries volunteered to fight against Franco (sometimes against the orders of their own countries), including people from the United States, Britain, France, Belgium, Germany, Italy, and many other countries. These groups were known as the International Brigades. The war ended April 1, 1939 when the last of the Republican troops gave up. Franco became the ruler of Spain until he died in 1975. 

On April 26, 1937 Guernica was bombed by Legion Condor, supported by Hitler's nazi regime. It was the first time that large civilian casualties resulted, the destruction received wide media coverage and created a public perception of German involvement which persists to this day. 



</doc>
<doc id="24975" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24975" title="Fyodor Tyutchev">
Fyodor Tyutchev

Fyodor Ivanovich Tyutchev (rus: "Фёдор Иванович Тютчев", fyô'dər ēvä'nəvĭch tyū'chĭf) (December 5 1803 – July 27, 1873) was one of the most significant Russian poets. Almost 20 years of his life he spent in Munich and Turin. Tyutchev was a good friend of Heinrich Heine, knew Schelling as well. Tyutchev didn’t want people to know him as a poet. He didn’t take any part in a literary life.
We know about 400 of his poems. Russian people quote them very often. His early poems are made in Russian poetic tradition of the XVIII century. In the 1830s we can find an influence of European (especially German) romanticism on Tyutchev’s lyrics. He writes philosophic poems about the universe, nature and human being. In 1840s Tyutchev wrote several articles about relations between Russia and Occidental civilization. In 1850s Tyutchev created several heartfelt poems, in which we can see love as a tragedy. These poems are combined into one cycle, named “Denisievsky”. “Denisievsky” means dedicated to a mistress of Tyutchev – Elena Alexandrovna Denisieva. In 1860s–1870s Tyutchev wrote mainly political poems.

The most famous Tyutchev's poem is “Silentium!”. This is a hard appeal to be silent. Because a man never can understand another person. A line “A word once uttered is untrue” is one of the most popular aphorisms of Tyutchev. As well as “We can’t understand Russia by the reason” and “We are not know, what will be the respond for our word”. 



</doc>
<doc id="24989" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24989" title="Erythropoietin">
Erythropoietin

Erythropoietin (pronunciation: , synonyms: EPO, Erythropoetin, and Epoetin--a synthetic version) is a hormone produced by the kidneys. It makes more red blood cells grow. It is used to treat anemia. Anemia can come from kidney failure or from chemotherapy to fix cancer. The man-made hormone is made with cell cultures. The hormone is also used for blood doping in endurance sports although this is illegal in all athletic competitions.


</doc>
<doc id="24993" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24993" title="Anarcho-punk">
Anarcho-punk

Anarcho-punk is a subculture that combines punk music and anarchist politics. Some important anarcho-punk bands include Crass, Conflict, Chumbawamba, and Subhumans. Common ideas that many anarcho-punks support are anti-war, animal rights, feminism, environmentalism, equality, anti-capitalism and other common anarchist causes.


</doc>
<doc id="24996" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24996" title="Hardware">
Hardware

Hardware is the artifacts of a technology.

It can be equipment such as fasteners, keys, locks, hinges, latches, handles, wire, chains, plumbing supplies, tools, utensils, cutlery, screws and machine parts, especially when they are made of metal. 

In slang, hardware can be military equipment, or electronic equipment, or computer equipment.


</doc>
<doc id="25000" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25000" title="Breton">
Breton

Breton can mean:


</doc>
<doc id="25001" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25001" title="Slavic peoples">
Slavic peoples

Slavs are the people who live in Eastern and central Europe. They include: Russians, Poles, Czechs, Serbs, Ukrainians, Belarusians, Bulgarians, Slovaks, Macedonians, Slovenes and Croatians. Hungarians, Romanians, Lithuanians and Latvians live near the Slavic nations, but are not Slavs themselves. There are more Slavic peoples than any other ethnic group in Europe. Russians make up the most Slavs, followed by Poles and Ukrainians. Russians, Belarusians, and Ukrainians are East Slavic. Poles, Czechs, and Slovaks are West Slavic. Croatians, Macedonians, Slovenes, Serbians, and Bulgarians are South Slavic. There are no North Slavs. There are many small historic slavic nations like Lusatia, Rusin, Kashubia and others. Russia is now the most powerful Slavic country, but in the 10th century the Czechs were more powerful, and in the 16th century Poland was the strongest nation in the area. The Slavic languages are closely related. In fact the Serbian, Bosnian, and Croatian languages are considered separate by the Bosnian and Croatian governments, but some linguists say they are one language called Serbo-Croatian. Slavic languages are spoken natively by 400 million people, and as second or third languages by many more people in countries as far apart as Germany and China.


</doc>
<doc id="25004" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25004" title="Maharbal">
Maharbal

Maharbal was Hannibal's cavalry-leader during the Second Punic War. Many times he was important in Carthage's successes over Rome. In his Italian campaign, Hannibal always was able to have more cavalry than Rome, and so relied on them and Maharbal to give himself a big advantage.

Maharbal is most famous for what he said to Hannibal after the Battle of Cannae. According to Livy, a Roman historian, the conversation went like this after Maharbal said he wanted to go with the army to Rome immediately:

"I commend your zeal", Hannibal said to Maharbal; "but I need time to weigh the plan that you propose." "Assuredly", Maharbal replied, "no one man has been blessed with all God's gifts. You know, Hannibal, how to gain a victory; you do not know how to use it." -Livy, The History of Rome 22.51

"In Simple English:"
"I like your enthusiasm", Hannibal said to Maharbal; "but I need time to think about what you want to do." Maharbal said back, "It is true that no one is perfect. You know how to win, Hannibal; you do not know what to do after."

Livy wrote this in Latin, so Maharbal's reply is often quoted in Latin, and is a famous phrase: "Vincere scis, Hannibal; victoria uti nescis."


</doc>
<doc id="25005" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25005" title="Hannibal">
Hannibal

Hannibal (247 BC – 183/182 BC) sometimes known as Hǎnnibal Barca) was a Carthaginian statesman and general. He was the biggest enemy of the Roman Republic. He is most famous for what he did in the Second Punic War. He marched an army from Iberia over the Pyrenees mountains and the Alps mountains into northern Italy and defeated the Romans in a series of battles. He kept an army in Italy for many years. A Roman invasion of North Africa made him return to Carthage. He lost and the Romans made him leave Carthage. He lived at the Seleucid court, and convinced the Emperor to fight Rome. When he lost a naval battle, Hannibal fled to the Bithynian court. When the Romans told him to give up, he killed himself.

Hannibal is listed as one of the greatest military commanders in history. Military historian Theodore Ayrault Dodge once called Hannibal the ""father of strategy"" because even his greatest enemy, Rome, copied his military ideas.
Hannibal, which means "mercy of Baal" , was the son of Hamilcar Barca. After Carthage lost the First Punic War, Hamilcar began to try to make Carthage have better luck. Hamilcar began to conquer the tribes of Spain. Carthage at the time was in a poor condition. Its navy could not carry his army to Iberia (Hispania). Hamilcar had to march towards the Pillars of Hercules and transport it across the strait. According to a story, Hannibal went to his father while he was making a sacrifice to the gods. Hannibal was quite young. He begged to go with his father. Hamilcar said yes and made Hannibal promise that he would never be a friend of Rome. Hannibal told his father 

In (221 BC), Hannibal became the leader of the army. He spent two years consolidating his holdings and finishing the conquest of Iberia south of the river Ebro. Rome feared the growing strength of Hannibal. They made an alliance with the city of Saguntum and claimed to be protecting the city. Saguntum was south of the river Ebro. Hannibal attacked the city because of this. It was captured after eight months. Rome wanted justice from Carthage. The Carthaginian government saw nothing wrong with Hannibal's actions. The war Hannibal wanted was declared at the end of the year. 

Hannibal's army was made up of as many as 75,000 foot soldiers and 9,000 horsemen. Hannibal left New Carthage in late spring of 218 BC. He fought his way north to the Pyrenees. He defeated the tribes through clever mountain tactics and stubborn fighting. After marching 290 miles and reaching the Ebro river, Hannibal chose the most trustworthy and loyal parts of his army of Libyan and Iberian mercenaries to keep going with him. He left 11,000 troops to keep watch over the newly conquered region. At the Pyrenees, he let go of another 11,000 Iberian troops. Hannibal entered Gaul with 50,000 foot soldiers and 9,000 horsemen. 

Hannibal needed to cross the Pyrenees, the Alps, and many important rivers. In the spring of 218 BC, he fought his way to the Pyrenees. He made peace deals with the Gaulish leaders and reached the Rhône River. Arriving at the Rhône in September, Hannibal's army numbered 38,000 infantry, 8,000 horsemen, and thirty-seven war elephants.

Hannibal got away from a Roman force sent to fight him in Gaul. He then went up the valley of one of the streams of the Rhône River. By autumn, he reached the foot of the Alps. His journey over the mountains is one of the most famous achievements of any military force. After this journey, Hannibal came down from the foothills into northern Italy. He had arrived with only half the forces he had started with and only a few elephants. Hannibal had lost as many as 20,000 men crossing over the mountains. 

Publius Cornelius Scipio commanded the Roman force sent to stop Hannibal. He did not expect Hannibal to cross the Alps. He expected to fight Hannibal in Spain. With a small army still in Gaul, Scipio tried to stop Hannibal. He moved his army to Italy by sea in time to meet Hannibal. Hannibal made the area behind him safer by defeating the tribe of the Taurini (modern Turin). The opposing forces fought at carthage. Here, Hannibal forced the Romans to get out of the plain of Lombardy. This victory did much to weaken Roman control over the Gauls. The Gauls decided to join the Carthaginians. Soon all of northern Italy was unofficially allied. Gallic and Ligurian troops soon raised his army back to 40,000 men. Hannibal’s army was ready to invade Italy. Scipio retreated across the River Trebia. He camped at the town of Placentia and waited for more troops. 

The senate had ordered Sempronius Longus to bring his army from Sicily to meet Scipio and face Hannibal. Hannibal was in position to head him off. Sempronius avoided Hannibal and joined Scipio near the Trebbia River near Placentia. At Trebia, Hannibal deafeated the Roman infantry by a surprise attack from an ambush in the flank.

Arriving in Etruria in the spring of 217 BC, Hannibal decided to lure the main Roman army led by Flaminius into battle. Hannibal found Flaminius camped at Arretium. Hannibal marched around his opponent’s left side and cut Flaminius off from Rome. Hannibal made Flaminius chase him. On the shore of Lake Trasimenus, Hannibal destroyed Flaminius's army in the waters or on the nearby slopes. He killed Flaminius as well. He had gotten rid of the only force that could stop him from getting to Rome. He realized that without siege engines he could not hope to take the capital. He decided to continue into central and southern Italy. He hoped this show of strength would create a revolt against the Roman government. After Lake Trasimene, Hannibal said, "“I have not come to fight Italians, but on behalf of the Italians against Rome.”"

Rome was put into an immense state of panic. They appointed a dictator named Quintus Fabius Maximus. He was an intelligent and prudent general.

Fabius adopted the Fabian strategy. He refused open battle with his enemy while placing several Roman armies in Hannibal’s vicinity to limit his movement. Fabius sent out small detachments against Hannibal’s foraging parties. Residents of small northern villages were told to post lookouts. They could gather their livestock and possessions and take refuge into fortified towns. This would wear down the invaders’ endurance. 

Hannibal decided to march through Samnium to Campania. He hoped that the devastation would draw Fabius into battle. Fabius refused to let himself be drawn into battle. His troops became irritated by his "“cowardly spirit”". The epithet "cunctator" means "delayer." His policies were not liked. Romans were used to facing their enemies in the field. The people wanted to see a quick end to the war. 

The rest of autumn continued with frequent skirmishes. After six months, Fabius would be removed from his position in accordance with the Roman law.

In the Spring of 216 B.C. Hannibal captured the large supply depot at Cannae in the Apulian plain. He had placed himself between the Romans and their source of supply. The Roman Senate resumed their Consular elections in 216. They chose Caius Terentius Varro and Lucius Aemilius Paullus as Consuls. The Romans raised a new army that was much larger than ever before. The total strength of the army which faced Hannibal was between 90,000 and 100,000 men.
The Roman army marched southward to Apulia. After a two days’ march, they found Hannibal at the Audifus River. The Consuls had to switch their command on a daily basis. The Consul Varro was a man of reckless and hubris nature. He was determined to defeat Hannibal. Hannibal drew him into a trap. The Roman army had no way to escape. Due to brilliant tactics, Hannibal surrounded and destroyed all but a small remainder of this force. It is estimated that 50,000-70,000 Romans were killed or captured at Cannae. Among the dead were eighty senators. The Roman Senate was comprised of no more than 300 men - this was 25%–30% of the governing body. This makes the Battle of Cannae one of the worst defeats in the history of Ancient Rome. It is also one of the bloodiest battles in all of human history in terms of the number of lives lost within a single day. After Cannae, the Romans refused to fight Hannibal in battles. They tried instead to defeat him by attrition. They relied on their advantages of supply and manpower. 

Because of this victory most of southern Italy joined Hannibal's cause. During that same year, the Greek cities in Sicily revolted against Roman control. The Macedonian king, Philip V supported Hannibal. This started the First Macedonian War against Rome. Hannibal made his new base in Capua, the second largest city of Italy.

Without the resources from his allies or reinforcements from Carthage, Hannibal could not do much more. Hannibal began losing ground. He continued defeating the Romans whenever he could bring them into battle but was never able to complete another decisive victory.

In 212 BC conspirators in Tarentum let Hannibal into the city. They then blew the alarm with some Roman trumpets. This let Hannibal's troops pick off the Romans as they stumbled into the streets. Hannibal told the Tarentines to mark every house where Tarentines lived. The houses not marked were looted. The citadel held out. This stopped Hannibal from using the harbor and Rome was slowly gaining ground over Hannibal. In the same year, he lost Campania.

In 211 BC the city of Capua fell. In summer of that year, the Romans destroyed the Carthaginian army in Sicily. Meanwhile, Hannibal had defeated Fulvius at Herdonea in Apulia, but lost Tarentum. With the loss of Tarentum in 209 BC and the Romans capturing of Samnium and Lucania, his hold on south Italy was almost lost. 

In 207 BC he retired into Bruttium. These events marked the end to Hannibal's success in Italy. In 203 BC, Hannibal was recalled to Carthage to lead the defence of his homeland against a Roman invasion.

Both Scipio and Hannibal met on the field of Zama. Hannibal had about 50,000 infantry and 4,000 cavalry. Scipio had 34,000 infantry and 8,700 cavalry. For years, Hannibal had won victories with his experienced army. He now faced the best of the Roman army, while he led a makeshift army. They did not do well against the Romans.
Hannibal was defeated. 20,000 men of Hannibal’s army were killed at Zama. The same number of men were taken as prisoners. The Romans lost as few as 500 dead and 4,000 wounded. With their best general defeated, the Carthaginians accepted defeat and surrendered to Rome.

Seven years after the victory of Zama, the Romans demanded Hannibal's surrender. Hannibal went into voluntary exile. He journeyed to Tyre, the mother-city of Carthage, and then to Ephesus and Syria.

In 190 BC he was placed in command of a Phoenician fleet but was defeated in a battle off the Eurymedon River. Hannibal went to Crete, but he soon returned to the Asia Minor. At Libya on the eastern shore of the Sea of Marmora, he was going to be turned over to the Romans. Rather than letting himself be taken, he drank poison. The precise year of his death is not certain. It is believed to be 183 BC. He died in the same year as Scipio Africanus.



</doc>
<doc id="25006" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25006" title="Category:1672">
Category:1672


</doc>
<doc id="25007" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25007" title="Category:167 births">
Category:167 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 167.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="25008" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25008" title="Category:167">
Category:167


</doc>
<doc id="25009" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25009" title="Category:1684">
Category:1684

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the year 1684.


</doc>
<doc id="25010" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25010" title="Category:1686">
Category:1686

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the year 1686.


</doc>
<doc id="25011" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25011" title="Category:1713">
Category:1713


</doc>
<doc id="25012" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25012" title="Category:1772 births">
Category:1772 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1772.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="25013" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25013" title="Category:1801 deaths">
Category:1801 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="25014" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25014" title="Category:1777">
Category:1777


</doc>
<doc id="25015" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25015" title="Category:1780">
Category:1780


</doc>
<doc id="25016" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25016" title="Category:1781">
Category:1781


</doc>
<doc id="25017" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25017" title="Category:1786">
Category:1786


</doc>
<doc id="25018" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25018" title="Category:1803">
Category:1803


</doc>
<doc id="25019" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25019" title="Category:1803 births">
Category:1803 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1803.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="25020" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25020" title="Hominoid">
Hominoid

Hominoids are a kind of primate. There are two groups of hominoids:

The main difference between monkeys and hominoids is that monkeys almost always have tails, but hominoids never do. 
There are also differences between their teeth and the way they move their arms. Nonhuman hominoids are commonly referred to as apes.


</doc>
<doc id="25021" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25021" title="Veganism">
Veganism

Veganism is a philosophy that says people should not use animals in any way.

Veganism is a lifestyle. Vegans choose not to eat food that comes from animals, including meat, eggs and dairy products (like milk, cheese, and yogurt). A vegan diet is sometimes called a strict vegetarian diet. Vegans also do not eat honey. Vegans try not to use any other animal products, such as leather, wool, feathers, bone, or pearl. They also try to avoid products that have been tested on animals. Vegans believe in animal rights, and may campaign for it.

Vegans do eat all kinds of fruits, vegetables, beans, grains, nuts, and seeds, and things made from them like vegan sweets, vegan cheese and vegan cakes.

Some people become vegan because they disagree with the bad treatment of animals in the modern animal farm industry. Other reasons to become vegan are for health, religious reasons, to protect the environment, or because of world hunger. Animals eat a lot and take up a lot of resources. By not producing meat, milk, or eggs, a lot of food, land and water is saved. For instance, it takes about 16 pounds of grain to make 1 pound of meat, so eating plants directly takes fewer resources.




</doc>
<doc id="25027" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25027" title="Necrophilia">
Necrophilia

Necrophilia is when someone is sexually attracted to dead bodies. Some necrophiliacs actually have sex with dead bodies. It is usually not considered a good act and is illegal in many places, "but not all".


</doc>
<doc id="25029" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25029" title="Category:1825">
Category:1825


</doc>
<doc id="25030" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25030" title="Category:1821 births">
Category:1821 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1821.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="25031" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25031" title="Category:1820 deaths">
Category:1820 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="25035" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25035" title="Strait of Magellan">
Strait of Magellan

The Strait of Magellan is a passage way from the Atlantic Ocean to the Pacific. It is just south of mainland South America and goes through Argentina and Chile. For a long time the two countries argued over which one of them owned the land around it. Chile now owns it.
The strait is named after Ferdinand Magellan. It is very foggy and stormy.


</doc>
<doc id="25042" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25042" title="Fenerbahçe S.K.">
Fenerbahçe S.K.

Fenerbahçe is a sports club in Istanbul, Turkey. It was officially founded in 1907.
Fenerbahce's home stadium is the Fenerbahce Sukru Saracoglu Stadium in Kadikoy Istanbul.
They have won the Spor Toto Super League 18 times and Ziraat Turkish Cup 4 times.



</doc>
<doc id="25046" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25046" title="Category:Alkali metals">
Category:Alkali metals

Alkali metals are metals in the first column of the periodic table. As a rule, they are highly reactive, soft, silvery, and light.


</doc>
<doc id="25053" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25053" title="Lake Tanganyika">
Lake Tanganyika

Lake Tanganyika is large lake in central Africa. The lake is divided between four countries – Burundi, Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), Tanzania and Zambia.


</doc>
<doc id="25108" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25108" title="Pinocchio (1940 movie)">
Pinocchio (1940 movie)

Pinocchio is the second animated Disney movie, made by Walt Disney and first released to movie theaters by RKO Radio Pictures on February 7, 1940. Based on the story "Pinocchio: Tale of a Puppet" by Carlo Collodi, it was made in response to the huge success of "Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs".

The movie tells the story of Pinocchio, a wooden puppet made by a man named Geppetto and brought to life by the Blue fairy, after Geppetto wishes he could have a son. She tells him he can become a real boy if he proves himself "brave, truthful, and unselfish." Pinocchio must try to be good so he can become a real boy, with the help of his friend, Jiminy Cricket. Thus begins the adventures of the puppet into a real boy, which involve many encounters with a series of unpleasant characters. 

The movie was adapted by Aurelius Battaglia, William Cottrell, Otto Englander, Erdman Penner, Joseph Sabo, Ted Sears, and Webb Smith from Collodi's book. The production was supervised by Ben Sharpsteen and Hamilton Luske, and the film's sequences were directed by Norman Ferguson, T. Hee, Wilfred Jackson, Jack Kinney, and Bill Roberts.

It features the song, "When You Wish Upon A Star", which has been used at the start of most Disney movies since 1985.

A man called Gepetto makes a wood puppet called Pinocchio. He wishes that Pinocchio was a real boy, and the Blue Fairy makes Gepetto's wish come true. But to become a real boy instead of a live puppet, Pinocchio has to prove that he's good. The Blue Fairy assigns a cricket named Jiminy Cricket to guide him and keep him out of trouble. This is a hard job, and Pinocchio does a lot of things wrong.

On his first day of school, two crooks, a fox named Honest John and his mute sidekick named Gideon, trick Pinocchio to join Stromboli's puppet show instead. Pinocchio is popular in the show, but Stromboli is cruel to him and locks him in a bird cage. The Blue Fairy asks Pinocchio how this happened, but Pinocchio lies, and his nose grows longer. With the help of the Blue Fairy and Jiminy, Pinocchio escapes from the cage.

The crooks trick Pinocchio again, and tell him to go to Pleasure Island. He meets Lampwick, a bad boy who convinces him to gamble, smoke, drink, vandalize and other bad things. The island is magical, and the boys who act like "jackasses" (donkeys) "turn into" donkeys. These donkeys are sold to work in the local salt mines.

Lampwick becomes a donkey, but Pinocchio only changes part way, with donkey ears and a donkey tail. He escapes from Pleasure Island and returns to Geppetto's house. But Geppetto is not there. He has gone to sea, to search for Pinocchio. 

Pinocchio and Jiminy go looking for Geppetto, but they are eaten by the huge whale Monstro. Monstro has also swallowed Geppetto. Pinocchio builds a fire to make Monstro sneeze, and this frees them all. But they are lost in the ocean and Geppetto is drowning. He tells Pinocchio to swim to shore and save himself, but Pinocchio grabs Geppetto and carries him to shore. Geppetto survives, but Pinocchio appears to be dead. 

Geppetto and Jiminy are sad and return home with Pinocchio's body. The Blue Fairy decides that Pinocchio has proved that he is good enough, and brings him back to life... and also turns him into a real boy. Everyone is happy and they celebrate. The movie ends with Jiminy Cricket getting a badge of soild gold and a chorus sings a reprise of the song "When You Wish Upon A Star".

The original plan for the movie was very different from what they made. Many characters and events from the original book were used in early versions. Producer Walt Disney was unhappy with this version and had them change a lot of the story and characters.

At first, Pinocchio was going to look like a real wooden puppet, with a long pointed nose, a pointed hat, and bare wood hands. He was going to act more grown-up and do bad things on purpose, instead of being tricked into doing bad things. But Walt Disney did not think that people would like this character, so they changed his appearance and the way he acted. They made him look more like a real boy, with a small nose, a child's hat, and regular hands with gloves. The only parts of him that still looked like a puppet were his arms and legs.

Jiminy Cricket (voiced by Cliff "Ukelele Ike" Edwards) became a more important character. He was not included in the first version of the story. When they added him, he looked more like a real cricket, but Walt wanted more people to like him, so Ward Kimball changed him into "a little man with no ears. That was the only thing about him that was like an insect."



With the re-release of "Snow White and then Seven Dwarfs" in 1944 came the tradition of re-releasing Disney films every seven to ten years. "Pinocchio" has been theatrically re-released in 1945, 1954, 1962, 1971, 1978, 1984, and 1992. The 1992 re-issue was digitally restored by cleaning and removing scratches from the original one scene at a time, getrting rid of blurry sound, and making the color lighter. The movie also received four video releases (and two DVD releases), being a big-seller in 1985 (this print was re-mastered and re-issued in 1986). Then the more complex digital restoration that was done for the 1992 re-issue was released on VHS, followed by the final VHS release (which was also the movie's first release on Disney DVD as well as the first in the Walt Disney Gold Classics Collection VHS/DVD line) in 1999. The second Disney DVD release (a 60th anniversary) premiered the following year in 2000. The third DVD release and first Blu-ray Disc release (the second Blu-ray in the Walt Disney Platinum Editions series) were released on March 10, 2009 (March 11, 2009 in Australia), and like the 2008 Sleeping Beauty release, the Blu-ray package featured two discs, and a bonus DVD of the film also included.



"Pinocchio" was not successful at the box office when first released, and Disney only earned $1.9 million against a $2.6 million budget. The movie made some success at the American box office, but was not able to profit, due to its poor performance in Europe. The timing of the move's release was a reason, with World War II cutting off European markets. Although the United States had not yet gotten into the war, people's interests may have not have meant much among Americans in seeing fantasy stories as they were in the days of "Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs". It also lacked the romance element that had proven popular in "Snow White".

Nevertheless, there were positive reactions to the movie as well. Archer Winsten, who had criticized "Snow White", said that "The faults (mistakes) that were in "Snow White" no longer exist. In writing of "Pinocchio", you are limited only by your own power of expressing enthusiasm". Also, despite the poor timing of the release, the movie did do well both critically and at the box office in the United States. Jiminy Cricket's song, "When You Wish Upon a Star," became a major success and still is today, and is the fanfare for The Walt Disney Company. "Pinocchio" also won the Academy Award for Best Song and the Academy Award for Best Scoring of a Musical Picture. In 1994, "Pinocchio" was added to the United States National Film Registry as being very important in culture, history, or aesthetic. In 2001 Terry Gilliam picked it as one of the ten best animated movies of all time and in 2005 Time.com named it one of the 100 best movies of the last 80 years. Many film historians consider this to be the movie that is the closest to technical perfection of all the Disney animated features.
Pinocchio earned $84,254,167 at the box office.

In June 2008, the American Film Institute revealed its "Ten top Ten"—the best ten films in ten "classic" American film genres. After polling over 1,500 people from the creative community, "Pinocchio" was acknowledged as the second best film in the animation genre, after "Snow White".

The songs in "Pinocchio" were composed by Leigh Harline, Ned Washington and Frank Churchill. Paul J. Smith composed the incidental music score.

On , this includes "When You Wish upon a Star" on the , "Give a Little Whistle" on the , and "I've Got No Strings" on the .
And on Disney's Greatest Hits, this also includes "When You Wish upon a Star" on another blue disc, "I've Got No Strings" on the green disc, and "Give a Little Whistle" on the red disc.



Disney on ice "starring" Pinocchio, toured nationally & internationally from 1987 - 1992. A Shorter version of the story is also presented in the current Disney on ice production "100 Years of Magic"





</doc>
<doc id="25109" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25109" title="Lubbock, Texas">
Lubbock, Texas

Lubbock is a city in the United States. More than 212,000 people live there.

It is the home of Texas Tech University.


</doc>
<doc id="25111" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25111" title="Pearl">
Pearl

Pearls are a kind of material made by mollusks, like oysters. Pearls are small and often white but sometimes in pale colors or even black. They are often round, but sometimes half-round, oval, or in different shapes. Pearls are often used for jewelry. The pearl is the birthstone for the month June.

A pearl forms when something like a grain of sand gets inside the bivalve shell right between the mantle and the shell. A mantle's job is to make the shell. This mantle reacts to the sand by making layers of shell material around it. Soon the object is completely inside layers of shiny shell. Over the years, these layers of shell continue to form the object, making it bigger and bigger. This was discovered by Enna O'Lien. They can be very tiny (as tiny as a peppercorn) or quite big (as big as a human's fist). The world's largest pearl, found in 1934 and called the Pearl of Lao-tze, is about the size of a basketball.

There are two kinds of pearls: salt water pearls and fresh water pearls. Salt water pearls come from oysters that live in the oceans. These pearls are usually perfectly round and white: the most expensive kind you can buy. Fresh water pearls found in mussels that live in rivers, lakes, or ponds are not so round, and they can have lots of different colors. 

There is also a "natural pearl" and a "cultured pearl." Natural pearls are made by oysters accidentally, and are very rare. Cultured pearls are made by tiny being purposely put into the oysters to begin making pearls. These pearls are harvested after a few years.


</doc>
<doc id="25112" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25112" title="Warner Bros.">
Warner Bros.

Warner Brothers (known officially as Warner Bros.) is a large entertainment group and movie studio. It is owned by Time Warner. Warner Bros. is known for Looney Tunes. They own the copyrights to the Harry Potter movie series. They also produced Friends.
Warner Bros are a very large company.


</doc>
<doc id="25113" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25113" title="Star Wars Episode VI: Return of the Jedi">
Star Wars Episode VI: Return of the Jedi

Star Wars Episode VI: Return of the Jedi is the final chapter in the "Star Wars" movie series. The movie was released in 1983 and is a mix from science fiction, action and drama.

The Empire constructs a new Death Star. Luke, Leia, and the droids rescue Han Solo from Jabba the Hutt, an evil slug-like gangster. Later, Luke learns that Leia is his sister and must confront his father (Darth Vader) and return him to the good side. The movie is also famous for introducing a group of little creatures called Ewoks who help fight the Empire's troopers.




</doc>
<doc id="25115" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25115" title="Quarter">
Quarter

A Quarter is a fourth or 25 percent of something. 

A quarter is also a type of money (used in places like the United States and Canada). Its amount is fourth of 1 dollar ($1) or 25 cents. In the United States, the quarter is used for vending machines, arcades, and a way to pay for expenses. The quarter is also collected by many as a hobby.


</doc>
<doc id="25122" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25122" title="Freedom of religion">
Freedom of religion

If a country has freedom of religion, people there can either belong to any religion they choose, or belong to no religion; leave any religious group as well as join any religious group; take any peaceful religious actions their faith requires; and join with other people for religious purposes.




</doc>
<doc id="25137" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25137" title="MDC (band)">
MDC (band)

MDC are an anarcho-punk and hardcore punk band that started in Austin, Texas in 1979. They helped make hardcore punk popular in Austin, but in 1982 they moved to San Francisco, California, where they continued to become popular in the hardcore punk community. In 1993 the band stopped playing music, but they began again in 2000 and still play music today. 

Their lyrics were very political. They did not like the police, war, capitalism or racism. They did like gay people (their singer, Dave Dictor, is gay) and thought that they should be treated fairly. 

The name MDC is an abbreviation and has meant many things. The band changes what it means a lot. It has meant "Millions of Dead Cops", "More Dead Cops", "Millions of Dead Children", "Multi Death Corporations", "Millions of Damn Christians", "Missile Destroyed Civilization" and "Magnus Dominus Corpus". 



</doc>
<doc id="25138" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25138" title="Category:Anarcho-punk">
Category:Anarcho-punk

This is a category of pages that have something to do with anarcho-punk.


</doc>
<doc id="25140" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25140" title="Optimus Prime">
Optimus Prime

Optimus Prime is a fictional character from a television series and toy line. He is the leader of the good Transformers, known as "Autobots". He was invented by Takara and Hasbro in the early 1980s. He got the lead role in the first two seasons of a popular cartoon series which was later taken over by an anime company. He turned into a red truck.



</doc>
<doc id="25142" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25142" title="Comic strip">
Comic strip

A comic strip is a series of panels with cartoon drawings in them that make a story. Sometimes comic strips are humourous, and sometimes they are serious. Famous examples of comic strips are:


There are comic strips in newspapers and on the web. Comic strips on the web are called webcomics. Penny Arcade and Xkcd are famous webcomics.


</doc>
<doc id="25145" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25145" title="Franz Ferdinand">
Franz Ferdinand

Franz Ferdinand could mean:



</doc>
<doc id="25147" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25147" title="First ScotRail">
First ScotRail

First ScotRail is the FirstGroup train operating company running domestic passenger trains within Scotland and the cross-border Caledonian Sleeper service to London.
The Scottish Government recently announced a change of name for the service to "ScotRail - Scotland's Railway".


</doc>
<doc id="25150" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25150" title="Waste container">
Waste container

A waste container (known more commonly in British English as a dustbin, rubbish-bin or simply bin, and American English as a trash can) is a container, usually made of plastic or metal, used to store refuse.

Rubbish (trash) is usually kept in these until it is emptied by collecters, who will take it to a landfill or incinerator.

Some bins are used specifically for recycling.


</doc>
<doc id="25151" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25151" title="Vijayanagara Empire">
Vijayanagara Empire

The Vijayanagara empire is an Indian empire. From 1336 and aftwerwards, it was located in the Deccan, in the peninsula and in southern India. It was founded by Harihara (Hakka) and his brother Bukka Raya. The empire is named after its capital city Vijayanagara, now Hampi in modern Karnataka, India. It began in 1336 and ended in 1660, though in its last century it began losing its power. Stories of the empire's creation and history are not certain, though tales of the empire's wealth and power were described by European travellers such as the Portuguese travelers Domingo Paes and Nuniz, and the Venetian traveler Niccolò Da Conti.

This list is based on the book by Robert Sewell (A Forgotten Empire).

Sangama Dynasty

Saluva Dynasty

Tuluva dynasty

Aravidu (dates are not known), includes these rulers. There is certainly more than one ruler under each name. 


 

simple:Vijayanagara Empire


</doc>
<doc id="25152" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25152" title="Delhi Sultanate">
Delhi Sultanate

The Delhi Sultanate (دلی سلطنت), or Sulthanath-e-Hind (سلطنتِ ہند) / Sulthanath-e-Dilli (سلطنتِ دلی) are the Afghan dynasties that were controlling India from 1210 to 1526. Many of these dynasties ruled from Delhi. This includes the Slave dynasty (1206-90), the Khilji dynasty (1290-1320), the Tughlaq dynasty (1320-1413), the Sayyid dynasty (1414-51), and the Lodi (1451-1526).






1526-1540: Mughal rule

of the History of South Asia series) has more information at Islamic Empires in India#Delhi Sultanate





</doc>
<doc id="25153" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25153" title="Hoysala Empire">
Hoysala Empire

The Hoysala Empire (Kannada: ಹೊಯ್ಸಳ) was an Indian empire. It controlled part of southern India from 1000 to 1346 A.D. Belur, Karnataka was the empire's capital. The Hoysala Empire is remembered today mostly because of its architecture. The hundreds of temples found across Karnataka are good examples of temples that were in the cities of Belur, Halebid and Somnathpura. The Hoysala kings were affected by Jainism and Hinduism. King Vishnuvardhana and the kings after him believed in Vaishnavism.

In the beginning, the Hoysalas were a small part of the Chalukyas of Kalyani. However, they began to grow until they made their own empire in Karnataka. The Hoysala period is known as one of the best times in the history of Karnataka, next only to the Vijayanagara Empire. Some famous Hoysala kings were Vishnuvardhana, Veera Ballala II and Veera Ballala III. Kannada was the main language of the Hoysala kings. The Hoysalas helped to increase Kannada and Sanskrit writing.




</doc>
<doc id="25156" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25156" title="Macedonian Empire">
Macedonian Empire

Macedon or Macedonia (from Greek "Makedonίa") was an ancient kingdom in northern ancient Greece. Near it was the kingdom of Epirus (which was west of it) and Thrace (which was east of it). A long time ago it was the most powerful kingdom in the Near East and present-day Pakistan after Alexander the Great conquered most of the world that was known in Europe. This was known as the Hellenistic period of Greek history. It was later conquered by the Roman Empire.






</doc>
<doc id="25160" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25160" title="Category:Fast food">
Category:Fast food

Articles about fast food


</doc>
<doc id="25161" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25161" title="Burger King">
Burger King

Burger King (often shorted as BK) () is a fast food restaurant that sells foods, such as hamburgers, French fries, and soft drinks. In Australia it is known as Hungry Jack's. It was created in 1954 in Miami, Florida, United States by James McLamore and David Edgerton. They have many restaurants world-wide.


</doc>
<doc id="25162" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25162" title="Lech Kaczyński">
Lech Kaczyński



</doc>
<doc id="25163" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25163" title="Argead dynasty">
Argead dynasty

Argead dynasty was a dynasty of Macedonia, a kingdom in northern Greece. It began in c. 700 BC and ended in c. 309 BC. People of the Agread family were supposedly part of Heracles' family. Famous kings included Philip II of Macedonia who joined the Greeks together and Alexander the Great who defeated the Persian Empire and created the Empire of Alexander. The Argead dynasty ended during the wars of the Diadochi when Alexander IV of Macedon and his mother Roxana were murdered.



</doc>
<doc id="25164" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25164" title="Antipatrid dynasty">
Antipatrid dynasty

The Antipatrid dynasty was a Macedonian dynasty. It was created by Cassander in 302 BC, who was the son of Antipater. However it was not a long dynasty. It ended in 294 BC when it was taken over by the Antigonid dynasty.




</doc>
<doc id="25165" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25165" title="Antigonid dynasty">
Antigonid dynasty

The Antigonid dynasty was a Macedonian dynasty. The kings were part of the family of Alexander the Great's general Antigonus I Monophthalmus ("the One-eyed"). The dynasty ended when the Roman Empire conquered the area after the Battle of Pydna in 168 BC. 



</doc>
<doc id="25167" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25167" title="Futurama">
Futurama

Futurama is an American animated television series. It was created by Matt Groening (creator of "The Simpsons") and David X. Cohen (also a writer for "The Simpsons"). It is in "New" New York City during the 31st century. The shows were first shown on Fox Network on March 28, 1999, until August 10, 2003. Old episodes are now seen on Adult Swim (a part of Cartoon Network) and Too Funny To Sleep (a part of TBS) in the United States, on Teletoon in Canada, on Channel 4 in the United Kingdom plus Sky One, Sky Two, Sky Three and TV6 in the UK and Republic of Ireland, on Fox8 and Network Ten in Australia, on Pro 7 in Germany and on Canal Fox in Latin America, including Colombia, Argentina, Mexico, etc. In 2008 Comedy Central began airing episodes. Also, 4 DVD movies were made. Comedy Central has aired these movies.

The series is about Philip J. Fry (Billy West), a lazy New York City pizza delivery boy, who froze himself by mistake on New Year's Eve, 1999. He wakes up one thousand years later on New Year's Eve, 2999, and finds himself in "New" New York City. Fry wants to get a new job, though in the end he is forced to be a delivery boy. Fry tries to escape from his job and afterwards goes to Planet Express, a small delivery company that goes around the galaxy owned by his distant nephew, where he becomes a delivery boy. The series then describes the adventures of Fry and the other workers as they go around the universe making deliveries.


The first episode begins in the year 3000, a time where there are many technological advancements, as well as a place where 21st century problems are treated as everyday situations. In a jab at segregation, for example, the series depicts the human prejudice against mutants as being so great that the latter have been forced to live underground in the sewers. The characters' home on Earth is the city of New New York, built over the ruins of present-day New York City, referred to as "Old New York".


</doc>
<doc id="25169" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25169" title="Radar">
Radar

Radar is a machine that uses radio waves to find other objects such as aircraft, ships, and rain. 

The basic parts of a radar are here:

The transmitter creates the radio waves.

The antenna directs the radio waves. 

The receiver measures the waves which are bounced back by the object that the radar is trying to find. 

By doing this, the radar can find what place the object is at. Radar is used in a lot of different ways, such as finding speeding cars, the amount of water in the air, traffic, etc. 

Radar was first used in 1904 by Christian Huelsmeyer. He was given a patent for radar (Reichspatent Nr. 165546). 

The word "RADAR" was created in 1942 as an acronym for Radio Detection and Ranging. This acronym replaced the British acronym "RDF" ("Radio Direction Finding"). The word is now thought by many people as a regular word, no longer as an acronym. 

According to the FAA (Federal Aviation Administration), there are
kinds of radar like below.


</doc>
<doc id="25170" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25170" title="GameSpot">
GameSpot

GameSpot is a website that was created in June of 1996 by Pete Deemer, Vince Broady and Jon Epstein.

In the beginning the website was mainly about PC games. Another similar site, videogamespot.com was created in December of the same year to talk about console video game systems. In 1997, videogamespot.com became videogames.com for a short time. Afterward in 1998, videogames.com and gamespot.com joined together to become a single site.

GameSpot makes video game and PC reviews, previews, downloads, news, and information. It is known as one of the biggest game websites on the Internet. ZDNet bought Gamespot later on. However ZDNet was later bought by CNET Networks, so now GameSpot belongs to CNET.

On October 3, 2005, GameSpot changed how the website looked, making it similar to what TV.com looks like. .



</doc>
<doc id="25171" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25171" title="TV.com">
TV.com

TV.com is a popular website owned by the CNET Games & Entertainment family of websites, which also includes GameSpot, GameFAQs and MP3.com. The website replaced the popular TV Tome website.

The website has information about television (mostly English-language television in the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia and Ireland). Other than episode guides, TV.com also has news, reviews, photos, trailers and TV listings.

People can also get accounts on TV.com like other CNET websites. Users get a user page and can keep track of television shows. They can also add things like episode details and cast members.



</doc>
<doc id="25172" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25172" title="1159">
1159




</doc>
<doc id="25174" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25174" title="Olive (color)">
Olive (color)

Olive is a kind of muddy green color. In actuality, it is really a shade of dark yellow (when gray is added to yellow, the various shades of the color olive are produced). Some dark shades of olive can also be made by mixing a darker color (like brown) with green. 

The color of old U.S. Army field uniforms is a shade of olive called olive drab (shown below) that was used because it was hard to see against trees and grass.

The most common place you will find the color olive is on an olive. It is the color of the outside olive. An olive's center is usually brown or sometimes orange or red. 

There is a mineral called olivine that is colored a pale olive color. 




</doc>
<doc id="25176" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25176" title="400s">
400s




</doc>
<doc id="25177" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25177" title="South Asia">
South Asia

South Asia (or Southern Asia) is the south area of Asia. There are 13 countries of this region. Around it is (from west to east) West Asia, Central Asia, Eastern Asia, and Southeastern Asia.

It includes these countries:

The United Nations also includes Iran and Afghanistan as part of South Asia.

The natural resource most used by the people is the rich land. Most of the people living there are farmers. They make lots of cashews, millets, peanuts, sesame seeds, and tea. Lots of natural gas are there, but these resources are usually underdeveloped. Many people there raise cattle and sheep. The cattle are raised for their milk or to carry things in Hindu areas.

The of South Asia can be divided into three basic kinds: tropical, dry, and temperate. The northeast is from tropical to subtropical (temperate). Moving west the moisture and elevation change, causing a steppe and a desert climate that is like the Middle East. There is also a part of steppe climate in the center of the lower peninsula. Two parts of the South Aisna climate especially affect the people. One is the "monsoons". These changing winds bring lots of the area's rain, so when they do not come early, the land becomes very dry. Hurricanes also happen every year and sometimes destroy many things. In the extreme north of India and Pakistan, the climate is affected by the mountains.


<noinclude>


</doc>
<doc id="25178" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25178" title="Thermodynamics">
Thermodynamics

Thermodynamics is a branch of physics that studies the movement of heat between different objects. Thermodynamics also studies the change in pressure and volume of objects. It is normally studied by using a branch of mathematics called statistics to look at the motion of particles. Thermodynamics also has two main branches called classical thermodynamics and statistical thermodynamics. An important idea in thermodynamics is that of systems. A system is an object or a group of objects.

In thermodynamics, there are four laws of thermodynamics that say that energy can be moved between two objects in the form of heat. 





In the past, thermodynamics was studied to make steam engines work better. Now, ideas from thermodynamics are used in everything from making engines to studying black holes.


</doc>
<doc id="25182" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25182" title="Brookhurst, Wyoming">
Brookhurst, Wyoming

Brookhurst is a census-designated place in Natrona County, Wyoming, USA. About 192 people live there.


</doc>
<doc id="25183" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25183" title="Bollywood">
Bollywood

Bollywood (, ) is a word which refers to the Hindi Language movie industry in India

It is often used to describe Indian Cinema as a whole, but that is not correct. Bollywood only refers to Hindi language films. The term "Bollywood" combines Bombay and Hollywood (where most American movies are made).

Bollywood makes many films each year. Many Bollywood films are called "Masala" films. In Hindi, "Masala" means spice. These movies usually have higher levels of sex, revenge, contrasts of rich and poor in them.

The films produced in Bollywood are usually in Hindi. Hindustani, the part common to both Hindi and Urdu is probably a more accurate description. Bollywood makes films in languages of Hindi, Urdu and English. Often, poetic Urdu words are used; see also Lollywood (Pakistan Cinema).

The number of dialogues and songs in English has increased, lately. There are films now where parts of the dialogue are in English. There is also a growing number of films which are in English. Some films are also made in more than one language. This is either done with subtitles, or by using several soundtracks.

In general, Bollywood films are like musicals. The audience expects to see catchy music. There are usually song-and-dance numbers woven into the script. Often, the success of a film depends on the quality of such musical numbers. Very often, the film music is released before the film. It helps make the audience bigger.

A good entertainer is generally referred to as "paisa vasool". This means "money's worth". Songs and dances, love triangles, comedy and dare-devil thrills are all mixed up. Such films are called "masala" films, after the Hindustani word for a spice mixture, "masala". Like "masalas", these films are a mixture of many things. Shah Rukh Khan is known as the King of Bollywood.

Bollywood films are often longer that those made in Hollywood. A normal Bollywood film is about 3 hours long. Bollywood films are films produced for the masses. Other Indian films are produced inside or outside of the Bollywood tradition. They sometimes try to set higher standards. They often lose out at the box office to films with more mass appeal.

Bollywood plots are usually melodramatic. They frequently use stock elements such as star-crossed lovers and angry parents, love triangles, family ties, sacrifice, politicians, kidnappers, scheming villains, Hookers with a heart of gold, long-lost relatives and siblings separated by fate, dramatic reversals of fortune, and convenient coincidences.

Bollywood conventions are changing, however. A large Indian diaspora in English speaking countries, and increased Western influence at home, have nudged Bollywood films closer to Hollywood models. Film kisses are no longer banned. Plots now tend to feature Westernised urbanites dating and dancing in discos rather than arranged marriages.

Film critic Lata Khubchandani writes,""..our earliest films...(had) liberal doses of sex and kissing scenes in them. Strangely, it was after Independence the censor board came into being and so did all the strictures.""
In 2001 five percent on Indian films were shown in Britain



</doc>
<doc id="25185" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25185" title="Dinah Washington">
Dinah Washington

Dinah Washington (born Ruth Lee Jones August 24, 1924-December 14,1963) was an American R&B and Jazz singer.



</doc>
<doc id="25186" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25186" title="Robin Ward">
Robin Ward

Robin Ward (born Jacqueline McDonnell in 1941) was an American singer. She had a hit with her song "Wonderful Summer" in 1963.


</doc>
<doc id="25187" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25187" title="Adrenal gland">
Adrenal gland

The adrenal gland is a part of most mammals' bodies, it is located near the kidneys. Its name tells about its position ("ad" - near, and "renes" - kidneys). It helps control the levels of stress. It is involved in the production of steroid hormones. Among these hormones are Cortisol and Adrenaline.


</doc>
<doc id="25188" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25188" title="Chiswick">
Chiswick

Chiswick is a district in West London. It is most famous as the home of the artist William Hogarth.


</doc>
<doc id="25189" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25189" title="The Golden Girls">
The Golden Girls

The Golden Girls is an American comedy television series. It ran from 1985 to 1992. It was about a group of older women who lived in the same house in Florida.

The women were:


</doc>
<doc id="25191" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25191" title="Bark">
Bark

Bark is the covering of the stems of woody plants, like trees. Bark protects the tree. Bark of different plants and trees can look very different, it can be rough or smooth and can have different colors.


</doc>
<doc id="25192" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25192" title="Tartar">
Tartar

Tartar could mean:


</doc>
<doc id="25195" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25195" title="Cowboy">
Cowboy

Cowboy is a broad term for people who work on ranches. The word cowboy comes from the Spanish word vaquero. They sometimes participate in rodeos. Movies about cowboys are often called western movies.


</doc>
<doc id="25196" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25196" title="Janet Reno">
Janet Reno

Janet Reno (June 21, 1938-) was the United States Attorney General from 1993 to 2001, under President Bill Clinton. She was the first woman to ever have this job.


</doc>
<doc id="25208" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25208" title="1493">
1493


</doc>
<doc id="25211" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25211" title="1285">
1285




</doc>
<doc id="25214" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25214" title="Alex Haley">
Alex Haley

Alexander Palmer Haley (August 11, 1921 – February 10, 1992) was an African-American writer. He was also Irish and Cherokee. He is best known for the "The Autobiography of Malcolm X", which he helped Malcolm X write, and his book "", which was about his family history and inspired a television mini-series.


</doc>
<doc id="25215" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25215" title="Harold Robbins">
Harold Robbins

Harold Robbins (born Harold Rubin) (May 21, 1916 – October 14, 1997) was an American author.


</doc>
<doc id="25219" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25219" title="Baptism">
Baptism

Baptism is a rite or ceremony performed by most Christian churches and denominations. It is done as a cleansing symbol; showing that the person being baptised has become a follower of Jesus. 

Roman Catholicism do it to infants to mark their becoming members of the church . It is a sacrament usually performed by a priest. In most other churches, it is when the person is old enough to decide that they are ready.

Some churches sprinkle water on the person. Other churches use immersion or dunking in the water.

In the Old Testament, a similar washing ceremony was done when priests were ordained. Jesus was baptized by John the Baptist before he began his ministry. The usual form of baptism among the earliest Christians was for the person to be immersed totally or partially. But sprinkling, or pouring, was also practiced at an early day with sick and dying persons when total or partial immersion was not practical.



</doc>
<doc id="25220" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25220" title="Nationalities of China">
Nationalities of China

There are many people in China, more than in any other country. They all have many different cultures, histories and beliefs. The Chinese government officially says there are 56 nationalities. They are called 族 "zú" or 民族 "mínzú" in China. These nationalities are (listed from biggest number of people to the smallest): 



</doc>
<doc id="25221" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25221" title="Shang Dynasty">
Shang Dynasty

The Shang Dynasty (existed from 1600BC - 1046BC) was the second dynasty in China following the Xia Dynasty. Most of what we know about the Shang Dynasty is from reading pictures on oracle bones and bronze objects. A dynasty is a series of rulers which are considered to be part of the same family because they are ruling a country(s) over generations.


</doc>
<doc id="25223" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25223" title="King Tang of Shang of China">
King Tang of Shang of China

King Tang of Shang of China, in Chinese:"湯", born Zi Lu, in Chinese:"子履" (1617 BC - 1588 BC) was the first king of the Shang dynasty in Chinese history. He fought Jie, the last king of the Xia dynasty.

He was the leader of his "tribe", or group of people, for more than 17 years. While leader, he made many smart men officials to help fix his government. 

When he saw that the Xia Dynasty was starting to be weak, Tang started 16 wars fighting the Xia Dynasty, getting many lands. Tang finally defeated the dynasty in 1600.
Many people of his country thought he was a good leader. He made taxes smaller and did not force his people to be soldiers for a long time. He affected many people from foreign places.


</doc>
<doc id="25232" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25232" title="Bu Bing">
Bu Bing

King Bu Bing of Shang of China', in Chinese:"卜丙", born Zi Sheng, in Chinese:"子勝". He was the third king of the Shang Dynasty (1600 BC - 1046 BC). He was the second son of King Tang. 

In Records of the Grand Historian, he was recorded as the second king of the Shang Dynasty. In that book he is given the name "Wai Bing", in Chinese:"外丙". But in the oracle script, he was recorded as the third king of the Shang Dynasty. In these records his name is "Bu Bing" ,in Chinese:"卜丙".


</doc>
<doc id="25233" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25233" title="New Year's Eve">
New Year's Eve

New Year's Eve is the holiday before New Year's Day, on December 31, the last day of the current year. 

Today, Western countries usually celebrate this day with a party which ends with a group countdown to midnight. Party hats, noisemakers, fire crackers and drinking champagne are fairly common during this holiday.

Many towns also have fireworks shows or other noisy ways to start the new year. Places like Berlin, Chicago, Edinburgh, Los Angeles, London, New York, Paris, Rio de Janeiro, Sydney, Toronto, and Tokyo are well known for their New Year's Eve celebrations.

New Year's Eve is also a work holiday in some countries, such as Australia, Argentina, Brazil, France, Mexico, the Philippines, and Venezuela.



</doc>
<doc id="25234" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25234" title="Chen Dynasty">
Chen Dynasty

Chen Dynasty 陳朝 (557-589) was the fourth and the last of the Southern dynasties in China. It was defeated by the Sui Dynasty. This dynasty was strong as one of the remaining ethnic han dynasties, science flourished, it was very rich though few records survive from this time. the chen dynasty's rulers had a tax system and ruling system similar to that of the kang qian era with only ethnic han, they were incredibly wealthy, with more wealth than according to legend 10 europes at the time. silver intake was enormous and the demand for chinese silk, spices, porcelain, artwork, and various other goods were insatiable what few remaining records say that as much as 30 million taels of silver were in the reserves, in the end, the chen dynasty gave rise to the sui after abdication by the last chen emperor


</doc>
<doc id="25235" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25235" title="Fighter aircraft">
Fighter aircraft

Fighter aircraft are small airplanes that are made to fight other airplanes. They are often fast, having aerodynamic shapes (shapes that make them move through air easily) and very powerful engines for their size. They also usually are maneuverable (turn well). Fighters can carry many different kinds of weapons, including missiles, machine guns, and bombs. While fighters may be used to attack vehicles, soldiers, or buildings on the ground, they are different from bombers because they are usually designed to attack other airplanes.



</doc>
<doc id="25236" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25236" title="Aircraft carrier">
Aircraft carrier

Aircraft carriers are warships that carry airplanes and other aircraft like helicopters. They are used by navies to allow aircraft to fight along with naval warships. Aircraft carriers are usually very large, carrying hundreds or thousands of sailors and tens or hundreds of aircraft.

The top of an aircraft carrier is called the flight deck and looks like a very small airport. Old aircraft carriers carried airplanes that could takeoff and land in the short distance of the flight deck without help. Similarly, small modern aircraft carriers only carry helicopters or specially designed airplanes that can take off and land straight up and down or in the short distance of the flight deck. The flight deck of a large, modern aircraft carrier has a landing area and a take-off area. The landing area is in the back and has a short runway. Airplanes stop by using a hook on the back of the airplane to grab wires stretched across the runway. In the front, the flight deck has a steam-powered catapult that connects to the front wheel of an airplane. The catapult throws the airplane off the deck, helping it take off quickly.

Because they are so big, modern aircraft carriers often have on-board nuclear power plants. Other aircraft carriers are powered by diesel engines.

Except for their airplanes, aircraft carriers usually have few weapons, so other warships escort them. Together, the aircraft carrier and these warships form a carrier group.


</doc>
<doc id="25238" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25238" title="Edward Kasner">
Edward Kasner

Edward Kasner (1878–1955) is an American mathematician (person who studies math). He is famous for creating the word googol and the word googolplex.

Kasner went to Columbia University and received his Ph.D. (a degree (measure) of learning) in 1899.

Around 1920, Kasner decided to make a good, catchy name for a very big number (one, followed by a hundred zeros). While he was walking with his nephews Milton (c. 1911–1980) and Edwin Sirotta in New Jersey's Palisades, Kasner asked them to think of good names. Milton was the one who said "googol". 

In 1940, with James Roy Newman, Kasner made a book about math called "Mathematics and the Imagination" ISBN 0486417034. It was in this book that the name "googol" was first used. 

In modern times, the website Google was based on Kasner's number googol.



</doc>
<doc id="25239" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25239" title="Bay of Bengal">
Bay of Bengal

The Bay of Bengal is a bay. It is in the northeastern part of the Indian Ocean. The bay is also east of the Malay Peninsula and west of India. It looks like a triangle. It is called the "Bay of Bengal", because to the north are the Indian state of West Bengal and the country of Bangladesh.


</doc>
<doc id="25240" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25240" title="Malay Peninsula">
Malay Peninsula

The Malay Peninsula (Malay: "Semenanjung Tanah Melayu") is a big peninsula in Southeast Asia. The place is divided into three political parts. This includes:



</doc>
<doc id="25247" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25247" title="Jubilee line">
Jubilee line

The Jubilee line is a line on the London Underground. It runs from Stanmore in north London to Stratford in east London. The colour of the Jubilee line on tube maps is grey.

The line opened on 1 May 1979, taking over one of the Bakerloo Line's two branches to relieve the main part of the line. To the Baker Street to Stanmore part a new four-kilometre part into central London was added, terminating at a new station at Charing Cross railway station.

The old Charing Cross station, on the Circle, District, Bakerloo and Northern lines, was renamed Embankment. The new Charing Cross tube station created a new interchange, from the stations of Strand on the Northern Line and Trafalgar Square on the Bakerloo.

The Jubilee Line of 1979 was to be the first part of the project, but because of the lack of money the line stayed the same until the late 1990s. Phase 2 would have extended the line along Fleet Street to stations at Aldwych, Ludgate Circus, Cannon Street, Fenchurch Street, St Katherine's Dock, Wapping and then under the River Thames to New Cross, terminating at Lewisham. An alternative plan was created in the late 1970s to extend the Jubilee Line in parallel with the River Thames, this would taken the Line from Wapping to Thamesmead Via Surrey Docks North, Canary Wharf, North Greenwich, Custom House, Silvertown, Woolwich Arsenal and to Thamesmead. However the 'river line' extension as it was called was too expensive and construction of the extension never started.

Changes in land use, particularly the new areas in the Docklands area, caused the project to change considerably in the 1990s. The Jubilee Line Extension, opened in three stages in 1999, split from the existing line at Green Park, creating a one-station branch to Charing Cross, which is now closed (although it is still sometimes opened for occasional use as a film set). With the extension, the Jubilee Line is the only line on the London Underground network that crosses all other lines.

When the Jubilee Line was opened, it was run with 1972 trains. In 1984 the 1972 trains were replaced by the new 1983 trains. The old 1972 Stock were used on the Northern Line. The 1983 trains proved to be unreliable in service, with their single doors making passenger loading and unloading slower than on other trains with wider doors. With the opening of the Jubilee Line Extension, the opportunity was taken to introduce new trains, and today the line is worked by 1996 trains.



</doc>
<doc id="25253" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25253" title="Medical emergency">
Medical emergency

A medical emergency is an injury or illness that poses an immediate threat to a person's long-term health or life. It needs to be treated immediately. Doctors that are trained in emergency medicine are taught how to react to medical emergencies, and how to resuscitate patients.

When there is a medical emergency, emergency medical services should be notified as soon as possible by calling for help using a local emergency telephone number, such as "911" in the United States or Canada, "112" in most of continental Europe and on GSM cell phones, "999" in the UK and most of its former colonies (112 works as well), "118" in Italy, "119" in South Korea and Japan, "000" in Australia, "101" in Israel and "111" in New Zealand. The people that answer emergency calls, emergency medical dispatchers, generally ask for the caller's name, where they are, and some information on the person that is being called about, e.g. whether or not they are conscious, how badly injured they are, their name if it is known, and if they have any other illnesses.

People that know first aid are expected to help as much as they can. Moving the victim to a safe place can sometimes do more harm than good, and should be left to people that know how to properly move injured people unless there is no alternative (for example, in wilderness first aid). Many states have laws that protect those helping.

If the victim is not breathing, or if a heartbeat cannot be felt, artificial respiration and cardiopulmonary resuscitation could be needed to keep a person's blood circulating long enough for medics to attempt revival. Emergency medical technicians, Outdoor Emergency Care technicians or paramedics can use airway management techniques to help a person who is not breathing.

While in a hospital environment, staff members that are on duty are trained to deal with emergency situations. Emergency medical physicians are trained to deal with many medical emergencies, and have up-to-date cardiopulmonary resuscitation and advanced cardiac life support certificates. In major incidents, most hospitals have protocols to have staff that are not at work at the hospital to go on duty as fast as they can.

Emergency departments follow basic advanced cardiac life support protocols, which include keeping a patient's blood pressure and blood saturation at acceptable levels. Possible exceptions include the clamping of arteries in severe haemorrhage.

Most emergencies are quite unspectacular. They will happen close to home and not to complete strangers.

Of all emergencies:


</doc>
<doc id="25254" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25254" title="Southeast Asia">
Southeast Asia

Southeast Asia or Southeastern Asia is the southeastern part of Asia. There are 12 countries of this region. All the countries in Southeast Asia are a part of ASEAN. These are the countries in Southeast Asia:





</doc>
<doc id="25266" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25266" title="Sprint">
Sprint

Sprints are short running races in athletics. They are events in which runners will not have to "pace themselves", but can run as fast as possible for the entire distance. These are often some of the more popular events in the Olympic Games. The most common distances are 60 meters, 100 meters, 200 meters and 400 meters.



</doc>
<doc id="25267" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25267" title="Boxer (dog)">
Boxer (dog)

Boxer is a dog breed. 

Boxers are good watch dogs. They are very strong and like to run in open spaces. They come in various colors like fawn, brindle, fawn-brindle mix, white, white-fawn mix, and brindle-white mix. Males are 23-27 inches at the withers (tops of the shoulders) and the females are 21 1/2- 25 1/2 inches at the withers. Boxers are one of the most popular breeds of dogs in the US and over-breeding is a concern.

Boxers are quite loyal dogs and unlike certain breeds, are not "one-person" dogs. They will become extremely loyal to a person, family or group of persons and family friends. They make friends by nature and are incredibly curious dogs who love to explore. They are especially well-suited to be with children and elderly persons, though they can knock people down playing. These dogs may be feared because of their fearsome stance that can look intimidating. They rarely bark needlessly.

They have a high energy level and require lots of exercise. They love to play and have fun. Owners note that they act "puppy-like" their entire lifetime. Their temperament is jovial and mean boxers are an extreme rarity. Boxers love to chase, run, play tag and get any form of attention whenever possible. Boxers are easy to train to do tricks, especially for rewards including attention, love and recognition. They are extremely clever dogs with a good memory. they love to ride in vehicles and are excellent "road trip" dogs. 

These dogs can range from medium size (45 lbs) to quite large (100+ lbs). They are prone to some neurotic behaviors and can become extremely anxious if left alone and void of human companionship. If they are left alone, "crate-training" is important. Dogs who are crate trained do not mind the practice and often feel secure in a den-like setting, while an open house may make the dog agoraphobic, causing them to destroy things. Boxers are easily trained and are bright dogs who want to please. While not aggressive, they will demonstrate some protective behaviors over their owners and families, especially children. Boxers do well with other dogs and pets such as cats, if they are properly acquainted and socialized. Because boxers are very bright dogs, they may challenge owner's mentally by being defiant or by being openly obstinate. This type of behavior requires love, patience and repetitive conditioning. 

Many veterinarians now refuse to crop (cut, bandage and splint to produce points) the boxer's ears and many owners prefer the "naturally-floppy ears" to avoid painful and possibly cruel cosmetic surgery. Many owners like the cute appearance. Most boxers have their tail cropped at birth. White boxers, which were drowned at birth for much of the breed's span, are now sold or allowed to be distributed as pets, though most are neutered or spayed to prevent breeding. 

Medical issues common to boxer's can include hereditary conditions such as hip displasia, certain forms of heart defects and certain forms of cancer. A reputable breeder vs. a "puppy-mill" boxer is recommended. All dogs should get all necessary and regular vaccinations, have regular veterinarian checkups and teeth cleanings, along with a good diet and plenty of exercise. The average lifespan of a healthy boxer is 9–11 years. Many people get a boxer and then may give it to a rescue or pound because they are not ready or willing to devote the time that boxers require for training and attention. A boxer will not be ignored and will go to great lengths to draw attention to itself, good or even bad. Jumping on people is a common complaint, so positive reinforcement training is a must. They are affable, lovable, clown-like, yet dedicated dogs who adore their owner(s).

For the proper home, with space, room, effort and love, a boxer is an ideal pet and irreplaceable friend, family member and companion.

The boxer was bred in Germany and was originally bred for bull-bating and dog fights, but when that was ruled out they were used as hunting dogs and farm dogs and just regular house pets. The Boxer breed was created from the brabanter and bullenbaiser. Though originally bred to be fighting and later used as a military sentry or police dog, boxer owners will confirm that this type of role is no longer suitable for boxers, as many decades of breeding had produced a dog that is too docile for this type of duty.


</doc>
<doc id="25270" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25270" title="American Graffiti">
American Graffiti

American Graffiti is a 1973 movie directed by George Lucas. This was Lucas' second movie and made him very well known. The events in the movie take place in 1962 in Modesto, California. It is about what happens to a group of teenagers one night while they are driving around town and listening to radio DJ Wolfman Jack.


</doc>
<doc id="25275" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25275" title="Lake Vostok">
Lake Vostok

Lake Vostok is the biggest of the seventy lakes in Antarctica that are under the ice. It is at 77° S 105° E and it is under Russia's Vostok Station. It is also 4000 meters (13,000 feet) under Antarctica's surface. 

The lake was found by Russian and British scientists. They used an object called a radar to find it. 

The lake consists of fresh water. The temperature of the water is about -3°C. The freezing point of water is at 0 C, but the water in the lake remains liquid because of the high pressure of the ice. 

There are two separate basins in the lake. These are separated by a ridge. It has been suggested that the ecosystems of the two basins are different. 

Lake Vostok is an oligotrophic extreme environment. It is supersaturated with oxygen. The levels of oxygen are fifty times higher than those typically found in ordinary freshwater lakes on Earth. 
The weight of the ice on top of lake Vostok is believed to add to the high concentration of oxygen. Oxygen from the ice gets dissolved into the water of the lake. Deposits of oxygen and other gases are trapped in the lake as well. The structure that traps them is called a clathrate. Gases trapped in clathrates are enclosed in ice, they look like packed snow. These structures form at the high-pressure depths of Lake Vostok; they would become unstable if brought to the surface.

No other natural environment on earth is as rich in oxygen. For this reason, if there are any forms of life in the lake, these would probably need to have adapted to the high levels of oxygen, to be able to survive there. Some adaptations might include high concentrations of protective enzymes.

The environment in the lake is very similar to that on Jupiter's moon Europa or Saturn's moon Enceladus. Finding life in the lake would therefore make it more probable that life has existed on one of these moons.



</doc>
<doc id="25277" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25277" title="Infrared">
Infrared

Infrared (IR) radiation is a type of electromagnetic radiation (a wave with electricity) . The wave is longer than light which humans can see and shorter than microwaves. The word "infrared" means "below red". It comes from the Latin word "infra" (meaning "below") and the English word "red". (Infrared light has a frequency "below" the frequency of red light.) Red light has the longest wavelength that human eyes can see. Infrared waves cannot be seen by the eye. The infrared wave is between 750 nm and 1 mm. People sense infrared as heat. Most remote controls use infrared to send the control signals.

Before Bluetooth was invented, some computers, personal digital assistants, and mobile phones were using the infrared technology to send files to other devices. Bluetooth replaced infrared in the early 2000's. Infrared is limited by the need to have both devices in a "line of sight" with each other.

Infrared lasers are used to provide the light for optical fiber communications systems. Infrared light with a wavelength around 1,330 nm (least dispersion) or 1,550 nm (best transmission) are the best choices for standard silica fibers.
Infrared vibrational spectroscopy (IR spectroscopy) can be used to identify molecules by listing their chemical bonds. An IR spectrometer is a machine that shines infrared light from a set range of frequencies on a sample. It measures which exact light frequencies are absorbed by the sample. 

Each chemical bond in a molecule vibrates at a frequency which is characteristic of that bond. A group of atoms in a molecule may have multiple modes of oscillation caused by the stretching and bending motions of the group as a whole. If an oscillation leads to a change in dipole in the molecule, then it will absorb a photon which has the same frequency. The vibrational frequencies of most molecules correspond to the frequencies of infrared light. Typically, the technique is used to study organic compounds using light radiation from 4000–400 cm, the mid-infrared. The spectrometer records all the frequencies of absorption in a sample. This can be used to gain information about the sample composition in terms of chemical groups present and also its purity (for example a wet sample will show a broad O-H absorption around 3200 cm).


</doc>
<doc id="25289" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25289" title="Municipalities of Republika Srpska">
Municipalities of Republika Srpska

In 1994, the "Law on Territorial Organization and Local Self-Government" was created. It made the Republika Srpska into 80 parts, called municipalities. However, because of the Dayton Peace Agreement in 1996, there are now 63 parts. 




</doc>
<doc id="25290" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25290" title="Regions of Republika Srpska">
Regions of Republika Srpska

The Republika Srpska has seven main parts (regions). They are:


Brčko District is place controlled by Bosnia and Herzegovina instead.



</doc>
<doc id="25291" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25291" title="Republika Srpska">
Republika Srpska

Republika Srpska (RS) (Serbian/Bosnian/Croatian: Република Српска [РС]/Republika Srpska) is one of the two political parts that make Bosnia and Herzegovina. The other part is the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina.


</doc>
<doc id="25292" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25292" title="Kenneth Branagh">
Kenneth Branagh

Kenneth Branagh (born December 10, 1960) is an Northern Ireland born British actor. He played Hamlet. He is famous for directing and starring in numerous Shakespeare adaptations. In past films, he has starred alongside popular actors such as Emma Thompson, Keanu Reeves, Michael Keaton, Maggie Smith, Alan Rickman, and countless others.


</doc>
<doc id="25295" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25295" title="Sculpture">
Sculpture

Sculpture is a type of art. It must be three-dimensional (meaning it must have height, width, and depth like a cube). There are many kinds of sculptures from different parts of the word, like China and India, or from different time periods, like the renaissance and modern times. The types of art in the pictures below are also sculptures:

For four hundred years sculpture did not exist in Turkey because of Islamist prohibitions. 

 


</doc>
<doc id="25296" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25296" title="Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor">
Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor

Charles V (24 February 1500–21 September 1558) was Holy Roman Emperor, King of Spain, Naples, and Sicily, and king of the Burgundian territories. He was called Carlos I in Spain, though he is also commonly called Carlos V. His nickname was "El Dorado" or "the golden one" because of his good and impressive rule. 

Philip the Handsome and Joanna the Mad of Castile were his parents. His grandparents on his mother's side were Ferdinand II of Aragon and Isabella I of Castile. Their marriage made Spain into one kingdom. His grandparents on his father's side were Emperor Maximilian I and Marie, Duchess of Burgundy.

"His Majesty" or "His Imperial Majesty" was first used when he was king. His Empire became large and was known as "in which the sun does not set". He was also known as "The Emperor of Universal Dominion."


</doc>
<doc id="25297" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25297" title="Renaissance">
Renaissance

The Renaissance is a period in the history of Europe beginning in about 1400, and following the Medieval period, also known as the Middle Ages. 

"Renaissance" is a French word meaning "rebirth". The reason that the period is called by this name is that, at that time, people started taking an interest in the learning of ancient times, in particular the learning of Ancient Greece and Rome. The Renaissance was seen as a "rebirth" of that learning. The Renaissance is often said to be the start of the "modern age". 

During the Renaissance, there were many famous artists, many writers and many philosophers. Many people studied mathematics and different sciences. A person who is clever at a great number of things is sometimes called a "Renaissance man". Leonardo da Vinci, who was a painter, a scientist, a musician and a philosopher, is the most famous "Renaissance Man".

The Renaissance started in Italy but soon spread across the whole of Europe. In Italy the time is divided into three periods:- 

Following the "Mannerist" period was the "Baroque" period which also spread across Europe from about 1600. Outside Italy, it can be hard to tell where the "Renaissance" period ends and "Baroque" begins. 

In the Middle Ages, there were very few books. The books that existed nearly all belonged to churches, or universities, or to very rich people. They were written by hand and often had beautiful hand-painted pictures. They were so expensive that most people could not own them. 

Even if an ordinary person went to the church and looked at a book there, they could not read them, because they were written in Latin, the language of the Ancient Romans that was used in the Catholic Church and only understood by priests and well-educated people. People were forbidden by law from copying the Bible into Italian, English, German, French or other "local" languages. 

In 1423 the first printed books were made in Europe. The way of printing quickly improved so that large books like the Bible could be made and sold cheaply.It took 300 calf skins or 100 pig skins to print the Bible.The printers then began to print everything that they thought was interesting:- Ancient Greek and Roman writings, poetry, plays, lives of the saints, mathematics textbooks, medical textbooks, Christian stories, naughty stories, books about animals and monsters, advice to princes as to how to rule their people and maps of the world. 

Suddenly, all this wonderful knowledge was available to thousands of people who never had it before. Before 1423, all this knowledge belonged to priests, monasteries and universities. Suddenly it belonged to everyone.
The time of Ancient Greece and Rome, when there were many philosophers, writers, painters, sculptors, architects and mathematicians was seen by people as a Golden Age, a time when things were beautiful, well-organised and well-run. This time had lasted from about 400 BC to about 400 AD.

In the year 1400, in the city of Rome, people could wander around looking up at the ruins of a city that had once been great. Inside the broken walls that had been smashed in 410 AD were the remains of huge temples, sports arenas, public baths, apartment blocks and palaces. Nearly all of them were ruined and could not be used. Nearly all of them were half-buried in dirt. A lot of them were pulled down to use as building stone. But they showed people what great things could be done. Among the ruins of this once-great city, the people of Rome lived in cottages. They still went to church in the huge churches (basilicas) built by the first Christian Emperor, Constantine the Great, in the 4th century. They still held market day in the Ancient Roman market place of "Campo dei Fiori" ("Field of Flowers").

One day in 1402, into the middle of Rome, came a young man called Filippo Brunelleschi and a teenage boy called Donatello. They were fascinated by everything that they saw. They measured ancient ruined buildings, they drew things and they dug around for weeks looking for bits of broken statues and painted pottery that they could stick together. They were probably the world's first archaeologists. By the time they went back home to Florence, they knew more about Ancient Roman architecture and sculpture than anyone had known for about a thousand years. Brunelleschi became a very famous architect and Donatello became a very famous sculptor. They both used the ideas that they had, when they were studying the remains of ancient Rome.

The city of Florence is really where the "Renaissance" began. In those days, Italy was not one single country. It was lots of little states, all governed in different ways and all fighting or making allies with each other all the time. 

Rome was politically powerful, because Rome had the Pope, the person in control of the Roman Catholic Church. Because of his very great importance as a spiritual leader, most people and most cities did not want to argue with the Pope, whichever Pope he might be. Because a new pope was elected when the old one died, everyone who was rich and powerful was always hoping it might be a member of their family. It was always a good idea to have several young men in the family trained as priests, just in case. It was also a good idea to be good friends with other rich families. One way to do this was to have lots of daughters and get them to marry rich powerful men from different cities. This was the way that politics worked. 

Other cities that were powerful were Venice with its great big navy, Milan which controlled trade with Northern Europe and was very rich, Genoa which controlled trade with France and Spain and was very rich, and Florence. 

The power of Florence was not founded on a strong army, on a strong fortress or a good position to control trade. It was founded on banking. The cleverness in business of one single family was very important in making Florence powerful and the centre of Renaissance learning. The family were called the Medici. 

Giovanni Bicci de' Medici, (1360-1429), was the first important member of the family. He invested his money very wisely and became rich. He and his son, Cosimo de' Medici, (1389-1464), began the Medici Banking Company, which did so well that they soon had branches of the bank in large cities all over Europe, including London and Paris. Giovanni Bicci and Cosimo were the richest men in Europe. 

Their wealth encouraged other families from Florence. Florence already had an industry, the cloth industry. Florentine merchants (traders) traded with Lombard traders from the north of Italy. They bought English wool and Chinese silk to be woven into the most magnificent cloth in Europe at the riverside factories of Florence. Florence was perfectly sited for making cloth. A lot of water is needed to make cloth. Other towns nearby are high on the tops of hills, but Florence is in a wide valley, with the broad Arno River flowing through it. There was a harbor on the coast near Pisa. The Pisans were not very friendly towards Florence, so Florence took them over. Then the rich traders of Florence could have their own ships and did not have to worry about the Lombard traders who brought their goods across Europe and over the mountains on the backs of donkeys. 

Cosimo de' Medici was a patriot and a patron. He was a "patriot" because he acted like a father to his city. He became part of the town council. They were a group of men called the "signorina" (the seniors or elders). Cosimo made laws that adjusted the taxes. Some of the rich people did not like this at all and left the city, making Cosimo more powerful. He took good care of industry, of trade and of farming, because Florence needed all these things. He particularly needed the loyalty of all the farms and villages, because a city in a valley is easy for an army to attack. Cosimo built public buildings and when he had a palace built for himself, he had long stone seats built along the walls for the poor and the elderly to sit on.

He was a patron because he supported the church, and lots of writers, artists, architects and students. He founded a "Platonic Academy" where students could study the works of Ancient Greek writers and talk about politics, religion and new ideas. The head of the Academy was a philosopher called Marsillio Ficino. Cosimo encouraged architects to design buildings in the style of Ancient Rome. He collected a huge library of books and gave them to the monastery of San Lorenzo to be used by students. When he wanted some quiet time, he went to friary, (which is like a monastery), Sant Marco's, where he encouraged one of the "brothers", Fra Angelico, to paint beautiful sacred pictures. 

After the death of Cosimo, his grandson Lorenzo de' Medici became even more famous. He was called Lorenzo il Magnifico (the Magnificent). It was during the time of Lorenzo that some of the most famous artists in world history were alive in Florence, and worked for the Medici:- Botticelli, Michelangelo and Leonardo da Vinci.











</doc>
<doc id="25307" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25307" title="Lava">
Lava

Lava is magma that flows onto the Earth's surface. Like magma, lava can be either thick or thin. Blocky lava is so thick and slow that it barely moves along the ground. Other types of lava, like "pahoehoe", "aa", and "pillow lava", are thinner and flow faster.

"Blocky lava" is cool, stiff lava that cannot travel far from where it was erupted. Blocky lava usually out from a volcano only after an explosion has let out lots of the gas pressure from the place where there is magma. Blocky lava makes piles of sharp chunks.

Pronounced "pah HOY HOY", "pahoehoe" gets its name from the Hawaiian word for "ropy" because its surface looks like of rope. Pahoehoe lava flows slowly, like wax dripping down from a candle, making a glassy surface with round wrinkles.

"Aa" is a Hawaiian word that is about a type of lava that has a sharp, surface. This stiff lava pours out quickly and makes a crust that breaks easily. The crust is torn into sharp pieces as the hot lava underneath still moves. Aa is named after the sound you would make ("Aaah!") if you were to walk across this type of lava in bare feet.

Pillow lava is made when lava erupts underwater. It makes round lumps that are the size and shape of pillows. Pillow lava has a round shape because the lava cools very quickly when it touches water.


</doc>
<doc id="25308" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25308" title="Greenwich Village">
Greenwich Village

Greenwich Village is an area on the western part of southern/downtown Manhattan. It is sometimes called "The Village". The Village is mainly residential.

Greenwich Village is bordered by Broadway to the east, Hudson River to the west, Houston Street to the south and 14th Street to the north.

Originally, Greenwich Village was a hamlet separate to New York City. It does not have a formal grid plan for its streets like much of Manhattan.

The village is located on what used to be marshland. In the 16th century, Native Americans called it "Sapokanikan" which means "tobacco field". In the 1630s, it was turned into pasture by the Dutch, who called it "Noortwyck". In 1664, when the English captured the Dutch settlement of New Amsterdam, and Greenwich Village developed as a hamlet.

In 1712, it officially became a village, and was named Grin'wich in the 1713 Common Council records. Following a yellow fever epidemic in 1822, many New York residents moved to the healthier air of Greenwich; where many stayed. In the 19th century, it was known as Washington Square.



</doc>
<doc id="25353" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25353" title="Yoshiki">
Yoshiki

Yoshiki is a Japanese musician. He is the founder of the Japanese band rock X Japan.


</doc>
<doc id="25359" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25359" title="Aragon">
Aragon

Aragon ("Aragón" in Spanish and Aragonese, "Aragó" in Catalan) is an autonomous community in the north of Spain. The capital of Aragon is Zaragoza (sometimes called Saragossa in English). The population is 1,217,514.

Three languages are spoken in Aragon:
All the people in Aragón speaks Spanish, but there are people that also speak Catalan or Aragonese.

There are three provinces in Aragon:


</doc>
<doc id="25360" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25360" title="Aragonese language">
Aragonese language

The Aragonese language is spoken in the north of Aragon. The Aragonese is similar to other near languages: Spanish language, Catalan and Occitan. Also there are a lot of words in Aragonese similar to Basque words. About 10,000 people speak Aragonese. Aragonese is a Romance language.


</doc>
<doc id="25362" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25362" title="1161">
1161



</doc>
<doc id="25363" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25363" title="1168">
1168


</doc>
<doc id="25364" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25364" title="1178">
1178


</doc>
<doc id="25365" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25365" title="251">
251





</doc>
<doc id="25366" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25366" title="1280">
1280



</doc>
<doc id="25368" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25368" title="675">
675





</doc>
<doc id="25369" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25369" title="1195">
1195





</doc>
<doc id="25370" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25370" title="543">
543



</doc>
<doc id="25371" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25371" title="1106">
1106


</doc>
<doc id="25372" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25372" title="525">
525


</doc>
<doc id="25373" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25373" title="1380">
1380



</doc>
<doc id="25374" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25374" title="303">
303



</doc>
<doc id="25375" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25375" title="687">
687




</doc>
<doc id="25376" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25376" title="1221">
1221



</doc>
<doc id="25377" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25377" title="1304">
1304


</doc>
<doc id="25379" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25379" title="1156">
1156



</doc>
<doc id="25380" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25380" title="1226">
1226



</doc>
<doc id="25381" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25381" title="1181">
1181




</doc>
<doc id="25382" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25382" title="1219">
1219


</doc>
<doc id="25383" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25383" title="1711">
1711


</doc>
<doc id="25384" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25384" title="1765">
1765


</doc>
<doc id="25385" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25385" title="1590">
1590


</doc>
<doc id="25386" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25386" title="1628">
1628


</doc>
<doc id="25387" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25387" title="1105">
1105


</doc>
<doc id="25388" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25388" title="1618">
1618



</doc>
<doc id="25389" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25389" title="1622">
1622


</doc>
<doc id="25390" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25390" title="Levi Eshkol">
Levi Eshkol

Levi Eshkol (born:Levi Shkolnik) (1895–1969) was the 3rd Prime Minister of Israel.


</doc>
<doc id="25391" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25391" title="1580">
1580


</doc>
<doc id="25392" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25392" title="Sidney Sheldon">
Sidney Sheldon

Sidney Sheldon (February 11, 1917 - January 30, 2007) was an American screenwriter and novelist. He wrote the screenplays for twenty-three motion pictures including "Easter Parade" and "Annie Get Your Gun". He also created four long-running television series. He is also included in the "Guinness Book of Records" as, "The Most Translated Author".

His novels include:



</doc>
<doc id="25393" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25393" title="Mackenzie Bowell">
Mackenzie Bowell

Sir Mackenzie Bowell, PC , KCMG (27 December 1823–10 December 1917) was the fifth Prime Minister of Canada from 21 December 1894 to 27 April 1896.

Bowell was born in Rickinghall, Suffolk, England to John Bowell and Elizabeth Marshall. In 1832 his family moved to Belleville, Ontario. He started work helping the printer at the town newspaper, "The Intelligencer". He became printer and editor with that newspaper, and later its owner. He was a Freemason and an Orangeman, becoming Grandmaster of the Orange Order of British North America, 1870 – 1878. In 1847 he married Harriet Moore (1829 – 1884). He had four sons and five daughters.

Bowell was elected to the House of Commons in 1867, as a Conservative, for North Hastings, Ontario. In 1878 he became Minister of Customs. In 1892 he became Minister of Militia and Defence. He was a skilled and hardworking administrator. He later became Minister of Trade and Commerce. He was elected to the Senate. His visit to Australia in 1893 led to the first meeting of British colonies and territories. It was held in Ottawa in 1894. He became Leader of the Government in the Senate on October 31 1893.

In December 1894 the Prime Minister Sir John Thompson died suddenly. Bowell was the most senior Cabinet minister and was appointed Prime Minister by the Governor General. Bowell was the second of two Canadian Prime Ministers to serve in the Senate rather than the House of Commons. (The first was John Abbott.)

As Prime Minister, Bowell faced the difficult Manitoba Schools Question. In 1890 Manitoba stopped giving money to Catholic schools. This was the opposite of an earlier law called in the Manitoba Act of 1870. Bowell other political leaders could not solve the problem. It had divided the country, the government, and even Bowell's own Cabinet. He could not make up his own mind on how to fix the problem. As a Senator he could not speak in the arguments in the House of Commons. Bowell supported a law that would have forced Manitoba to restore funding the Catholic schools. His Cabinet did not agree. Normal government activities stopped. His Cabinet decided he did not have the ability to be Prime Minister and he was forced to resign. Seven government ministers resigned and stopped new people from being appointed. Bowell called them "a nest of traitors". After ten days, the Governor General stepped in and the problem was solved. Six of the ministers went back to their jobs. Charles Tupper was the person who was seen as the real leader. Tupper had been Canadian High Commissioner to the United Kingdom. He had been asked to come back and taker over from Bowell. Bowell resigned at the end of the parliamentary session.

Bowell was the Conservative leader until 1906. He stayed in the Senate until his death. He died of pneumonia in Bellville, just before he turned 94. He was buried in the Belleville Cemetery. His funeral was attended by a full group of the Orange Order. 

Bowell's descendants live in Hertfordshire, England.




</doc>
<doc id="25397" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25397" title="Rugby World Cup">
Rugby World Cup

The Rugby World Cup is the most important competition in the sport of rugby union. The cup happens every four years. The first one was in 1987. The next one is being held in 2011, in New Zealand. The competition is one of the biggest sporting events in the world (along with the FIFA World Cup and the Olympics).

There are only 20 spots available in a Rugby World Cup, so teams must compete for them in a qualifying competition. Teams that reached the knockout stages of the previous tournament automatically qualify for the next tournament.

The current champions are South Africa.


</doc>
<doc id="25402" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25402" title="Ball bearing">
Ball bearing

A ball bearing is a small ball, usually metal, that is part of one type of bearing. It is used to lessen friction between moving parts of a machine.

<!-- which allows a connection to rotate 180 degrees. There are four common designs.


</doc>
<doc id="25410" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25410" title="1996 U.S. campaign finance scandal">
1996 U.S. campaign finance scandal

The 1996 United States campaign finance controversy was an alleged effort by the People's Republic of China to influence domestic United States politics during the 1996 federal elections. The Chinese government denied all accusations. Twenty-two people were eventually convicted of fraud or for funneling Asian funds into the United States elections, and others fled U.S. jurisdiction. 

In late 1996, the Justice Department opened a task force to investigate allegations of illegal donations to the Clinton/Gore re-election campaign and to Clinton's legal defense fund. Ultimately, Justice Department prosecutors secured the conviction of several fund-raisers for various offenses. John Huang served 500 hours of community service and paid a $10,000 fine. Johnny Chung served 3000 hours of community service. Charlie Trie served four months of in-home detention. Maria Hsia served 90 days of home detention and paid a $5,300 fine. Indonesian billionare James Riady was fined $8.6 million. Ernest Green served three months home detention. Michael Brown served 150 hours of community service and paid a $5000 fine. In all, the Justice Department task force secured criminal convictions against 22 people by 2001.


</doc>
<doc id="25411" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25411" title="1008">
1008


</doc>
<doc id="25412" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25412" title="1045">
1045




</doc>
<doc id="25415" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25415" title="Kick">
Kick

In hand-to-hand combat, in martial arts and sports, a kick is a blow with the foot, the knee or the leg. It is used in combat as an attack. Generally, the kicks are slower than the punches although stronger than the blows with hands.

The kicks are a fundamental part in many martial arts. The examples are: wushu, karate, kickboxing, tangsudo or taekwondo; whereas other arts do not use any kick, as it is in the case of judo or of boxing. Other martial arts can use kicks, although they limit them to attacks to the legs and to the lower parts of the body of the opponent.

There exists a great number of kicks, and a lot of them have typical names for each one. Frequently the same movement has different names in different martial arts. This is obvious especially when comparisons are done between western arts and oriental arts. 


(1) The front kicks and side kicks, in "penetrating" form, on the lower member are entitled between the professionals especially for certain titles, but not in all the lands.

(2) There exist numerous hybrid kicks, such as the "side-front" que the "side kick" with the hips rather frontal what allows an instant connection of the techniques of fist much useful in active defense

Category of the straight-legged kicks, called stick kick:

(*) Certain techniques can be spinning and jumping at the same time.



</doc>
<doc id="25423" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25423" title="1644">
1644


</doc>
<doc id="25424" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25424" title="1400">
1400

1400 (MCD) was a leap year that started on Thursday, in accordance with the Julian calendar. 

Europe has about 52 million inhabitants.


</doc>
<doc id="25444" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25444" title="Islam and clothing">
Islam and clothing

Islam says that women should dress in a very special way. This dress code applies to women and adolescent girls, but not to children. Usually, women who travel to Islamic countries should also wear such dress.








</doc>
<doc id="25454" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25454" title="Charles I of England">
Charles I of England

Charles I of England (19 November 1600 – 30 January 1649), was the King of England and Scotland, of the House of Stuart, crowned 27 March 1625. He was a son of James I of England. He was married to Henrietta Maria of France.

Charles was born at Fife in Scotland, before his father came to the throne of England. He had an elder brother, Henry, who was clever, handsome and popular, and who was next in line for the throne. Henry died suddenly in 1612, and his brother Charles was made Prince of Wales in his place, showing that he was now the heir to the throne. Charles was less suited to be king than Henry had been, because he was small and weak and not as clever. After his brother died, the person he was closest to was George Villiers, Duke of Buckingham, who was also his father's best friend. The Duke of Buckingham was very powerful and rich, but was not popular with common people. He took Charles to Spain in the hope of finding him a Spanish princess as a bride, but they had a lot of problems on the journey and could not persuade the Spanish king to give them his daughter as a wife for Charles. On the way home, they went to France, and there Charles met the French royal family. The youngest of the French princesses was called Henrietta Maria of France, and Charles later chose her to be his wife.

When Charles became king, he needed money for a war the Spain, but Parliament wouldn't give it to him. Therefore, he dissolved parliament and did not call it again for eleven years, from 1629 to 1640 This made him very unpopular with the people, who did not like the different taxes they had to pay directly to the king, since Parliament could not vote to give him any budget. Many also did not like the King's closest advisor, William Laud, Archbishop of Canterbury, who was trying to force everyone in England to use the same Anglican Prayer Book and stop the many other Protestant denominations that were becoming popular at that time.

When the king and the Archbishop then tried to force a Prayer Book on Scotland, which was even more Protestant (Calvinist), armed rebellion broke out there. Now that the king was at war, he needed more money than ever, so he had no choice but to call Parliament again in 1640. The members of Parliament, angry at the things that had been going on for 11 years, did not want to give him money to fight his war, instead, they spent the session complaining about what had been gong on in the country for the last 11 years. So after only three weeks, Charles dissolved Parliament again. For this reason, it was known as the Short Parliament.

Without enough money, Charles lost the war badly, and had to pay the Scots even more money that he did not have. This meant that once again he had to call a Parliament, much as he hated to do so. One of the first things they did was vote that the King had to call Parliament, and could not shut them down again. Charles had no choice but to agree. This Parliament is known as the Long Parliament, because it ended up lasting for twenty years, until 1660.

The Parliament and the King then began to quarrel about who was in control of the army. Each side ended up with their own army, and this led to the English Civil War that started in 1642. The army of Parliament got the upper hand in this war, and Charles, after a crushing defeat in 1646, went to the Scots for protection. But they decided to turn him over to Parliament in 1647. Charles escaped at one point and went to the governor of the Isle of Wight for protection, but this was also a bad move because he too was on the side of Parliament and only captured the king again. While he was being held in the castle, Charles made an agreement with the Scots who joined his side, and the fighting started again in 1648. Because he was still making trouble for them even while he was captured, Parliament voted to put the king on trial. This had never been done to a king of England before.

At the trial he was found guilty and was finally put to death by beheading in January 1649. Some of the members of Parliament who were opposed to killing king Charles were purged, and from this time on, what was left of the Long Parliament became known as the Rump Parliament. This Parliament took complete power in England, and there was no new king at all until 1660.


</doc>
<doc id="25455" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25455" title="Pepin the Short">
Pepin the Short

Pepin the Short or Pippin (714 – September 24, 768), often known as Pepin the Younger or Pepin III, was King of the Franks from 751 to 768.

Pepin was the son of Charles Martel and Chrotrud (690 - 720), and was born in Jupille, Belgium.

In 740 Pepin married Bertrada of Laon. She was the daughter of Caribert of Laon. They had two sons and a daughter who lived long enough to become adults:


Pepin died at Saint Denis and is buried in the basilica with his wife, Bertrada of Laon. His sons, Charlemagne and Carloman, were each King of half the Kingdom of the Franks after him.


</doc>
<doc id="25456" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25456" title="Category:Kings and Queens of Denmark">
Category:Kings and Queens of Denmark

Kings and Queens of Denmark.


</doc>
<doc id="25457" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25457" title="Sense and Sensibility">
Sense and Sensibility

Sense and Sensibility is a book by Jane Austen. It was first published in 1811.

The story is mainly about two sisters, the sensible Elinor and the romantic Marianne Dashwood and their lovers.

























</doc>
<doc id="25458" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25458" title="Pride and Prejudice">
Pride and Prejudice

Pride and Prejudice is a book by Jane Austen. It was published in 1813. It was made into a movie in 1940 and again in 2005.

The story starts with Mr. Bingley, a wealthy, handsome young gentleman, who comes to town and rents a place near the Bennet family. He comes, bringing clever, quiet Mr. Darcy and his pretty, sisters with him. Jane and Mr. Bingley begin to draw close to each other, even though Mrs. Bennet and the sisters of Mr. Bingley try to cut the attraction. Mr. Bingley is loved and admired by almost every woman in the town, but Mr. Darcy is soon disliked and rejected from everybody, because of his cold stony way of talking and his mean attitude. Elizabeth Bennet, the second daughter of Mrs. Bennet, seems to despise him even more after the incident where he refused to dance with her at the ball, and plans to crush his pride with her sharp wit.

Elizabeth Bennet then grows to admire an officer named Wickham, who seems to equally despise Mr. Darcy. He tells her a sad story about how Mr. Darcy was cruel to him, which assures and confirms Elizabeth's hatred toward Mr. Darcy. Meanwhile,Mr. Darcy feels that he is helplessly falling in love with Elizabeth.

Bingley slowly begins to declare his proposal to Jane Bennet, when he suddenly happens to leave to Netherfield. He was not planned to leave for long but his sisters take this an opportunity to split Bingley and Jane so they follow Bingley to London. Bingley's quick leave makes Jane sad and confused. Elizabeth determines that it is because of his sisters.

Before Mr. Bingley leaves, Mr. Collins, the man who was supposed to inherit all of Longbourn, appears. The rich and pompous Lady Catherine de Bourgh had employed him to the job of a clergy man. Collins wanted to find a good wife from the daughters of Mr. Bennet, and he tries to take Jane as his wife, but after receiving the information of the relationship between her and Mr. Bingley, quickly changes his tries to Elizabeth. He proposes, too, but Elizabeth coldly rejects him (even as he tries to convince himself that she is just too embarrassed to admit that she loves him), to her mother's fury and wrath, and to her father's calm agreement. Then Collins turns his attention to Elizabeth's friend, Charlotte Lucas, and she accepts it. They marry, and Charlotte invites Elizabeth over to her house for a short visit.

Elizabeth goes to Charlotte's house at spring, and it is quite close to Rose Park, Lady Catherine de Bourgh's land. Mr. Darcy's aunt was Lady Catherine de Bourgh, and he was staying there when Elizabeth was invited to there, and they met. Elizabeth finds out that Mr. Darcy was the one who put an end to Mr. Bingley and Jane's love, and later rejects Mr. Darcy's proposal, and replies all the prejudiced thoughts she had about his cruelness toward Wickham and Jane and Mr. Bingley's relationship.

Darcy writes an explanation to Elizabeth through a letter, and Elizabeth returns home soon after, thinking of Darcy's explanations and all her misunderstandings.

A few months later, Elizabeth visits Pemberly, Darcy's land, during her tour with her Aunt and Uncle. Mr. Darcy meets them there, and is very kind and benevolent to them during their visit there, which makes Elizabeth even more drawn to him, and also to his sister Georgiana. But their relationship is again shattered by a letter from Jane, containing sad news about Lydia and Wickham's elopement. Though it was thought as an elopement, they find out that Wickham did not want to marry Lydia, but only disgrace her. Elizabeth and her Uncle and Aunt hurriedly return home, and Elizabeth thinks that now Mr. Darcy will never speak to her again.

Later, Lydia and Wickham are found and marry because of the Uncle. Later, Lydia and Wickham visit Longbourn. In the middle of being coarse to Elizabeth, Lydia talks about Mr. Darcy. Surprised, Elizabeth sends an inquiry to her Aunt, and receives information that Mr. Darcy had paid for all the wedding expenses and had found the couple!

Soon after, Bingley and Darcy comes to the place, and Bingley and Darcy each propose to their lovers, even though Lady Catherine tries to stop Mr. Darcy and Elizabeth's relationship.




</doc>
<doc id="25459" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25459" title="Category:Books by Jane Austen">
Category:Books by Jane Austen

Books by the English author Jane Austen


</doc>
<doc id="25461" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25461" title="Category:Books by J.K. Rowling">
Category:Books by J.K. Rowling


</doc>
<doc id="25462" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25462" title="Category:Books by Michael Crichton">
Category:Books by Michael Crichton


</doc>
<doc id="25464" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25464" title="Category:Books by Charles Dickens">
Category:Books by Charles Dickens


</doc>
<doc id="25465" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25465" title="Category:Books by Leo Tolstoy">
Category:Books by Leo Tolstoy


</doc>
<doc id="25470" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25470" title="Emma (novel)">
Emma (novel)

Emma is a book by Jane Austen. It was first published in the year 1815. Jane Austen readers with the idea of a "heroine whom no one but myself will much like" when she began writing "Emma". It is a comedy about Emma Woodhouse, a rich young lady growing up in the fictional community of Hartfield, in 19th century England. The book is about the troubles Emma causes when she tries matchmaking.

Emma Woodhouse is a rich and beautiful young woman. The book starts by introducing her, and with her governess, Miss Taylor's wedding with Mr. Weston, a cheerful neighbor. Emma quickly becomes friends with Harriet Smith, a "natural daughter".










</doc>
<doc id="25471" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25471" title="Category:Books by Dan Brown">
Category:Books by Dan Brown


</doc>
<doc id="25476" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25476" title="Chris Martin">
Chris Martin

Chris Martin is an English singer for the band Coldplay. He was born in Devon, England on 2 March 1977. He is married to Gwyneth Paltrow and together they have two children, a daughter, Apple and a son, Moses. His band members are called Jonny Buckland (lead guitarist), Guy Berryman (bassist) and Will Champion (drummer).


</doc>
<doc id="25477" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25477" title="Joseph Fiennes">
Joseph Fiennes

Joseph Alberic Fiennes is an English actor. He was born on May 27 1970 in Salisbury, Wiltshire, England. His parents are Jennifer Lash and Mark Fiennes. Joseph is the youngest of six children. His brothers and sister are Ralph Fiennes, Sophie Fiennes, Martha Fiennes, Magnus Fiennes and his twin brother, Jacob Fiennes. He is very famous for acting in the movie "Shakespeare in Love".



</doc>
<doc id="25480" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25480" title="1179">
1179



</doc>
<doc id="25482" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25482" title="Wikibooks">
Wikibooks

Wikibooks (previously called Wikimedia Free Textbook Project and Wikimedia-Textbooks) is a collection of free books. It is one of many projects that are run by the Wikimedia Foundation. It is a wiki, which makes it possible for anyone to edit.

Some books are original, but others have started as text copied from other sources of free-content textbooks found on the Internet.

The GNU Free Documentation License covers all the content that is in Wikibooks.

In February 2010, the Simple English Wikibooks was closed and locked.

Wikijunior is a subproject of Wikibooks that has books for children. The project consists of both a magazine and a website, and is currently being developed in English, Danish, Finnish, French, German, Italian, Japanese and Spanish. It is funded by a grant from the Beck Foundation.

Pages in Wikijunior will have the Wikijunior: prefix in front of the page's name.



</doc>
<doc id="25489" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25489" title="Charles IX of France">
Charles IX of France

Charles IX of France (June 27, 1550 – May 30, 1574) was a King of France and a member of the house of Valois.

Charles was born in Saint-Germain-en-Laye, France, on June 27, 1550. His parents were Henry II of France and Catherine of Medici.

Charles was married to Elizabeth of Austria on November 26, 1570. They had one child, Mary Elizabeth of France (October 27, 1572 – April 9, 1578), who died young.

Charles died in Vincennes, France, on May 30, 1574. He is buried in the Saint Denis Basilica. The next King was Henry III of France.


</doc>
<doc id="25490" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25490" title="Henry III of France">
Henry III of France

Henry III of France (September 19, 1551 – August 2, 1589) was a King of France and a member of the House of Valois. He was also a King of Poland.

Henry was born in Fontainbleau, France, on September 19, 1494. His parents were Henry II of France and Catherine de Medici. He was Catherine de Medici's favourite son.

Henry was married to Louise of Lorraine on February 13, 1575. They had no children.

Henry died in Saint-Cloud, France, on August 2, 1589, after being stabbed by a knife. He is buried in the Saint Denis Basilica. Henry was the last King of the Valois Dynasty. The next King was Henry IV of France, who was a member of the Bourbon Dynasty.


</doc>
<doc id="25496" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25496" title="Category:Nazism">
Category:Nazism


</doc>
<doc id="25497" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25497" title="975">
975





</doc>
<doc id="25498" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25498" title="981">
981



</doc>
<doc id="25499" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25499" title="997">
997





</doc>
<doc id="25500" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25500" title="999">
999



</doc>
<doc id="25501" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25501" title="1015">
1015



</doc>
<doc id="25502" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25502" title="418">
418



</doc>
<doc id="25503" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25503" title="1660">
1660


</doc>
<doc id="25505" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25505" title="Constance of Arles">
Constance of Arles

Constance of Arles (973 - July 25, 1034) was the third wife of Robert II of France. They were married in 1003 after Robert had got a divorce from his second wife, Bertha. She was buried in the Saint Denis Basilica with Robert II of France.

They had several children:


</doc>
<doc id="25508" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25508" title="Matilda of Boulogne">
Matilda of Boulogne

Queen Matilda of Boulogne (1105 – May 3, 1152) was the wife of Stephen of England. She also became the Countess of Boulogne when her father died in 1125.

Matilda was born in Boulogne, France. She was the daughter of Eustace III of Boulogne and Mary of Scotland. Matilda's mother, Mary, was the daughter of Malcolm III of Scotland and Saint Margaret of Scotland.

Matilda married Stephen I of England in [1125)They were deeply in love until two of there children died Baldwin and Matilda.

Matilda died at Hedingham Castle, Essex, England. She was buried in Faversham Abbey.


</doc>
<doc id="25509" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25509" title="Marie of Boulogne">
Marie of Boulogne

Marie of Boulogne was the Countess of Boulogne from 1159 until 1170.

Marie was the daughter of Stephen of England and Matilda of Boulogne. She was placed in a convent when she was young so that she could become a nun. When her brother, William of Blois, died, she became the heir of the Count of Boulogne. She had to leave the convent and was married to Matthew of Alsace. Marie and Matthew ruled Boulogne together, but their marriage was not happy and they got a divorce in 1170. 

After Marie died, Matthew continued to be the Count of Boulogne until 1173. After this Marie and Matthew's daughter, Ida of Boulogne, became Countess of Boulogne. Marie and Matthew's other daughter, Maud of Boulogne, became the wife of Henry I of Brabant.


</doc>
<doc id="25510" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25510" title="Marie of France">
Marie of France

Marie of France was the eldest daughter of Louis VII of France and Eleanor of Aquitaine. In 1164 she was married to Henry I of Champagne. Their children included:


</doc>
<doc id="25511" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25511" title="Alix of France">
Alix of France

Alix of France was the youngest daughter of Louis VII of France and Eleanor of Aquitaine. She was married to Theobald V of Blois in 1164. Their children included:


</doc>
<doc id="25512" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25512" title="Margaret of Blois">
Margaret of Blois

Margaret of Blois was Countess of Blois from 1218 until 1230. She was the daughter of Theobald V of Blois and Alix of France. Her mother was the daughter of Louis VII of France and Eleanor of Aquitaine. 

Margaret was married to Otto I of Burgundy.


</doc>
<doc id="25515" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25515" title="Flemish Region">
Flemish Region

Flanders (Dutch: Vlaanderen) is a region in the north of Belgium. The other region is Wallonia. The official language is Dutch, sometimes called Flemish. Flanders has 5 provinces. About 7 million people live there. Its capital is Brussels.


</doc>
<doc id="25517" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25517" title="Template:User an-2">
Template:User an-2


</doc>
<doc id="25519" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25519" title="Feta cheese">
Feta cheese

Feta cheese (Greek: φέτα, feminine gender; pronounced ), or simply Feta is a kind of cheese. Usually it is made from the milk of sheep or goats. Feta cheese originally is from the Greek mainland, or from Lesbos in the Aegean Sea. 

Other cheese (which is usually not from Greece and is usually made from cow milk) must not be called "Feta" from 2007. The European Court said so in its decisions C-465/02 and C-466/02 (from October 25, 2005). 

What is now called "feta cheese" was known to Ancient Greeks. Homer must have known about it. There were several references to the cheese in the "Odyssey". According to the myth, the cyclops Polyphemos was the first cheese manufacturer. He carried the milk in animal-skin bags. He had collected the milk from his sheep. He was very surprised to see that days later the milk had become solid. Whe Polyphemus tried to eat it, it tasted well. He also found that as such a solid, it would go bad later than with milk. 

The name "Feta" has an Italian origin. It is derived from "fetta" (slice), and dates back to the 17th century. Very likely this referred to the method of cutting the cheese in slices to put it in barrels.



</doc>
<doc id="25521" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25521" title="Category:Wikimedia">
Category:Wikimedia

Wikimedia Foundation is the company that supports all Wikimedia websites. 


</doc>
<doc id="25525" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25525" title="Category:Drama movies">
Category:Drama movies


</doc>
<doc id="25526" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25526" title="Category:Cult movies">
Category:Cult movies


</doc>
<doc id="25527" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25527" title="Category:Comedy movies">
Category:Comedy movies


</doc>
<doc id="25528" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25528" title="Category:Romance movies">
Category:Romance movies


</doc>
<doc id="25529" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25529" title="Category:Adventure movies">
Category:Adventure movies


</doc>
<doc id="25530" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25530" title="Category:Biographical movies">
Category:Biographical movies


</doc>
<doc id="25531" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25531" title="Category:War movies">
Category:War movies


</doc>
<doc id="25532" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25532" title="Category:Lists of movies">
Category:Lists of movies


</doc>
<doc id="25533" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25533" title="Category:Family movies">
Category:Family movies


</doc>
<doc id="25534" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25534" title="Template:Block">
Template:Block


</doc>
<doc id="25535" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25535" title="Category:Crime movies">
Category:Crime movies


</doc>
<doc id="25536" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25536" title="Category:1978 movies">
Category:1978 movies


</doc>
<doc id="25537" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25537" title="Category:Romantic comedy movies">
Category:Romantic comedy movies


</doc>
<doc id="25538" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25538" title="Category:1969 movies">
Category:1969 movies


</doc>
<doc id="25539" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25539" title="Category:1959 movies">
Category:1959 movies


</doc>
<doc id="25540" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25540" title="Category:Ethics">
Category:Ethics


</doc>
<doc id="25541" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25541" title="Category:Olympic Games">
Category:Olympic Games

Articles related to the Olympic Games.


</doc>
<doc id="25542" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25542" title="Category:Seafood">
Category:Seafood


</doc>
<doc id="25543" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25543" title="Category:Voice actors">
Category:Voice actors


</doc>
<doc id="25545" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25545" title="Category:Musical movies">
Category:Musical movies


</doc>
<doc id="25546" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25546" title="Category:1964 movies">
Category:1964 movies


</doc>
<doc id="25547" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25547" title="Category:British movies">
Category:British movies


</doc>
<doc id="25549" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25549" title="Category:1986 deaths">
Category:1986 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="25550" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25550" title="Category:1983 deaths">
Category:1983 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="25551" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25551" title="Category:Nicaragua">
Category:Nicaragua


</doc>
<doc id="25552" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25552" title="Category:Viruses">
Category:Viruses


</doc>
<doc id="25554" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25554" title="Category:Living people">
Category:Living people


</doc>
<doc id="25556" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25556" title="Category:Radio">
Category:Radio


</doc>
<doc id="25557" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25557" title="Category:Communication">
Category:Communication


</doc>
<doc id="25558" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25558" title="Category:Kurdish politicians">
Category:Kurdish politicians


</doc>
<doc id="25559" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25559" title="Category:Presidents of Iceland">
Category:Presidents of Iceland


</doc>
<doc id="25561" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25561" title="Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band">
Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band

Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band is an album released by The Beatles. It was the 9th Beatles album to be released in the United Kingdom. It was released on 1 June 1967, and stayed at the top of the charts for twenty-seven weeks. It has lots of well-known songs such as McCartney's "When I'm Sixty-Four" and "A Day in the Life", which Lennon and McCartney worked on together. For a while before this album came out, The Beatles had been trying new things when they made records, but this album made a much bigger change in the way they sounded.

The album title was used later for a 1978 Universal Pictures movie. Peter Frampton and the Bee Gees played Sgt. Pepper's band, while Billy Preston was the Sergeant. George Burns played Mr. Kite (the mayor), Steve Martin (in his first film) played Maxwell Edison, and Aerosmith was the Future Villain Band.


</doc>
<doc id="25562" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25562" title="Category:Religious buildings">
Category:Religious buildings


</doc>
<doc id="25563" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25563" title="Category:Communism">
Category:Communism


</doc>
<doc id="25564" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25564" title="Category:Symptoms">
Category:Symptoms


</doc>
<doc id="25569" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25569" title="Category:Provinces of Spain">
Category:Provinces of Spain


</doc>
<doc id="25571" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25571" title="Category:Cities and towns in Russia">
Category:Cities and towns in Russia

Cities and towns in Russia


</doc>
<doc id="25572" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25572" title="Winter Palace">
Winter Palace

The Winter Palace in St. Petersburg, Russia, is one of the greatest and largest palaces. It was, from 1732 to 1917, the official residence of the Russian Tsars. It was built on the shores of the Neva River between 1754 and 1762. 

Tsar Nicholas I, in the 19th century, was responsible for the palace's present appearance and layout. He made many changes to the interior of the palace, and was responsible for its complete rebuilding after the fire of 1837.

On 30 October 1917, the palace was declared to be part of the Hermitage Museum. Today, the palace, as part one of the world's most famous museums, attracts an annual 3.5 million visitors.


</doc>
<doc id="25573" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25573" title="Category:History of India">
Category:History of India

History of the modern Republic of India


</doc>
<doc id="25574" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25574" title="Standing's day gecko">
Standing's day gecko

The Standing's day gecko (Phelsuma standingi Methuen & Hewitt, 1913) is a type of gecko. It is diurnal, which means that it sleeps during the night and is awake during the day. It lives in southwest Madagascar and usually is found on trees. Standing's day gecko eats insects and nectar (a type of drink created by flowers).


</doc>
<doc id="25575" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25575" title="Charles VI, Holy Roman Emperor">
Charles VI, Holy Roman Emperor

Charles VI, Holy Roman Emperor (October 1, 1685 – October 20, 1740). His daughter, Maria Theresa of Austria, inherited the Austrian Habsburg Empire.


</doc>
<doc id="25577" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25577" title="Pierre Trudeau">
Pierre Trudeau

Joseph Philippe Pierre Yves Elliott Trudeau,PC, CC, CH, QC, MSRC, (born October 18, 1919 in Montreal, Canada – 2000) was the 15th Canadian Prime Minister during the 1970s (1968 - 1979), and then again from 1980 - 1984. He is thought by many Canadian citizens today as having been the greatest Canadian Prime Minister ever.

He had many challenges during the 1970s, including the October Crisis, when he held the country together by defeating the referendum on Quebec sovereignty (the province of Quebec wanted to leave Canada and become its own country), and keeping Quebec a member of the Canadian state. Another popular event associated with Pierre Trudeau is Trudeaumania, which referred to how much he was liked by the Canadian people. As a relatively young man, he was very close to the youth of the time, as well as funny, and he appealed to everyone by being so understanding and just like a normal person. This kind of Prime Minister had never been seen before, and it made people feel like he was a good, friendly person.

Trudeau retired from being the Prime Minister in 1984, after which he did not speak to the public very much. He died in 2000. After he died, his son, Justin Trudeau, spoke at his funeral, which was shown all over the country. He said "je t'aime" (French for "I love you") and cried on his father's coffin. After this moving eulogy (a speech at a funeral about the dead person), many Canadian people thought Justin would have a future in politics; Justin is a member of the Canadian parliament, and he represents the people of the Papineau constituency (another word for area), which is in the Canadian province of Quebec. 


</doc>
<doc id="25578" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25578" title="Jennifer Lopez">
Jennifer Lopez

Jennifer Lynn López (also known as J. Lo) is a Grammy-nominated American singer, actor, dancer, and fashion designer. She was born 24 July, 1969. She's most known for her performances in "Selena", "Out Of Sight" (co-starring George Clooney)," The Cell", and "An Unfinished Life", with Robert Redford and Morgan Freeman.

Her first album "On The 6" was released in 1999. It contains the hit singles "If You Had My Love", "No Me Ames", "Waiting For Tonight", and "Feelin' So Good and Let's Get Loud". She released "J.Lo" in 2001, her most successful album to date. "J to Tha Lo! The Remixes" and "This is me...Then" were released in 2002. Her latest album is "Brave" which was out in 2008. Lopez has sold more than 40 millions copies of her albums so far. 

She has many records, including record for having a movie and album ("The Wedding Planner", and "J.Lo") both #1 on the same week. Also, she is recently known for having the biggest re-entry on the Billboard charts, for the single "Control Myself" (2006) by LL Cool J and where she's featuring. After a peak at #89 and going out of the charts, it made a high re-entry again, at #4, some weeks after.

Lopez has had problems with People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) and other animal activist groups because she often uses fur in the clothing she designs and the clothing she wears.

From 1997 until 1998 Lopez was married to Ojani Noa.

Since 2001 until 2003 she was married to Cris Judd.

Since June 5, 2004 she has been married to Marc Anthony. They has two children, twins, son Maximillian David Muñiz and daughter Emme Maribel Muñiz (born on February 22, 2008). The couple separated in July 2011.




</doc>
<doc id="25583" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25583" title="Anne of Brittany">
Anne of Brittany

Anne of Brittany (January 25, 1477 - January 9, 1514) was a Duchess of Brittany.

Anne was the daughter of Francis II of Brittany and Margaret of Foix. She was born in Nantes (then in Brittany, now officially outside that Région) on January 25, 1477.

Anne was married to Charles VIII of France on December 6, 1491. They had four children, but all of them died young.

After Charles died, Anne married Louis XII of France on January 8, 1499. They had two daughters:

Anne died in the Chateau of Blois on January 9, 1514.


</doc>
<doc id="25591" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25591" title="Category:Dukes and Duchesses of France">
Category:Dukes and Duchesses of France


</doc>
<doc id="25592" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25592" title="Category:Dukes and Duchesses of Aquitaine">
Category:Dukes and Duchesses of Aquitaine


</doc>
<doc id="25593" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25593" title="Category:Dukes and Duchesses of Brittany">
Category:Dukes and Duchesses of Brittany


</doc>
<doc id="25599" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25599" title="Category:Pharaohs">
Category:Pharaohs

Pharaohs


</doc>
<doc id="25603" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25603" title="Ritual">
Ritual

A ritual (or a rite) is a set of actions people do. In a ritual, the actions are important because every action stands for a particular thing. Rituals are always done the same way. Very often, rituals have a religious significance and are prescribed by a religion or traditions of a community.

Rituals can mark a passage or a change. For example, some rituals show that a boy has become a man.

A ritual can also be linked to obsessive compulsive disorder, when a person believes that performing the ritual again and again is necessary.


</doc>
<doc id="25604" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25604" title="Category:Holy Roman Emperors">
Category:Holy Roman Emperors

Holy Roman Emperors.


</doc>
<doc id="25605" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25605" title="Maria Theresa of Austria">
Maria Theresa of Austria

Maria Theresa of Austria (May 13, 1717 – November 29, 1780) was the only female head of the Habsburg Dynasty. She was the Holy Roman Empress, queen of Hungary and Bohemia, and archduchess of Austria. During her rule she changed the royal palace outside Vienna (the Austrian capital) to look much like Versailles. Vienna itself became an important center for the arts, especially music. Maria Theresa added support to her absolute power by tightening her hold on the government. She also improved conditions for the peasants.

Maria Theresa was born in Vienna, Austria, on May 13, 1717. Her parents were Charles VI, Holy Roman Emperor and Elisabeth Christine of Brunswick-Wolfenbüttel. 

Maria Theresa was married to Duke Francis Stephan I of Lorraine for love. They had sixteen children who are named here:

Maria Theresa died in Vienna, Austria, on November 29, 1780.
She was the Archduchess of Austria and queen of Bohemia and Hungary. Oldest daughter of Charles VI.


</doc>
<doc id="25606" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25606" title="Category:Habsburg Dynasty">
Category:Habsburg Dynasty


</doc>
<doc id="25607" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25607" title="Marie Antoinette">
Marie Antoinette

Maria Antonia Josepha Johanna () (2 November 1755 – 16 October 1793), widely known as Marie Antoinette, was an Archduchess of Austria and the queen of France and Navarre. She became the queen consort of Louis XVI of France in 1770. Her marriage was at first an unhappy one, and it was not properly consummated for several years. This made her very unpopular. She was not actively interested in politics. Her lack of power, habits of spending money, and the bad idea the French people had of her helped begin the popular French Revolution, in which she was executed.

On the morning of 2 November 1755 Maria Teresa, Queen of Hungary and Empress of the Holy Roman Empire, gave birth to Marie Antoinette, her fifteenth child and last daughter. The Empress quickly became well again after giving birth, and was reported to have looked happy and healthy. Marie Antoinette was taken care of by Constance Weber, a wet-nurse. When Marie Antoinette was a child, she often gave gifts to Constance Weber and her son, Joseph. According to Joseph, Marie Antoinette once said to Constance, "Good Weber, have a care for your son."

Joseph Weber added that the Archdukes and Archduchesses were allowed to make friends with "ordinary" (common) children. Except on formal celebrations, people who did not have a very high birth or title were still liked and allowed into the court. Marie Antoinette was known as "Antoine" when she was young. The Austrian court young Madame Antoine grew up in was already beginning to become much less formal. Antoine was taught by Countess Brandeis, who loved Marie Antoinette and treated her very kindly. Antoine's first recorded letter, written when she was 11 or 12, was to "dearest Brandeis" from "your faithful pupil (student) who loves you dearly, Antoine". However, though the countess taught Antoine about morality and religion, she did not educate her on many other subjects, and Antoine did not like to concentrate. Later, one of her friends said that when she talked, her words were not connected, "like a grasshopper". In fact, when Antoine was 12 she could not write or even speak French and German properly, though she spoke Italian well. She greatly loved music, though. In 1759, shortly before she became four years old, Antoine sang a French song at a party for her father, while her brothers and sisters sang Italian songs. She listened to Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart playing "marvellously" once, too. She was also famous for her beautiful dancing and the graceful way she carried her head. She had been officially taught by the famous French ballet master Jean-Georges Noverre. Sadly, she was much less skilled at reading.

Still, she loved her childhood home in Vienna and later missed it very much. She once said about her mother, "I love the Empress but I'm frightened (afraid) of her, even at a distance; when I'm writing to her, I never feel completely at ease (comfortable)." She disliked her sister, the Archduchess Marie "Mimi" Christine, who her mother seemed to love most. But her relationship with her sister Maria "Charlotte" Carolina was quite different: they loved each other warmly. They were very close, and a painter later said that they "resembled (looked like) each other greatly". Charlotte was more forceful, and Antoine was usually thought to be prettier.

At the beginning of 1767 the Empress had five daughters with her. Marie Christine was already married to Prince Albert of Saxony. Elizabeth, who was very pretty, was 23, Amalia almost 21, Josepha was 16, Charlotte was 14, and Antoine was now 12. The Empress wanted Josepha, who was gentle and pretty, to marry Charles III of Spain. But then bad things started to happen. Her son Joseph's second wife died because of smallpox and was buried. After that Maria Teresa caught the smallpox and almost died.

Then Maria Teresa took her daughter Josepha, who was about to begin her bridal journey to Naples, to go to the tomb of Joseph's wife to pray. But the tomb had not been closed tightly enough. Probably because of this, Josepha suddenly caught smallpox and died. Elizabeth also caught the disease. She lived, but her beauty was gone. Antonia, who had caught smallpox when she was two years old and become healthy again, did not catch the disease.

But a bride was still needed for King Ferdinand of Naples. Maria Teresa quickly wrote a letter explaining what had happened to Charles III of Spain a month after Josepha died. "I grant of my daughters to make good the loss," she wrote. "I do currently (right now) have two who could fit, one is the Archduchess Amalia who is said to have a pretty face and whose health should other is the Archduchess Charlotte who is also very healthy and a year and seven months younger than the King of Naples." Soon, the King of Naples married Charlotte and Amalia was married to Louis XV's grandson, Don Ferdinand of Parma. Amalia was not happy with her mother's decision.

The only daughter left was now Marie Antoinette. Empress Maria Theresa decided to use Antonia to make Austria become friendly with France. After long discussions, Antonia was engaged to Louis-Auguste, Dauphin of France. The duc de Choiseul from France and the Prince of Starhemberg from Austria helped arrange the wedding.

They immediately began preparing Marie Antoinette for her marriage. Her teeth were crooked, but a French dentist came to fix it. After a painful three months, Marie Antoinette had a smile that was "very beautiful and straight". Her thick "mountain of curls" were dressed by Larsenneur, a famous hairdresser who powdered and softened her hair. Marie Antoinette also had a high forehead which was thought unfashionable at that time, though she had a long, graceful neck.

Her education was also changed. In November 1768, the Abbe Jacques-Mathieu de Vermond went to Vienna to teach Antonia. She was clever, but without the knowledge a future queen should have. She was also lazy and unable to concentrate. She could not read or write properly in French or German, but a year after Vermond had arrived, she could speak it well enough. By the time she left Austria, she was speaking French easily and well, even if it had a small German accent. The Abbe also found that Marie Antoinette did not know much about French history, which they studied carefully together. In the end, Marie received a fairly good education.

Marie Antoinette was publicly executed by guillotine in Paris, France, on October 16, 1793, months after the death of her husband. Her youngest son Louis-Charles, later died of tuberculosis and malnutrition during the revolution. She was buried in the Saint Denis Basilica.
Her eldest daughter, Marie Therese was the only one of their family to survive the revolution.



</doc>
<doc id="25608" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25608" title="Montesquieu">
Montesquieu

Charles-Louis de Secondat, Baron de La Brède et de Montesquieu (January 18, 1689 – February 10, 1755), more commonly known as Montesquieu, was a French political thinker. He lived during the Enlightenment, and is famous for his theory of separation of powers; This theory is taken for granted in modern discussions of government. Many constitutions all over the world use it. He was largely responsible for the making the terms "feudalism" and "Byzantine Empire" popular.

Montesquieu's most radical work divided French society into three classes. He called them "trias politica": 
Montesquieu saw that there were two types of powers: the sovereign and the administrative. The administrative powers were the legislative, the executive, and the judiciary. These powers should be divided up so that each power would have a power over the other. This was radical because it completely eliminated the three "Estates" structure of the French Monarchy. These were the aristocracy, clergy, and third estate from the estates. It abolished any vestige of a feudalistic structure. 
There were also three main forms of government. These were
Montesquieu believed that the best form of government was one that was divided into three branches, which helped inspire the idea for the U.S. constitution.

Like many of his generation, Montesquieu held a number of views that might today be judged controversial. While he approved the idea that a woman could run a government, he thought that she could not be effective as the head of a family. He firmly accepted the role of a hereditary aristocracy and the value of primogeniture. Hereditary means that the title passes from the parents to the children. His views have also been abused by modern revisionists; for instance, even though Montesquieu was ahead of his time as an ardent opponent of slavery, he has been quoted out of context in attempts to show he supported it.

One of his more exotic ideas, outlined in "The Spirit of the Laws" and hinted at in "Persian Letters", is the climate theory. It says that climate should substantially influence the nature of man and his society. Montesquieu even thinks that certain climates are better than others. The temperate climate of France is the best of possible climates in his opinion. His view is that people living in hot countries are "too hot-tempered", while those in northern countries are "icy" or "stiff." The climate in middle Europe therefore breeds the best people. (This view is possibly influenced by similar statements in "Germania" by Tacitus, one of Montesquieu's favourite authors.)

It was Montesquieu's philosophy that "government should be set up so that no man need be afraid of another" that prompted the creators of the Constitution to divide the U.S. government into three separate branches.




<br clear=all>


</doc>
<doc id="25609" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25609" title="Template:S-start">
Template:S-start

<includeonly>{| class="wikitable" style="margin: 0.5em auto; clear: both; font-size:95%;"
</includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="25615" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25615" title="Aristocracy">
Aristocracy

Aristocracy is a kind of government. In Ancient Greek, the word aristocracy means "the rule of the best". There are many different kinds of aristocracy with many different ways the government is set up. What all of them have in common is that a small group of people have the political and legal power over a larger group. In history, most aristocracies are hereditary. Members of the ruling group have been able to put their children in the ruling group. Aristocracy can be combined with other kinds of government.



</doc>
<doc id="25617" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25617" title="Poseidon">
Poseidon

Poseidon is the god of the sea in Greek mythology and one of the Twelve Olympians. He is the brother of Zeus, Hades, Hestia, Demeter and Hera. His home is Mount Olympus and all the water on earth. He is the god of the sea and earthquakes, the cyclops and of horses. He had many love affairs, although he was married to Amphitrite. In some stories, he is believed to have been eaten by his father Cronos. In other versions his mother Rhea saves him by feeding her husband a small horse wrapped in a blanket. When he was displeased, he would throw down his Trident and cause earthquakes. He was also called the "Sea Swimmer", the "Earth Shaker", and "Father of many heroes". He was very strong and masculine. Poseidon also was said to have created horses.
He was believed to be in a relationship with Medusa until Athena found them in her temple and turned Medusa into an ugly woman with snakes for hair and eyes that turn people to stone.



</doc>
<doc id="25619" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25619" title="Category:Football">
Category:Football


</doc>
<doc id="25625" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25625" title="Category:Forms of government">
Category:Forms of government


</doc>
<doc id="25626" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25626" title="Object-oriented programming">
Object-oriented programming

Object-oriented programming or OOP has become an important subject for computers. In the past, programs were written mostly as 'a list of instructions that did things' to the memory in the computer (for instance, they added numbers together, moved words about and saved or printed the answers). Another way that this can be thought of is that the numbers and words are in fact simple 'objects' that can be changed using different 'methods'. That is what gives the name to this different method. These objects are independent and can only 'talk' to other objects they are allowed to by the rules (which are decided by the programmer). It is claimed that this makes it easier to program because the programmer only needs to worry about building one component (object) at a time that they say is easier than having to think about the whole program at once.

An object can receive messages, process information, and 'talk' to other objects. Each object can be thought of as a part of the whole.

It is also claimed that object-oriented programming can mean programs are easier to maintain, because each object can be dealt with by itself. It is very popular in software engineering, (even though many people do not agree that it is better than earlier methods and actually produces entirely new problems of its own making that it then has to solve). 

Luca Cardelli wrote a paper titled 'Bad Engineering Properties of Object-Oriented Languages'.

This computer code is in Python (programming language).

This code is in Java. It does the same thing as the above code in Python.


</doc>
<doc id="25627" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25627" title="Message (computer science)">
Message (computer science)

In computer science, a message is a bit of data, which is sent by a sender, to a recipient. This is usually done by copying the data around. In an event-driven model, the recipient will then act in a certain way to the message.


</doc>
<doc id="25628" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25628" title="Handball">
Handball

Handball (also known as team handball, field handball or Olympic handball) is a team sport similar to football (soccer). Two teams of 7 players each (six players and a goalkeeper) pass and bounce a ball using the hands, trying to throw it into the goal of the other team. 


</doc>
<doc id="25635" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25635" title="Category:Optics">
Category:Optics


</doc>
<doc id="25636" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25636" title="Category:Plays">
Category:Plays


</doc>
<doc id="25638" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25638" title="Category:Nutrition">
Category:Nutrition


</doc>
<doc id="25639" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25639" title="Category:Best Picture Oscar">
Category:Best Picture Oscar


</doc>
<doc id="25640" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25640" title="Category:Viacom">
Category:Viacom


</doc>
<doc id="25643" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25643" title="Category:Academy Awards">
Category:Academy Awards


</doc>
<doc id="25644" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25644" title="Category:Animation">
Category:Animation


</doc>
<doc id="25645" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25645" title="Category:Animation studios">
Category:Animation studios


</doc>
<doc id="25646" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25646" title="Category:Anime">
Category:Anime


</doc>
<doc id="25647" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25647" title="Category:Animators">
Category:Animators


</doc>
<doc id="25648" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25648" title="Category:Awards">
Category:Awards


</doc>
<doc id="25650" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25650" title="Category:Prizes">
Category:Prizes

This category contains Prizes and Awards given for outstanding performance in a certain field.


</doc>
<doc id="25651" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25651" title="Template:Soft redirect">
Template:Soft redirect

<includeonly></includeonly>


</doc>
<doc id="25652" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25652" title="Twelve Olympians">
Twelve Olympians

The Twelve Olympians are the most important gods of Greek mythology, who lived on top of Mount Olympus. Seventeen gods have been said to have been Olympians, but there were never more than twelve at the same time. 

Zeus, Hera, Poseidon, Ares, Hermes, Hephaestus, Aphrodite, Athena, Apollo, and Artemis are always considered to be Olympians. Hebe, Helios, Hestia, Demeter, Dionysus, Hades, and Persephone are the gods who have sometimes been Olympians. Hestia gave up her place to Dionysus because she wanted to live amongst humans.

The Olympians became the most important gods when Zeus and his brothers and sisters won a war against the Titans. Zeus, Hera, Poseidon, Demeter, Hestia, and Hades are all brothers and sisters. All the other gods are Zeus's children and have different mothers.



</doc>
<doc id="25653" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25653" title="Category:Greek gods and goddesses">
Category:Greek gods and goddesses


</doc>
<doc id="25655" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25655" title="Sandro Botticelli">
Sandro Botticelli

Alessandro di Mariano Filipepi, better known as Sandro Botticelli ("little barrel") (March 1, 1445 – May 17, 1510) was an Italian painter. He went to the Florentine school during the Early Renaissance (Quattrocento).

Less than a hundred years later, Giorgio Vasari saw this movement as a "golden age". The patron of the movement was Lorenzo de' Medici. Giogio Vasari expressed this thought at the head of his "Vita" of Botticelli.

Botticelli was born in Florence in the working-class "rione" of "Ognissanti". At first he did an apprenticeship to become a goldsmith. Following the boy's wishes, his doting father sent him to Fra Filippo Lippi. Lippi was working on frescoing the Convent of the Carmine. Lippi's synthesis of the new control of three-dimensional forms, tender expressiveness in face and gesture, and decorative details inherited from the late Gothic style were the strongest influences on Botticelli. Another influence were the Pollaiuolo brothers.They were doing a series of Virtues for the Tribunale or meeting hall of the Mercanzia. This hall was a cloth-merchants' confraternity.Botticelli contributed to this the "Fortitude", dated 1470 in the Uffizi Gallery.

He was an apprentice too of Andrea del Verrocchio, where Leonardo da Vinci worked beside him, but he made his name in his local Church of Ognissanti, with a "St. Augustine" that successfully competed as a pendant with Domenico Ghirlandaio's "Jerome" on the other side "the head of the saint being expressive of profound thought and quick subtlety" (Vasari). In 1470 he opened his own independent "studio".At what age did he start art?

Lorenzo de' Medici was quick to employ his talent. Botticelli made consistent use of the circular "tondo" form and did many beautiful female nudes, according to Vasari. The "Birth of Venus" was at the Medici villa of Castello.

Sandro was intensely religious. In later life, he was one of Savonarola's followers. Botticelli burned his own paintings on pagan themes in the notorious "Bonfire of the Vanities". Earlier, Botticelli had painted an "Assumption of the Virgin" for Matteo Palmieri in a chapel at San Pietro Maggiore. In this painting, it was rumored, both the patron who dictated the iconic scheme and the painter who painted it, were guilty of heresy. People did not say what kind of heresy it was. The ideas that could be seen as heresy seem to be gnostic in character:

This is a common misunderstanding. It is based on a mistake by Vasari. The painting referred to here, now in the National Gallery in London, is by the artist Botticini. Vasari confused their similar sounding names.he is marvelous.

The "Adoration of the Magi" for Santa Maria Novella, ca1476, contains portraits of Cosimo de' Medici ("the finest of all that are now extant for its life and vigour"), his grandson Giuliano de' Medici, and Cosimo's son Giovanni, were effusively described by Vasari:

In 1481, Pope Sixtus IV summoned him and prominent Florentine and Umbrian artists who had been summoned to fresco the walls of the Sistine Chapel. The iconological program was the supremacy of the Papacy. Sandro's contribution was moderately successful.
He returned to Florence, and "being of a sophistical turn of mind, he there wrote a commentary on a portion of Dante and illustrated the Inferno which he printed, spending much time over it, and this abstension from work led to serious disorders in his living." Thus Vasari characterized the first printed Dante (1481) with Botticelli's decorations; he could not imagine that the new art of printing might occupy an artist. As for the subject, when Fra Girolamo Savonarola began to preach hellfire and damnation, the susceptible Sandro Botticelli became one of his adherents, a "piagnone" left painting as a worldly vanity, burned much of his own early work, fell into poverty as a result, and would have starved but for the tender support of his former patrons.


</doc>
<doc id="25658" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25658" title="Category:Roman gods and goddesses">
Category:Roman gods and goddesses


</doc>
<doc id="25659" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25659" title="Category:Greek mythology">
Category:Greek mythology

This is a category about all things that are to go with Greek mythology.


</doc>
<doc id="25662" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25662" title="Category:Roman mythology">
Category:Roman mythology


</doc>
<doc id="25663" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25663" title="Category:Egyptian gods and goddesses">
Category:Egyptian gods and goddesses


</doc>
<doc id="25664" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25664" title="Category:Egyptian mythology">
Category:Egyptian mythology


</doc>
<doc id="25665" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25665" title="Hermes">
Hermes

Hermes is the god of travellers and shepherds in Greek mythology. He is one of the Twelve Olympians and is the messenger of the gods.

Hermes is the son of Zeus and Maia. He was born on Mount Cyllene. The story of his birth was told in the Homeric Hymn, which means "Hyme to Hermes". It said the Maia was a nymph.

Hermes was very clever and on his first day invented the lyre, by using the shell of a tortoise.

She was the goddess of beauty.



</doc>
<doc id="25666" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25666" title="Maia">
Maia

Maia is the goddess of the fields in Greek mythology. She is the oldest of the Pleiades. She is also the most beautiful and the shyest. 

The Pleiades were the seven daughters of Atlas and Pleione. Maia and her sisters were all born on Mount Cyllene, which is in Arcadia. 

Maia was the mother of Hermes by Zeus, who is another god. She gave birth to Hermes in a cave in Arcadia. After Maia gave birth to Hermes she wrapped him in blankets and then went to sleep. When she woke up, Hermes had crawled away to Thessaly and had invented the lyre and stole some of Apollo's cattle.

Maia also looked after Arkas when Hera had turned his mother, Kallisto, into a bear.



</doc>
<doc id="25667" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25667" title="Pleiades (mythology)">
Pleiades (mythology)

The Pleiades are seven nymphs in Greek mythology, and companions of Artemis. They were the seven daughters of Atlas and the nymph Pleione. They were all born on Mount Cyllene, which is in Arcadia.



</doc>
<doc id="25668" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25668" title="Medieval commune">
Medieval commune

Medieval townspeople in western Europe during the period of the High Middle Ages needed protection from lawless nobles and bandits. The walled city was protection from direct assault, but once a townsperson left the city walls, he or she was at the mercy of often violent and lawless nobles in the countryside. Because much of medieval Europe lacked central authority to provide protection, such as a police force (to use a modern analogy), each city had to provide its own protection for citizens both inside the city walls, and outside. In order to do this towns formed what are called communes. 

Every town had its own commune and no two communes were alike, but at the heart, communes "were sworn alliegences of mutual defense". When a commune was formed, all particpitating members gathered and swore an oath together, in public, they would defend each other in time of trouble. In addition they would swear to maintain the peace within the city proper. 

What did it mean for a commune member to defend another? Obviously if a commune member was attacked outside the city it was too late to call for help as it would be unlikely anyone would be around in time. Instead the commune would promise to exact revenge on the attacker, the promise of revenge being a form of defense. However, what would happen if the attacker was a noble who had a castle, too strong for the townspeople? This was often the case and certainly the town commune could not muster the forces to attack a castle. Instead they might attack the nobles family, or burn his crops, or kill his serfs, or destroy his orchards. It was eye for eye violent revenge. 

The commune movement started in the 11th century in northern Italy which had the most urbanized population of Europe at the time, and in what is now Belgium which was also relatively urban at the time. It then spread in the early 12th century to France, Germany, and Spain and elsewhere. England never saw much of the commune movement because it was by comparison a pretty well run kingdom and did not need local protection forces. Although in most cases the development of communes was connected with that of the cities, there were rural communes, notably in France and England, that were formed to protect the common interests of villagers.

The Church and King both had mixed reactions to communes. On the one hand they agreed safety and protection from lawless nobles was in everyones best interest. The communes intention was to keep the peace through the threat of revenge, and the Church was sympathetic to the end result of peace. However the Church had their own ways to enforce the peace such as the Peace and Truce of God movement, for example. On the other hand, communes disrupted the order of medieval society. The methods the commune used, eye for an eye, violence begets violence, were generally not acceptable to Church or King. Normally only the noble lords are allowed to fight and the merchant townspeople were the workers, not fighters. There was a sense the communes were a threat to the medieval 3-tiered social order: Those who work, those who pray, those who fight. Communes crossed the line between working and fighting. As such communes were sometimes accepted, and other times not by the Church and King. One of the most famous cases of a commune being suppressed and the resulting defiant urban revolt occurred in the French town of Laon in 1112.


</doc>
<doc id="25678" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25678" title="Imperialism">
Imperialism

Imperialism is a policy (way of governing) in which large or powerful countries seek to extend their authorities by conquering or by establishing economic and political control over other countries. Some large or powerful countries control other regions to create a bigger empire. 

An example of imperialism is when countries conquer or settle in such lands by setting up colonies. In the 1700s and 1800s the British Empire used the policy of imperialism to control large territories such as Australia and Canada.




</doc>
<doc id="25679" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25679" title="Heresy">
Heresy

Heresy is a word used by different churches, It is used to describe someone, who has ideas that are different or the opposite from what the church officially says about what they believe in. Such a person is known as "heretic". In medieval times, one of the punishments for heresy was burning at the stake.

Especially in the Middle Ages it was common to accuse someone of heresy. If the accusations could be proven, the culprit would go through a ritual. Since torture could be used to get a confession, the accusations were proven very often. The ritual was done to save the soul of the convicted criminal. It involved being burnt at the stake. 

In the Middle Ages, male heretics used to be called "warlock", female heretics used to be called "witch".

Heresy is a lot of times used to describe someone who does not like someone else's thinking.


</doc>
<doc id="25681" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25681" title="Cossack">
Cossack

Cossacks (Russian "Kazakh") are a group of people in the southern land of Ukraine and Russia. They are famous for their sense of being free. They are also well known for their military skill, mostly the way they ride horses.

The name Cossack means "free man". The term was first used in the year 1395. The most well known Cossacks are the Ukrainian Cossacks from Zaporizhie and the Russian Cossacks from Don, Terek, Kuban and Ural areas. They started after the Mongols attacked Kievan Rus. Eventually Russian Cossacks guarded land for the Russian government. Cossacks were in the Russian army in some wars throughout the 1800s and 1900s. In the Russian Civil War they fought on both sides. In Soviet times, the Cossacks' life was subject to a lot of Bolshevik attacks and Cossack lands survived several times when no one had food. Cossack armies fought in the Second World War. In Russia today, Cossacks are ethnic descendants or are in the Cossack army and often both. There are 150,000 Cossacks in the Cossack army today and many millions of Cossack children.


</doc>
<doc id="25686" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25686" title="41">
41

41 is a year in the 1st century.



</doc>
<doc id="25687" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25687" title="1341">
1341


</doc>
<doc id="25688" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25688" title="1522">
1522


</doc>
<doc id="25689" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25689" title="Template:User ASL-2">
Template:User ASL-2


</doc>
<doc id="25690" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25690" title="Template:User ASL-1">
Template:User ASL-1


</doc>
<doc id="25691" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25691" title="Template:User ASL-3">
Template:User ASL-3


</doc>
<doc id="25692" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25692" title="Template:User ASL-4">
Template:User ASL-4


</doc>
<doc id="25693" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25693" title="Template:User ASL">
Template:User ASL


</doc>
<doc id="25695" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25695" title="Wikipedia:Babel/(ASL)">
Wikipedia:Babel/(ASL)

Users in this category can communicate in American Sign Language.


</doc>
<doc id="25696" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25696" title="Template:User en-4">
Template:User en-4


</doc>
<doc id="25697" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25697" title="Template:User en-3">
Template:User en-3


</doc>
<doc id="25698" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25698" title="American Sign Language">
American Sign Language

American Sign Language (old names: Amslan, Ameslan ) is the most popular sign language for the Deaf in the United States, in the English-speaking parts of Canada, and in parts of Mexico. Although the United Kingdom and the United States share English as a spoken and written language, British Sign Language (BSL) is different than American Sign Language.

ASL is also used (sometimes with other sign languages) in the Philippines, Singapore, Dominican Republic, Haiti, Puerto Rico, Côte d'Ivoire, Burkina Faso, Ghana, Togo, Benin, Nigeria, Chad, Gabon, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Central African Republic, Mauritania, Kenya, Madagascar, and Zimbabwe. Like other sign languages, its grammar is different from any spoken language. No one knows how many people use sign language, but some people think that between 500,000 and 2 million people in the U.S.A. alone use sign language. It is the third most used language in the United States, behind English and Spanish.

ASL includes fingerspelling. Fingerspelling is a way to show any letter of the English alphabet using one hand. Fingerspelling is also used to express numbers. Names of people and names of places can be fingerspelled.



</doc>
<doc id="25699" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25699" title="Sign language">
Sign language

Sign language is a way of communicating by using one hand or two hands. Deaf people use sign language to communicate with other deaf people and other hearing people. It can also be used by people who are unable to communicate using spoken words. 

Deaf people usually learn sign language with their family. Deaf students can learn sign language at school. Other people may choose to learn sign language by going to signing classes or by studying a sign language workbook, which can come with an interactive DVD.

Sign language is an important method of communicating for deaf people. Deaf people can also understand spoken words by looking at the movement of the speaker's lips. This is known as lip reading. Deaf people will sometimes lip read while signing to someone.

There are many different types of sign language worldwide. Some of the most commonly used types of sign language are listed here:

When a person is not able to hear, this person will probably (depending on the level of deafness, be unable to speak). So, naturally, a sign language appears in a community unable to hear and speak. 
First of all, sign languages are not “mimics” or gestural version of spoken languages, as many people may think. Sign languages are independent languages, with own grammar, syntax, morphology and semantics.

According to the American Heritage Dictionary, Sign language is:

Sign languages are languages that, instead of using sounds to create words, use gestures. Each gesture in sign language represents a word. Also, there is a “hand alphabet”, in which each hand position represents a letter in the alphabet. Sign languages are not universal. That means that there isn’t a single sign language for all the users around the world. Each deaf community can develop their own sign language, by natural need. However, these sign language can be influenced by other sign and spoken languages.
Sign language always existed in deaf communities. In ancient texts we see authors commenting about deaf people and sign language. In western world, the first studies dedicated to sign languages date from the 17th century, in 1620, in Spain, the priest Juan Pablo Bonnet published a text about teaching deaf people to speak, using gestures as a tool. The language of signs created by Bonet was used by Abbé Charles-Michel de l-Épée, to create an alphabet in the 18th century. This alphabet was changed in very few aspects until nowadays version, largely used in many countries. 

The sign alphabet created by l-Épée, however, is not the origin of the French Sign Language, the sign language that influenced many others sign languages around the world. The system by l-Épée was created to teach deaf people, who already used the Old French Sign Language, to read and write in French. This was a great advance, because proved that deaf could be educated and didn’t needed the spoken languages to think and learn.

Sign languages have some important elements: the hands configurations, which are the hands shapes to create words; the facial and corporal expressions; and the Sign Writing (SW), which is the way used to write in sign language. 

Sign language grammar is quite different from the spoken languages grammar. This is due to the fact that, in many sign languages, the linguistics complements to the verbs or subjects are already within the sign used. But, as the spoken languages, there isn’t an universal grammar for sing languages.

The hands configurations are the positions made with the hands that create the signs. Some words are made with only one hand, and others are made with both hands. The signs no obligatory are alike their significant (not always a sign will remind us the object). 

As an auxiliary to the words made with hand configurations, there are the fingerspeeling, or dactylology, also known as “hand alphabet” in which each hand configuration represents a letter in the alphabet. This tool is used to spell names, words from the spoken languages, acronyms; in sum, concepts to which there isn’t a sign yet. As the sign languages are not universal, so are the sign alphabets. They can use only one hand or both hands.

There isn’t official way of writing signs, and even some users of sign language don’t think “sign writing” is something useful. Usually, deaf people use the writing from the spoken language in their country. However, there are some ways developed to represent a sign language through writing.


Deaf is person who have, due to congenital factors (factors already born with the person), or due to external factors, a certain level of deafness.
Deafness is when the biological sense of hearing doesn’t recognize all the sounds. So, a deaf person is not able to hear some sounds. 

Deaf people may have hearing loss from birth; or may acquire it by external factors, that can be sickness or great exposition to high sounds; also, aged people can acquire deafness by time.
Deafness does not have only extremes (or the people can hear perfectly or is completely deaf), by opposite, deafness has certain levels. These levels goes from light deafness (a person is not able to hear the lower sounds), to deeply deafness (unable to hear almost all kinds of sounds). Also, deafness is not obligatory the same for both ears: a person may have different levels of hearing loss in each ear.

Nowadays deaf people count not only with sign language, but with fonoaudiology (or speech therapy, a treatment to help people to use speech) and with hearing aids, that are special devices put inside the ears, which works as amplifiers to sounds. However, depending on the level of deafness, not always speech therapy and hearing aids will be useful to a deaf people.

One of the most important social fight nowadays in deaf communities is the defense for the respect and recognize of a deaf culture. The most important factor to the claim of a deaf culture is the sign language.

Through the sign language deaf people can create a social and cultural identity. In this identity are included habits, way of seeing the world and even a literature. 
There’s still a great discussion in if either exists or not exists a deaf culture, but, in defense that “exists” sign languages are the most important element.




</doc>
<doc id="25701" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25701" title="Saint-Dié-des-Vosges">
Saint-Dié-des-Vosges

Saint-Dié-des-Vosges is a city in the North East of France, located in Lorraine.

Now about 23,000 people live there. 

Surrounded by the Vosges mountains, it is a popular resort for tourists.

The city is famous for the International Festival of Geography, which takes place every autumn. 

Electronics, computer science, graphic design and communication can be studied at the University Institute of Technology.
In French it is called "IUT" (Institut universitaire de technologie).




</doc>
<doc id="25708" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25708" title="Rhodesian Ridgeback">
Rhodesian Ridgeback

Rhodesian Ridgeback is a breed of dog. 

It has red-brown hair on its body and a line of hair down its back which is different from the rest of hair on its body. They are sometimes called "The African Lion Dog", because they were used by hunters in Africa to sniff out and confuse lions while the hunter shot the lion.



</doc>
<doc id="25718" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25718" title="Glove">
Glove

A glove is a piece of clothing that covers a hand. There are many different kinds of gloves. Gloves are made of many different fabrics and materials, and gloves are used in many ways.

People wear thick gloves, usually made of wool or fabric, to keep their hands warm in cold weather. They wear thin gloves (usually made of rubber or plastic) to keep their hands clean. People also wear thin gloves made of rubber or plastic to keep things they touch clean. Some workers wear gloves made of heavy rubber to protect their hands from chemicals. A mitten is a glove which has a separate place for the thumb, but the other four fingers are together. There are also mittens, which are very similar to gloves. Gloves and mittens are usually used to protect people from cold, and chemicals. People use latex gloves during Earth day to clean up.

There are also gloves that are worn for fashion, because they look good. These type of gloves are made from leather, fur, or different fabrics.

Gloves are worn in sports, the most common reason being for extra grip for the competitors hands. Like in golf, baseball and goalkeepers in soccer.


</doc>
<doc id="25720" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25720" title="Sky High (2005 movie)">
Sky High (2005 movie)

Sky High is a 2005 movie from Walt Disney Pictures, starring Kurt Russell.

This movie is about superheroes. Will Stronghold has two superhero parents. His dad, Steve, is The Commander, who is very strong. His mother, Josie, is Jetstream, who can fly. Will is expected to have great powers of his own, but he finds that he does not have any. He enters his school, Sky High, where the students are sorted into "hero" and "sidekick." Will is given the position of a sidekick and takes different classes than the hero track. He later tells his dad about this, who is not happy that his son will not be like him.

At school, Will also has an enemy named Warren Peace. The Commander put Warren's father away for three life terms. During a lunch, Warren gets very mad at Will and starts throwing fireballs, which is his superpower. Will dives under a bench. It is here his power comes to him; super strength, like his dad. He manages to defeat Warren and both are put in a time out room where their powers do not work. His mother is not happy, but his dad is very happy that Will has powers. Steve shows Will the hiding place where the Stronghold family does all of their activities.

Will's new powers put him up in the hero track, where he is partnered with a girl named Gwen Grayson. Will soon falls for Gwen and does not keep up with the friends he made as a sidekick. Will has an old friend named Layla, whose power is to grow plants. Will gets more popular. Gwen gets him to invite all the popular kids for a party. When Layla comes over to tell Will that she loves him, Gwen stops her and tells her that Will has new friends. Layla is upset. When Will learns about it, he breaks off the date. He was going to go to the prom with Gwen, but now decides to stay home.

His parents go to the prom instead. There was going to be a ceremony to honor the best superhero of all time. During the prom, however, it is revealed that Gwen is really a villain named Royal Pain. The Commander thought he killed her off, but when he zapped her, she simply became a baby instead. The years passed and she grew into another teenager. Royal Pain puts on her suit and uses her weapon to make everyone become babies.

Will comes on down to the school. He is very sorry for how he acted as a hero and tells his sidekick friends that he needs all of their help to beat Royal Pain. Lash and Speed, two bullies on Royal Pain's side, are knocked out. Ethan tricks Lash and stuffs his head down the toliet. Then he becomes a puddle of ooze, which causes Carbon Copy to slip. Warren, now on Will's side, throws fireballs to knock Carbon Copy down. 

Magenta, whose power is to become a rat, climbs into the system and tries to disable it, otherwise the school will fall from orbit and everyone will die. Penny, a cheerleader who can make multiple copies of herself, surrounds Layla. Layla does not want to fight, but when they hit her, she uses her power to make all the plants come out and bind the cheerleaders down.

Will finds Royal Pain outside. She has loaded all the babies onto the bus and will retrain them to be bad people. He tells her to put his father down. They fight. Will is winning when Layla bursts in, distracting Will. Royal Pain manages to throw Will out of the window. All seems lost when Will appears in the window – he too has Josie's power of flying. He then kicks Royal Pain out of the window. The school begins to fall down. Will goes outside and uses his power to try to keep the school from hitting the ground. Magneta cuts the wire in time and saves the school from crashing into the ground.

Steve and Josie give their award to all of the sidekicks that helped out. All of the villainsa re put into the time-out room.



</doc>
<doc id="25723" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25723" title="Tales of Symphonia">
Tales of Symphonia

Tales of Symphonia is a video game released in 2004 for the Nintendo GameCube. It is a fantasy RPG.

The main character Lloyd Irving and his friends, Genis Sage and Colette Brunel, are sent away from the town where Lloyd lived. Genis' sister Raine and the mercenary Kratos join them. While traveling, Colette begins to change into an angel. Lloyd learns that she is in charge of saving the world. Two groups of people want her to stop. They are the Desians, bad guys that enslave humans, and Sheena, a woman that wants to kill Colette. Sheena and Colette save each other from the Desians and become friends. Eventually, they get ready to save the world. Kratos betrays Colette and the others to Cruxis, the angels who control the Desians. Lloyd and the others manage to escape. They go to a different world called Tethe'alla. There, they make three new friends called Zelos, Presea, and Regal. Kratos still wants to find them and the Cruxis leader, Mithos, is very angry. Lloyd's group learns that if they want to save the world, they need to have Sheena gain the power of the eight "Summon Spirits". The spirits are magical creatures. After using the power of the summon spirits, the problem gets worse. Lloyd and Kratos need to work together to save the world from being destroyed by the Giant Kharlan Tree. Yuan uses a drug where it puts people to sleep on everyone. After this, Lloyd wakes up in the middle of the night. Kratos is with Yuan and two of Yuan's henchman. Lloyd learns that Kratos is his father. Kratos dives in front of Lloyd to stop him from being hurt. Kratos then tells Lloyd that there is a ninth Summon Spirit by the name of Origin. Lloyd has to fight Kratos to get its help because Origin was sealed by Kratos himself. The Summon Spirit helps Lloyd use the eternal sword. After this, they go to Derris Kharlan and there is one last battle with Mithos.


</doc>
<doc id="25730" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25730" title="Protestant Reformation">
Protestant Reformation

The Protestant Reformation is a term used by people to describe a series of events that happened in the 16th century in the Christian Church. Some people saw a need to change the way the Catholic church worked. 
The central points of criticism were the following:

People like Erasmus, Thomas More, Zwingli, Martin Luther and John Calvin saw this, and acted against it. This led to a split of the church, into Catholic church (that was there before) and a number of Protestant churches. 

Martin Luther was the first person to translate the Bible into German. He could even print some copies, because Johannes Gutenberg had invented a way to print a small number of copies (approximately 50-100) at a relatively low price. The Protestant reformation triggered the Catholic Counter-Reformation.

Martin Luther was also very famous for his obsession with Roosters. When creating the Lutheran Church, he designed Roosters as beautiful murals all over the churches. He thought the Rooster to be a sign of worship to god and thought of it as a sacred being. In many Lutheran Churches, you will still find these murals on the walls to this day.


</doc>
<doc id="25732" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25732" title="Sermon">
Sermon

A sermon is a speech that a priest or other speaker gives during a religious service. The purpose of a sermon is to give hope to the people who hear it, or to encourage them to do right things in their lives. The speaker may also talk about the current problems of the community, and offer ways to solve them.


</doc>
<doc id="25734" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25734" title="Sand">
Sand

Sand is a mixture made up of very small pieces of different rocks or minerals. When most of the pieces are at least two millimeters wide, it is called gravel. When most of the pieces are less than one-sixteenth of a millimeter wide (about as wide as the lines on a ruler), it is called silt.

Sand is the result of erosion of large boulders. They get smaller and smaller until they reach the beach or a low lying area.

Sand can be mixed with water to make concrete, a tough material which can be used in buildings to help support the structure. It can also be used to make bricks or sand castles. When mixed with water sand will become mud.


</doc>
<doc id="25738" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25738" title="Alsatian language">
Alsatian language

Alsatian (French: Alsacien, German: Elsässisch) is a German language spoken in Alsace (eastern part of France).


</doc>
<doc id="25753" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25753" title="Ian McEwan">
Ian McEwan

Ian Russell McEwan CBE, FRSA, FRSL (born 21 June 1948), is an English novelist (sometimes nicknamed "Ian Macabre" because of the nature of his early work).

McEwan was born in Aldershot in England and spent much of his childhood in the Far East, Germany and North Africa where his father, an officer in the army, was posted. He was educated at the University of Sussex and the University of East Anglia, where he was the first graduate of Malcolm Bradbury's pioneering creative writing course. 

He has been married twice. His second wife, Annalena McAfee, is the editor of the Guardian's Review section.

In March and April of 2004, just months after the British government had invited him to a dinner with First Lady of the United States Laura Bush, McEwan was denied entry into the United States by the United States Department of Homeland Security for not having the proper visa for earning a living (McEwan was preparing to give a series of paid lectures). Only after several days and publicity in the British press was McEwan admitted because, as he said a customs official had told him, "We still do not want to let you in, but this is attracting a lot of unfavourable publicity."

He is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Literature, a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts, and a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. He was awarded the Shakespeare Prize by the Alfred Toepfer Foundation, Hamburg, in 1999. He was awarded a CBE in 2000.

His first published work was the collection of short stories "First Love, Last Rites" (1975), which won the Somerset Maugham Award in 1976. 

"The Cement Garden" (1978) and "Black Dogs" (1992) were his early novels.

His 1997 novel, "Enduring Love", about a person with de Clerambault's syndrome, is regarded by many as a masterpiece, though "Atonement" has received equally high acclaim.

In 1998, he was controversially awarded the Booker Prize for his novella, "Amsterdam". 

His latest novel, "Saturday", follows an especially eventful day in the life of a neurosurgeon. Mr Henry Perowne, the main character, lives in a house on a square in central London where McEwan himself lives after relocating from Oxford.










</doc>
<doc id="25754" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25754" title="Mahjong">
Mahjong

Mahjong is a game for four players that was created in China. It is a game of skill, intelligence, calculation and luck.

A Mahjong game is played at a square table (four sides all the same length). The dealer is called the "east" player and everyone else is called a different direction because of where they are sitting - so the person to East's left is South, the person across from East is West, and the person to East's right is North. If East wins, he is the dealer again for the next round; if he does not, the dealer is the person to his right (North). That person then becomes East. A game of Mahjong ends when every player has been the dealer four times, or when they have played the number of rounds they said they would play before they started. 

See Mahjong.

A single-player version of this game exists, called Mahjong Solitaire. It is based on the four-player game, but can be played by one person, so it is one of the games that are played often on computers (such as Solitaire, Spider Solitaire, or Minesweeper. Mahjong Solitaire is much simpler than four-player Mahjong: it is played without dice or chips, by removing tiles (set up in the shape of a pyramid) from the board in sets of two. Each set of two has to match - they are either exactly the same, or go together (two "flowers" tiles, for example). A Mahjong Solitaire player wins when he picks up all the tiles, or he loses when he runs out of sets of two that he can pick up. 


</doc>
<doc id="25755" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25755" title="Ionia">
Ionia

Ionia was a region in the west of Asia Minor in Ancient Greek times. It was in what is now Turkey.


</doc>
<doc id="25764" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25764" title="Interharmonic">
Interharmonic

Interharmonics are ratios between one harmonic and another. For example, 12/9 or 1.3333 is an interharmonic between the fundamental frequency (or first harmonic) and the second harmonic. Interharmonics relate to wave motion harmonics, in any form of radiant energy. Wave motion harmonics are waves added to a fundamental wave having a frequency that is a whole multiple (an integer) of the fundamental frequency. The second harmonic has a frequency twice that of the fundamental, the third harmonic three times, and so on. Interharmonics is a term invented, or at least standardised, by the international electronics industry about 1999, particularly for use in electrical energy. However, interharmonic frequencies also occur naturally in other radiant energies, for example music or any type of sound.


</doc>
<doc id="25765" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25765" title="Harmonic">
Harmonic

Harmonics is a short term for harmonics of a wave motion, or wave motion harmonics. Harmonics are waves added to a fundamental wave (of any radiant energy, for example sound or electricity), having a frequency that is a whole multiple (an integer) of the fundamental frequency. The second harmonic has a frequency twice that of the fundamental, the third harmonic three times, and so on. Frequencies that lie between one harmonic and another harmonic are called interharmonics.



</doc>
<doc id="25766" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25766" title="Art Ross Trophy">
Art Ross Trophy

The Art Ross Trophy is given to the top scoring player each year in the National Hockey League (NHL). The player with the most points (goals plus assists) is given the trophy. If two players have the same number of points, the award goes to the player with the most goals. If they are tied in goals, it goes to the player who has played fewer games. If they are tied in games, it goes to the player who scored his first goal of the year the soonest.

Wayne Gretzky has won this trophy ten times, the most of any player. Gordie Howe and Mario Lemieux each won six trophies; Phil Esposito and Jaromir Jagr won five; Stan Mikita won four; and Bobby Hull and Guy Lafleur each won it three times.

The Art Ross Memorial Trophy was first awarded in 1948. This list includes all NHL scoring champions:




</doc>
<doc id="25767" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25767" title="Category:Ice hockey teams">
Category:Ice hockey teams

This a category for teams in the sport of ice hockey.


</doc>
<doc id="25778" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25778" title="Towel">
Towel

A towel is a form of cloth or paper used for drying things. There are many types of towels, such as the beach towel and the washcloth, a small towel used for cleaning dishes and bodies.


</doc>
<doc id="25785" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25785" title="South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands">
South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands

South Georgia and South Sandwich Islands are an overseas territory of the United Kingdom claimed by Argentina. They are in the southern part of the Atlantic Ocean. The territory was started in 1985, before that it was classed as part of the Falkland Islands. The islands do not have a native population, but in 2006 they had around 20 people on the islands. Most of these people were scientists who are at Bird Island, museum staff at Grytviken and the British Government Officer.


</doc>
<doc id="25789" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25789" title="Batman: Rise of Sin Tzu">
Batman: Rise of Sin Tzu

Batman: Rise of Sin Tzu is an action-adventure game video game. It was released in 2003 for the PlayStation 2, Xbox and Gamecube. It is also available for the Game Boy Advance and PC.

The game is based on . In the game Batman faces a new enemy who sends Gotham City into chaos.

Some critics said that "beat 'em up" was too recurring and it lacked the story of Batman Vengeance.


</doc>
<doc id="25792" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25792" title="Vein">
Vein

A vein is a type of blood vessel in the body. All veins carry blood to the heart. Most veins carry blood that is low in oxygen, except for the pulmonary vein and the umbilical veins which carry blood that is high in oxygen. 

A vein has a large lumen (width) and less pressure than an artery. There is smaller amounts of smooth muscle and elastic fibres in the vessel wall. Most veins have one-way valves that keep blood from going backwards. 

Veins carry blood to the heart and enter the heart through the vena cava. Other important veins are the coronary veins and renal veins. 

The blood carried by veins is dark red, but when a vein is cut or pierced, the dark blood immediately reacts with the oxygen in the air and becomes bright red colored. The vein appears blue because of the scattering of light through the skin and the way the eye perceives color and light. 


</doc>
<doc id="25793" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25793" title="Ottawa Senators">
Ottawa Senators

Ottawa Senators is the name of two teams that have played ice hockey in the National Hockey League (NHL) and a women's ice hockey team in the Canadian Women's Hockey League (CWHL).

The first team, then known as the Ottawa Silver Seven, won the Stanley Cup in 1903. In those days, other teams could challenge for the cup at any time. The Silver Seven won nine challenges, keeping the cup until 1906. The team changed its name to Senators, and then won the cup again in 1909, 1911, 1920, 1921, 1923, and 1927. Its star players included goaltender Clint Benedict, and forwards Cy Denneny and Frank Nighbor. The team moved to St. Louis in 1934, where they played for one year.

The current Ottawa Senators began playing in 1992. They won the President's Trophy as the top team in the regular season in 2002-2003. Some of their best players have included Daniel Alfredsson, Alexei Yashin, Marian Hossa, Zdeno Chara,and Dany Heatley.

The Ottawa Senators made it all the way to the Stanley Cup finals in 2006-2007 but they lost the best of seven playoff series 4-1 to the Anaheim Ducks. 

The women's ice hockey team called Ottawa Senators is part of the Canadian Women's Hockey League (CWHL). The team began playing in 1988. The team was then known as the National Capital Raiders. In 1989 the team changed its name to Ottawa Raiders. In 2007 the team again changed its name to the Ottawa Capital Canucks. The team changed its name to the Ottawa Senators in 2008. The current coach of the team is Brad Marsh. He used to play for the Ottawa Senators in the NHL.



</doc>
<doc id="25794" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25794" title="Calgary Flames">
Calgary Flames

The Calgary Flames are an ice hockey team in the National Hockey League (NHL). They began in 1972 in the city of Atlanta, and moved to Calgary in 1980. They won the Stanley Cup in 1989. They also made the Stanley Cup finals in 1986, losing to the Montreal Canadiens, and in 2004, losing to the Tampa Bay Lightning four games to three. The Flames won the President's Trophy as regular season champion in 1988 and 1989.

The Flames play in the Saddledome arena in Calgary, Alberta, Canada. It is called the "Saddledome" because the roof is shaped like a saddle.

Some of the best players to play for the Flames include Al MacInnis, who won the Conn Smythe Trophy as most valuable player in the playoffs in 1989; Jarome Iginla, who won the Art Ross Trophy as top point scorer in 2001-02, as well as the Richard Trophy as top goal scorer in 2001-02 and 2003-04; Lanny MacDonald, who scored 500 career goals, mostly on Calgary; Gary Suter, who won the Calder Trophy as rookie of the year in 1985-86 and captained the team to their only Stanley Cup win; goaltender Mike Vernon; and forwards Joe Mullen, Joe Nieuwendyk, and Theoren Fleury. Recently, the Flames have become a strong team because of goaltender Miikka Kiprusoff from Finland. Many people consider Kiprusoff to be the best goalie in the world.


</doc>
<doc id="25796" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25796" title="Edmonton Oilers">
Edmonton Oilers

The Edmonton Oilers are an ice hockey team in the National Hockey League (NHL). They joined the NHL in 1979, after seven years in the World Hockey Association. The Oilers have won the Stanley Cup five times, in 1984, 1985, 1987, 1988, and 1990. They also won the President's Trophy as top team in the regular season in 1984, 1986, and 1987. They lost the 1983 Stanley Cup final to the New York Islanders and the 2006 Stanley Cup Final to the Carolina Hurricanes.

Wayne Gretzky won the Hart Trophy as the NHL's most valuable player (MVP) eight times on the Oilers. He also won the Art Ross Trophy seven times on Edmonton, the goal-scoring title (now known as the Richard Trophy) five times, and the Conn Smythe Trophy as MVP in the playoffs twice. Gretzky set many NHL records on the Oilers, including most goals (92), assists (163), and points (215) in a season.

The Oilers have had many other great players: Mark Messier won the Hart Trophy in 1990 and the Conn Smythe Trophy in 1984; Paul Coffey won the Norris Trophy as best defenceman in 1985 and 1986; Grant Fuhr won the Vezina Trophy as best goaltender in 1988; Jari Kurri led the NHL in goals in 1986; and Bill Ranford won the Conn Smythe Trophy in 1990. Glenn Anderson and Curtis Joseph are among their other top players.


</doc>
<doc id="25797" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25797" title="Philadelphia Flyers">
Philadelphia Flyers

The Philadelphia Flyers are an ice hockey team in the National Hockey League (NHL). They began in 1967, and have been a strong team for most of their history. The Flyers won the Stanley Cup championship in 1974 and 1975. They also made the finals in 1976, 1980, 1985, 1987, and 1997. They won the President's Trophy as top team in the regular season in 1975, 1980, and 1985.

Their championship team in the 1970's was led by Bobby Clarke, who won the Hart Trophy as most valuable player (MVP) in the NHL in 1973, 1975, and 1976. Bernie Parent was also an important part of this team: he was named the NHL's top goaltender in 1974 and 1975, and those same years won the Conn Smythe Trophy as MVP in the playoffs. Reggie Leach was the NHL's top goal scorer in 1976; he also won the Conn Smythe Trophy that year. Bob Dailey, Rick MacLeish, and Bill Barber were also important members of the 1970's Flyers.

In 1979-80, the Flyers set an NHL record for most games in a row without a loss: 35. No team in North America in hockey, baseball, football, or basketball has had more straight wins. Goaltender Pete Peeters was one reason they set this record.

In the 1980's, the team was led by Mark Howe (son of Gordie Howe), a defenceman who also played well on offence. Pelle Lindbergh (1985) and Ron Hextall (1987) both won the Vezina Trophy as the NHL's top goaltender; Hextall also won the Conn Smythe Trophy in 1987. Tim Kerr was a high goal scorer.

Eric Lindros won the Hart Trophy in 1995. John Leclair, Mark Recchi, and Eric Desjardins were also strong players in the 1990's.

The Flyers continued to be a strong team in the early 21st century, coming very close to making the Stanley Cup finals twice. Keith Primeau, Peter Forsberg, and Simon Gagne have been among their top players.


</doc>
<doc id="25799" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25799" title="Pittsburgh Penguins">
Pittsburgh Penguins

The Pittsburgh Penguins are an ice hockey team in the National Hockey League (NHL). They began in 1967, and have won the Stanley Cup championship fifteen times; in 1991, 1992, 1996, 1997, and many other times

The Penguins had many poor seasons in their first 20 years. They had a good team in the mid-1970's, with players such as Peter Mahovlich, Pierre Larouche, and Jean Pronovost. They missed the semi-finals in 1975 because they lost four games to three to the New York Islanders after being ahead three games to none.

Mario Lemieux helped turn the Penguins into a strong team. He won the Art Ross Trophy as NHL scoring champion six times, in 1988, 1989, 1992, 1993, 1996, and 1997; the Hart Trophy as most valuable player in 1988, 1993, and 1996; the Conn Smythe Trophy as MVP in the playoffs in 1991 and 1992; and the goal scoring title in 1988, 1989, and 1996. Lemieux did all this even though he had many injuries.

After their two Stanley Cups (which included a record-tying 11 wins in a row in the playoffs in 1992), the Penguins set the NHL record for most wins in a row, with 17 in 1992-93. They won the President's Trophy that year as the top team in the regular season.

In 2005, the Penguins were one of the worst teams in the league, but they were able to draft Sidney Crosby. Crosby was 6th in NHL scoring in his rookie (first) season in 2005-06, at the age of 18. In 2007, the Penguins made the playoffs, but were eliminated in five games by the Ottawa Senators in the first round. The next year, the Penguins advanced to the Stanley Cup final. However, the Detroit Red Wings beat them in six games.
Returning the next season with new players such as (Matt Cooke, Ruslan Fedotenk, Chris Kunitz, Craig Adams, Pascal Dupis, Bill Guerin, Miroslav Satan, Hal Gill and more. The Pittsburgh Penguins finished the 2008-2009 season in 2nd place in the Atlantic Division behind the New Jersey Devils with 99 points (( 45 wins, 28 loses, and 9 overtime loses)). Pittsbugh went into the NHL Playoffs with the forth seed. Playing rival Philadelphia Flyers in the first round, the Pens went up on the Flyers two games to none winning in OT in game 2. The Flyers won game 3 in Philadelphia, but lost game 4 at home to send it back to Pittsburgh where the Flyers shut the Pens out 3-0 in game 5, but in game 6 the Pens rolled over the Flyers to win game 6 to advance to the 2nd round of the NHL Playoffs facing the Washington Capitals. Losing the first two games in Washington by a goal a piece in each game Pittsburgh had to change up there game to get back into the series. Behind 2-0 going into game three in Pittsburgh Mellon Arena would see another OT Thriller win by the Pens. To keep the series alive Pittsburgh won games 4 and 5 but losing in game 6 in OT to force a game 7 back in Washington. Pittsburgh came out strong to win the game to advance to the Eastern Conference Finals against the Carolina Hurricanes. With Players Stepping up in the series Pittsburgh sweeps the Cains in 4 straight games to send them back into the Stanley Cup Finals for the second time in a row. With the Detroit Red Wings winning the Western Conference Final series against the Blackhawks there would be another face off in Detroit with the same two teams. Last season Detroit won the first 3 games and losing games 4 and 5 (game 5 in triple over time) but to win the Stanley Cup in game 6 at Pittsburgh. Pittsburgh already knowing how it feels to lose in the Stanley Cup Finals, Pittsburgh knew what could happen. With a repeat of Detroit, the Red Wings won the first 2 game, making it look like it the Penguins would lose again. Pittsburgh came back to tie up the series 2-2. Pittsburgh lost 5-0 to make the series 3-2, giving Detroit a chance to win it in Pittsburgh for the second time. Pittsburgh scoring the first two goals, which were by Jordan Stall and Tyler Kennedy. With 11:59 left, Chris Draper of Detroit scored on a rebound to put the game at 2-1. With 1:43, Detroit player Dan Cleary had a huge break away but was stopped by goaltender Marc-André Fleury. Also, with 13 seconds left in regulation, Detroit crashed the net to attempt to send it into OT but Fleury and Rob Scuderi making big stops in front of the net to force a game 7 in Detroit. With no Scoring in the first period someone had to score soon. Scoring the Penguins only two goals, Max Talbot scored early in the second and also in the middle of the 2nd period. With Detroit getting shut out, the Red Wings made the game interesting with 6:07 left in the 2009 NHL season John Ericson scored to make the game 2-1. Pulling Osgood giving Detroit the extra skater, Detroit had a chance to put the puck in the back of the net with just seconds left, but Fluery with an amazing "Martin Brodeur roll" like save the Pittsburgh Penguins would become the 2009 Stanley Cup Champions.

Jaromir Jagr was also a big star on the Penguins. He won the Art Ross Trophy five times, in 1995, 1998, 1999, 2000, and 2001; and the Hart Trophy in 1999. Tom Barasso, Paul Coffey, Ron Francis, and Kevin Stevens have also been strong players over the years.

The Penguins almost moved to Portland, Oregon in the late 1990's, but Lemieux (along with some investors) bought the team. Lemieux then came back to play in late 2000 (he had retired in 1997), and continued until 2006.


</doc>
<doc id="25800" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25800" title="Conn Smythe Trophy">
Conn Smythe Trophy

The Conn Smythe Trophy is a trophy in the National Hockey League awarded to the most valuable player in the playoffs each year. It was first awarded in 1965. Montreal Canadiens and Colorado Avalanche goaltender Patrick Roy has won it three times, more than any other player.

Normally the trophy goes to a player of the Stanley Cup champion. Sometimes it goes to someone on the losing team. Trophy winners on losing teams are marked with as asterisk (*) in the list below.



</doc>
<doc id="25801" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25801" title="Los Angeles Kings">
Los Angeles Kings

The Los Angeles Kings are an ice hockey team in the National Hockey League (NHL). They began in 1967. The Kings have never won a Stanley Cup championship or a President's Trophy for top team in the regular season. They made the finals in 1993, and lost to the Montreal Canadiens.

The Kings have been known for their high scoring teams. Marcel Dionne won the Art Ross Trophy as NHL scoring champion in 1980, and Wayne Gretzky won it on the Kings in 1990, 1991, and 1994. Gretzky also won the Hart Trophy as the NHL's most valuable player on the Kings in 1989. Charlie Simmer tied for the most goals (now the Richard Trophy) in 1980. Luc Robitaille, one of the ten highest goal scorers in NHL history, spent most of his years on the Kings.

Other strong players have included Rob Blake, who won the Norris Trophy as best defenceman in 1998; goaltender Rogie Vachon, who was second in voting for the Hart Trophy in 1975; and Dave Taylor, Bernie Nicholls, and Larry Murphy.


</doc>
<doc id="25802" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25802" title="St. Louis Blues">
St. Louis Blues

"For the type of music, please see St. Louis blues."

The St. Louis Blues are an ice hockey team in the National Hockey League (NHL). They began in 1967. They have never won the Stanley Cup championship, though they made the finals in each of their first three seasons. The Blues won the President's Trophy as top team in the regular season in the year 2000.

The name "Blues" is a pun (play on words) between the colour blue and Blues music; thus a blue note is the team's logo. There is a song entitled "St. Louis Blues".

In their first years, they had a good team because of experienced players such as goaltender Glenn Hall. In 1968 Glenn Hall won the Conn Smythe Trophy as most valuable player in the playoffs. But the team did not win in 1968. They had some trouble in the 1970s. In 1980-81 Mike Liut was named best goalie in the NHL. The 1980s were a good decade for the Blues. Mike Liut, Bernie Federko, Doug Gilmour, and Joe Mullen were all important players for the team in the 1980s.

The 1990s also were a good decade. Brett Hull led the NHL in goals in 1990, 1991, and 1992, with the help of centre Adam Oates. Hull is the son of Chicago Blackhawks star Bobby Hull. Brett Hull won the Hart Trophy as most valuable player in 1991. Curtis Joseph was a strong goaltender in the 1990's. Al MacInnis (1999) and Chris Pronger (2000) each won the Norris Trophy for best defence; Pronger also won the Hart Trophy in the year 2000. Doug Weight, Pavol Demitra, and Keith Tkachuk were also strong players in the early 21st century.

The Blues made the playoffs 25 years in a row from 1979-80 to 2003-04, an NHL record. In 2006 they finished last in the NHL.


</doc>
<doc id="25803" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25803" title="Ratio">
Ratio

A ratio between two quantities "A" and "B" is their fraction "A/B". A ratio is a mathematical way of expressing the proportion of "A" to "B". For example, if I bought 20 apples and have only 9 left, what is the proportion (or ratio) of 9 to 20? The answer is 9/20 or 0.45/1. The ratio may also be written as 0.45. Ratios can be changed into percentages, fractions and decimals. For example, the ratio "1:2" could be changed to the proportion "1 in every two", the fraction "1/2", the decimal "0.5", and the percentage "50%". 


</doc>
<doc id="25804" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25804" title="Fraction">
Fraction

In common usage a fraction is any part of a unit.

Fraction may also mean:



</doc>
<doc id="25806" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25806" title="Proportionality">
Proportionality

A proportion (adjective: proportionate) is a relationship between two quantities or numbers. A proportion can be expressed as a word, for example, one man may be described as "smaller" than another man. A proportion can usually be expressed more accurately by "numbers". For example, the proportion, or mathematical relationship, between one man and two men can be written as the numbers "1/2", which is also known as a fraction or ratio. For equations of ratios, see: Proportions.



</doc>
<doc id="25812" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25812" title="Mitochondria">
Mitochondria

Mitochondria are organelles, or parts of a cell. 

Their main job is energy conversion. They oxidise glucose to produce energy that the cell can use. The process is called cellular respiration, which makes ATP, a molecule which the cell can use as a source of energy. The stage which gives ATP is called the citric acid or Krebs cycle.

In addition to supplying cellular energy, mitochondria are involved in a range of other processes, such as signalling, cellular differentiation, cell death, as well as the control of the cell division cycle and cell growth.

It is thought that mitochondria were once independent bacteria, and became part of the eukaryote cell by endosymbiosis.

Although most of a cell's DNA is contained in the cell nucleus, the mitochondrion has its own independent genome. Further, its DNA shows substantial similarity to bacterial genomes.

Mitochondria divide by binary fission similar to bacterial cell division. In single-celled eukaryotes, division of mitochondria is linked to cell division. This division must be controlled so that each daughter cell receives at least one mitochondrion. In other eukaryotes (in humans for example), mitochondria may replicate their DNA and divide in response to the energy needs of the cell, rather than in phase with the cell cycle. 

An individual's mitochondrial genes are not inherited by the same mechanism as nuclear genes. The mitochondria, and therefore the mitochondrial DNA, usually comes from the egg only. The sperm's mitochondria enter the egg, but are marked for later destruction. The egg cell contains relatively few mitochondria, but it is these mitochondria that survive and divide to populate the cells of the adult organism. Mitochondria are, therefore, in most cases inherited down the female line, known as "maternal inheritance". This mode is true for all animals, and most other organisms. However, mitochondria is inherited "paternally" in some conifers plants, though not in pines or yews. 

A single mitochondrion can contain 2–10 copies of its DNA. For this reason, mitochondrial DNA usually is thought to reproduce by binary fission. However, there is some evidence that animal mitochondria can undergo recombination. If recombination does not occur, the whole mitochondrial DNA sequence represents a single haploid genome, which makes it useful for studying the evolutionary history of populations.



</doc>
<doc id="25813" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25813" title="Menominee, Michigan">
Menominee, Michigan

Menominee is a city in the U.S. state of Michigan. Around 13000 people live in Menominee. It is part of the twin-city area with Marinette, Wisconsin. It is on the north bank of the Menominee River where the river empties into Lake Michigan. Marinette, Wisconsin is on the south bank of the river.


</doc>
<doc id="25826" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25826" title="Mortar and pestle">
Mortar and pestle

A mortar and pestle are two tools used with each other to mill (grind) and mix substances.

The "mortar" is bowl-shaped, and used to hold the substance to be ground. Mortars have smooth, rounded bottoms and wide mouths. The "pestle" is a stick used for pounding and grinding. 

Mortar and pestles are sometimes used in pharmacies to crush various ingredients to make drugs. They can also be used in cooking to grind herbs.


</doc>
<doc id="25839" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25839" title="1212">
1212

1212 is a year in the 13th century.




</doc>
<doc id="25842" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25842" title="1192">
1192




</doc>
<doc id="25843" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25843" title="Hiram E. McCallum">
Hiram E. McCallum

Hiram E. McCallum (1900 - January 13, 1989) was a mayor of Toronto, Ontario, Canada, from 1948-1951.


</doc>
<doc id="25845" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25845" title="Walter Cronkite">
Walter Cronkite

Walter Leland Cronkite, Jr. (November 4, 1916 - July 17, 2009) was an American news reporter. He was the anchor of CBS News from 1962 to 1981. Important events he reported included when President John F. Kennedy was shot dead; the Apollo 11 moon landing; the Vietnam War; and the Watergate scandal, which led to President Richard Nixon resigning from his position. Due to how much he knew and his honesty, he was often called "the most trusted man in America."



</doc>
<doc id="25846" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25846" title="Dog Day Afternoon">
Dog Day Afternoon

Dog Day Afternoon is a 1975 movie. It was directed by Sidney Lumet and written by Frank Pierson based on an article from Life magazine. The stars of the movie are Al Pacino, John Cazale, Chris Sarandon, and Charles Durning.


</doc>
<doc id="25856" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25856" title="Cursor">
Cursor

A cursor is the on-screen arrow which the person using the computer controls using the computer mouse. The cursor shows what is being selecting with the mouse.


</doc>
<doc id="25857" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25857" title="Kurt Gödel">
Kurt Gödel

Kurt Gödel (April 28, 1906 Brno, then Austria-Hungary, now Czech Republic – January 14, 1978 Princeton, New Jersey) was a logician, mathematician, and philosopher of mathematics.

Some people believe Gödel was one of the most significant logicians of all time. Gödel's work has had a big impact on scientific and philosophical thinking in the 20th century. Many people, such as Bertrand Russell, A. N. Whitehead, and David Hilbert, tried to use logic and set theory at that time. They wanted to understand the foundations of mathematics.

Gödel is best known for his two incompleteness theorems. The theorems were published in 1931. He was 25 years of age, and had just finished his doctorate at the University of Vienna one year earlier. 

The more famous of the two theorems says that if there are consistent axiomatic systems that are powerful enough to describe themselves, there will be things that are true in those systems that can not be proved within the system itself. 
To prove this theorem, Gödel developed a technique now known as Gödel numbering, which codes formal expressions as natural numbers.

He also showed that the continuum hypothesis cannot be disproved from the accepted axioms of set theory, if those axioms are consistent. He made important contributions to proof theory. He did this by clarifying the connections between classical logic, intuitionistic logic, and modal logic.

Later in his life, Gödel probably suffered from Paranoia. He thought that some people would come and poison him in his food. So when his wife Adele was no longer able to prepare his food, he stopped eating food. He probably died of starvation. 

To put his theories in simple terms: What he discovered was that some theorems in mathematics may be true, but they cannot be proved to be true. 

"This sentence is false".


Therefore, we found a contradiction. "This sentence is false" is a proposition that is called undecidable. We cannot say if it is true or false.



</doc>
<doc id="25863" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25863" title="Tyrannosaurus">
Tyrannosaurus

Tyrannosaurus was a large predatory dinosaur from the Upper Cretaceous period, 68.5 to 65.5 million years ago. When adult, it was about 12 meters long and had a weight of about six tons, even larger than "Allosaurus". The teeth of the "Tyrannosaurus" were up to 16 cm long.

"Tyrannosaurus" ate meat. Some scientists discuss whether it was a hunter or a scavenger, but like most dominant meat-eaters of today, such as lions and hyenas, "Tyrannosaurus" might have been both. It had a very strong jaw, and its bite power could snap the bones of other dinosaurs. 

For a long time, "Tyrannosaurus" was the largest known "carnivorous" dinosaur. Recently, skeletons of other, slightly larger, carnivores have been found, such as "Giganotosaurus", "Spinosaurus", and "Carcharodontosaurus". Skeletons of "Tyrannosaurus" were found on the North American continent, but relatives, such as "Tarbosaurus", have been found in Asia.

The earliest "Tyrannosaurus" skeletons were found in 1902 by Barnum Brown. Henry Fairfield Osborn, president of the American Museum of Natural History, named the species "Tyrannosaurus rex" (meaning "tyrant lizard king") in 1905. The most complete skeleton was found in 1990 in South Dakota and named "Sue" after its finder, Susan Hendrickson.

"Tyrannosaurus" has become well known. Many movies and television shows have featured it, such as Jurassic Park. Its skeletons are popular exhibits in many museums. 

"Tyrannosaurus" became extinct in the Cretaceous–Tertiary extinction event, which wiped out half of all species on Earth.



</doc>
<doc id="25875" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25875" title="Brno">
Brno

Brno (-Czech, German: "Brünn") is the second largest city in the Czech Republic. About 405.000 people live there. It is located in the center of the historical region Moravia. Brno is the capital of the South Moravian Region. 

There are many historical monuments in the city, for example the Špilberk Castle, Villa Tugendhat, or the St. Peter and Paul Cathedral.

Masaryk University, the second largest university in the Czech Republic, is there. Among other universities in the city are Janáček Academy of Music and Performing Arts or Brno University of Technology.


</doc>
<doc id="25876" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25876" title="David Hilbert">
David Hilbert

David Hilbert (Königsberg, Prussia, 23 January 1862 –Göttingen, Germany, 14 February 1943) was a German mathematician. He was one of the most influential mathematicians of his time. 

Hilbert discovered and developed a range of fundamental ideas in many areas. He worked on invariant theory, the axiomization of geometry, and the notion of Hilbert space. This is one of the foundations of functional analysis. Hilbert and his students supplied much of the mathematics needed for quantum mechanics and general relativity. He was one of the founders of proof theory and mathematical logic. He was also one of the first people to make the distinction between mathematics and metamathematics, and warmly defended Cantor's set theory and transfinite numbers. 

In 1895 Hilbert became Chairman of Mathematics at the University of Göttingen, at that time the best research center for mathematics in the world. He remained for the rest of his life. Among his students were: Hermann Weyl, the champion of chess Emanuel Lasker, Ernst Zermelo, and Carl Gustav Hempel. John von Neumann was his assistant. At the University of Göttingen, Hilbert was surrounded by a social circle of some of the most important mathematicians of the 20th century, such as Emmy Noether and Alonzo Church.

The text "Grundlagen der Geometrie" ("Foundations of Geometry") was published by Hilbert in 1899. It proposed a formal set, Hilbert's axioms, instead of the traditional axioms of Euclid. They avoid weaknesses in those of Euclid, whose works at the time were still used textbmathematics is his 1900 presentation of a set of problems that set the course for much of the mathematical research of the 20th century.

He put forward a number of unsolved problems at the International Congress of Mathematicians in Paris in 1900. This is reckoned the most successful and deeply considered compilation of open problems ever to be produced by an individual mathematician. Later he expanded his lit to 23 problems.

In 1920 he proposed explicitly a research project in "metamathematics", which became known as Hilbert's program. He wanted mathematics to be formulated on a solid and complete logical foundation. He believed that in principle this could be done, by showing that: 


He seems to have had both technical and philosophical reasons for formulating this proposal.

After 1912, Hilbert turned his focus to applied mathematics, such as calculus and mathematical physics. His work in these fields is also important.




</doc>
<doc id="25878" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25878" title="Bertrand Russell">
Bertrand Russell

Bertrand Arthur William Russell, 3rd Earl Russell, OM, FRS, (18 May 1872 – 2 February 1970), was one of the world's best-known intellectuals. He was a philosopher, logician, and mathematician. He was born in Wales, but spent most of his life in England. He worked mostly in the 20th century.

Bertrand Russell wrote a lot. He also tried to make philosophy popular. He gave his opinion on many topics. He wrote the essay, "On Denoting", which has been described as one of the most influential essays in philosophy in the 20th Century. He wrote on very serious issues as well as everyday things. Continuing a family tradition in political affairs, he was a prominent liberal as well as a socialist and anti-war activist for most of his long life. Millions looked up to Russell as a prophet of the creative and rational life. At the same time, his stances on many topics were extremely controversial.

Born at the height of Britain's economic and political ascendancy, he died of influenza nearly a century later when the British Empire had all but vanished, its power dissipated in two victorious, but debilitating world wars. Russell's voice carried enormous moral authority, even into his early 90s. Among his other political activities, Russell was a vigorous proponent of nuclear disarmament and an outspoken critic of the American war in Vietnam.

In 1950, Russell was made a Nobel Laureate in Literature "in recognition of his varied and significant writings in which he champions humanitarian ideals and freedom of thought".


This is a selected bibliography of Russell's books in English sorted by year of first publication.

Note: This is a mere sampling, for Russell also authored many pamphlets, introductions, articles and letters to the editor. His works also can be found in any number of anthologies and collections, perhaps most notably, "The Collected Papers of Bertrand Russell", which McMaster University began publishing in 1983. This collection of his shorter and previously unpublished works is now up to 16 volumes, and many more are forthcoming. An additional 3 volumes catalogue just his bibliography. The Russell Archives at McMaster also have more than 30,000 letters that he wrote.

Additional References:

A. Russell

B. Secondary references:







</doc>
<doc id="25882" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25882" title="Alfred North Whitehead">
Alfred North Whitehead

Alfred North Whitehead, OM (15 February 1861–30 December 1947) was an English mathematician who became a philosopher. He was born in Ramsgate, Kent, England, and died in Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA. He wrote on algebra, logic, foundations of mathematics, philosophy of science, physics, metaphysics, and education. He is the coauthor, along with Bertrand Russell, of the important "Principia Mathematica".


</doc>
<doc id="25886" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25886" title="Wikipedia:Policy dispute">
Wikipedia:Policy dispute

A policy dispute is where a policy has been created, but there are at least two different factions which disagree on what the policy is or how it works. If a policy is disputed, the two groups should discuss the policy on its discussion page to attempt to reach an agreement or compromise.



</doc>
<doc id="25887" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25887" title="Category:Wikipedia policies and guidelines">
Category:Wikipedia policies and guidelines

This category includes all Simple English Wikipedia in any state (proposed, official, disputed, rejected, or humorous), as well as all other pages related to SEWikipedia policies and guidelines.


</doc>
<doc id="25891" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25891" title="Mask">
Mask

A mask is a type of clothing which covers the face. It is similar to a veil, but more close-fitting.

There are different reasons why people use masks. A person can use masks so others do not know who they are (as when a robber steals from a bank). Or, a mask may keep someones face safe from harm (like a gas mask so harmful gases do not get into the lungs).

There are many practical uses for masks in everyday life. Mostly, the masks used are "semi-masks" which cover only the bottom half of the face, the mouth and nose. An example is the use of masks in operating theatres, and
by wood-workers. In surgery, the purpose is to keep bacteria off the patient; in wood-working the purpose is to keep wood fibres out of the lungs.

In Venetian masks only the top half of the face is covered, to prevent recognition. Ice hockey masks, used in the Hannibal Lecter films, cover the whole face to protect it from the hockey puck moving at high speed.

The word 'mask' might have came from other languages. The French "masque", the Italian "maschera", the Spanish "máscara", the Latin (not classical) "mascus/masca (meaning "ghost")" or the Arabic "maskharah (meaning "jester" or "man in masquerade")" all use the same word.

One of the oldest masks found is the Death Mask. This stone mask is 9000 years old and is probably the oldest mask in the world. It is kept in Musée de la bible et Terre Sainte, Paris. 
There are also three masks from the same period, kept in The Israel Museum, Jerusalem.

Masks are used in many magical or shamanistic rituals in non-western societies. The celebration or appeasement of animistic spirits takes place with dance and song in ancient performances in many parts of the world. In these events performers use costumes and masks to mimic the supposed spirits.

From this kind of beginning, the use of masks in ancient Greek theatre may have started. The actors and chorus in this early theatre all used masks.

There are some other uses of the word 'mask', which arise by extension. That means using 'mask' as a metaphor. In film a mask is a screen which cuts out part of the image. In social theory, a mask is the behaviour a person takes on in his role or job. Thus policemen, head teachers, army commanders, prime ministers act as they are expected to act (most of the time). The inference is that behind the mask is the 'real' person. Their role is a mask. As a verb, 'to mask' means to cover or hide.




</doc>
<doc id="25893" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25893" title="Holiday">
Holiday

A holiday is an annually reoccurring festive day. The word "holiday" is derived from the words "holy" and "day." 



"In the order of the Wheel of the Year:"


Catholics also celebrate saint's days.










</doc>
<doc id="25896" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25896" title="Spokane, Washington">
Spokane, Washington

Spokane (Pronounced: spo can) is a city in the U.S. state of Washington. Spokane is in the eastern half of the state, close to the border with the state of Idaho.

Spokane is the second largest city in all of Washington state, only Seattle is larger. Spokane is the main city for a large area including all of eastern Washington and northern Idaho. Spokane is the business, and industrial city in the area.

The population of the city is 199,630 and the population of the metro area of Spokane is 435,644.

Spokane was founded in 1871 when a sawmill was built on the spokane river waterfall. In 1889 a fire burned down all of the downtown. 2 years after the fire, in 1892 the Railroad came to Spokane, this made it easier for people to get to and from the city.
In 1974 Spokane hosted the World's Fair. This brought lots of people and money to Spokane.

The Spokane River flows through the downtown of the city where it creates a large waterfall called the Spokane Falls. This waterfall is important to the city because it was where the first building in Spokane was built, and it is very pretty.

The river is also important because many dams have been built on it so the city can have Electricity. It also provides a place for swimming and boating.


</doc>
<doc id="25925" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25925" title="Template:User es-4">
Template:User es-4


</doc>
<doc id="25928" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25928" title="Category:User ASL">
Category:User ASL


</doc>
<doc id="25929" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25929" title="Category:User an">
Category:User an


</doc>
<doc id="25930" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25930" title="Category:User ast">
Category:User ast


</doc>
<doc id="25932" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25932" title="Category:User ca">
Category:User ca


</doc>
<doc id="25933" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25933" title="Category:User de">
Category:User de


</doc>
<doc id="25936" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25936" title="Category:User eo">
Category:User eo


</doc>
<doc id="25937" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25937" title="Category:User es">
Category:User es


</doc>
<doc id="25938" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25938" title="Category:User eu">
Category:User eu


</doc>
<doc id="25939" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25939" title="Category:User fi">
Category:User fi


</doc>
<doc id="25940" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25940" title="Category:User fr">
Category:User fr


</doc>
<doc id="25941" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25941" title="Category:User gl">
Category:User gl


</doc>
<doc id="25942" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25942" title="Category:User ia">
Category:User ia


</doc>
<doc id="25943" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25943" title="Category:User it">
Category:User it


</doc>
<doc id="25944" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25944" title="Category:User ja">
Category:User ja


</doc>
<doc id="25945" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25945" title="Category:User la">
Category:User la


</doc>
<doc id="25946" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25946" title="Category:User nds">
Category:User nds


</doc>
<doc id="25947" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25947" title="Category:User nl">
Category:User nl


</doc>
<doc id="25948" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25948" title="Category:User pl">
Category:User pl


</doc>
<doc id="25949" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25949" title="Category:User pt">
Category:User pt


</doc>
<doc id="25950" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25950" title="Category:User qu">
Category:User qu


</doc>
<doc id="25951" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25951" title="Category:User sv">
Category:User sv


</doc>
<doc id="25952" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25952" title="Category:User zh">
Category:User zh


</doc>
<doc id="25954" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25954" title="Category:User ja-1">
Category:User ja-1


</doc>
<doc id="25955" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25955" title="Category:User ja-N">
Category:User ja-N


</doc>
<doc id="25956" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25956" title="Category:User fr-1">
Category:User fr-1


</doc>
<doc id="25957" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25957" title="Category:User es-1">
Category:User es-1


</doc>
<doc id="25958" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25958" title="Category:User es-2">
Category:User es-2


</doc>
<doc id="25959" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25959" title="Category:User es-3">
Category:User es-3


</doc>
<doc id="25960" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25960" title="Category:User es-4">
Category:User es-4


</doc>
<doc id="25961" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25961" title="Category:User es-N">
Category:User es-N


</doc>
<doc id="25962" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25962" title="M16 rifle">
M16 rifle

The M16 is an assault rifle used by the United States since the Vietnam War in 1963, based on the AR-15. Since 1975, the M16 has been used by many different countries. First designed by Eugene Stoner in the United States of America, it is currently the standard infantry rifle used by the United States Military Forces. The rifle is being used by over 80 nations. 

The M16 uses the 5.56mm NATO (.223) calibre cartridge, with a muzzle velocity (the speed of bullet leaving the rifle) of over 900 meters per second (over 3,000 fps), and has a maximum effective range of 550 meters, with a rate of fire of approximately 800 rounds per minute. The M16A1 can shoot fully automatic and semi automatic; other versions have three-round-burst fire and semi-automatic, and the M4A1 Carbine retains full automatic and semi automatic fire. The M16 normally holds 30 bullets in its magazine. 

There is also an M16 variant for the Canadian Army called "Diemaco C-7". The "Diemaco C-7" rifles have maple leaves on the left side.




</doc>
<doc id="25963" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25963" title="Category:User en-N">
Category:User en-N


</doc>
<doc id="25964" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25964" title="Category:User en-4">
Category:User en-4


</doc>
<doc id="25965" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25965" title="Category:User en-3">
Category:User en-3


</doc>
<doc id="25966" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25966" title="Category:User en-2">
Category:User en-2


</doc>
<doc id="25967" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25967" title="Category:User en-1">
Category:User en-1


</doc>
<doc id="25968" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25968" title="Category:User de-2">
Category:User de-2


</doc>
<doc id="25969" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25969" title="Category:User de-3">
Category:User de-3


</doc>
<doc id="25970" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25970" title="Category:User an-2">
Category:User an-2


</doc>
<doc id="25971" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25971" title="Category:User ASL-N">
Category:User ASL-N


</doc>
<doc id="25972" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25972" title="Category:User ASL-4">
Category:User ASL-4


</doc>
<doc id="25973" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25973" title="Category:User ASL-3">
Category:User ASL-3


</doc>
<doc id="25974" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25974" title="Category:User ASL-2">
Category:User ASL-2


</doc>
<doc id="25975" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25975" title="Category:User ASL-1">
Category:User ASL-1


</doc>
<doc id="25976" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25976" title="Category:User sv-N">
Category:User sv-N


</doc>
<doc id="26000" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26000" title="Category:User fr-N">
Category:User fr-N


</doc>
<doc id="26002" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26002" title="Category:User de-1">
Category:User de-1


</doc>
<doc id="26027" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26027" title="Template:Guideline">
Template:Guideline

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="26028" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26028" title="Foreskin">
Foreskin

The foreskin is a fold of skin that covers the glans penis. The foreskin protects the glans penis when the penis is not erect. Most mammals have foreskin.

The outside of the foreskin is like normal skin but the inside of the foreskin is a membrane like the inside of an eyelid or mouth. The foreskin is attached to the penis by the frenulum, but it can move. Muscles made it very stretchy. The five most sensitive areas of the penis are on the foreskin.

The World Health Organization say that there are lots of uses for the foreskin, such as keeping the glans penis moist, protecting it or to make sexual intercourse feel nicer since it has so many nerves in it. 

However, Moses and Bailey (1998), say that "it has not been demonstrated that [the foreskin] is associated with increased male sexual pleasure."

"Circumcision" is when the foreskin is cut off. It may be done to satisfy religious or aesthetic views. Some believe that circumcision may reduce disease, though most medical associations agree the benefits are small (see ).
The foreskin can also be pierced or slit for fashion reasons.




</doc>
<doc id="26032" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26032" title="Sid Vicious">
Sid Vicious

Sid Vicious (May 10, 1957 – February 2, 1979) was an English punk musician. His real name was "John Simon Ritchie-Beverly". He was a member of the band The Sex Pistols from February 1977 to January 1978, but played his instrument (the bass guitar) very badly. His bad behavior was more important to the band than playing his instrument well.

On October 22, 1978 his girlfriend Nancy Spungen was killed with a knife. It is still not clear if Sid Vicious killed her. Before he had to go to court, he killed himself by using drugs.

A movie was made about the life of Sid Vicious and Nancy. The name of this movie is "Sid and Nancy." Gary Oldman played Vicious.


</doc>
<doc id="26033" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26033" title="Wii">
Wii

The Wii (pronounced "we") is a video game console (a video game machine) made by Nintendo.
It first came out on November 19, 2006, in North America. It plays video games made for the Wii and the Nintendo GameCube. It will be replaced by the Wii U in 2012.

Nintendo, the company that made the Wii, says they want to focus more on new ways to play games. The Wii uses a controller, called the Wii Remote, that is very different from the controllers of other video game consoles. It can be held with just one hand, and uses technology that senses the player's movements.

By making the Wii, Nintendo says they are trying to change the way video games are looked at and played. The Wii was made for all people of any age or interest. By making it easier to play, Nintendo thinks that they can get people who do not normally play games to start playing.

There are many things called Channels on the Wii. They are called Channels because just like on TV, you can look through channels by pressing − and +. Just like watching different channels on TV, you usually can not find all the things you want to know on one channel.
Each Wii Channel does something different. Some of them need to connect to the internet to work, using either Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection or WiiConnect24, but for some information that has been saved can be viewed without a connection to the internet.

Games are played on this channel after a game disc, or Nintendo Gamecube disk, is put in the disc slot. 

The Wii Shop Channel is used to buy downloadable Virtual Console and WiiWare games and also Wii channels mentioned here. An internet connection is required to use this channel.

The Mii Channel is where a player can make avatars to represent them, either in the Mii Channel's online feature Mii Parade, or in games and most other Wii channels mentioned here.

The News Channel is used to look up news on different topics, ranging from your country's news, to sport and entertainment. An internet connection is required to use this channel.

The Forecast Channel is used to check the weather forecast around the world. There is a feature that lets you select your local area to receive weather updates. An internet connection is required to use this channel.

The Everybody Votes Channel is a channel containing regularly updated polls. There are three national polls (updated on Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays) along with one worldwide poll. An internet connection is required to use this channel.

The Internet Channel is used to access the Internet. It is based on the Opera Browser. You need an internet connection to use this channel. From 1 September 2009, the Internet Channel became free to download after an update was released to support Adobe Flash. Refunds consisting of a free Virtual Console NES title worth 500 Wii Points were offered by Nintendo to Wii owners who had downloaded it beforehand for the same price.

The Check Mii Out Channel (known as Mii Contest Channel in the UK) is used to send and pick up other Miis, and is also used in voting contests to see which Mii is the best. An internet connection is required to use this channel.

The Nintendo Channel is used to watch videos, collect and send feedback on certain Wii titles, and to download Nintendo DS game demos using the DS Download Service. An internet connection is needed to use this channel.

The Today and Tomorrow Channel is a new channel, released on 9 September 2009, used to view daily horoscopes. Up to six Mii characters can be registered. It offers advice on five topics; love, work, study, communication, and money. It also offers hints on food, fun, and care. Another feature is a Mii compatibility check.

The Homebrew Channel is an unofficial channel used for loading unofficial software or homebrew. With homebrew, you can do many things that the Wii cannot normally do on its own (use Google Earth, play DVDs, stream media from a PC, play free games, run emulators, etc.).

Currently, all Wii consoles can install The Homebrew Channel via bugs in some games ("Smash Stack" ("Super Smash Brothers Brawl"), "Return of the Jedi" ("", "Indiana Pwns", etc.)

The Wii Speak Channel is downloadable once you receive the Wii microphone, used in certain games like "Animal Crossing: City Folk". An internet connection is required to use the Wii Speak Channel.

The Wii Remote is a controller that is just like a regular television remote. The Wii Remote uses accelerometers and infrared light sensors (from LEDs inside a 'sensor bar') to know where it is in 3D space. This lets people control the game using physical movement and also by pressing buttons. The controller connects to the console using Bluetooth. It has a rumble feature (the controller shakes when the game being played tells it to do so) and a speaker inside the remote. An attachment to the Wii Remote that comes with the Wii console and can also be bought by itself in stores is the "Nunchuk" controller. It also has an accelerometer and an analog stick with two buttons, and connects to the bottom of the Wii Remote with a wire. A wrist strap can also be used to stop the player from dropping or throwing the Wii Remote. Because of problems with the straps, Nintendo has given all players a free stronger replacement for all straps. It also comes with a cover called the Wii Remote Jacket, which protects the Wii Remote and the thing that it hits from being damaged or broken.
It also gives a stronger grip which makes it harder for the Wii Remote to slide out of players' hands.

Nintendo and many other companies have made attachments for the Wii Remote. They are usually connected by a wire or by a small plug at the bottom of the Wii Remote.

The Nunchuk is the most common attachment for the Wii Remote. It is made to fit perfectly into someone's hand. It comes packaged with the Wii. The Nunchuk has an analog stick on the front and two buttons on the back. A Nunchuk is needed for many Wii games, as it is required to move characters around the game.

The Wii Motion Plus connects to the bottom of the Wii remote to help the sensors find the remote more accurately. It improves the playing of some games.
Nintendo has released a "classic" controller for the Wii. The design is similar to the SNES's controller, but has two analog sticks and four shoulder buttons as opposed to two. It is very good for playing older games that can be bought from the Wii Shop Channel, and is made mainly for that purpose.

There is also a case that looks like a gun for the Wii Remote and Nunchuk. It is named the Zapper after a NES gun controller. When the Wii Remote and the Nunchuk are placed inside it, the shape of the controller in the player's hands is changed. The Zapper does not actually plug into the Wii Remote. It just holds it in place. The Zapper also includes a free, short game to help the player get used to it.

There are many pretend instruments made by Nintendo and other companies for playing music video games like Guitar Hero and Rock Band. So far, they have made guitars and drums. They plug into the bottom of the Wii Remote. There are also microphones that plug into the USB port on the back on the Wii console.

There is also a plastic wheel. These come with Mario Kart Wii and other racing or car driving games. The Wii remote goes into the middle of the wheel. There are some built-in buttons on the wheel to make it easier to click on things on the screen.



</doc>
<doc id="26037" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26037" title="Joseph Strutt">
Joseph Strutt

Joseph Strutt was an English engraver in 1749. He put patterns into objects (like words into stone) and collected things from the past. He died in 1802.


</doc>
<doc id="26039" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26039" title="Tricia Nixon Cox">
Tricia Nixon Cox

Patricia "Tricia" Nixon Cox was born on February 21, 1946 in Whittier, California. She is the daughter of former US president Richard Nixon and Pat Nixon. She is the older sister of Julie Nixon Eisenhower.

Unlike her sister, Tricia performed many ceremonial jobs, like going with her father to campaign stops and state visits. She married Edward F. Cox on June 12, 1971.

She tutored inner-city children.


</doc>
<doc id="26041" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26041" title="Grocon">
Grocon

Grocon Pty Ltd is a big Australian construction company based in Melbourne. It is owned by the Grollo family.

The company was involved in building the Eureka Tower and Rialto Towers.


</doc>
<doc id="26042" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26042" title="Głuchołazy">
Głuchołazy

Głuchołazy ("Bad Ziegenhals") is a town in Poland, in Opole Voivodship, in Nysa County. It had a population of 15,052 in 2004.



</doc>
<doc id="26044" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26044" title="1652">
1652




</doc>
<doc id="26045" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26045" title="1124">
1124





</doc>
<doc id="26047" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26047" title="Columbia River">
Columbia River

The Columbia River is a river in British Columbia, Canada, and the U.S. states of Washington and Oregon. The Columbia River is about 1,243 miles long. Its largest tributary is the Snake River, which flows west from the state of Idaho. The lower part of the Columbia forms the border between the states Washington and Oregon. The Columbia drains 254,000 square miles (657,857 km) of land, beginning in the Canadian Rockies and flowing west through the Cascade Range, to where it empties into the Pacific Ocean.

There are 14 dams on the Columbia River. Three are in Canada, and the remaining 11 are in the United States. The dams generate hydroelectricity and provide flood control and water for farms in the lower Columbia basin. There are also dams on the Snake River and many other tributaries. These dams have, along with their benefits, caused salmon populations in the river to diminish.


</doc>
<doc id="26048" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26048" title="1597">
1597




</doc>
<doc id="26049" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26049" title="Martyr">
Martyr

A martyr is a person who died or was killed because of their faith, religious beliefs.

It is also used for people who die for any belief or idea, that is not religious.


</doc>
<doc id="26050" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26050" title="Whittier, California">
Whittier, California

Whittier is a city in Los Angeles County, California, USA. It is near Pico Rivera, Santa Fe Springs, La Habra and La Mirada. It is one of the oldest cities in the Los Angeles Area. Early settlers included Manuel Nieto and Pio Pico. In the 1880s, the land that is now Whittier was bought by Quakers, who named the city after John Greenleaf Whittier, a Quaker poet. These Quakers started Whittier College. In the early 1900s, Whittier was mostly orange groves, but became a suburb of Los Angeles after World War II. In 1987, a large earthquake hit the city, destroying many buildings and leading to a wave of civic activism. This activism helped save many old buildings, including the Bank of America Building, the Southern Pacific Railroad Depot, and the Hoover Hotel.

The 2010 United States Census reported that Whittier had a population of 85,331.

Whittier's largest employers are Whittier College, Presbyterian Hospital, and Whittwood Mall. There has been talk of new development on the site of Nelles School for Boys and in Uptown. Besides Whittier College, Whittier has a community college, Rio Hondo College, five public high schools (Whittier, California, Pioneer, Santa Fe, and La Serna High), and several elementary and middle schools.

Many famous people have lived in Whittier, including Richard Nixon, who attended Whittier High and was a lawyer in the Bank of America Building.


</doc>
<doc id="26051" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26051" title="List of German institutions">
List of German institutions

This is a list of German institutions.






</doc>
<doc id="26052" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26052" title="List of French institutions">
List of French institutions

This is a list of French institutions.






</doc>
<doc id="26054" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26054" title="Category:Video game consoles">
Category:Video game consoles

This category is for video game consoles.


</doc>
<doc id="26057" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26057" title="Category:User pt-N">
Category:User pt-N


</doc>
<doc id="26059" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26059" title="Category:User pt-1">
Category:User pt-1


</doc>
<doc id="26061" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26061" title="Category:User pt-2">
Category:User pt-2


</doc>
<doc id="26064" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26064" title="Category:User pt-3">
Category:User pt-3


</doc>
<doc id="26066" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26066" title="Template:User pt-4">
Template:User pt-4

<includeonly>
</includeonly>


</doc>
<doc id="26067" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26067" title="Category:User pt-4">
Category:User pt-4


</doc>
<doc id="26071" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26071" title="Category:Bridges">
Category:Bridges

Bridges


</doc>
<doc id="26073" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26073" title="Template:Infobox CVG">
Template:Infobox CVG


</doc>
<doc id="26074" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26074" title="EarthBound">
EarthBound

EarthBound (called Mother 2 in Japan) is a console role-playing game made by Ape, Inc. and published by Nintendo for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System game console. It is the second game in the "EarthBound" series, after "Mother". It has a sequel called "Mother 3".

There are many places in the world of "EarthBound". It starts in Eagleland, "EarthBound"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s version of the United States. The player can explore many other areas, including Winters, a snowy country based on the United Kingdom, Dalaam, an oriental land, and Scaraba, an Egyptian-themed land. 

Two areas from the series have been used in the "Super Smash Bros." series. "Super Smash Bros. Melee" had a level about the first area, Onett, and another level called Fourside. Onett was reused in "Super Smash Bros. Brawl".

There are many characters in "EarthBound", but only four main playable characters.


Besides playable characters, there are other important characters.


"EarthBound" takes place in the year 199X (meaning somewhere in between 1990 and 1999). Ness is sleeping, when a large crash is heard, which wakes him up. He goes to see what it is, and arrives to see a meteor had crashed. His friend, Pokey, tells Ness to go away because he's bothering the cops, even though the cops are finding Pokey annoying. He returns home, and is awoken by a loud knocking, and Pokey comes in. He tells Ness that his brother is missing, and Ness, Pokey, and Ness' dog King go to the meteor to find Picky. After they find Picky, a being that is at first thought to be a bee flies out of the meteor, and tells them about the future, Giygas, and that legends say that three boys and a girl would save the universe. When Picky and Pokey are returned to their house, their mom is frightened by Buzz Buzz and swats him. This fatally injures him, and before he dies, he gives Ness an item called the Sound Stone, and tells him to find the eight "Your Sanctuary" spots. Ness goes to find these Your Sanctuary spots, as well as the two other boys and the one girl.

"EarthBound" is a turn-based role-playing game. When in battle, the player can do many different things, including Fight, PSI, Goods, Auto-Fight, and Run Away. Fight has a character use his or her weapon on an enemy, PSI lets the character use PSI if he or she has any to use, Goods lets the player use an item in the selected character's inventory, Auto-Fight lets the computer take control of the characters, and Run Away obviously has a chance to end the battle. 

Nintendo removed many things from the English version of "EarthBound". They removed any reference to child abuse, any direct reference to death, the Red Cross logo, and any reference to religion. Despite people thinking the crosses were removed over religious references, they were removed because of Nintendo not wanting to deal with a law suit over it, as it's a copyrighted image.

"EarthBound" and its series has had a strong cult following in and outside of Japan. It has its own web site called Starmen.net, and has had multiple petitions, including one to release "Mother 1 + 2" in English and one to release "Mother 3" in English. Both of these petitions had very many signatures, but have not been successful.

"EarthBound" was re-released for the Game Boy Advance along with "Mother" as "Mother 1 + 2", only in Japan. It has been rated by the ESRB for release on the Wii's Virtual Console, but it has no release date. It was going to have a sequel on the Nintendo 64 called "EarthBound 64", and it was going to be in 3D. However, after being delayed for many years, it was cancelled. Five years later, "Nintendo" announced that it was being re-released for the Game Boy Advance as "Mother 3", and would feature the same plot and characters.



</doc>
<doc id="26075" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26075" title="Mother (video game)">
Mother (video game)

Mother (マザー Mazā) was a video game sold only in Japan for the Family Computer (FC). They planned to sell the game in the USA, but Nintendo of America chose not to release it. This is because when they finished making it into English, the Super Nintendo Entertainment System was already being sold.




</doc>
<doc id="26078" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26078" title="Mother 1 + 2">
Mother 1 + 2

Mother 1 + 2 is a video game on the Nintendo Game Boy Advance which includes "Mother" and "Mother 2" ("EarthBound" US). It is not known if it will be made into English and sold in the United States, though it looks unlikely. Much of the music is different than the console games ("Mother 2" is mostly the same, but "Mother" was changed a lot to make it similar to the United States one that was not sold).



</doc>
<doc id="26079" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26079" title="Mother 3">
Mother 3

Mother 3 is a video game for the Game Boy Advance, made by Brownie Brown and HAL Laboratory. It was released on April 20, 2006 and it is the third game in the "Mother" video game series, called "EarthBound" outside of Japan. 

The game was kept secret until it appeared in June of 2003 during a "Mother 1 + 2" commercial in Japan. Once it appeared, the game stayed near the top of Famitsu's Most Wanted Games list .

"Mother 3" was first on the Nintendo 64 and then later on the Nintendo 64DD, and was going to be called "Earthbound 64". It was canceled after the developers were having problems making the 3D graphics work. It was moved to the Game Boy Advance, and came out in 2006. It uses much stuff from "EarthBound 64", including the characters Lucas, Claus, Flint, and Boney, as well as the villain of the game.





</doc>
<doc id="26080" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26080" title="Template:EarthBound series">
Template:EarthBound series


</doc>
<doc id="26085" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26085" title="Cardcaptor Sakura">
Cardcaptor Sakura

Cardcaptor Sakura is a manga series from Japan. It is also an anime series. "Cardcaptor Sakura" is sometimes abbreviated as CCS.

CCS was created in 1996. CCS was created by a team of artists named CLAMP. CLAMP has created many other series, but CCS is one of the most popular.

CCS has been translated into English by a company named Nelvana. The name of the translated version is "Cardcaptors".

The story is about a young girl named Sakura who saves the world. The magical Clow Cards are missing, and Sakura must find them. When she finds the Clow Cards, the world will be safe.There are 3 seasons of CCS. After she finds all cards she mustt face Yue with Shaoran to see who gets to be Clow Card Master!

Sakura has many friends who help her. The story is also about Sakura's friendships.

The characters' Japanese names are followed by their English names.
"Cardcaptor Sakura" is shown in many countries around the world. CCS is popular, because it is very cute. There are many posters and many toys about CCS.


</doc>
<doc id="26086" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26086" title="1173">
1173


</doc>
<doc id="26091" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26091" title="Allies">
Allies

In general, allies are people or groups that are working together to achieve some common purpose.

When written with a capital A, Allies usually means 


</doc>
<doc id="26092" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26092" title="Sunderland">
Sunderland

Sunderland (pronounced: , or ) in North East England was a county borough, and is now part of the City of Sunderland in Tyne and Wear. It sits at the mouth of the River Wear
Sunderland started as three small villages:

Sunderland grew as a port, mostly selling coal and salt. In the 1300s people began to build ships along the river bank. By 1835 the port of Sunderland was so important that its name was used when the three old villages became the a borough. Sunderland became a city in 1992.

A person born in Sunderland is sometimes called a "Mackem".

In 674 Benedict Biscop built the Wearmouth ("St. Peter's") monastery. He was given the land by King Ecgfrith of Northumbria. Biscop's monastery was the first monastery built of stone in Northumbria. Biscop brought glass makers from France. This was the start of glass making in Britain.

In 686 the community was taken over by Ceolfrid, and Wearmouth monastery, and its other site in Jarrow, became very important places of learning in Anglo-Saxon England. The library had about 300 books, all of them were hand written and painted.
The Codex Amiatinus, was written and painted at the monastery and was probably worked on by Bede who was born at Wearmouth in 673.
Bede wrote the "Historia ecclesiastica gentis Anglorum (The Ecclesiastical History of the English People)" in 731. This is why he is often called : "The father of English history".
In the late eighth century the Vikings began to raid the coast, and by the middle of the ninth century the monastery had been abandoned.

In 930 King Athelstan of England gave the land on the south bank of the river to the Bishop of Durham. This is why the area is still called Bishopwearmouth.

By 1100, the Bishopwearmouth parish included a small fishing village at the mouth of the river (modern day East End) known as 'Soender-land' (which changed into 'Sunderland'). This settlement was granted a charter in 1179 by Hugh Pudsey, then the Bishop of Durham.

By 1346 ships were being built at Wearmouth. The merchant Thomas Menville started building ships so he could transport the things he wanted to sell.

In 1589, salt making started in Sunderland. Large vats, called ‘’panns’’, of seawater were put on coal fires. When the water boiled the salt was left behind. This is known as salt panning. Today the road leading to where the pans were is still called Pann's Bank. It on the river bank near the city centre. As more coal was needed to heat the salt pans, coal mining started in the area. Only poor quality coal was used in salt panning; the best coal was sold, ipped out of the town. This is why the port began to grow. This put Sunderland in competition for the first time with its coal-trading neighbour Newcastle.

Before the English Civil War in 1642, King Charles I said Newcastle could be the only town in the east of England which could send coal by ship. This had a big impact on Sunderland which was selling more and more coal. This created resentment toward Newcastle and toward the idea of having a king. When the civil war began, the mainly Protestant Sunderland sided with Parliament against the mostly Catholic Newcastle. This was good for Sunderland's business, because Parliament blockaded (blocked) the Tyne. This stopped the Newcastle coal trade and allowing the Sunderland coal trade to grow. When an army from Scotland came to fight the King it was based in Sunderland.

The River Wear was not very deep, so the coal had to be loaded onto big boats called "keels" and taken downriver to the coal ships which were called "colliers".

In 1719 Sunderland and Bishopwearmouth were too big for the only parish church, which was in Bishopwearmouth. A new parish of Sunderland was created and Holy Trinity, Sunderland parish church was built. The three original settlements of Wearmouth (Bishopwearmouth, Monkwearmouth and Sunderland) had started to join up. This was because of the success of the port of Sunderland as well as the salt panning and the shipbuilding along the banks of the Wear. Around this time, Sunderland was also known as 'Sunderland-near-the-Sea'.

Local government was divided between the three churches (Holy Trinity, Sunderland, St. Michael's, Bishopwearmouth, and St. Peter's Church, Monkwearmouth). When cholera broke out in 1831 the "select vestrymen", as the church councillors were called, did not know what to about the epidemic. Many were frightened to say that a disease has started because it might stop their businesses from making money. They printed notices which said there was no disease in the town, and saying that the doctors who said that there was disease did not know what they were talking about.

Sunderland was a big trading port at the time. It was the first British town to be affected by 'Indian cholera' epidemic. The first victim, William Sproat, died on October 23 1831. Sunderland was put under , so that people could not leave the town. The port was blockaded, so that ships could not spread the disease to other ports. But in December of that year cholera was in Gateshead and it spread across the country killing about 32,000 people

Jack Crawford was one of the first to die in the epidemic. There are two statues to Jack, one in Mowbray Park near the Civic Centre, and the other next to Holy Trinity Church.

Sunderland got its first Member of Parliament after the Reform Act of 1832, and the Borough of Sunderland created in 1836, although impatient citizens elected Andrew White to be Mayor in December 1835.

The river at Sunderland is in a narrow valley, and the town grew up on plateaus high above the river. This meant it never had the problem of allowing people to cross the river without stopping high masted vessels. Rowland Burdon MP pushed for the Wearmouth Bridge which was built in 1796. It was the second iron bridge ever built. Only the famous Ironbridge itself is older, but Wearmouth bridge was over twice as long and only three-quarters the weight of the Ironbridge. Wearmouth Bridge was the biggest single span bridge in the world. Farther up the river, another bridge, the Queen Alexandra Bridge, was built in 1910, linking the areas of Pallion and Southwick. It was designed for trains to run across too, but the railway section was never completed.

The Victoria Hall was a large concert hall on Toward Road facing onto Mowbray Park. On June 16 1883 183 children died. During a variety show, children rushed down the stairs for treats. At the bottom of the staircase the door only opened inward and was bolted so that only one child at a time could get through. The children pushed down the stairs to the door. Those at the front were trapped, and were crushed by the weight of the crowd behind them.

The Victoria Hall disaster is still the worst of its kind in Britain. A memorial statue, which is a crying mother holding a dead child, is now back in Mowbray Park with a protective canopy. The newspaper report of the tragedy were so shocking that an inquiry was set up. This committee said that public buildings should have outward opening emergency exits. This led to the invention of 'push bar' emergency doors. This law still remains in full force to this day. The Victoria Hall was used until 1941 when it was destroyed by a German bomb.

As the traditional industries have declined, electronics, chemicals, and paper making have replaced them. Some of these new industries, are in Washington, which has more space to allow purpose built factories. The Nissan car plant, and the nearby North East Aircraft Museum are on the site of the old Sunderland Airport

Since 1990 industry along the banks of the Wear has changed a lot. Housing, shopping parks and business centres have been built where the shipbuilding yards were. The National Glass Centre is also there, next to the University of Sunderland’s new “St Peter’s Campus”. On the south side of the river the old Vaux Brewery site has been cleared so that new houses, shops and offices can be built close to the city centre.

Sunderland was the one of the most heavily bombed areas in England during World War II. As a result, much of the town centre was rebuilt in a boring concrete style. But some fine old buildings remain. These include Holy Trinity built in 1719 for an independent Sunderland, St. Michaels's Church, built as Bishopwearmouth Parish Church and now known as Sunderland Minster and St. Peter's Church, Monkwearmouth, part of which dates from AD 674, and was the original monastery.
St. Andrew's Roker, so-called "Cathedral of the Arts and Crafts Movement", contains work by William Morris, Ernest Gimson and Eric Gill.

Sunderland was made a municipal borough of County Durham in 1835. Under the Local Government Act 1888, it was given further status as a county borough with independence from county council control. In 1974, under the Local Government Act 1972, the county borough was abolished and its area combined with that of other districts to form the Metropolitan Borough of Sunderland in Tyne and Wear. See City of Sunderland

Sunderland has the motto of Nil Desperandum Auspice Deo this means Never Despair, Trust In God

Much of the city is on a low range of hills running parallel to the coast. On average, it is around 80 metres above sea level. Sunderland is divided by the River Wear which passes through the middle of the city in a deep valley, part of which is known as the Hylton gorge. The only two road bridges connecting the north and south halves of the City are the Queen Alexandra Bridge at Pallion and the Wearmouth Bridge just to the north of the City centre. A third bridge carries the A19 trunk road over the Wear to the West of the City.

Most of the suburbs of Sunderland are west of the city centre with 70% of its population living on the south side of the river and 30% on the north side. The city extends to the seafront at Hendon and Ryhope (on the south) and Seaburn (on the north).
The area is part of the Anglican Diocese of Durham. It has been in the Roman Catholic Diocese of Hexham and Newcastle since the Catholic bishops returned in 1850.

Some Sunderland suburbs have most streets beginning with the same letter:

Sunderland has cool winters and warm summers. Being on the coast Sunderland is a little warmer in the winter than the national average, but a little cooler in summer.
Average rainfall is below the UK national average due to an East coast location.

As with most UK East-coast towns, Sunderland sometimes gets sea fog known locally as "Fret". This is most common in the summer months (April - September). These frets can be very dense, are often very localised, and can appear and disappear in a matter of minutes.

Sunderland is the largest city, by population and area, between Leeds and Edinburgh.

The City of Sunderland is the 22nd largest borough in England and the largest in the North East. However, as well as including the Sunderland it also includes a number of surrounding towns and villages, such as Washington, Houghton-le-Spring and Hetton-le-Hole.

98.1% of the population are white, with 1% Asian and 0.4% mixed-race.

In 2001, the most ethnically mixed ward of the city was the (now abolished) Thornholme area - just to the south of the city centre Thornholme included the suburbs of Ashbrooke and Eden Vale. Here, 89.4% are white, 7.8% are Asian and 1.3% are mixed-race.

The least ethnically diverse wards are in the north of the city. The area of Castletown is made up of 99.3% white, 0.4% Asian and 0.2% mixed-race.

According to census statistics, 81.5% of Sunderland residents class themselves as Christian, 9.6% have no religion, 0.7% are Muslim and 7.6% did not wish to give their religion.

Only 114 people of Jewish faith live in Sunderland. There was no Jewish community before 1750, but then a number of Jewish businessmen from across the UK and Europe settled in Sunderland. A Rabbi from Holland was working in the city in 1790. The Jewish community has been shrinking since the mid 20th century. Many Sunderland Jews left for bigger Jewish communities in Britain or to Israel. The Jewish primary school, the Menorah School, closed in July 1983. The synagogue on Ryhope Road (opened in 1928) closed at the end of March 2006.

Lewis Carroll often visited to the area. He wrote most of "Jabberwocky" at Whitburn as well as "The Walrus and the Carpenter". Some parts of the area are believed to be the inspiration for his Alice in Wonderland stories, such as Hylton Castle and Backhouse Park. There is a statue to Carroll in Whitburn library. Lewis Carroll was also a visitor to the Rectory of Holy Trinity Church, Southwick, beforeSouthwick became a part of Sunderland. Carroll's connection with Sunderland, and the area's history, is documented in Bryan Talbot's 2007 graphic novel "Alice in Sunderland".

More recently, Sunderland-born Terry Deary, writer of the series of Horrible Histories books, has become famous, and many others such as thriller writer Sheila Quigley, are following his lead.

The Manchester painter, L S Lowry, was another frequent visitor, staying in the Seaburn Hotel in Sunderland. Many of his paintings of seascapes and shipbuilding are based on Wearside scenes.

The Northern Gallery for Contemporary Art on Fawcett Street and Sunderland Museum and Winter Gardens have exhibitions and installations from new and established artists alike. Sunderland Museum has a big collection of LS Lowry. The National Glass Centre on Liberty Way also exhibits a number of glass sculptures.

Sunderland has produced a number of musicians that have gone on to reach international fame, most notably Dave Stewart of the Eurythmics. Kenickie, which featured Lauren Laverne on vocals, also achieved a top ten album and wide critical acclaim in the mid-to-late-1990s.
In recent years the underground music scene and the Sunderland Music Project have helped the likes of The Futureheads and Field Music gain national recognition. In 2004 music magazine NME put Sunderland came 8th in a list of the "coolest" music places in the UK.

Other famous Mackem musicians include punk rockers The Toy Dolls, who broke the top five of the charts with "Nellie the Elephant" in December 1984; the lead singer of dance outfit Olive, Ruth Ann Boyle, who now works with Enigma; A Tribe of Toffs made number 21 with their cult hit "John Kettley is a weatherman" in December 1988; Alex Kapranos of the band Franz Ferdinand also grew up in Sunderland and South Shields.

On May 7 and 8th 2005, Sunderland hosted the BBC Radio 1 Big Weekend concert - the UK's largest free music festival. The event was held at Herrington Country Park, in the shadow of Penshaw Monument and was attended by 30,000 visitors.

Sunderland does not have a big music venue such as the MetroRadio Arena or the Carling Academy in Newcastle. The Empire Theatre sometimes plays host to music acts, and has attracted Deacon Blue and Journey South to the city in recent years. McFly played there in April 2007. In the past it has also welcomed major bands such as The Beatles and The Kinks.

"Independent", a city centre nightclub/music venue, satisfies underground music lovers, having previously played host to Keane, Franz Ferdinand, Kasabian, Kaiser Chiefs, Maxïmo Park and Snow Patrol when they were largely unknown. More recently, Doves and Tim Burgess have performed DJ sets on club nights, and in summer 2007 the club hosted gigs from established bands such as The Zutons and The Maccabees. The Manor Quay, the students' union on the campus of the University of Sunderland has also hosted the Arctic Monkeys, Maxïmo Park, 911, the Levellers and Girls Aloud in the past three years.

Clint Boon sometimes deejays in indie venue "Ku Club", and the Bluetones did a set there in 2006.

“CoSMOS”, the City of Sunderland Millennium Orchestral Society’’ was set up in 2000 to mark the millennium.

The Sunderland Empire Theatre, opened in 1907, is the largest theatre in the North East. It reopened in December 2004 following a big redevelopment making the stage bigger. Now it can stage West End shows such as "Miss Saigon", "Starlight Express" and "My Fair Lady". The Empire is the only theatre between Leeds and Glasgow big enough to put on such shows.

The Birmingham Royal Ballet have a season at the Sunderland Empire every year, and it is thought of as the company's north-east home.

The Royalty Theatre is the home to the (amateur) Royalty Theatre group who also put on a number of low-budget productions throughout the year. Renowned film producer David Parfitt belonged to this company before achieving worldwide fame.

Each year on the last weekend in July, the city hosts the Sunderland International Airshow. It takes place along the sea front at Roker and Seaburn, and is attended by over 1.2 million people annually. It is the largest free airshow in Europe.

Sunderland also hosts the free International Festival of Kites, Music and Dance, which attracts kite-makers from around the world to Northumbria Playing Fields, Washington.

Every year the city hosts a large Remembrance Day memorial, believed to be the largest in the UK outside of London.

HMS Ocean, a Helicopter Landing Ship is Sunderland's adopted Royal Navy ship. The crew of HMS Ocean regularly visit the city.

At Christmas, Sunderland has a German market in the city centre selling German-made wooden goods, and German food. It also hosts a large ice rink in Mowbray Park, which is part of the wider, regional North East Winter Festival.

Traditional attractions for visitors to Sunderland include Penshaw Monument, the Souter Lighthouse (the first electrically powered lighthouse in the world), the 15th century Hylton Castle, the Wildfowl park in Washington, and the beaches of Roker and Seaburn.

The National Glass Centre opened in 1998, reflecting Sunderland's distinguished history of glass-making. The centre has never been as successful as hoped.

Sunderland Museum and Winter Gardens, on Borough Road, was the first publically funded museum in the country outside London. It was opened by Ulysses S Grant shortly after he stopped being US President. The museum has a big collection of the locally produced Sunderland Lustreware pottery. The new City Library Arts Centre, on Fawcett Street, also houses the Northern Gallery for Contemporary Art.

The City of Sunderland has been commended several times on its commitment to preserving its natural environment. Sunderland has won awards from the Britain in Bloom group in 1993, 1997 and 2000.

Sunderland is one of the most deprived cities in the North of England. 11 of the 25 wards featuring in the list of the 2000 most deprived wards in England. The most deprived areas are Southwick to the north of the river and Thorney Close to the south - both with chronic levels of unemployment, although the city is performing better than the North East as a whole.

Once called the "Greatest Shipbuilding Town in the World", ships were built on the Wear from at least 1346 onwards. The Port of Sunderland was expanded in the 1850s when the Hudsons Dock were built for the River Wear Commissioners. Robert Stephenson helped the engineers..
Competition from overseas caused a downturn in demand for Sunderland built ships toward the end of the twentieth century. The last shipyard in Sunderland closed in 1988.

Sunderland, part of the Durham coalfield, has a coal-mining heritage that dates back centuries. At the peak in 1923, 170,000 miners were employed in County Durham alone, as labourers from all over Britain, including many from Scotland and Ireland, entered the region. As demand for coal fell after World War II, mines began to close across the region, causing mass unemployment. The last coal mine closed in 1994. The site of the last coal mine, Wearmouth Colliery, is now the Stadium of Light, and a miner's Stephenson lamp monument stands outside of the ground to honour the heritage of the site.

Glass has been made in Sunderland for around 1,500 years. But overseas competition has forced the closure of all of Sunderland's glass-making factories. Corning Glass Works was one of the last. It was in Sunderland for 120 years, until March 31, 2007

Vaux Breweries was established in the town centre in the 1880s and for 110 years was a major employer. The brewery was finally closed in July 1999. Vaux in Sunderland and Wards Brewing Company in Sheffield had been part of the Vaux Group, when both breweries closed the group started to concentrate on its hotels which were in The Swallow Group. In the autumn of 2000 even this was taken over by Whitbread PLC.

Sunderland's economy began to get better after the 1980s.

The giant Nissan factory moved in, and new service industries arrived. Doxford International Business Park, in the south west of the city, has attracted a host of national and international companies.

The former shipyard areas along the River Wear have also been transformed. Instead of the old industry new developments have been built, including:

Sunderland Corporation's massive post-war housing estate developments, such as Farringdon, Pennywell, Grindon, Hylton Red House, Hylton Castle, Thorney Close and Town End Farm, together with earlier developments, have all passed into the ownership of Gentoo (once caleed Sunderland Housing Group), a private company and a "Registered Social Landlord". Since the transfer in 2000 there have been a lot of improvements to the quality of social housing in the city.

The central business district of Sunderland has also been redeveloped and improveed. In 2000, The Bridges shopping centre was extended to attract national chain stores. In November 2004, after several years with no cinema, a Cineworld multiplex opened in the new River Quarter, an entertainment complex towards the east of the City Centre. The Cinema was taken over by the Empire Multiplex Cinema Company in mid 2006. The previous ABC Cinema, situated on the corner of Park Lane and Holmeside, had been derelict for a number of years until it reopened late in 2005 as The Point, with three bars and the Union nightclub.

The arrival of Roy Keane as Sunderland AFC's new manager in August 2006 has had a massive impact in Sunderland's once limited tourism industry. Keane has proved a big pull for the city in terms of attracting tourists to Sunderland, with the Tourism Office reporting a dramatic rise in the number of football fans coming to the city "mentioning his name" as early as October 2006, just six weeks after Keane's appointment as manager. Airline Ryanair, moreover, recorded a 10% increase in passenger numbers travelling to Newcastle Airport on Fridays before a Sunderland home game, some 600 more than on other Fridays. The Tourism Office believes Keane's attachment to the city is causing a knock-on effect on local restaurants, bars and attractions in that more tourists are "making a weekend of it" after watching the football.

Sunderland station was rebuilt in November 1965 for football teams and officials from countries who were playing at Roker Park when England hosed of the 1966 World Cup. It is served by Northern Rail services between Newcastle and Middlesbrough, and Grand Central services to York and London

In 2002, the Tyne and Wear Metro system was extended to Sunderland. The local Metro ends at South Hylton after calling at Sunderland Rail Station and Park Lane Bus Station. Metro trains are quite frequent and travel between Newcastle International Airport and Newcastle-upon-Tyne in the north and South Hylton at the southern end of the line. However, the Metro extension has not been viewed as a huge success with frequency of services cut due to a lack of demand.

A multi-million pound transport interchange at Park Lane was opened on 2 May, 1999 by the then "Brookside" actor Michael Starke. With 750,000 passengers per year it is the busiest bus and coach station in Britain after Victoria Coach Station in Central London, and has won several design awards. A new Metro station was built underneath the bus concourse to provide a direct interchange as part of the extension to South Hylton in 2002.

There are a number of cycle routes that run through and around Sunderland. The National Cycle Network National Route 1 runs from Ryhope in the south, through the centre of the city, and then along the coast towards South Shields.
Britain's most popular long distance cycle route - The 'C2C' Sea to Sea Cycle Route - traditionally starts (or ends) when the cyclist dips their wheel in the sea on Roker beach. The 'W2W' 'Wear-to-Walney' route, and the 'Two-Rivers' (Tyne and Wear) route also end in Sunderland.

Developer of the electric lightbulb Joseph Swan, agony aunt Denise Robertson, rockers 'The Futureheads' and Alex Kapranos of 'Franz Ferdinand', Civil liberty campaigner Chris Mullin MP, radio DJ and singer Lauren Laverne, football manager Bob Paisley, actor James Bolam, film producer David Parfitt, lead singer of 'Olive' Ruth-Ann Boyle, author Lewis Carroll, artist LS Lowry, journalist Kate Adie, and the Venerable Bede are a few of the many famous people born in or associated with Sunderland. For a more detail list, see List of famous residents of Sunderland.

City of Sunderland


</doc>
<doc id="26094" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26094" title="List of kings of Carthage">
List of kings of Carthage

Until 308 BC, Carthage was ruled, at least officially, by Monarchs.

Monarchs of Carthage, 814 BC-308 BC
Magonids
Hannonian

In 480 BC, following Hamilcar I's death, the King lost most of his power to an aristocratic Council of Elders. In 308 BC, Bomilcar attempted a coup (rebellion) to restore the monarch to full power, but failed, which led to Carthage becoming in name as well as in fact a republic.


</doc>
<doc id="26097" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26097" title="Template:Wikisource1911Enc">
Template:Wikisource1911Enc


</doc>
<doc id="26100" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26100" title="Wilhelm Busch">
Wilhelm Busch

Wilhelm Busch (April 15, 1832 (Wiedensahl near Hannover) - January 9, 1908 (Mechtshausen)) was a German painter and poet who is known for his satirical picture stories.
After studying first mechanical engineering and then art in Düsseldorf, Antwerp, and Munich he started drawing caricatures.

One of his first picture stories, "Max and Moritz" (published in 1865), was a huge success. "Max and Moritz" as well as many of his other picture stories were early examples of the what became the modern comic strip. The idea of "Max and Moritz", for instance, has been an inspiration for the Katzenjammer Kids.

Wilhelm Busch also wrote a number of poems in a style similar to his picture stories. Besides that he produced more than 1,000 oil paintings that were not sold until after his death in 1908.</td><td>




</doc>
<doc id="26103" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26103" title="Electronic sports">
Electronic sports

Electronic sports is the term for video games that are played competitively. The most known electronic sports games are Counter-Strike, Warcraft, Starcraft and Quake. Electronic Sports is played over the Internet or via LAN. There are professional leagues and tournaments like the "Cyberathlete Professional League", "ClanBase", "Electronic Sports League" and the "World Cyber Games" where electronic sports players can earn thousands of US Dollars.


</doc>
<doc id="26104" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26104" title="Marklohe">
Marklohe

Marklohe is a small village in Germany. It is an amt in the district of Nienburg (Weser) in Lower Saxony. Marklohe has about 4000 habitants.


</doc>
<doc id="26105" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26105" title="Skunk">
Skunk

A skunk is a mammal, usually black with a white stripe on its back and a fluffy tail, but some skunks can be brown or gray. Its most special part is that it can shoot out a bad-smelling spray from under its tail; it does this to scare away things that could hurt it.

It can eat both plants and small animals like earthworms, frogs, snakes, birds and eggs. It usually eats berries, leaves, grasses and nuts. In places where humans live, skunks often steal food from garbage or pet bowls.

The striped skunk is the most well-known kind of skunk. It weighs 2.5 to 14 pounds (1.2–6.3 kg) with a body length (without the tail) of 13 to 18 inches (33–46 cm). The tail is 7 to 10 inches long (18–25 cm), and sometimes has a white tip.

Most types of skunks live in North America and Canada, but there are also types that live in Indonesia and the Philippines.


</doc>
<doc id="26107" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26107" title="Category:Units of power">
Category:Units of power


</doc>
<doc id="26108" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26108" title="Cerebellum">
Cerebellum

In all vertebrates, including human beings, the cerebellum is one of the main divisions of the brain. 

The cerebellum works mainly to control balance and coordinate movement. It combines signals from eyes, muscle spindles, and ears with motor commands from the forebrain and helps to coordinate control of the body. More advanced regions of the human cerebellum may be crucial to language and mental dexterity. Bands of axons extend from the cerebellum into the pons.


</doc>
<doc id="26109" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26109" title="Sustainable development">
Sustainable development

Sustainable development is a way for people to use resources without the resources running out . 
The term used by the Brundtland Commission defined it as development with sustainability that "meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs." 

Everyone wants a better place to live. Some people want better homes and housing, while other people want better schools, more jobs, better shops, or cleaner and safer streets. Others may want all these things. Whatever the problems in any neighbourhood, they can usually be grouped into three issues. People need:


But many people now realise that if we are to tackle one issue, then we’ll probably have to tackle the others as well. For instance, new shops are unlikely to open in an area where crime and poverty levels are very high. Similarly crime is unlikely to fall in an area where the housing has been improved unless there are jobs available. People may move into an area where housing and jobs are available, but if the surroundings are run-down and public transport is poor, they may well not want to stay.

This is not just a local issue. The same problems are faced at a national level. If the governments of the world are to deal with poverty, they don’t just need to provide money and food aid, they need to help local people get educated and get jobs. People also need a safe environment with adequate homes and drinking water. To make these things work, governments also need to make sure that people have an effective voice in deciding what happens where they live.

This approach is called ‘sustainable development’. While this phrase can be confusing, it’s now used in many government documents and in funding programmes. Sustainable development has three parts: environmental sustainability, economic sustainability and sociopolitical sustainability.

At the core of this idea is the matter of meeting people’s needs – for a home, for a decent job, for education for their children, for good health care, and for a safe and healthy neighbourhood to live in.

Most people in the rich nations have most of these needs, but there are still many people living in poverty and in poor quality homes. Even if these basic needs are met there are still plenty of ways in which their ‘quality of life’ is under threat: from crime, from pollution, or from living in neighbourhoods where no-one in authority seems to care.

Many areas have programmes to promote ‘local sustainability’: many are called ‘Local Agenda 21’ plans, named after the international Agenda 21 action plan for sustainable development agreed at the United Nations Earth Summit held in 1992.



</doc>
<doc id="26112" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26112" title="Ribose">
Ribose

Ribose is a five-carbon sugar. It is found in RNA (ribonucleic acid).

D-Ribose is taken as a herbal supplement. Victims of fibromyalgia often report reduced pain and increased energy with little or no side effects.


</doc>
<doc id="26113" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26113" title="Deoxyribose">
Deoxyribose

Deoxyribose is the sugar component of deoxyribonucleic acid or DNA, having one less hydroxyl group than ribose, the sugar component of ribonucleic acid or RNA.


</doc>
<doc id="26114" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26114" title="Henry Royce">
Henry Royce

Sir Henry Royce was born 27 March 1863 and died 22 April 1933. He made cars, and with Charles Stewart Rolls started the Rolls-Royce company.

He was born in Alwalton, Huntingdonshire which is near Peterborough as the youngest child of five.


</doc>
<doc id="26123" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26123" title="Seizure">
Seizure

A seizure is when the nerves of somebody act strangely. Nerves transmit information. They do this by electrical impulses and by some chemical substances called transmitters.

There are many different types of seizures. They are named by how much of the brain they affect and what happens to the person when they are having that type of seizure. Some of these are:








"Status epilepticus" is a seizure that lasts much longer than normal, sometimes more than 30 minutes. The person faints while the seizure is happening. These are treatable by the use of a medicine called "Diazepam" which is given from a tube into the bowels of the person, through the anus. Whether treated or not, the person must get to a hospital as soon as possible, as their brain could be permanently damaged otherwise.

Certain types of seizures point to a disorder called epilepsy, where the nerves do not work as they should. They carry the wrong messages to the brain so that the person moves uncontrollably or sees, hears, smells, feels, or tastes things that are not there. Medicine can be taken to prevent this from happening.

Seizures also can have other causes:


</doc>
<doc id="26132" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26132" title="1236">
1236

1236 is a year in the 13th century


</doc>
<doc id="26133" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26133" title="1238">
1238


</doc>
<doc id="26135" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26135" title="Profession">
Profession

A profession is a job that a person has and for which they have had training. It is what they do to get money or a living. People often have to learn a lot to help them do their job.
Examples of a profession would be a teacher or a lawyer.


</doc>
<doc id="26140" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26140" title="International Nuclear Event Scale">
International Nuclear Event Scale

The International Nuclear Event Scale (INES) is a system introduced by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). It was introduced to allow people to communicate how serious a nuclear accident is. Other people are then able to react faster to take protection measures. For each level, there is a list of criteria (things) that must be there, for the accident to be of that level. 

There are 7 levels on the INES scale:

</div>

Level 7 is the highest level. Accidents of this type have a large impact (pollution, radiation) outside the site where they occur. The health of many people is put in danger. There are big effects on the environment. Examples: Fukushima nuclear disaster - 2011, Chernobyl disaster (former Soviet Union) - 1986.

Level 6 : Accidents of this type have a large impact (pollution, radiation) outside the site where they occur. Several governments may need to take the full set of countermeasures to protect their population. Example: Mayak (former Soviet Union)- 1957.

Level 5 : Accidents of this type do release some radiation. Some groups of people which are at risk may need special countermeasures. Examples: Windscale fire (United Kingdom) - 1957, Three Mile Island accident (United States) - 1979.

"The Levels 5-7 are related to severe damage of the reactor core and the radiological barriers." 

Level 4 is related to significant damage of the reactor core / radiological barriers and/or a fatal exposure of a worker (or more), but the off-site impact is minor, resulting in public exposure of the order of the prescribed limits. Examples: Windscale (United Kingdom) - 1973, Saint-Laurent (France) - 1980, Buenos Aires (Argentina) - 1983.

Level 3 is characterized by very small off-site impact, although related to severe spread of contamination on-site / acute health effects to a worker (or more). It is a "near accident" event, when no safety layers are remaining. Example: Vandellos (Spain) - 1989, THORP plant Sellafield (United Kingdom) - 2005.

Level 2 is an incident with no off-site impact, related to significant spread of contamination on-site / overexposure of a worker.

Level 1 is an anomaly beyond the authorized operating regime.

Level 0 is a "below-scale event" of no safety significance.

There are also events of no safety relevance, characterized as "out of scale".



</doc>
<doc id="26143" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26143" title="Hafnarfjörður">
Hafnarfjörður

Hafnarfjörður is a city found on the western coast of Iceland. It is found about 10 kilometres south of Reykjavík. It is the third biggest city in Iceland.. Around 25,400 people were living in Hafnarfjörður as of 2008.



</doc>
<doc id="26144" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26144" title="Level">
Level

Level can have different meanings:



</doc>
<doc id="26151" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26151" title="Bloomington, Illinois">
Bloomington, Illinois

Bloomington is a city in McLean County, Illinois, USA.


</doc>
<doc id="26152" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26152" title="1252">
1252



</doc>
<doc id="26153" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26153" title="Giverny">
Giverny

Giverny is a village that was the temporary home of Claude Monet. The village is located in Normandy, France.


</doc>
<doc id="26168" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26168" title="Fort Collins, Colorado">
Fort Collins, Colorado

Fort Collins is a city in the U.S. state of Colorado. It is near the Cache la Poudre River and home of Colorado State University.


</doc>
<doc id="26169" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26169" title="Silver Spring, Maryland">
Silver Spring, Maryland

Silver Spring is a community in the U.S. state of Maryland. It is a suburb of Washington, DC. It is the second biggest place in Maryland (behind Baltimore).


</doc>
<doc id="26175" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26175" title="Iraq">
Iraq

The Republic of Iraq is a Middle Eastern country in southwestern Asia. It shares borders with Saudi Arabia and Kuwait to the south, Turkey to the north, Syria to the north-west, Jordan to the west, and Iran to the east. The capital of Iraq is Baghdad.
From 1968 to 2003, Iraq was run by the Ba'ath Party. Saddam Hussein was the President from 1979 until the disbandment of the Ba'ath Party. 

In 1990, Iraq invaded Kuwait. Many countries, including the United States, United Kingdom, Saudi Arabia, France, Italy, Pakistan, and others fought to free Kuwait. Later, some agents believed to be sent by Saddam Hussein tried to kill former President George H. W. Bush with a truck bomb in Kuwait. 

In March 2003, an invasion led by American, British, Australian, Danish and Polish forces forced the Ba'ath Party to surrender. The publically stated reason for the invasion was that Saddam Hussein refused to let United Nations inspectors look for suspected nuclear, biological, and chemical weapons. In the past, Iraq used chemical weapons to kill people. Iraq used chemical gas on some Kurdish villages such as "Halabja" and killed five thousand Kurds in the north of Iraq. Iraq had done research in making biological and nuclear weapons.

The country was initially split into 3 zones, the American zone, the British zone, and the Polish zone similar to the way Germany was divided in 1945. Forces from Denmark controlled areas in the British zone. A new temporary government was formed on June 28, 2004, however the coalition forces are still currently in the country. Ghazi A. El-Yawer is the President of the new temporary government.

At the moment, there are many U.S., British and multi-national troops in the country. Also, tensions between religious groups (Shia and Sunni Muslims, as well as Christians) lead to a great deal of instability in the country. Because of these tensions, some people say there is a civil war in Iraq.

The country area lies between two rivers; for this reason the area was called Mesopotamia in ancient ages. The rivers Euphrates and Tigris bound what is called the Fertile Crescent. Iraq also has a small coastline along the Persian Gulf, and this coastline was considered the heart of the petroleum trade in Iraq before the First Gulf War. The weather is extremely hot and dry because Iraq is far from seas and oceans and even the close ones are blocked by mountains so that the rainy wind can not reach the inlands. This region has fertile land because of the two rivers.

Iraq is divided into 18 provinces ("muhafazah").

Iraq has a large amount of oil. Iraq is the world's number four in petroleum production and the world's number two in petroleum reserves. In the past, Iraq sold much of this oil to other countries. After Iraq invaded Kuwait in August 1990, the United Nations stopped Iraq from selling the oil. The United Nations later allowed Iraq to sell some oil to buy food, clothes, and medicine so the people would not suffer as much. This was called the "Oil-for-Food" program. 


</doc>
<doc id="26182" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26182" title="Neutron star">
Neutron star

A neutron star is a very small and dense star made almost completely of neutrons. It is a very large nucleus held together by gravity.

Neutron stars have a radius of about and a mass from about 1.4 to 5 times the mass of the Sun.

They are usually what is left of very big stars that have exploded (these are called supernovas). Some are what happens to white dwarfs (small stars) that have got a lot of extra mass.

Neutron stars usually turn very fast, taking from 0.001 second up to 30 seconds to turn.

They come in different types. One kind is the pulsar which spins and sends a beam of radio waves (like a lighthouse in space). When this beam moves past Earth, it shows up as a pulse (like the light from a lighthouse is seen as a flash on the horizon). This 'pulse' is why they are called pulsars.

In a supernova, a star runs out of nuclear fuel and explodes.

If the star is bigger than 5 times the mass of the Sun, it will become a black hole. If it has less than 1.4 times the mass of the Sun, it will form a white dwarf.

All other stars that go supernova become neutron stars.

A white dwarf whose mass is nearly 1.4 times the mass of the Sun will sometimes get bigger (but no one knows why). When this happens, it will collapse into a neutron star.

Neutron stars have the same properties:

Neutron stars turn a lot faster than other stars.

Neutron stars are very dense. They are much denser than anything we find naturally on the Earth.

In a neutron star the electrons have joined with the protons in the nucleus to make neutrons. All the neutrons are joined together by gravity, with not much space in between them.

To imagine how dense a neutron star is, take all of the mass of our sun (which has a diameter of ) and pushing it down into a size that would fit into a ball with a diameter.

Neutron stars have very strong magnetic fields. They are some of the strongest magnetic fields that occur naturally.

All stars have a magnetic field. When a star collapses, it becomes smaller. This means that the magnetism is pushed into a smaller area, which means that the magnetic field is stronger nearer the star.


</doc>
<doc id="26183" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26183" title="Parent">
Parent

A person's parents are the mother and father or caretaker of their offspring. It is also possible to have two fathers or two mothers. In humans, a parent is the mother or the father figure of a child. They are either biologically or legally related to the person. 



</doc>
<doc id="26186" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26186" title="Category:1008">
Category:1008


</doc>
<doc id="26187" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26187" title="Category:1015">
Category:1015


</doc>
<doc id="26188" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26188" title="Category:1034 deaths">
Category:1034 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="26189" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26189" title="Category:1034">
Category:1034


</doc>
<doc id="26190" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26190" title="Category:1096 births">
Category:1096 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1096.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="26191" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26191" title="Category:1090s births">
Category:1090s births

This category consists of people who were born in the 1090s.

See also: .


</doc>
<doc id="26192" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26192" title="Category:1105">
Category:1105


</doc>
<doc id="26193" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26193" title="Category:1106">
Category:1106


</doc>
<doc id="26194" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26194" title="Category:1105 births">
Category:1105 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1105.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="26195" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26195" title="Category:1100s births">
Category:1100s births

This category consists of people who were born in the 1100s.

"See also:" .


</doc>
<doc id="26196" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26196" title="Category:1154 deaths">
Category:1154 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="26197" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26197" title="Category:1152 deaths">
Category:1152 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="26198" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26198" title="Category:1152">
Category:1152


</doc>
<doc id="26199" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26199" title="Category:1154">
Category:1154


</doc>
<doc id="26200" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26200" title="Category:1156">
Category:1156


</doc>
<doc id="26201" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26201" title="Category:1159">
Category:1159


</doc>
<doc id="26202" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26202" title="Category:1161">
Category:1161


</doc>
<doc id="26203" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26203" title="Category:1168">
Category:1168


</doc>
<doc id="26205" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26205" title="Category:1192">
Category:1192


</doc>
<doc id="26206" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26206" title="Category:1181">
Category:1181


</doc>
<doc id="26207" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26207" title="Category:1179">
Category:1179


</doc>
<doc id="26208" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26208" title="Category:1178">
Category:1178


</doc>
<doc id="26209" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26209" title="Category:1173">
Category:1173


</doc>
<doc id="26212" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26212" title="Lee Hsien Loong">
Lee Hsien Loong

Lee Hsien Loong is the current Prime Minister of Singapore. His father is Lee Kuan Yew.


</doc>
<doc id="26220" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26220" title="Adam and Eve">
Adam and Eve

Adam and Eve were, according to the Genesis story from the Old Testament of the Bible (as well as the Torah and the Qu'ran), the first two people that were made by God. 

The second chapter of Genesis says that God made Adam from the dust of the ground. Then, God breathed life into him. God made a garden, called the Garden of Eden, for him to live in and take care of. Adam named the animals that God made. 

God knew that the animals were not good enough companionship for Adam. He needed a partner like him. So God made Eve (meaning "life") from a rib of Adam's.

Chapter three of Genesis says that Adam and Eve had everything they needed in the garden. There was only one thing that God told them not to do: eat from the Tree of Knowledge. But, they disobeyed and ate the Forbidden fruit. So, they were made to leave the garden. Not only that but God said that women will have pain in childbirth, and that man will have to work hard to grow food, and would return at death to the soil from where he came.

In the mundaka upanishad of Hindu philosophy chapter three describes a symbolic story of two birds. One is adma (soul) and another is jeev (life). Jeev eats the fruit of a fig tree (Pippala) and adma is looking at her without any influence. This story is told to explain even though the life (living being) is doing the worldly things (including sex) it will not affect the soul inside. The following points are alike: Adam and adma; Eve and jeev; Pipple and Bible; Fig is fig; Forbidden fruit is forbidden fruit. (Refer Deivathin kural written by H.H. Chandrasekarendra Saraswathi swamiji of Kanchi Kamakoti peetam, Tamil Nadu, India.)


</doc>
<doc id="26221" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26221" title="Ramadan">
Ramadan

Ramadan is the ninth month of the Islamic calendar, during which Muslims fast or do not eat or drink during the daytime.

The date for the start of Ramadan is slightly different each year, depending on the position of the moon. Once Ramadan starts, Muslims should not eat or drink or have sexual activities between sunrise and sunset. This usually continues for thirty days, but sometimes twenty-nine days.

Fasting is supposed to teach Muslims about patience and spiritual things. It is a time for Muslims to think about how the poor and homeless suffer without lots of food, it helps Muslims to be more obedient, and less greedy. During Ramadan, Muslims ask to be forgiven for their sins, and they pray for help in stopping them from doing bad things.
Muslims believe Ramadan is a month when God shows himself to humans, because it was the month in which the first verses of the Qur'an were revealed to the Prophet Muhammad. It was also the month in which the Annunciation of the birth of Jesus to the Virgin Mary took place.

Not everyone has to observe Ramadan. Children do not have to fast. They should start when they reach the age of puberty, so long as they are healthy. People who are travelling long distances do not have to fast. Pregnant women do not have to if they think it might harm their unborn baby. Sometimes sportsmen do not observe the fast, although there are disagreements about this. For example, the Olympic Games in 2012 will fall in the middle of the holy month. This will make it very difficult for the sportsmen if they cannot eat or drink during daytime.

When the sun goes down and it gets dark the Muslim people will start eating again (this is called "breaking the fast"). This meal is known as Iftar. There are often big meals enjoyed together by lots of Muslims.
. Sometimes markets open after Iftar and stay open during the night.


</doc>
<doc id="26226" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26226" title="Caykur Rizespor">
Caykur Rizespor

Caykur Rizespor is a sports club in Rize, Turkey. It was started in 1968. Caykur Rizespor 's home stadium is the Rize Atatürk Stadı in Rize.



</doc>
<doc id="26232" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26232" title="Tenzing Norgay">
Tenzing Norgay

Tenzing Norgay (May 29, 1914 – May 9, 1986) was a Sherpa climber. During his life he had several wives, as it is part of Sherpa lifestyle. Norgay and Sir Edmund Hillary were the first people to reach the top of Mount Everest on May 29, 1953. Norgay was born in Kharta Valley, Nepal. He died aged 71 in Darjeeling, India.

There are different views about his early life. The account that he gave in his first autobiography, accepted for several years, is that he was a Sherpa born and brought up in Khumbu in Nepal. However more recent research has led to the claim that he was born a Tibetan in Kharta valley, Tibet, but his family were left destitute when their yaks were killed by disease, and he was sold as a bonded servant to a Sherpa family in Thamey in Nepal. Khumbu lies near Mount Everest, which the Tibetans and Sherpas call Chomolungma which in Tibetan means Mother Goddess of the Earth. 
His exact date of birth is not known, but he knew it was in late May by the weather and the crops. After his ascent of Everest on 29 May, he decided to celebrate his birthday on that day thereafter.

He was originally called "Namgyal Wangdi", but as a child his name was changed on the advice of the head lama and founder of the famous Rongbuk Monastery, Ngawang Tenzin Norbu. Tenzing Norgay translates as "wealthy-fortunate-follower-of-religion." His father, a yak herder, was Ghang La Mingma (d. 1949) and his mother was Dokmo Kinzom (who lived to see him climb Everest); he was the 11th of 13 children, most of whom died young.

He ran away from home twice in his teens, first to Kathmandu and later Darjeeling, and, at age 19, eventually settled in the Sherpa community in Too Song Bhusti in Darjeeling, West Bengal, India.

Tenzing Norgay has been on several attempts to reach the top of Mount Everest. Two of the attempts were stopped by bad weather which caused them to turn around. One of failed attempts was in 1935 with Eric Shipton. Eventually, after 6 failure attempts, Norgay finally reached the top of Mount Everest in 1953 along with Sir Edmund Hillary. They came back down from the top of the mountain on May 29, 1953 .

Tenzing later became director of field training for the Himalayan Mountaineering Institute in Darjeeling. In 1978 he started Tenzing Norgay Adventures, a company providing trekking adventures in the Himalaya.

As of 2003 the company was run by his son Jamling Tenzing Norgay, who himself reached the summit of Everest in 1996.

He was honored with the prestigious Padma Bhushan, India's third highest civilian honour, in 1959.

The Government of India instituted the Tenzing Norgay National Adventure Awards in his honour, awarded annually.

Tenzing Norgay died of a broncial condition in 1986.


</doc>
<doc id="26233" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26233" title="Sherpa">
Sherpa

The Sherpa are an ethnic group in Nepal, who live in the higher parts of the Himalayas. They often help guide people through the mountains. They also sometimes live on the trail of Mt. Everest. A well known Sherpa is Tenzing Norgay, who helped Edmund Hillary climb to the top of Mt. Everest.


</doc>
<doc id="26249" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26249" title="Template:User fr-2">
Template:User fr-2


</doc>
<doc id="26250" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26250" title="Template:User fr">
Template:User fr


</doc>
<doc id="26251" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26251" title="Template:User fr-3">
Template:User fr-3


</doc>
<doc id="26252" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26252" title="Template:User fr-4">
Template:User fr-4


</doc>
<doc id="26253" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26253" title="Template:User ja-2">
Template:User ja-2


</doc>
<doc id="26255" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26255" title="Template:User ja-3">
Template:User ja-3


</doc>
<doc id="26256" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26256" title="Template:User ja-4">
Template:User ja-4


</doc>
<doc id="26257" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26257" title="Template:User zh-1">
Template:User zh-1


</doc>
<doc id="26259" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26259" title="Charlotte Eagles">
Charlotte Eagles

The Charlotte Eagles are a soccer club that plays in Charlotte, North Carolina. The team's first season was 1993. They play in the 2nd Division of the United Soccer Leagues.


</doc>
<doc id="26260" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26260" title="Charlotte, North Carolina">
Charlotte, North Carolina

Charlotte is the biggest city in the state of North Carolina and is one of the biggest cities in the United States. In January, 2008, there were about 695,995 people living in Charlotte.

The first people settled at the place where Charlotte is in 1755 when a man named Thomas Polk built a house near two Native American trading paths. More people started living in the area and in 1768 it became a town named Charlotte Town. It was named after the wife of King George III because the people wanted him to like them. But he did not, and soon he started passing laws that the people in Charlotte did not like. So, on May 20, 1775, the people in Charlotte signed a proclamation that later was called the Mecklenburg Declaration of Independence. They did not want to be ruled by the king anymore so eleven days later they had a meeting and made new laws for their town.

In the early 1800s, many churches started to form in Charlotte. That is why Charlotte is sometimes called “The City of Churches.”

In 1799, a boy found a big rock. When a jeweler told his family that it was gold, the first gold rush in the United States started. A lot of gold was found. More gold was found in North Carolina then any other state until the California Gold Rush of 1848. Some people in Charlotte still enjoy looking for gold.

After the Civil War Charlotte became a busy town. Cotton farmers brought their cotton to Charlotte to ship it on trains. Even more people started living in Charlotte during World War I. When the war ended a lot of people stayed in the city.

Today the city is known for it’s many banks. Charlotte is the second biggest banking city in the world. Only New York City has more banks.

Charlotte has many different kinds of weather throughout the year. In the winter the temperature sometimes goes below 32 °F (0 °C) and in the summer it has gone up to 104 °F (40 °C). The city usually gets about 43.52 inches (1105.3 mm) of precipitation a year. Most of it is rain. It does not snow much in Charlotte.

This table shows the average temperature and rainfall each month:

Banking is very important in Charlotte. Many banks, such as Bank of America and Wachovia have headquarters in the city. There are also many other big companies in Charlotte. There are many skyscrapers (tall buildings) in Charlotte.

NASCAR also has many offices in Charlotte and in the towns around Charlotte.

Charlotte has a council-manager kind of government. This means that there two main leaders in Charlotte: the city council who makes the laws, and the city manager who makes sure everybody follows the laws.

The Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police Department is in charge of keeping everyone in the city safe. The are about 1600 police officers in the Police Department.

The city’s public school system, called Charlotte-Mecklenburg Schools, is the second biggest school system in North Carolina. The school system has about 132,000 students.

There is a university, called the University of North Carolina at Charlotte, in Charlotte. Right now there are about 22,000 students who go to this university. There is also a community college, called Central Piedmont Community College, in the city. It is the biggest community college in both North or South Carolina. Charlotte has many private universities as well.

There are many professional sports teams in Charlotte. Some of them are:

Charlotte also has several parks and other public places for people to enjoy.

There are many public busses to help people get around the city. In 2007 Charlotte began a mass transit light rail system. Charlotte also has a system of small trains called LYNX.

Charlotte's International Airport name Charlotte/Douglas, which is the 11th busiest airport in the world.

Because Charlotte is in the middle of the east coast of the U.S., a lot of people drive through the city every day. Charlotte has many big interstates to handle all the traffic. But many people think Charlotte does not have good roads. They are big, but they were not planned well.

Amtrak runs three different trains every day in Charlotte. People can ride these trains to the following cities:


</doc>
<doc id="26264" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26264" title="Carolina Panthers">
Carolina Panthers

The Carolina Panthers are an American Football team in Charlotte, North Carolina that play in the National Football League. They played at Bank of America Stadium and played their first game in 1995. Jake Delomme used to be quarterback for the Panthers.


</doc>
<doc id="26266" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26266" title="Template:3CC">
Template:3CC

<includeonly>
</includeonly>


</doc>
<doc id="26267" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26267" title="Category:Disambiguation and redirection templates">
Category:Disambiguation and redirection templates


</doc>
<doc id="26269" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26269" title="Template:2CC">
Template:2CC

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="26270" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26270" title="ADD">
ADD

ADD or Add can mean:



</doc>
<doc id="26272" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26272" title="Category:1900 births">
Category:1900 births

Note that the year 1900 is actually the last year in the 19th century; 1901 is the first year in the 20th century.


</doc>
<doc id="26273" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26273" title="Category:1962 deaths">
Category:1962 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="26274" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26274" title="Category:609">
Category:609


</doc>
<doc id="26275" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26275" title="Category:600s">
Category:600s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 600s which begins in the year 600 and ends in the year 609.

Note that 600 is actually the last year of the 6th century; 601 is the actual first year of the 7th century.


</doc>
<doc id="26276" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26276" title="Category:2006 deaths">
Category:2006 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="26277" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26277" title="Category:571">
Category:571


</doc>
<doc id="26278" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26278" title="Category:1304">
Category:1304


</doc>
<doc id="26279" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26279" title="Category:1341">
Category:1341


</doc>
<doc id="26280" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26280" title="Category:578">
Category:578


</doc>
<doc id="26281" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26281" title="Category:1839">
Category:1839


</doc>
<doc id="26282" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26282" title="Category:1843 books">
Category:1843 books

This category is for books that were first printed in 1843.


</doc>
<doc id="26283" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26283" title="Category:1996 books">
Category:1996 books

This category is for books that were first printed in 1996.


</doc>
<doc id="26284" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26284" title="Category:182 births">
Category:182 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 182.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="26285" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26285" title="Category:182">
Category:182


</doc>
<doc id="26286" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26286" title="Category:1285">
Category:1285


</doc>
<doc id="26287" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26287" title="Category:1280">
Category:1280


</doc>
<doc id="26288" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26288" title="Category:543">
Category:543


</doc>
<doc id="26289" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26289" title="Category:1226">
Category:1226


</doc>
<doc id="26291" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26291" title="Category:1221">
Category:1221


</doc>
<doc id="26292" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26292" title="Category:537">
Category:537


</doc>
<doc id="26293" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26293" title="Category:1219">
Category:1219


</doc>
<doc id="26294" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26294" title="Category:1793 deaths">
Category:1793 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="26295" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26295" title="Category:1802 deaths">
Category:1802 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="26296" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26296" title="Category:1829 births">
Category:1829 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1829.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="26297" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26297" title="Category:1824 births">
Category:1824 births

This category has articles on people who were born in the year 1824.

"See also": .


</doc>
<doc id="26298" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26298" title="Category:1976 movies">
Category:1976 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1976.


</doc>
<doc id="26299" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26299" title="Category:1983 movies">
Category:1983 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1983.


</doc>
<doc id="26300" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26300" title="Category:1981 movies">
Category:1981 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1981.


</doc>
<doc id="26301" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26301" title="Category:1984 movies">
Category:1984 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1984.


</doc>
<doc id="26302" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26302" title="Category:540s">
Category:540s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 540s which begins in the year 540 and ends in the year 549.


</doc>
<doc id="26303" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26303" title="Category:530s">
Category:530s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 530s which begins in the year 530 and ends in the year 539.


</doc>
<doc id="26304" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26304" title="Category:560 BC deaths">
Category:560 BC deaths


</doc>
<doc id="26305" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26305" title="Category:1186">
Category:1186


</doc>
<doc id="26306" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26306" title="Category:1187">
Category:1187


</doc>
<doc id="26307" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26307" title="Category:1188">
Category:1188


</doc>
<doc id="26308" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26308" title="Category:1198">
Category:1198


</doc>
<doc id="26309" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26309" title="Category:1202">
Category:1202


</doc>
<doc id="26310" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26310" title="Category:1239">
Category:1239


</doc>
<doc id="26311" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26311" title="Category:1274">
Category:1274


</doc>
<doc id="26312" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26312" title="Category:1276">
Category:1276


</doc>
<doc id="26313" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26313" title="Category:1270">
Category:1270


</doc>
<doc id="26314" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26314" title="Selgovae">
Selgovae

The Selgovae were a Brythonic tribe in Scotland, who lived in what is now the Borders. Their capital was on the North Eildon hill, near the current town of Melrose. This was a large hillfort covering an area of about 40 acres. It is believed that there were about 2500 people living in the fort. The Selgovae left the fort in 79 AD when the Roman army invaded the area. There are other Selgovae hillforts at Caidemuir Hill (near Peebles), Dreva Craig (near Broughton), Rubers Law (near Hawick), Whiteside Hill (near Romannobridge), Abory Hill (near Abington), Cow Castle (near Coulter), Quothquan Law (near Thankerton), Bodsberry Hill (near Crawford) and at Crawford. At Tamshiell Rigg there is evidence of a walled settlement. The Roman forts at Birrens, Netherby and Bewcastle were all built in Selgovae lands, north of Hadrian's Wall.

In the second century, the Selgovae are said to be one of the four kingdoms of ancient Scotland. By the end of the fourth century, the area had been taken over by Coel Hen and his kingdom of North Britain.


</doc>
<doc id="26317" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26317" title="Harrison Ford">
Harrison Ford

Harrison Ford is an American actor. He was born on July 13, 1942 in Chicago, Illinois, USA. Before his career as actor, he worked as a carpenter. He is one of the most successful actors in the world. His movies have made a worldwide profit of US $5.65 billion. He is most known for his roles as Han Solo from "Star Wars" and as Indiana Jones.



</doc>
<doc id="26320" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26320" title="Pre-history">
Pre-history

Pre-history is the time before people began to write, from 12,000BC - 3000BC. The word comes from the Ancient Greek words προ ("pre" = "before") and ιστορία ("historia" = "history"). A man named Paul Tournal first used the French word Préhistorique. He found things made by man more than ten thousand years ago in some caves in France. The word was first used in France around 1830 to talk about the time before writing. Daniel Wilson used it in English in 1851.

Things from pre-history are called "pre-historic." Pre-history can start at the start of the universe but the word more often means a time when there was life on Earth; dinosaurs are called prehistoric animals and cavemen are called prehistoric people. Very little is known about pre-history because it was not written down by the people who lived then. There are no written records (or "history") which can be looked at, read, or studied. What we do know about pre-history is what we know because of things like tools, bones, and cave drawings. Pre-history ends at different times in different places when people began to write.

In pre-history, people lived in groups called "tribes" and lived in caves or tents (houses made from animal skin). They had simple tools made from bones and sticks, which they used to hunt and to make simple things. They made fire from flint and steel and they used fire to cook food and to stay warm. They made clothes out of animal skins. Society started when people began doing specialized jobs. This is called the division of labor. The division of labor made people depend on one another and led to more advanced civilizations.

Some important sciences that are used to find out more about pre-history are palaeontology, astronomy, biology, geology, anthropology, and archaeology. Archaeologists study things left over from prehistory to try to understand what was happening. Anthropologists study the traces of human behavior to learn what people where doing and why.

After people started to record events, first by drawing symbols (called "pictographs") and then by writing, it became much easier to tell what happened, and history started. These records can tell us the names of leaders (like Kings and Queens), important events like floods and wars, and the things people did in their daily lives. The time when "prehistory" ended and "history" started is different in different places, depending on when people began to write and if their records were kept safe or lost so they could be found later on. In places like Mesopotamia, China, and Ancient Egypt, things were recorded from very early times (around 3200 BCE in Ancient Egypt) and these records can be looked at and studied. In New Guinea the end of prehistory came much later, around 1900.




</doc>
<doc id="26321" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26321" title="Early Middle Ages">
Early Middle Ages

The Roman Empire ruled much of Europe in ancient history. It became weaker and finally collapsed in 476. When it collapsed, its army stopped working and its communication systems (ways of people in different places talking to each other) also stopped working. This made the people in Europe unable to talk to each other and share news and facts. Because the Roman army had kept peace between different parts of Europe and defended it from other people, and the Roman army had now collapsed, there was much fighting. This time was known as the Dark Ages. A famous person in the Dark Ages was King Arthur of England. We do not know if he was real or just a myth. There is a legend that he stopped the fighting in England and made peace. 

After the Dark Ages, there was the Middle Ages. It is called the "middle" ages because it was between ancient history and modern history. It can also be called medieval times. It was a time when Europe was Christian, and the Catholic Church was very powerful. The Middle Ages ended when the Renaissance started. During the Renaissance people began going to school and university more and learning more things. There was less fighting. The printing press was also made. This was a machine that made books easily and quickly. It made it easier for people to read and learn things.


</doc>
<doc id="26326" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26326" title="KGB">
KGB

KGB (transliteration of "КГБ") is the Russian-language abbreviation for State Security Committee, (Russian: ; "Komitet gosudarstvennoy bezopasnosti"). 

From March 13, 1954 to November 6, 1991, KGB was the main name for the main Soviet security agency, intelligence agency or spy agency, and the secret police agency.
What the KGB did was similar to what the United States' Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), the counterintelligence (internal security) division of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), the Federal Protective Service, and the Secret Service do. There were not as many laws controlling what the KGB could do as there are that control what those agencies in the United States can do.

Sometimes the KGB secretly killed people who did not agree with the Soviet Union's leaders.

In March 1953, Lavrenty Beria merged the MVD and the MGB into one agency--the MVD. In December of that year, Beria and 6 associates were executed and MVD was split. The re-formed MVD retained its police and law enforcement powers, while the second, new agency, the KGB, did the internal and external security functions, and reported to the Council of Ministers. 

On July 5, 1978 the KGB was renamed as the "KGB of the Soviet Union", with its chairman holding a ministerial council seat. The KGB ended when its chief, Colonel-General Vladimir Kryuchkov, used the KGB's resources to help the August 1991 coup attempt to overthrow Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev. On August 23, 1991 Colonel-General Kryuchkov was arrested, and General Vadim Bakatin was appointed KGB Chairman--and mandated to dissolve the KGB of the Soviet Union. On November 6, 1991, the KGB officially ceased to exist, although Russia's new national security organisation, the Russian "Federalnaya sluzhba bezopasnosti" (FSB), works in the same things that the Soviet KGB did.

Belarus is the only post-Soviet Union era country where the national security organization is still called "KGB". Belarus is where Felix Dzerzhinsky was born. Dzerzhinsky started a group called the Cheka, which was an organization that was started in the Soviet Union before the KGB was started and that was like the KGB.



</doc>
<doc id="26327" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26327" title="FSB (Russia)">
FSB (Russia)

The FSB (ФСБ) is a state security organisation in Russia. It is the organisation that came after the KGB, relating to internal affairs inside the country. Its name is an acronym from the Russian Federal Security Service of the Russian Federation (Федера́льная слу́жба безопа́сности Росси́йской Федера́ции) (Federal'naya sluzhba bezopasnosti Rossiyskoi Federatsii). It is usually simply called the FSB in English-language sources. Its headquarters are located in Moscow.



</doc>
<doc id="26332" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26332" title="Nicolaus Copernicus">
Nicolaus Copernicus

Nicolaus Copernicus (19 February 1473 – 24 May 1543) was an astronomer. People know Copernicus for his ideas about the sun and the earth. His main idea was that our world is "heliocentric" ("helios" = sun). His theory was that the sun was in the middle of the solar system, and the planets went around it. This was published in his book, "De revolutionibus orbium coelestium" (On the revolutions of the heavenly spheres). 

Copernicus was born in 1473 in the city of Thorn (Toruń), in Royal Prussia, a mainly German-speaking region that a few years earlier had become a part of the Kingdom of Poland. He was taught first in Cracow and then in Italy, where he graduated as a lawyer of the church. He studied also medicine to serve his fellow clerics. Copernicus spent most of his life working and researching in Frauenburg (Frombork), Warmia, where he died in 1543.

Copernicus was one of the great polymaths of his age. He was a priest, mathematician, astronomer, doctor, jurist, physician, classical scholar, governor, administrator, diplomat, economist, and soldier. During all these jobs, he treated astronomy as a hobby. However, his formula of how the sun, rather than the earth, is at the center of the solar system was one of the most important scientific hypotheses in history. It was the beginning of modern astronomy.







</doc>
<doc id="26334" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26334" title="Projection (mathematics)">
Projection (mathematics)

A projection in geometry is something like a shadow, that an object casts onto another object. When a three-dimensional sphere is projected onto a plane, its projection will either be a circle or an ellipse.

In higher mathematics, projections are changes of one thing into something else. They may also be applications of functions.


</doc>
<doc id="26338" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26338" title="Drizzle">
Drizzle

Drizzle is the name given to light rain. The drop size of drizzle is smaller than that of rain, about 0.5 mm (millimeters) in diameter.


</doc>
<doc id="26339" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26339" title="Lightning">
Lightning

Lightning is a powerful electrical discharge made during a thunderstorm. The electric current is very hot and causes the air around it to expand very quickly, which in turn makes thunder. Sometimes it happens between clouds. Sometimes (in the rain) it goes from cloud to ground. If it goes from cloud to ground, it can strike a person. Around 2000 people are struck by lightning each year. About 50 to 100 lightning bolts strike the Earth every second. Lightning has hit the Empire State Building as much as 500 times a year.

Benjamin Franklin was interested in lightning. He discovered many things about it, and in 1772, he was the first to show that a thunderstorm lets out electricity. In his book he suggested an experiment to test it. Franklin did not really go out in a thunder storm and fly a kite in an attempt to prove the presence of electricity in the storm. If that had happened Franklin may have been killed, though it is possible to conduct electricity through the kite, and down the string. 

When lightning strikes, the surface rubs electrons from the lightning, and a spark of electricity shoots from the lightning to the surface. In a thunderstorm, the lower cloud has as many as 100 million volts of electricity. This electricity is given out either within the cloud, to the ground, to another cloud, or into the air. Lightning has been known to travel from the ground upwards to the cloud. In 1993, scientists discovered lightning bolts that shot upward from the top of a cumulonimbus cloud.



</doc>
<doc id="26340" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26340" title="Roseau">
Roseau

Roseau is the capital city of the Caribbean island of Dominica. It is home to more than fourteen thousand people.


</doc>
<doc id="26349" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26349" title="Event">
Event

An event is something which happens or takes place. An event is brief, possibly extremely brief. Contrast with a process, which takes time. 


Different events are important for different people. People think about their lives like they are made up of different pieces, and they separate the pieces by events they think are important.





</doc>
<doc id="26365" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26365" title="Paint">
Paint

Paint is the general term for liquid that is used to add colour to the surface of an object by covering it with a pigmented (coloured) coating. As a verb, painting means "applying paint" (putting paint onto something). Someone who paints is called a painter. 

Paint is made from a coloured pigment which is usually a powder. The powder is made from different chemicals. Some of the pigments come straight from natural things like clay. The pigment must be made wet with something that will make it stick onto the surface and not come off easily. The wet stuff is called the "medium". Some paints are just mixed with water. Other paints are mixed with oils or chemicals of different sorts. Most painters buy paint that is already mixed. House-painters use paint already mixed in large cans. Artists buy paint in tubes. Some artists buy dry pigment and mix it for themselves. 

The paint is usually put onto the surface with a paint brush. Paint brushes are use by painters of all sorts. House painters also use rollers and spray-guns to put on paint. A modern invention is paint in a pressurized can which can be sprayed on. Some modern artists also use spray paint. In factories there are machines which spray paint onto objects. Cars are usually painted in this way. 

Paint must be allowed to dry. Some paints such as watercolour, dries in a few minutes. Other paints, such as artist's oil paint, can take days or even weeks to dry. Most other types of paints fit between these two. Many types of paint are best if they are put on in several layers. The painter must first prepare the surface so it is smooth, clean and dry. The first layer of paint is often an "undercoat" or "ground" which is smooth and sticks very well. The coloured paints are put on over the top. A house-painter who is using oil paint on a wooden window frame might used three layers of paint to give very good protection from the weather. Other types of modern house paint only need one layer, particularly on the inside. Artists using oil paint and tempera often use many layers to get just the right effect. 

Paint has four important uses 

Paint is used to protect all sorts of buildings and structures from the effects of water and sun. Wooden buildings such as houses are usually painted because a coat of paint prevents water seeping into the wood and making it rot. The paint also helps to prevent the wood from drying out in the hot sun. 

Metal structures and objects of all sorts are painted to stop them from rusting. A very large steel structure such as a bridge must have a team of painters who keep the paint in good condition all the time. 

Paint is used to decorate all sorts of objects. Since pre-historic times, people have painted the inside walls of their houses to make them look attractive. Painting and decorating the exterior (outside) and interior (inside) of houses is an important industry in many countries. There are many types and colours of paint to chose from. 

All sorts of other objects are painted to make them attractive. This includes furniture, toys, tools and utensils, and street fittings. Sometimes things made of wood such as furniture are painted in decorative patterns. In some countries, many people enjoy decorating furniture and other small things like trays and boxes. This is often called Folk art. In other countries such as Japan, painting furniture is a very skilled profession and an antique piece of decorated furniture is very valuable. 
Other people enjoy the hobby of painting small objects such as model planes or soldiers.

Paintings are pictures that are done in paint. Many different types of paint are used for paintings. They include fresco, tempera, oil paint, gouache and watercolour. The paintings are usually done on board, canvas or paper. Many other famous paintings are done on the walls and ceilings of buildings, such as the Sistine Chapel ceiling which was painted by Michelangelo. 

Many artists are famous for their painted pictures. Old, beautiful and famous paintings are very valuable and are sometimes sold for millions of dollars. Famous painters include Giotto, Leonardo da Vinci, Titian and Rembrandt.

Paint is a very good way to give important information to people, using painted signs. Painted signs include lane markings on the road, street signs of all sorts, advertising signs and warning signs.




</doc>
<doc id="26367" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26367" title="Mark Antony">
Mark Antony

Mark Antony (Latin: Marcus Antoninus, 14 January "circa" 82 BC – 1 August 30 BC), was a Roman patrician from an upper-class family. He became a general and politician. He was an important supporter of Julius Caesar as a military commander and administrator. 

After Caesar's assassination, Antony, left as sole Consul, surrounded himself with a bodyguard of Caesar's veterans. He forced the senate to transfer to him the province of Cisalpine Gaul, at the time administered by Brutus, one of the conspirators. Brutus refused to surrender the province and Antony set out to attack him in the beginning of 43 BC, besieging him at Mutina. 

Encouraged by Cicero, the Senate denounced Antony. In January 43 they granted Octavian "imperium" (commanding power), and sent him to relieve the siege. In April 43, Antony's forces were defeated at the battles of Forum Gallorum and Mutina, forcing Antony to retreat to Transalpine Gaul. 

News came that Brutus and Cassius were assembling an army in order to march on Rome. Antony, Octavian and Lepidus joined as allies, in November 43 BC, to stop Caesar's assassins. The trio were the Second Triumvirate. Brutus and Cassius were defeated by Antony and Octavian at the Battle of Philippi in October 42 BC. After the battle, a new arrangement was made: while Octavian returned to Rome, Antony went on to govern the east of the Republic. Lepidus went to govern Hispania (Spain) and the province of Africa. The triumvirate's enemies were subjected to proscription, including Mark Antony's archenemy Cicero, who was killed on 7 December 43 BC.

Antony followed in Caesar's footsteps by going to Egypt and becoming Cleopatra's lover. They had three children together. His absence from Rome allowed the intelligent Octavian to build up support. 

The triumvirate broke up in 33 BC, and disagreement turned to civil war in 31 BC. Antony was defeated by Octavian at the naval Battle of Actium and then at Alexandria. He committed suicide, as did his lover, Cleopatra VII of Egypt, in 30 BC.


</doc>
<doc id="26371" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26371" title="Template:FAOL">
Template:FAOL


</doc>
<doc id="26377" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26377" title="Digg">
Digg

Digg.com is a social news, sharing, discovering, bookmarking and rating information website. Digg started out as a popular technology news sharing destination.

Digg allows users to submit 3 types of topic:

The Digg website works by allowing users to vote topic up (Digging);then displays popular stories on the front page of Digg. 



</doc>
<doc id="26380" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26380" title="Crossword">
Crossword

A crossword, or crossword puzzle, is a popular type of word puzzle. A crossword is made up of black and white squares (called a 'grid') and a list of clues.

The answer to each clue is a word or phrase. The aim is to write the words letter-by-letter in the white squares. The white squares go "across" or "down" the page. Each clue has a number - for example "1 Across" or "15 Down".

There are many types of crosswords. Straight (or Quick) crosswords are usually made up of simple definitions - which means that other words are used to describe the answer. Some crosswords use riddles and word play and are usually more difficult than straight crosswords.

Here is a small example of a (British-style) straight crossword:

1. Sheep sound (3)
3. Neither liquid nor gas (5)
5. Humour (3)

1. Road passenger transport (3)
2. Permit (5)
4. Short for "Dorothy" (3)

The solution (answer) to this crossword is:




</doc>
<doc id="26387" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26387" title="Bob Geldof">
Bob Geldof

Robert Frederick Xenon "Bob" Geldof, KBE (Hon) (born 5 October 1954) is an Irish singer, songwriter, and political activist. Geldof was a member of the band the Boomtown Rats. He also helped to organise the Live Aid and Live 8 events, and to form the Band Aid charity group.

He has an honorary knighthood. Because he is not a British citizen, he should never be called "Sir".


</doc>
<doc id="26388" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26388" title="Bullseye (UK game show)">
Bullseye (UK game show)

Bullseye is a television game show in the United Kingdom. It is hosted by Jim Bowen In "Bullseye", people play darts and answer questions to win money. The person who wins the most money has a chance to win Bully's special prize.


</doc>
<doc id="26391" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26391" title="Coronation Street">
Coronation Street

Coronation Street is the longest-running television soap opera in the United Kingdom. It is thought to be the most popular soap opera in the country because it regularly wins awards. It is set in Weatherfield, a fictitious suburb of Manchester. William Roache has been acting in it since it first began in 1960. He is the only actor who appeared in the first episode who is still in the series. Eileen Derbyshire, who plays Emily Bishop, started in 1961.

The soap opera is shown in many countries around the world. 


</doc>
<doc id="26392" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26392" title="European plaice">
European plaice

European plaice ("Pleuronectes platessa") is the name for a kind of fish. They are a commercially important flatfish. They live on the sandy bottoms of the European shelf. Its geographical range is from the Barents Sea to the Mediterranean. Plaice are characterised by their smooth, brown skin, red spots and bony ridge behind the eyes.
The fish feeds on polychaetes, crustaceans and bivalves. They can be found down to about 200 m.

In England they are often used as the fish in fish and chips.

In Danish cuisine they are one of the most commonly eaten fishes. Filleted, battered and pan-fried plaice is popular hot or cold as an open sandwich topping together with remoulade sauce and lemon slices. Battered plaice can also be served hot with french fries and remoulade sauce as a main dish; this fish and chips variant is commonly available as a children's special in Danish restaurants. Breaded frozen plaice, ready to be baked or fried at home, are readily available in supermarkets. Fresh plaice is also oven-baked.



</doc>
<doc id="26393" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26393" title="Plaice">
Plaice

Plaice is the common name of three species of flatfishes:


Plaice can also mean:



</doc>
<doc id="26394" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26394" title="Taboo">
Taboo

In a group, a taboo is something that the group looks down on upon. People usually will not talk about taboos. Doing something that is known as a taboo is usually seen as a bad thing by the community or society. Certain actions that are thought of as taboo are against the law in certain countries. Breaking the taboo may be punished hard by those states. Breaking other taboos can result in feeling embarrassed, or ashamed. Breaking a taboo is sometimes seen as . 

The English word is traced back to Tongan "tapu" or the Fijian "tabu". These words usually mean "not allowed", or "forbidden". In its current use in Tonga, the word "tapu" also means "sacred" or "holy", in the sense of being restricted or protected by custom or by law. For example, the main island in the Kingdom of Tonga, where the capital Nuku'alofa is located and most of the population resides, is called "Tongatapu".

The use of the word "taboo" drawn from "tapu". "Tapu" means "not allowed". It dates back to 1777 and an English explorer, Captain James Cook, went to a place he named "the Friendly Islands" (now Tonga). Writing about the Tongans, he wrote:

Some Solomon Islanders say that their languages have a word "tabu" (said like "ta-boo") that means holy. It refers to places in the bush where holy spirits live. Those areas should not be disturbed unless a ceremony or ritual is taking place. As taboo, they are places that should not be touched. 

Taboos can include:

Some taboos are because a religious, legal or social authority did something, over and over. Taboos can be talked about or joked about, outside "polite society". Comedy and satire such as "South Park", "The Simpsons" or "Beavis and Butthead" frequently do this.

There have been two main groups of explanations why taboos exist:

One suggestion is that taboos are the result of history and certain cultural experiences (which is called "Anthropolcial approach"). Steven Pinker suggests that taboos have developed culturally from more basic instincts. For taboos regarding the dead, he proposes that the human brain may have developed a hard-wired repulsion to many carriers of disease – an "intuitive microbiology". Only with the modern development of scientific microbiology have humans been able to rationalize these taboos. Pinker suggests similar explanations for the incest taboo and other things that cause the reflex emotion of disgust.

The other proposal is that taboos are the result of unconscious phenomena that are passed on (and this is called "Psychoanalytical approach"). Sigmund Freud provided an analysis of taboo behaviours. He highlighted strong subconscious motivations behind such prohibitions. In this system, described in his collection of essays "Totem and Taboo", Freud says there is a link between forbidden behaviours and the sanctification of objects to certain kinship groups. Freud also states that the only two "universal" taboos are that of incest and patricide, which formed the eventual basis of modern society.

German psychologist Wilhelm Wundt explains that taboos were originally nothing other than an objectified fear of a "demonic" power which was believed to lie hidden in a tabooed object. Sigmund Freud believes this to be a superficial explanation having nothing to do with the true origins of taboos. He claims that many similarities between taboo-holders and obsessive neurotics point to "a psychological condition that prevails in the unconscious". Freud believes this "unconsciousness" is central to understanding the history of taboos. He then reconstructs the history of taboo based on the model of obsessional prohibitions as follows:

And so, "Anyone who has violated a taboo becomes taboo himself because he possesses the dangerous quality of tempting others to follow his example."








</doc>
<doc id="26396" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26396" title="Flatfish">
Flatfish

Flatfish are a type of fish. There are several different kinds of flatfish. Some of them are fished commercially, like flounder, sole, turbot, plaice, and halibut.

All flatfish are rather flat, and have rays. They swim sideways. Some can hide on the ocean floor, waiting for prey. They have a capacity for dynamic camouflage, which is under nervous control, and can change in 'real time'.

The Order Pleuronectiformes is in the infraclass Teleostei.


</doc>
<doc id="26397" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26397" title="Trey">
Trey

Trey could mean:




</doc>
<doc id="26401" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26401" title="Monopoly">
Monopoly

In economics, a monopoly (from the Greek "monos", one + "polein", to sell) is when a product or service can only be bought from one supplier. In many places, utilities such as telephone service or cable television are monopolies.
The market is owned/dominated mainly by one company.

Many countries, including the United States, have laws to stop companies from having a monopoly.



</doc>
<doc id="26403" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26403" title="Pluto (Disney)">
Pluto (Disney)

Pluto is a fictional dog that belongs to Mickey Mouse. He is a golden-yellow mutt with a green collar. He was introduced in the 1930s and got his name from the planet Pluto which had recently been discovered.

Pluto taught many kids lessons such as sharing, not to have jealousy, and many others. Pluto was very energetic. Pluto was created by Walt Disney.


</doc>
<doc id="26404" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26404" title="Even number">
Even number

An even number is an integer which is a multiple of two. If it is divided by two the result is another integer. Zero is an even number because zero multiplied by two is zero. The next four bigger even numbers are two, four, six, and eight. You can tell if any decimal number is an even number if the last digit is an even number.

An integer that is not an even number is an odd number.
Integer addition and subtraction follows these rules: 

To find the set of even natural numbers, we use 2"N" where "N" is any natural number.
Multiple of any even number is also an even number. For example:

0N, 2N, 4N, 6N, ... (where N is any natural number)

the subsequent result is an even number. To add or subtract from an even number an odd number, results in an even number.

Even numbers are always divisible by 2.


</doc>
<doc id="26405" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26405" title="Mardi Gras">
Mardi Gras

Mardi Gras (Fat Tuesday) is a festival held the day before Ash Wednesday, signifying the end of the Carnival season and the start of Lent. Many cities (especially those with large Catholic populations) like New Orleans are famous for their Mardi Gras. 

During Mardi Gras, almost everyone takes part in celebrating with lavish parades and parties. Many different people celebrate Mardi Gras in their own way, some people have small parties and eat many of the tasty pastries and some people have huge parties and celebrate in a big way. Some of the pastries they eat are called king's cake, hot cross buns, punchskis, tricolor scrolls and thick sugar cookies. There are many more things that other people eat but these are the basic American ones. There are so many different parades and kinds of celebrations.


</doc>
<doc id="26406" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26406" title="Røldalsvatnet">
Røldalsvatnet

Røldalsvatnet is a lake in Odda, Hordaland, Norway. The length around it is 20.64 km, its area is 6.99 km² and it is 380 meters above sea level.


</doc>
<doc id="26407" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26407" title="Technorati">
Technorati

Technorati is a search engine for weblogs. As of August 2006, Technorati indexes over 55 million sites. 

Technorati was founded by Dave Sifry and its headquarters are in San Francisco, California, USA.



</doc>
<doc id="26411" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26411" title="Stuart, Florida">
Stuart, Florida

Stuart is a city in the U.S. state of Florida. It is the county seat of Martin County, part of the Treasure Coast.


</doc>
<doc id="26412" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26412" title="Astoria, Oregon">
Astoria, Oregon

Astoria is a city in the American state of Oregon . It is named after John Jacob Astor, who started a fur trading post, there in 1811. Many movies have been filmed there like "The Goonies", "Kindergarten Cop", and "Free Willy".


</doc>
<doc id="26414" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26414" title="The Goonies">
The Goonies

The Goonies is a 1985 movie about of a group of children living in a part of Astoria, Oregon, USA called The "Goon Docks", who go on a search for a pirate's treasure, to save their neighborhood from being bought and destroyed. The movie was produced by Steven Spielberg and directed by Richard Donner.



</doc>
<doc id="26417" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26417" title="Press Your Luck">
Press Your Luck

Press Your Luck was an American game show that aired from 1983 to 1986 and later in reruns, and was hosted by Peter Tomarken. The three contestants on each show would earn spins by answering questions that they could later use on The Big Board. On the board, they could earn thousands of dollars in cash and prizes, but had to beware of the Whammy, a cartoon demon who stole players' money and prizes. If a Whammy was hit, the contestant lost all earnings up to that time. Four Whammies took a player out of the game. The winner returned on the next show.

The show came back on the air in 2002 on Game Show Network as "Whammy! The All-New Press Your Luck". It featured a new "Big Bank" feature, which gave the player a chance to earn all the money and prizes lost to the Whammy. It was hosted by Todd Newton and ran until 2003.

The original version of "Press Your Luck" was called "Second Chance", which aired on television in 1977. Instead of the Whammy, players had to face a cartoon "Devil." It was hosted by Jim Peck, but did not last very long.

But Press Your Luck they will be aired new episodes and new seasons all day long.


</doc>
<doc id="26418" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26418" title="Nepal Bhasa">
Nepal Bhasa

Nepal Bhasa is a language. Newah Bhaaye is the term used for Nepal Bhasa by native speakers. It is a Himalayan language of Tibeto-Burman branch of the Sino-Tibetan group. It is to be noted that it has been incorrectly called by the term ‘Newari’ by westerners and non-Newars of Nepal. Nepal Bhasha shares the feature of Kirant and Tibetan dialects of Northern Himalayas. It consists of five major dialects and several sub-dialects spoken by Newa people living throughout the country. 


</doc>
<doc id="26419" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26419" title="Narcolepsy">
Narcolepsy

Narcolepsy is a neurological condition. Those who suffer from it tend to fall asleep during the daytime, even if they do not want to. 

Things that people with narcolepsy may experience:

Hallucinations, sleep paralysis, and automatic behaviour can also occur in people who are not narcoleptics. This usually happens when people are very tired, and have not slept for a long time.

It is not yet known what causes narcolepsy. However, quite a few sufferers also have another family member with the disease. This may point to the fact that some of the things that cause the disease may be passed from the parents to the children through genes.

There are certain drugs that can treat the effects of narcolepsy. They can not treat the cause, since it is unknown. In general those drugs are special kinds of stimulants. General stimulants, like coffee, usually do not help. 


</doc>
<doc id="26422" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26422" title="Danny Phantom">
Danny Phantom

Danny Phantom is an animated television series on the Nickelodeon cable network. This show, and another Nicktoon, "The Fairly OddParents", were created by American animator Butch Hartman.

The show "Danny Phantom" is about a fourteen-year old boy named Danny Fenton. His parents, Jack Fenton and Maddie Fenton, are ghost hunters and also create machines that help them to catch ghosts. Danny's parents were creating a portal, but when they were finished and tried to make it work, it failed to work and they quit. Danny, however, who had been watching them, put on a white suit and went inside the machine out of curiosity. He accidentally pressed a button and got an electric shock, which gave him his ghost powers.
Only his friends, Samantha (often called Sam) and Tucker know about his powers. Later Danny's sister, Jasmine (often called Jazz) accidentally discovered and learned about his powers.

Danny's powers include the following:


Danny Fenton - a fourteen-year-old boy who has ghost powers. He does not do well in school and is often bullied by Dash.

Samantha (Sam) Manson - A teenage girl who is one of Danny's best friends. She can be bossy sometimes. She has a crush on Danny.

Tucker Foley - A teenage boy who is one of Danny's best friends. He is smart and carries around gadgets. He also wears glasses.

Jack Fenton - Danny's father. He is clumsy but is good at making machines. Although a little bit dumb sometimes, he really does care about his family.

Maddie Fenton - Danny's mother. She also enjoys making machines with her husband.

Jazzmine (Jazz) Fenton - Danny's older teenage sister. She is smart and is sometimes against her parent's ghost hunting.

Dash - A teenage boy in Danny's school who likes to bully Danny. Recently, however, Danny has been able to avoid this. Dash is a very popular kid in the school.

Mr. Lancer - One of Danny, Jazz and Dash's teachers.

Kwan - One of Dash's friends who is also popular. 

Vlad Plasmius - Vlad is one of Jack's old friends. He too also has ghost powers, but he is more powerful than Danny.

Guys in White - This is a small group in the show. They are ghost hunters.

"Danny Phantom" is distributed outside the United States by the Canadian company, Nelvana.

Danny's school is called Casper High.

In the show, there are also characters called Guys in White. This is an obvious joke of Men in Black.

"Danny Phantom" was originally called "Danny Phantom and the Spector Detectors", but the creator thought that the show would be more interesting if the ghost was a teenage boy, so he changed it to "Danny Phantom".



</doc>
<doc id="26429" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26429" title="Cane">
Cane

A cane is stick from a piece of wood, or sometimes of metal. It is used by someone to help support themself when they are walking. A person might need a cane because of their age, or weight, or for another reason.


</doc>
<doc id="26430" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26430" title="Pipe">
Pipe

A pipe can be several things:




</doc>
<doc id="26432" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26432" title="Amazon.com">
Amazon.com

Amazon.com is an online store that sells books, movies, games, DVDs , music CDs, computer software and other items (like Amazon Kindle). It is the largest online store right now. It was started by Jeff Bezos in 1995 and the headquarters is in Seattle. The original name was Cadabra.com but was changed to Amazon later on because it sounded like the word "cadaver". The store is named after the world's second longest river.



</doc>
<doc id="26435" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26435" title="Summer Olympic Games">
Summer Olympic Games

The Summer Olympic Games or the Games of the Olympiad are an international sporting event which are held every four years by the International Olympic Committee. The "Games", as they are often called, are held in a different city each time. It is a great honour for a city to be "awarded" (given) the right to hold the Olympic Games. Two years after the Summer Olympics, the Winter Olympic Games are held. These are always in a cold, mountainous place because the sports are all snow and ice sports such as skiing. Many more countries send athletes to the Summer Olympics than to the Winter Olympics.

The Olympic Games were first held in Ancient Greece more than two thousand years ago. The first modern Summer Olympic Games were held in Athens in 1896. There were 200 athletes from Greece and 45 athletes from 13 other countries. Since 1904, medals have been given to the three best athletes or teams in each sport. 

The earliest Games consisted of 42 events only, but it was expected that 10,500 athletes would compete in the 302 events on the program for the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing.

Games in "italics" were cancelled or have not yet been held.



Athletics at the Summer Olympics


</doc>
<doc id="26439" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26439" title="Alpha Centauri">
Alpha Centauri

Alpha Centauri is the brightest star in the southern Centaurus constellation. It is the fourth brightest star in the night sky, with a magnitude of -0.01. It is visible in the Southern Hemisphere, and is too far south for most of the Northern Hemisphere to see.

Alpha Centauri is a binary star system of two stars A & B. The distance between them is quite close. To the naked eye, the stars are too close for the eye to be able to see them as separate. Their orbit is about the distance of the giant planets from our Sun.

There is a third star, Proxima Centauri (or Alpha Centauri C). This is usually considered separately, but in fact it is also gravitationally connected to the other two. It is actually slightly closer to us, with a very much larger orbit around A and B.

Viewed as a triple star system, Alpha Centauri is the closest to our own, being 4.2-4.4 light years (ly) away. It consists of two main stars, Alpha Centauri A and Alpha Centauri B (which form a binary star together) at a distance of 4.36 ly, and a dimmer red dwarf named Proxima Centauri at a distance of 4.22 ly. Both of the two main stars are rather similar to the Sun. The larger star, Alpha Centauri A, is the most similar to the Sun, but a little larger and brighter.



</doc>
<doc id="26440" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26440" title="Last call bell">
Last call bell

The last call bell is a bell found in bars. 

The last call bell is rung to:

Last call bells are related to bells used on ships. 



</doc>
<doc id="26441" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26441" title="Category:Bells">
Category:Bells

This is a category for Bells.


</doc>
<doc id="26443" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26443" title="Category:User ca-1">
Category:User ca-1


</doc>
<doc id="26444" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26444" title="TGV">
TGV

The TGV (Train à Grande Vitesse, French for "high-speed train"), is a category of high speed trains. They are used in France. They are also used for some travel between France and England, Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany and Switzerland. The trains normally travel at speeds between 270 km/h and 320 km/h. They are the fastest normal trains in the world, their average travel speed is at 279,4 km/h.

In 2007, a special TGV set the speed record for rail vehicles, reaching 574,8 km/h.

Inside France, there are the following high speed lines

Lines to Spain and Italy are being planned. A High speed line to Germany is being built.

The building of the network has made travel times much shorter. Paris to Marseille (750km) can now be done in 3 hours. Two thirds of the traffic volume is done by the TGV, only one third is done by airplanes.

Since the beginning of the high-speed rail network, the French Poste uses TGVs to transport mail, mostly between Paris, Mâcon and Cavaillon. These use the high-speed lines (LGV Sud-Est) during the night. 

In the north of France, the high-speed lines are also used to run regional trains over longer distances. There are currently train from Lille to Dunkerque. This takes half an hour. Other lines run to Calais, in forty minutes, or to Boulogne-sur-Mer in 55. In 2007, a line to Arras was opened, which is also very successful. Unfortunately, there are some problems with this approach. First, only high-speed lines can be used that are not saturated, because these trains run slower than regular TGVs. Secondly, using a TGV line costs more to the client, they have to pay extra. This makes these services more expensive.


</doc>
<doc id="26445" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26445" title="Template:User de">
Template:User de


</doc>
<doc id="26446" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26446" title="Category:User de-N">
Category:User de-N


</doc>
<doc id="26479" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26479" title="Category:Dukes and duchesses">
Category:Dukes and duchesses

Dukes and duchessess.


</doc>
<doc id="26480" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26480" title="Category:Royalty and nobility">
Category:Royalty and nobility

Royals and nobles.


</doc>
<doc id="26485" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26485" title="Category:Kings and queens">
Category:Kings and queens

Monarchs are also called "kings" (male) and "queens" (female). Monarchs are given power to govern their countries because they were usually born as sons and daughters of previous monarchs.


</doc>
<doc id="26488" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26488" title="Slur">
Slur

Slur has more than one meaning.

A slur is a type of offensive word that can cause hatred.

To slur also means to talk very fast and mix words together in doing so.

Here is a list of a few common words said with easy "slurred" speaking in English, along with the normal written form:



</doc>
<doc id="26489" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26489" title="Category:Royal dynasties">
Category:Royal dynasties


</doc>
<doc id="26490" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26490" title="Category:House of Tudor">
Category:House of Tudor


</doc>
<doc id="26491" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26491" title="Caregiver">
Caregiver

A caregiver, or carer, is someone who has the job of looking after people. Usually people that are unable to completely care for themselves. Examples are children, disabled people, or the elderly. When a caregiver is assigned to look after a baby or a child they are called a babysitter.


</doc>
<doc id="26496" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26496" title="Binoculars">
Binoculars

Binoculars are a kind of tool that lets people see far-away things more clearly, using a technology called optics. They are made of a pair of tubes that are held in front of the user's eyes. 

The tubes have lenses that focus light and magnify the image, a process called magnification. This way, when someone looks through the binoculars at a far-away object, it looks much closer. They also have prisms, which bend the light so to shorten the length of the tubes. That is why a binocular is shorter than a telescope. A binocular image is produced by two short telescope tubes.

Binoculars were invented in the 17th century. They do the work of a telescope in a more compact form: they take up less space. The Royal Navy used telescopes, but now all ships have heavy binoculars. They can be mounted on swivels to scan the horizon. Binoculars are also standard issue in all armies. Night vision binoculars use photocathode electronics to intensify the image.

Binoculars are also used for theatre (opera glasses), birdwatching and amateur astronomy.

These features are present in some or all binoculars:



</doc>
<doc id="26497" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26497" title="Odd number">
Odd number

An odd number is an integer which is not a multiple of two. If it is divided by two the result is a fraction. One is the first odd positive number. The next four bigger odd numbers are three, five, seven, and nine. You can tell if any decimal number is an odd number if the last digit is an odd number. 

An integer that is not an odd number is an even number.
An even number is defined as a whole number that is a multiple of two.
If an even number is divided by two, the result is another whole number.
On the other hand, an odd number, when divided by two, will result in a fraction.

Since odd and even numbers are defined only in reference to the set of integers (... , −3, −2, −1, 0 , 1, 2, 3, ...), all negative numbers can also be either odd or even.

To find the set of odd natural numbers, we use 2"N"+1 where "N" is any natural number.


</doc>
<doc id="26498" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26498" title="Wikipedia:Naming conventions (technical restrictions)">
Wikipedia:Naming conventions (technical restrictions)

Some article titles cannot be named correctly due to things the MediaWiki software can't do. For example, a character in the name can't be used in page titles.

Where you want to draw readers' attention to this, add something like this before the first paragraph of the article:

Which will produce the text:

For a list of articles that are marked with this template, see .

To make the first letter lowercase (small), put this before the first paragraph:

Which will fix the title, like in iTunes.

For a list of articles that are marked with this template, see .


</doc>
<doc id="26500" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26500" title="Template:Oceania">
Template:Oceania


</doc>
<doc id="26509" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26509" title="1343">
1343





</doc>
<doc id="26510" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26510" title="1342">
1342





</doc>
<doc id="26511" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26511" title="1344">
1344





</doc>
<doc id="26512" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26512" title="Category:1344">
Category:1344


</doc>
<doc id="26513" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26513" title="Category:1433">
Category:1433


</doc>
<doc id="26514" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26514" title="Category:1435">
Category:1435


</doc>
<doc id="26515" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26515" title="Category:890">
Category:890


</doc>
<doc id="26516" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26516" title="Category:890s">
Category:890s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 890s which begins in the year 890 and ends in the year 899.


</doc>
<doc id="26517" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26517" title="Category:885">
Category:885


</doc>
<doc id="26518" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26518" title="Category:886">
Category:886


</doc>
<doc id="26519" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26519" title="Category:880s">
Category:880s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 880s which begins in the year 880 and ends in the year 889.


</doc>
<doc id="26520" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26520" title="Category:871">
Category:871


</doc>
<doc id="26521" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26521" title="Category:841">
Category:841


</doc>
<doc id="26522" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26522" title="Category:844">
Category:844


</doc>
<doc id="26523" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26523" title="Category:870s">
Category:870s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 870s which begins in the year 870 and ends in the year 879.


</doc>
<doc id="26524" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26524" title="Category:500">
Category:500


</doc>
<doc id="26525" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26525" title="Category:500s">
Category:500s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 500s which begins in the year 500 and ends in the year 509.

Note that 500 is actually the last year of the 5th century; 501 is the actual first year of the 6th century.


</doc>
<doc id="26526" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26526" title="Category:655">
Category:655


</doc>
<doc id="26527" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26527" title="Category:675">
Category:675


</doc>
<doc id="26528" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26528" title="Category:681">
Category:681


</doc>
<doc id="26529" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26529" title="Category:687">
Category:687


</doc>
<doc id="26530" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26530" title="Category:680s">
Category:680s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 680s which begins in the year 680 and ends in the year 689.


</doc>
<doc id="26531" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26531" title="Category:670s">
Category:670s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 670s which begins in the year 670 and ends in the year 679.


</doc>
<doc id="26532" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26532" title="Category:650s">
Category:650s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 650s which begins in the year 650 and ends in the year 659.


</doc>
<doc id="26533" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26533" title="Category:301">
Category:301


</doc>
<doc id="26534" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26534" title="Category:997">
Category:997


</doc>
<doc id="26535" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26535" title="Category:711">
Category:711


</doc>
<doc id="26536" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26536" title="Category:710s">
Category:710s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 710s which begins in the year 710 and ends in the year 719.


</doc>
<doc id="26537" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26537" title="Category:Materials">
Category:Materials

When we speak about Material, we mean physical substances.


</doc>
<doc id="26538" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26538" title="Template:User hu">
Template:User hu


</doc>
<doc id="26540" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26540" title="Category:User hu">
Category:User hu

These users speak the Hungarian language (magyar).


</doc>
<doc id="26541" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26541" title="Category:User hu-N">
Category:User hu-N


</doc>
<doc id="26542" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26542" title="Tent">
Tent

The tent is a movable, lightweight shelter which uses thin fabric to protect people from wind and rain. The fabric walls of a tent are supported by wood or metal poles and thin ropes (called "guy lines"), and the tent or the ropes are usually attached to the ground with plastic or metal pointed stakes. 

Tents are usually used as shelter during camping, hiking, and other outdoor recreational activities. Large tents are also used to provide temporary shelter for events such as outdoor weddings or circuses. Tents are also used to provide temporary sleeping quarters for military personnel or homeless people, or for people who have been displaced by a disaster (such as refugees).


</doc>
<doc id="26544" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26544" title="Cottage">
Cottage

A small house is often called a cottage. This word comes from England where it is used to mean a house that has one main storey, with a second, lower storey of bedrooms which fit under the roof upstairs. In many places the word cottage is used to mean a small old-fashioned house. In the United States the word cottage is often used to mean a small holiday home.

Cottages are usually found in villages or in the countryside, rather than in the town. They are nearly always built from material that can be found nearby. A cottage may be built of stone, of brick or of timber. It may have a roof of tiles, slates, shingles, shakes or thatch. 


</doc>
<doc id="26545" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26545" title="Template:User la-2">
Template:User la-2


</doc>
<doc id="26546" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26546" title="Template:User la-3">
Template:User la-3


</doc>
<doc id="26547" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26547" title="Template:User la-4">
Template:User la-4


</doc>
<doc id="26548" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26548" title="Template:User la-1">
Template:User la-1


</doc>
<doc id="26549" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26549" title="Template:User la">
Template:User la


</doc>
<doc id="26552" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26552" title="Category:User la-1">
Category:User la-1


</doc>
<doc id="26553" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26553" title="Category:User la-2">
Category:User la-2


</doc>
<doc id="26554" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26554" title="Category:User la-3">
Category:User la-3


</doc>
<doc id="26555" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26555" title="Category:User la-4">
Category:User la-4


</doc>
<doc id="26556" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26556" title="Category:User fr-2">
Category:User fr-2


</doc>
<doc id="26557" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26557" title="Category:User fr-3">
Category:User fr-3


</doc>
<doc id="26558" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26558" title="Category:User fr-4">
Category:User fr-4


</doc>
<doc id="26560" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26560" title="Template:User ru-2">
Template:User ru-2


</doc>
<doc id="26561" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26561" title="Template:User ru-3">
Template:User ru-3


</doc>
<doc id="26562" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26562" title="Template:User ru-4">
Template:User ru-4


</doc>
<doc id="26563" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26563" title="Template:User ru">
Template:User ru


</doc>
<doc id="26564" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26564" title="Category:User ru-N">
Category:User ru-N


</doc>
<doc id="26565" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26565" title="Category:User ru-3">
Category:User ru-3


</doc>
<doc id="26566" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26566" title="Category:User ru-2">
Category:User ru-2


</doc>
<doc id="26567" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26567" title="Category:User ru-1">
Category:User ru-1


</doc>
<doc id="26568" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26568" title="Category:User ru">
Category:User ru


</doc>
<doc id="26569" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26569" title="Category:User ru-4">
Category:User ru-4


</doc>
<doc id="26571" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26571" title="Template:User sv-2">
Template:User sv-2


</doc>
<doc id="26572" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26572" title="Template:User sv-3">
Template:User sv-3


</doc>
<doc id="26573" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26573" title="Template:User sv-4">
Template:User sv-4


</doc>
<doc id="26574" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26574" title="Category:User sv-1">
Category:User sv-1


</doc>
<doc id="26575" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26575" title="Category:User sv-3">
Category:User sv-3


</doc>
<doc id="26576" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26576" title="Category:User sv-2">
Category:User sv-2


</doc>
<doc id="26577" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26577" title="Category:User sv-4">
Category:User sv-4


</doc>
<doc id="26581" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26581" title="Template:User it-4">
Template:User it-4


</doc>
<doc id="26582" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26582" title="Template:User it">
Template:User it


</doc>
<doc id="26583" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26583" title="Category:User it-N">
Category:User it-N


</doc>
<doc id="26584" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26584" title="Category:User it-3">
Category:User it-3


</doc>
<doc id="26585" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26585" title="Category:User it-2">
Category:User it-2


</doc>
<doc id="26586" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26586" title="Category:User it-1">
Category:User it-1


</doc>
<doc id="26587" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26587" title="Category:User it-4">
Category:User it-4


</doc>
<doc id="26590" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26590" title="Category:User tr">
Category:User tr


</doc>
<doc id="26591" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26591" title="Category:User tr-N">
Category:User tr-N


</doc>
<doc id="26595" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26595" title="Template:User qu">
Template:User qu


</doc>
<doc id="26596" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26596" title="Bullseye">
Bullseye

The bullseye is the centre of a target (worth 10 points in archery or 50 points in darts), and the name given to any shot that hits the bullseye.

From analogy with this definition the word bullseye has gained other usages:



</doc>
<doc id="26597" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26597" title="Category:User qu-N">
Category:User qu-N


</doc>
<doc id="26598" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26598" title="Category:User qu-3">
Category:User qu-3


</doc>
<doc id="26599" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26599" title="Category:User qu-2">
Category:User qu-2


</doc>
<doc id="26600" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26600" title="Category:User qu-1">
Category:User qu-1


</doc>
<doc id="26605" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26605" title="Template:User pl-4">
Template:User pl-4


</doc>
<doc id="26606" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26606" title="Category:User pl-4">
Category:User pl-4


</doc>
<doc id="26607" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26607" title="Category:User pl-3">
Category:User pl-3


</doc>
<doc id="26608" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26608" title="Category:User pl-2">
Category:User pl-2


</doc>
<doc id="26609" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26609" title="Category:User pl-1">
Category:User pl-1


</doc>
<doc id="26610" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26610" title="Category:User pl-N">
Category:User pl-N


</doc>
<doc id="26618" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26618" title="Category:User ko">
Category:User ko


</doc>
<doc id="26619" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26619" title="Category:User ko-N">
Category:User ko-N


</doc>
<doc id="26620" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26620" title="Category:User ko-1">
Category:User ko-1


</doc>
<doc id="26621" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26621" title="Category:User ko-2">
Category:User ko-2


</doc>
<doc id="26622" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26622" title="Category:User ko-3">
Category:User ko-3


</doc>
<doc id="26623" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26623" title="Template:User ko-3">
Template:User ko-3


</doc>
<doc id="26624" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26624" title="Category:User zh-1">
Category:User zh-1


</doc>
<doc id="26625" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26625" title="Category:User zh-2">
Category:User zh-2


</doc>
<doc id="26626" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26626" title="Category:User zh-3">
Category:User zh-3


</doc>
<doc id="26627" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26627" title="Category:User zh-4">
Category:User zh-4


</doc>
<doc id="26628" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26628" title="Category:User zh-N">
Category:User zh-N


</doc>
<doc id="26631" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26631" title="Template:User zh-4">
Template:User zh-4


</doc>
<doc id="26632" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26632" title="Template:User zh">
Template:User zh


</doc>
<doc id="26633" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26633" title="Category:Wikipedia:Soft redirects">
Category:Wikipedia:Soft redirects


</doc>
<doc id="26636" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26636" title="Alaska plaice">
Alaska plaice

Alaska plaice ("Pleuronectes quadrituberculatus") are salt water fish that live in the north Pacific Ocean. Like most flatfish, they live on the bottom of the continental shelf, up to 600 metres deep. Their geographical range is from the Gulf of Alaska in the east, to the Chukchi Sea in the north, to the Sea of Japan in the west. Alaska plaice feed mostly on polychaetes, but also eat amphipods and echiurans.

Most commercial fisheries do not want to catch Alaska plaice; but many are caught by trawlers trying to catch other bottom fish. So many Alaska plaice get caught anyway that, for example, the 2005 total allowable catch in the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands management area (BSAI) was reached before the end of May of that year.

Alaska plaice can live for up to 30 years, and grow to 60 centimetres (24 inches) long, but most that get caught are only seven or eight years old, and about 30 cm (12 in).




</doc>
<doc id="26637" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26637" title="Sleep paralysis">
Sleep paralysis

Sleep paralysis is a condition in which people wake from sleep and find that they are unable to move. Usually it lasts for only a few minutes, and people have said they feel a "presence" during it.

Little is known about the physiology of sleep paralysis. However, some have suggested that it may be linked to post-synaptic inhibition of nerves in the pons region of the brain. In particular, low levels of melatonin may stop the depolarization current in the nerves, which stops stimulation of the muscles.

Studies suggest that many people get sleep paralysis at least once in their lives. People who have narcolepsy often get it much more. Many people try to induce sleep paralysis, to have an Out of Body Experience. If you suffer from sleep paralysis, you can change it into an enjoyable experience.

Some report that various factors make paralysis and hallucinations happen more. These include:


</doc>
<doc id="26640" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26640" title="American plaice">
American plaice

American plaice ("Hippoglossoides platessoides") are salt water fish that live in the northwest Atlantic Ocean. Like most flatfish, they live on the bottom of the continental shelf, up to 700 metres deep, but spend most of the time at 90 to 200 meters. Their geographical range is from the coast of Labrador, south to the coast of the U.S. state of Rhode Island. The most are found off the eastern tip of Newfoundland. American plaice feed on sand dollars, brittle stars, crustaceans, polychaetes, and fish such as capelin and launce.

Like many flatfish, American plaice are sometimes said to be a flounder or dab, even though both are names for other fish species.

The U.K.-based Marine Conservation Society rates American plaice as 5, the most threatened category of over-harvested animals.




</doc>
<doc id="26641" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26641" title="Spider web">
Spider web

A spider web is a sticky net that spiders make from silk to trap their prey. When insects fly or crawl into the web, they get stuck and the spider eats them. Most spider webs are very thin, but are also very strong. Different kinds of spiders make different types of webs. Spiders make different webs in different places to trap many kinds of prey. 


</doc>
<doc id="26642" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26642" title="Template:LaboratoryEquipment">
Template:LaboratoryEquipment


</doc>
<doc id="26645" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26645" title="World Series">
World Series

The World Series in Major League Baseball, is when the best team from the American League and the best team from the National League keep playing games of baseball until one of the two teams wins four games total. The winners of the World Series last year (2011) were the St. Louis Cardinals.


</doc>
<doc id="26651" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26651" title="Janet Jackson">
Janet Jackson

Janet Damita Jo Jackson (born May 16, 1966, in Gary, Indiana) is an American pop singer, dancer, actress, and songwriter. She is the younger sister of Michael Jackson and has had many popular songs such as "Nasty," "Rhythm Nation," and "That's The Way Love Goes." Jackson also plays in the movie "Why Did I Get Married?"


</doc>
<doc id="26652" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26652" title="Melissa Joan Hart">
Melissa Joan Hart

Melissa Joan Catherine Hart (born April 18, 1976 in Long Island, New York) is an American actress.

She played the title roles in the television series "Clarissa Explains It All" and "Sabrina, the Teenage Witch". In 1999 she played the lead role in the movie "Drive Me Crazy". On July 19, 2003, she married musician Mark Wilkerson. On January 11, 2006 she gave birth to a boy they named Mason Walter Wilkerson.



</doc>
<doc id="26653" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26653" title="Colleen Fitzpatrick">
Colleen Fitzpatrick

Colleen Ann Fitzpatrick (born June 27, 1972 in Old Bridge, New Jersey) is an American singer and actor. Her stage name is Vitamin C. Before she started her solo career, she was the lead singer of the band Eve's Plum.






</doc>
<doc id="26656" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26656" title="Jamie Lynn Spears">
Jamie Lynn Spears

Jamie Lynn Marie Spears (born April 4, 1991 in McComb, Mississippi) is an American actress and singer. She is the younger sister of pop singer Britney Spears. She played the lead role in the television series "Zoey 101". In late December 2007 it was revealed that Jamie Lynn was pregnant. Jamie Lynn's daughter, Maddie Briann Aldridge, was born on June 19, 2008.



</doc>
<doc id="26657" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26657" title="Opel">
Opel

Opel, full name Adam Opel AG, is an automobile maker from Germany, founded in 1862. Since 1929, Opel is the german brand of the american automaker General Motors. Opel has about 40,000 workers. The company headquarters are located in Rüsselsheim, Germany. Other german plants are in Bochum, Eisenach, and Kaiserslautern. In Great Britain, Opel cars are called Vauxhall. 

Passenger cars:
Agila | Antara | Ampera | Astra | Astra GTC | Corsa | Insignia | Meriva | Mokka | Zafira Tourer
Commercial cars:
Combo | Vivaro | Movano
Concept cars:
Aero GT | Antara GTC | CD | Diesel Rekordwagen | Eco Speedster | Frogster | Frua Diplomat | G90 | GT 2 | Insignia | Maxx | OPC X-Treme | Snowtrekker | Trixx
Historic cars:
Admiral | Ascona | Blitz | Calibra | Commodore | Diplomat | Frontera | GT | Kadett | Kapitän | Manta | Monterey | Monza | Olympia | Omega | Rekord | Senator | Signum | Sintra | Speedster | Tigra | Vectra



</doc>
<doc id="26658" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26658" title="JAG">
JAG

JAG (the American military acronym for Judge Advocate General) is an American adventure, crime, and drama television show created by Donald P. Bellisario. It was on air between 1995 and 2005. The series is about the JAG officers Harmon "Harm" Rabb, Jr. (David James Elliott) and Sarah "Mac" MacKenzie (Catherine Bell). In 2003, the series spawned the spin-off "NCIS".



</doc>
<doc id="26678" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26678" title="Burn">
Burn

Burning is the process of combustion, a reaction between a substance (the fuel) and a gas (the oxidizer).

Burn, burning or burned can mean:

Bands:

Albums:

Songs:




</doc>
<doc id="26680" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26680" title="Adobe Photoshop">
Adobe Photoshop

Photoshop is a popular image changing software package. It is widely used by photographers for changing photographs (fix colors, reduce noise, add effects, fix brightness/contrast) and by graphic designers and Web designers to create and change images for web pages.

Photoshop works on computer systems like Windows and Mac. The software is made by the company Adobe. There is also a version named Photoshop Elements, made for the home user that does not want to buy the full version that is more expensive.
The current version is Photoshop CS5, which was released in April 2010.


</doc>
<doc id="26683" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26683" title="Finger">
Finger

A finger is a body part that sticks out from the hand. Each person normally has four fingers and one thumb on each hand. 

Fingers and thumbs are types of digits. Sometimes the thumb is called a finger, but it is only made of 2 bones, instead of 3, so it is different from a finger. It is more correct to say that the hand has five digits:


</doc>
<doc id="26684" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26684" title="Bronze">
Bronze

Bronze is a metal alloy. Bronze is mostly copper, with some tin added (usually between 5% and 20% tin). 

Bronze was the first alloy that was used by humans. The first nation that used Bronze was Egypt about 3500 years B.C. This gave the name for the Bronze Age.

Bronze is stronger than copper or tin alone. Bronze lasts longer than copper. Pure copper is soon hurt by air and water. When copper is hurt by air or water, the copper turns green and falls apart.

When people learned how to make and work iron, the Bronze Age ended, and the Iron Age started. Iron can be made harder than bronze, but is susceptible to corrosion (see rust). Iron also wears away faster than bronze, when different pieces are moving against each other. Iron is very common, and easy to make. For this reason, iron costs less than bronze. This is the reason why iron is now used where bronze used to be used.

Bronze is still used to make many parts of machines. We choose to make a part out of bronze when it is important that the part last for a long time around water and air, or that the part not wear away. The main things that are made out of it are pump parts, bearings , bells, electrical components, gears, valves, and other things.

Bronze parts are usually cast in a foundry. After they are cast, bronze parts can also be worked in a lathe or milling machine, or drilled. Bronze is not normally worked with a hammer like iron.

When an alloy is called Bronze, it usually means the alloy of copper and tin. When two words are used to name an alloy, and one of the words is Bronze, this means that the alloy is made mostly from copper. The other word tells us what other metal was combined with copper to make this alloy. 

Other bronzes are:

Bronze should not be confused with Brass which is a different alloy of copper and Zinc.


</doc>
<doc id="26685" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26685" title="Flight">
Flight

Flight, or flying, is to stay off of the ground for a period of time, or able to move through the air with wings. An airplane or a bird 'takes flight'. 

Four groups of animals achieved genuine flight (as contrasted with gliding). They are, in order of their evolution: insects, pterosaurs, birds, bats.

Most bird and insect species can fly while most mammals cannot. 


</doc>
<doc id="26686" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26686" title="Pound">
Pound

A pound is:



</doc>
<doc id="26687" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26687" title="Reindeer">
Reindeer

The reindeer ("Rangifer tarandus") is an even-toed ungulate mammal of the deer family. In North America it is also called caribou. 
There are about 10-20 reindeer subspecies. The reindeer is the only deer that has been domesticated.

The different reindeer subspecies have different sizes and slightly same fur colors. Male reindeer are usually bigger and heavier than the females. Reindeer are about 1.20 - 2.20 meters long and about 0.90 - 1.40 meters high. They weigh between 60 - 300 kilograms. Reindeer mostly have a grey-brown fur. The fur is dark in summer and becomes a lighter color in winter. Reindeer are the only deer where both sexes have antlers. The antlers of female reindeer are smaller than the antlers of males. Reindeer also have big feet, which helps them walk on soft ground.

Many people think that Caribou and Reindeer are the same animals, but there are some noticeable differences.
Reindeer: 
- most commonly found as domesticated animals
- sedentary
- breeding starts mid-Aug 
- can be pinto colored 
- dark bown calves 
- more fat
- thicker fur
- shorter face and muzzle
- females have larger antlers than female caribou

Caribou:
- wild
- migratory
- breeding starts mid-September
- never pinto colored
- light brown calves

Reindeer can be found in Lappland ( Northern Finland, Sweden, Norway and Russia), North America (All over Canada and on farms across North America where they are raised in captivity), and Siberia. They were first used by people to do work in Lappland and Siberia.

Reindeer live in coniferous forest and Arctic conditions.

Reindeer eat mostly grass, but eat also almost any other plant. In winter they often eat Reindeer lichen, moss and fungi. 

Reindeer are herd animals and live in groups. They live in groups of 10-100 reindeer, which are herds of only females or herds of only males. Reindeer go on long journeys between the warm and cold seasons. For this journeys the smaller groups form big herds of up to several 100,000 animals. Reindeer mate in October, and the males mate with as many females as possible. 

After a pregnancy of 230 days the female gives birth to a single baby, usually in May or June. Reindeer babies do not have spots on their fur, like most other deer babies have. Young reindeer become mature when they are 2 year old. Reindeer usually become 12–15 years old, sometimes they can become 20 years old.

Reindeer have been hunted by humans since the stone age. People, especially in the northern regions, used the reindeer's meat, fur, skin, antlers and bones. 

The reindeer was domesticated about 3 thousand years ago. It was first domesticated in Siberia and Scandinavia. Since then, reindeer have also been used for transport, for example for pulling sleds. Because reindeer can live in very cold climates, domesticated reindeer are used in most northern parts of the world.
The "Sami" people in Lapland use Reindeer for fur, and food.

In western/European culture, it is said that Santa Claus' sled is pulled by reindeer.


</doc>
<doc id="26688" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26688" title="Deer">
Deer

Deer are a group of even-toed ungulate mammals. They form the family Cervidae. They are also called true deer.

A male deer is called "stag" or "buck", a female deer is called "doe", and a young deer is called "fawn". 

There are about 40 species of deer. They originally lived in Europe, Asia, North America and South America. Humans also brought deer to Australia and New Zealand.

Most male deer have antlers, which they often use for fighting, but both the male and female reindeer have antlers. The Water Deer has no antlers at all.

The plural of 'Deer' is just 'Deer'. It is not 'Deers'.

Deer do not make nests or dens. They find a safe and comfortable place to rest under low hanging evergreen branches. They stay close to where they can find food. In summer, they eat grasses, plants and weeds. In the fall, they like mushrooms and small branches. They do not store their food for the winter. If the snow is not deep, they use their hooves to uncover moss and leaves. If the snow is deep, they eat twigs and branches. 

The doe usually has 1 or 2 fawns in the spring. The fawn can stand immediately after birth, but is weak. The doe will hide each fawn in a different place. They are camouflaged by spots on their backs.

Deer have many predators. Wolves, cougar, dogs and people will eat deer. They are always looking, listening and smelling for danger. They can usually run faster than their predators.

 


</doc>
<doc id="26693" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26693" title="Category:Uruguay">
Category:Uruguay


</doc>
<doc id="26698" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26698" title="Template:Legend">
Template:Legend

<includeonly>     </includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="26699" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26699" title="Congo">
Congo

Congo can refer to several things:


</doc>
<doc id="26701" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26701" title="Atomic mass unit">
Atomic mass unit

An atomic mass unit is a unit of measurement that is used to measure the mass of atoms. The atomic mass unit (abbreviated: amu or u) is roughly equal to the mass of 1 proton or 1 neutron.

The unified atomic mass unit and the dalton are different names for the same thing. The dalton name is used more over time. The unit is named after John Dalton, an 18th century naturalist and teacher.


</doc>
<doc id="26703" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26703" title="Cation">
Cation

Cations are atoms that have lost electrons. Since they now have more protons than electrons, cations have a positive charge.

Cations are one of the two types of ion. The other type is called an anion.


</doc>
<doc id="26704" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26704" title="Anion">
Anion

Anions are atoms that have gained electrons. Since they now have more electrons than protons, anions have a negative charge.

Anions are one of the two types of ions. The other type is called a cation, and these have a positive charge. Ions are atoms that have an electrical charge.


</doc>
<doc id="26709" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26709" title="David (Michelangelo)">
David (Michelangelo)

David is a statue by Michelangelo, begun in 1501 and completed in 1504. It is made of marble and is 17 feet tall. It is a statue of a shepherd, David, whose story is told in the Bible. David fought a battle with a giant soldier called Goliath. He beat Goliath by knocking him down with a small stone from his slingshot. David later became King of Israel. 

Michelangelo has carved the figure naked, in the way that Ancient Roman statues of Classical Gods were often made. He shows David before the fight, just as he is looking at Goliath and planning what to do. 

The statue was paid for by the wool-workers of Florence. To the people of the Republic of Florence, David, the teenage boy who fought a giant, was a symbol of how a small fierce town could battle off powerful invaders. David was a particularly important symbol to the wool-workers as well, because as a boy, he took care of his father’s sheep, and as a king, he was like a shepherd to his people. 

The statue of David is a symbol of the City of Florence, and is Michelangelo's most famous work of sculpture. It is often called "The David". 

From about 1464 the members of the Wool Guild wanted to have twelve statues of people from the Old Testament of the Bible carved for the Florence Cathedral. These statues were to go on the buttresses all around the outside walls, high up near the roof. Two statues had already been made by Donatello and his assistant, Agostino di Duccio. Duccio was asked to carve a statue of David. He began carving the statue's feet, chest and a hole between the legs. He stopped making the statue when his master, Donatello, died in 1466. Antonio Rossellino then worked on the statue for two years. The block of stone was untouched for 25 years and was left in the cathedral workshop where it was getting damaged by the weather. Michelangelo began working on David on September 13, 1501. It was finished on September 8, 1504.

When it was finished, the statue was placed in front of the entrance to the Palazzo Vecchio. During 1873 it was moved to the Accademia Gallery in Florence to protect it from damage. The statue currently attracts many visitors to the Accademia Gallery.

In 1991, the statue of David was attacked by a person with a hammer. Before the person with the hammer could be stopped, damage was done to the toes of the left foot.

The following are other statues by Michelangelo:


</doc>
<doc id="26710" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26710" title="Category:Paintings">
Category:Paintings

This is a category of paintings. They are ordered by the name of the painting.


</doc>
<doc id="26711" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26711" title="Category:Statues">
Category:Statues

This is a category of statues. They are ordered by the name of the statue.


</doc>
<doc id="26712" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26712" title="Moses (Michelangelo)">
Moses (Michelangelo)

Moses is a statue that was made by Michelangelo. It is a statue of Moses from the Bible. The statue is unusual because Moses has horns on his head. This was one of Michelangelo's last projects. 

The following are other statues by Michelangelo:



</doc>
<doc id="26713" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26713" title="The Birth of Venus (Botticelli)">
The Birth of Venus (Botticelli)

The Birth of Venus is a painting by Sandro Botticelli1445 – May 17, 1510. It is of a Roman goddess who was called Venus. He pictured her standing on a shell because Venus was said to have been born from the sea.

It shows Zephyr, the god of the winds, blowing her toward the shore where another goddess is awaiting her with a cloak. She is pictured naked to show her innocence and divinity.


</doc>
<doc id="26714" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26714" title="Primavera (Botticelli)">
Primavera (Botticelli)

The Primavera is a painting by Sandro Botticelli, which was painted in about 1482.

The painting is set in the garden of Venus, who is in the middle of the painting. Above her head is Cupid, who is aiming a bow and arrow at "The Three Graces". The Three Graces are dancing a rondel. Mercury is on the left of the painting. He is wearing a helmet and is carrying a sword. This means that he is the guard of Venus's garden. On the right of the picture is Zephyr. Zephyr is the god of the wind. He is chasing a nymph called Cloris. Next to Cloris is Flora, the goddess of Spring, scattering flowers. She was originally Cloris but was turned into Flora by Zephyr.

The Primavera is in the Uffizi Gallery in Florence.


</doc>
<doc id="26715" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26715" title="Cupid">
Cupid

Cupid, also called Amor (Latin for "love"), is the god of desire in Roman mythology. He fired golden arrows at people to make them fall in love, and lead arrows to make people fall out of love. 


</doc>
<doc id="26718" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26718" title="The Creation of Adam">
The Creation of Adam

The Creation of Adam is part of a painting by Michelangelo in the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel.


</doc>
<doc id="26729" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26729" title="Newbury, Berkshire">
Newbury, Berkshire

Newbury is a small historical market town in Berkshire, England, with many buildings from the 16th century, the world famous Newbury racecourse, and the Lambourn horse training stables.

Newbury is home to many kinds of people from different cultures. It is easy to get there from the M4 motorway and has airport and train links.


</doc>
<doc id="26730" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26730" title="Dvorak keyboard">
Dvorak keyboard

The Dvorak keyboard is an alternative way of putting letters on an English keyboard. Most English keyboards have the keys lined up in a "QWERTY layout." The point of QWERTY was to prevent typewriter keys from sticking, but it is not the most "ergonomic", or comfortable, keyboard to type on. Augustine Dvorak invented the Dvorak keyboard, where letters are arranged based on how often they are used. For instance, the most common letters (like "e") are in the center row of keys, so less hand movement is needed when a person is typing.

Now that we use computers instead of typewriters, there is no reason to keep the QWERTY keyboard, except that everyone already learned to type using it. Many Dvorak keyboard users think that more people should use the Dvorak keyboard, as it aims to prevent typing injuries (like Repetitive Stress Injury and carpal tunnel). But most users are used to the QWERTY keyboard, and do not want to switch.


</doc>
<doc id="26731" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26731" title="Microsoft FrontPage">
Microsoft FrontPage

Microsoft FrontPage is a program made by Microsoft to help people make webpages and full websites. It was one of Microsoft Office programs until 2003.

Microsoft FrontPage was commercially available in four versions:
FrontPage 98, FrontPage 2000, FrontPage 2002 & FrontPage 2003.

There was also a freeware version included in earlier releases of Internet Explorer. It was called FrontPage Express. If you have an older version of IE (if I am not mistaken this would be 4.0-5.0) it was found under "Accessories". It was actually a useful web editor for those without access to the funds for purchasing professional software. FrontPage express is compatible with Windows XP, Windows Vista, Windows 7 and possibly earier versions of Windows. FrontPage Express downloads are still available online from third-party hosts, such as stormthecastle.com.

FrontPage is a WYSIWYG, "What You See Is What You Get", Web Editor. All versions of FrontPage are still in use by web developers all over the globe.

The 2003 version is the last installment to the series. It was replaced by Microsoft Expression Web.


</doc>
<doc id="26733" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26733" title="Staff (stick)">
Staff (stick)

A staff is a long wooden pole, often used in martial arts. Sometimes a staff is used like a cane when not in combat.


</doc>
<doc id="26734" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26734" title="Martial arts">
Martial arts

A martial art is any form of fighting and an art that has a set way of practice. There are many martial arts that come from certain countries. They are practiced for many reasons: fighting, self-defense, sport, self-expression, discipline, confidence, fitness, relaxing, meditation. A martial art is a style of combat, in many instances directed towards the self-defence. In the common usage, the word applies to the systems of combat developed in all the world.

A person who does martial arts is called a "martial artist".

One common method is particularly in the Asian martial arts, it is the form or kata.
Martial arts may be used for self defense ,combat and fitness.

The idea of "martial art" appeared first time in English language in the edition of 1920 of the "Takenobu's Japanese-English Dictionary" as a translation of the word "bu-gei" or "bu-jutsu" what means ""art" or "solution" of the military matters".

In simple words, the martial arts are fighting systems. There are many schools and styles of martial arts, but all share the same goal: the self-defence. Some of them, like taiji quan also can be used in order to improve health and the form as flowing of the "qi".

Some martial arts were not born in Asia. For example, savate had appeared in France and the movements of sport of the capoeira came from the Brazil.

Many martial arts include punches (boxing, karate), kicks (taekwondo, kickboxing, karate), holds and throws (judo, jujutsu, wrestling), weapons (iaijutsu, kendo, kenjutsu, naginatado, fencing, Filipino eskrima) or certain combination of earlier mentioned elements (several styles of jujutsu).

The martial arts are divided in two great sets: the so-called "hard martial arts" like karate and kickboxing which give special consideration to the attack for beat the opponent and the "soft martial arts" like the judo and the aikido which fight the opponent in the less aggressive method, using the force of the other for surrender him.

It is difficult to compare the effectiveness of the different existing arts. Recently, people developed competitions like the Ultimate Fighting Champions in the United States of America or Pancrase in Japan. That competitions also are known as "mixed martial arts" or MMA. Although that is yet to be seen the financial success or defeat of these ways.

The martial arts are defined in this method: through the history, to the soldier in the battlefield, the only thing that was important for them was beat the enemy that one have before himself. Whether a style is soft or hard or how many points are gained with a blow are details and subjects of discussion which appear in periods of peace, when there were hand to hand combats.

The martial arts are the arts of the war. If the main goal in a competition depends on noting points to somebody's advantage, then we are not before a martial art but before a sport.

The history of the martial arts is wide. The act of developing of the fighting systems dates from when the man had been able to cause to pass the knowledge, along with the strategies of war. Part of the most ancient written material on the subject dates from the 15th century in Europe and the authorship fall to famous masters, like Hans Talhoffer and George Silver. Also transcriptions of still more ancient texts had been brought to our days, one of them is a document written by hand. That document is called I.33 and dates from end of the 13th century.

The persons who train martial arts disagree with relation to the matter of the competitions. Some arts, like the boxing or the Thai boxing, give attending to the sparring -fights during training - and to taking part in competitions, yet the most common of aikido and krav maga reject the competitions. The reasons that cause these opinions are different. Many of the arts desiring to compete argue that the competitions give place to better and more efficient techniques. However, certain styles not desiring to compete claim that the rules with which people developed these competitions ruin the art and does not represent what can happen in a real situation.

In recent years, there have been tries to return to life some martial arts considered historical. Examples of this historical reconstruction of the martial arts are the pankration and the school of Shaolin that have not a continua tradition.




</doc>
<doc id="26739" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26739" title="Gonad">
Gonad

Gonads are the ovaries and testicles. A male usually refers to his testes as "gonads" more than a female would refer to her ovaries as gonads.


</doc>
<doc id="26742" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26742" title="Felix Mendelssohn">
Felix Mendelssohn

Jakob Ludwig Felix Mendelssohn Bartholdy (born Hamburg 3 February 1809; died Leipzig 4 November 1847) was a German composer.

His grandfather was the German-Jewish philosopher Moses Mendelssohn. He was one of the great composers of the Romantic period. He loved the music of earlier composers like Bach, Handel and Mozart and he built on the traditions they had made. Mendelssohn was a child prodigy. He was already composing great music when he was a teenager. He wrote music for orchestra, piano, organ as well as chamber music and music for singing. His violin concerto is one of the most popular concertos ever written and is played by all the famous violinists. Two of his tunes are known by almost everybody: the hymn tune "Hark the Herald Angels Sing", and the "Wedding March" which is played so often at the end of weddings.

Mendelssohn’s family had plenty of money. They were also very interested in music, literature, painting etc. His grandfather Moses Mendelssohn was famous in German national literature. His father was a banker and his mother came from a family who owned a lot of factories in Berlin. The young Felix was educated at home by his parents. Although the family was Jewish his parents had Felix baptized and his father became a Christian a few years later. The Mendelssohn family added the name of Bartholdy to their name at this time.

Soon Felix was being taught by private tutors including Ludwig Berger who taught him the piano. He also learned music theory and composition. He played the piano at a concert when he was nine, and started to compose little plays with music (called a Singspiel in German). In 1821 he was taken to meet the famous writer Goethe in Weimar. It was to be the first of several visits and Goethe’s way of thinking and his works of German literature had a big influence on the young Mendelssohn. He composed several works at this time including Singspiels, symphonies and chamber music. He travelled with his father and met many famous musicians.

In 1825 the family moved to Berlin. They had regular concerts on Sunday mornings in their large house. Many rich and famous people were invited to their private concerts. In October 1825 he wrote a "String Octet" (a piece for eight string instruments) which is one of his best works. He studied the music of Johann Sebastian Bach (1685-1750) whose music people had almost forgotten. He found the music of Bach’s "St Matthew Passion" and conducted a performance of it in 1829. It was a famous performance in music history, because people suddenly realized how great Bach was. Bach’s music has never been forgotten again since then.

During the years 1829 to 1835 Mendelssohn traveled all over Europe. He visited London several times and he also performed Beethoven’s "Emperor Concerto" there. He travelled to Scotland where he sailed to Fingal’s Cave in the Hebrides. This inspired him to write the overture called "The Hebrides". When he was returning the stagecoach had an accident and he hurt his knee. He stayed with the composer Thomas Attwood for some time before he could return to Berlin. Next he travelled to Italy where he wrote the "Italian Symphony". In Italy he met Hector Berlioz and on his way back he met Chopin.

He spent some time in Düsseldorf where he performed several oratorios by Handel as well as his own music. In Frankfurt am Main he stayed with a family who had two daughters. He married one of them, Cécile Charlotte Sophia Jeanrenaud, in 1837. They had a happy marriage and had five children.

Felix and his young wife went to live in Leipzig where he became the conductor of the famous Leipzig Gewandhaus Orchestra. This was one of the highest musical jobs in Germany. He conducted a lot of music by 18th century composers who had been forgotten. He also gave the first performance of Schubert's which had been discovered by Robert Schumann nine years after Schubert’s death. Mendelssohn got some of the most famous musicians to come to Leipzig and perform with the orchestra: Clara Schumann, Franz Liszt, Anton Rubinstein, the young violinist Joseph Joachim and the Swedish soprano Jenny Lind. Mendelssohn improved the playing of the orchestra, making them one of the best orchestras in the world. He also made sure that the players were paid well.

In the early 1840s Mendelssohn spent some time in Berlin. The new king, Friedrich Wilhelm IV, King of Prussia, was very keen on music and had lots of ideas about new plans for concerts. He wanted Mendelssohn to be in charge of this. The king wanted to see Greek plays performed and Mendelssohn had to write incidental music for the performances of "Antigone". 

In June 1842 Mendelssohn was twice received by Queen Victoria at her palace in London. Mendelssohn thanked the Queen by dedicating his "Scottish Symphony" to her. He continued to conduct in Leipzig and helped to make Berlioz’s music famous in Germany. He became director of the new Conservatoire in Leipzig. In Berlin the king asked him to provide incidental music for Shakespeare's play " A Midsummer Night’s Dream ". He had already written some of this music 17 years earlier but now he finished it and performed it in 1843.

During his last years Mendelssohn suffered from bad health. He continued to work and travel as much as he could, but after a stroke in 1849 he died in Leipzig aged 38. His body was taken by a special train to Berlin where he was buried near the grave of his sister Fanny.

Mendelssohn’s most famous works are his 5 symphonies (especially the "Scottish" and "Italian" symphonies), his concertos (especially his violin concerto), his overtures (especially "The Hebrides") and his Incidental Music to "A Midsummer Night’s Dream" which includes the famous "Wedding March". He wrote some very good chamber music: string quartets and piano trios and two very famous oratorios: "Elijah" and "St Paul". His piano music includes a large collection of short pieces called "Songs without Words" (German: "Lieder ohne Worte") which many pianists like to play. His organ music shows his love for J.S.Bach, often sounding more Baroque than Romantic. After his death Mendelssohn’s music became less popular for a time. This may have been because of the rise of anti-semitism in the mid-19th century, it may also have been because some musicians played Mendelssohn’s music in a rather delightful way. But many great musicians saw his greatness and his music is well-loved today.

The New Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians, ed. Stanley Sadie, 1980; ISBN 1-56159-174-2



</doc>
<doc id="26746" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26746" title="Watercolour">
Watercolour

Watercolours (UK), also called watercolor (US) or aquarelle (French), are paintings whose colours are water-based pigments. These are coloured materials gained from earths, rocks, plants, or chemicals, dissolved in water and then dried into a powder in the form of cakes or tablets. When water is added, the powdered pigment becomes liquid again. The pigment is applied to white paper or white card by brush or cloth or cotton wool, and allowed to dry. Unlike painting in oil-based pigments (coloured materials dissolved in oil), a watercolour cannot be painted over without spoiling the colour, whose purity depends on the white backing below. Therefore each area of a watercolour painting is painted only once, without alteration, and appears fresh and original rather than worked over. Watercolour painting is often used in Chinese, Korean, and Japanese paintings. Fingerpainting with watercolours came from China.


</doc>
<doc id="26748" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26748" title="Expert system">
Expert system

An expert system is a program running on a computer. Like a human expert, it knows a lot about a subject. People can ask the expert system a question. The expert system will then use a set of rules and give answers to the question. This method of automatic reasoning belongs to a field of computer science called artificial intelligence.

Different groups of people can have different kinds of access to an expert system. The people managing the network of computers have different needs than the office worker or secretary.

Expert systems can be found in the following places:

Expert systems are made of

When they are asked a question, they will filter the data with the rules they have. They might give back a result, or ask an additional question.


</doc>
<doc id="26755" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26755" title="Hermann Hesse">
Hermann Hesse

Hermann Hesse (2 July 1877 – 9 August 1962) was a German-Swiss poet, novelist, and painter. In 1946, he received the Nobel Prize in Literature. His best known works include "Steppenwolf", "Siddhartha", and "The Glass Bead Game" (also known as "Magister Ludi").



</doc>
<doc id="26756" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26756" title="Template:Wikisourcelang">
Template:Wikisourcelang


</doc>
<doc id="26766" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26766" title="Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol">
Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol

The Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol, or DHCP, is a protocol related to computers and networks. Very often it is abbreviated to DHCP. It was made so that computers could get access to the network automatically. To be able to access the Internet (or any computer network), an IP address is needed. The Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol allows for this IP address to be obtained automatically. Other data, like a DNS Nameserver, or a time server can also be obtained that way. Finally, computers that support it can even get a disk image they boot from over the network.

The address can be dynamic (it can change), or it can be static (it stays the same). After a certain time, the address lease has to be renewed.


</doc>
<doc id="26767" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26767" title="Communication protocol">
Communication protocol

A Protocol or Communication Protocol is like a language used by computers to talk to each other. The protocol says what part of the conversation comes at what time. It also says how to end the communication.


</doc>
<doc id="26769" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26769" title="ALDI">
ALDI

Aldi is a supermarket that can be found in Germany and in most parts of the European Union. Aldi shops also exist in Australia and the United States. Most German towns and villages have at least one Aldi shop. There are about 4,100 stores in Germany, and 7,600 worldwide. The name of the shop stands for "ALbrecht-DIscount".

The company is a food retailer, but it also sells non-food at times. In the 1990s, Aldi often sold computers that were sought after. Aldi has a reputation for being cheap and forces its suppliers to sell to them at low prices.

The company was started in 1913 as a family grocery business in Essen. In 1946, the brothers Karl Albrecht and Theo Albrecht took over the business from their mother. Theo had been held by the US in a prisoner of war camp. They started the idea of discount shops in Germany. They decided to have a limited range of goods and sell them at a discount price. In 1960, the company was split into Aldi Nord (Aldi North) under the control of Theo, and Aldi Süd (Aldi South) under the control of Karl. The brothers became very rich. In 2009 Karl's wealth was estimated to be €25 billion. Theo was kidnapped in 1971 and held prisoner for 17 days until a seven million mark ransom was paid. The family have avoided publicity and there are few known photographs of them. Theo died in 2010.
Aldi started in Australia in 2001. At the end of 2010 there were 210 Aldi stores in eastern Australia and the company were planning to open 20-30 stores each year. In 2009 the Australian stores made a profit of AU$91.94 million, up 27% on 2008.



</doc>
<doc id="26777" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26777" title="Channel Tunnel">
Channel Tunnel

The Channel Tunnel (or Chunnel) (French: le tunnel sous la Manche) is a tunnel between England and France under the English Channel . It is only for trains. Some of the trains in the Channel Tunnel carry automobiles as well. It is 50 km (31 miles) long and connecting Cheriton, Kent in the United Kingdom to Coquelles near Calais in northern France.



</doc>
<doc id="26784" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26784" title="Katowice">
Katowice

Katowice (pronounce: , also known as "Kattowitz" in German) is a city in Poland. It is in the south of Poland in the historical region called Silesia on Kłodnica and Rawa river. It received city rights in 1865. Between 1954 and 1956 Katowice had the name Stalinogród - "Stalin City". It was given by the polish communists. There are about 315,123 people living there. The mayor of the city is Piotr Uszok. For a long period of time the city was ruled by Germans, as it was a part of Germany until 1918. There is a little airport called "Airport Muchowiec". There are both modern and old buildings in Katowice. It was the center of the coal mining and metallurgy.





</doc>
<doc id="26786" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26786" title="Mobile phone">
Mobile phone

A mobile phone (also known as a wireless phone, cell phone, or cellular telephone) is a little portable radio telephone.

The mobile phone can be used to communicate over long distances without wires. It works by communicating with a nearby base station (sometimes called a "cell") which connects it to the main phone network. As the mobile phone moves around, if the mobile phone gets too far away from the cell it is connected to, that cell sends a message to another cell to tell the new cell to take over the call. This is called a "hand off," and the call continues with the new cell the phone is connected to. The hand-off is done so well and carefully that the user will usually never even know that the call was transferred to another cell.

As mobile phones became more popular, they began to cost less money, and more people could afford them. Monthly plans allowing people available for rates as low as US$30 or $40 a month. Cell phones have become so cheap to own that they have mostly replaced pay phones and phone booths except for areas with a lot of people.

As well as making voice calls, mobile phones can be used for other things:


People have wanted to make mobile phones for a long time, but it took until the late 20th century for technology to make them possible.

Although Dr. Martin Cooper from Motorola made the first call using a mobile phone in 1973, this was not on a cellular mobile phone network as we use today.

The first mobile phone networks were created in the late 1970s in Japan. Now almost all urban areas, and many country areas, are covered by mobile phone networks.

The mobile phone was created in Germany by Dennis Petro Mulakuliano Vogel.

A cell phone has combined two technologies: telephone (invented by Alexander Graham Bell in 1876) and radio (invention of Nikola Tesla in the 1880s).

Cell phones work as two-way radios. They send electromagnetic microwaves from base station to base station. The waves are sent through antennas. This is called wireless communication.

There are two types of cell telephone networks:

Most of the older cell phones use analog networks. All modern phones use digital networks.

Digital networks are also known as second generation, or 2G, technologies. They differ either by technology or by speed. The most used digital network is GSM (Global System for Mobile communication). It is used mainly in Europe and Asia, while CDMA (Code-Division Multiple Access) networks are mainly used in North America. Other countries like Japan have different 2G technologies.

The radio waves that the mobile phone networks use are split into different frequencies. The frequency is measured in Hz. Low frequencies can send the signal farther. Higher frequencies provide better connections and the voice communications are generally clearer. Four main frequencies are used around the world: 850, 900, 1800 and 1900 MHz. Europe uses 900 and 1800 MHz and North America uses 850 and 1900 MHz.

Today there are mobile phones that work on two, three or four frequencies. The most advanced phones work on all frequencies. They are called 'world' phones and can be used everywhere.

There are different kinds of phones. A flip phone flips open, and is best for calling. A bar phone is shaped like a candybar, and the keys and screen are on one face. A slate phone is a phone that has almost no buttons, and uses a touchscreen. A slider phone slides on rails. It can slide out number keys or a mini keyboard, but some do both. A swivel spins on an axle.

When a mobile phone is switched on, it connects to the nearest mobile phone base station. Electronics in the base station check that the phone is allowed to use the network. The base station covers what is called a cell and a phone can move between different cells, but will only ever communicate with one cell at a time. This is why mobile communications are sometimes called cellular communications.

Once connected to a cell, the mobile phone can make calls. As the network knows that the phone is connected to that particular cell, it can also route calls to the mobile phone. Sometimes the connection to the cell is lost, for example when using the subway. This means the phone cannot make or receive calls until the connection is made again.

The network is the company that provides the phone service. In most areas there will be more than one mobile network. Customers choose networks based on how well the different networks work in their area, or by price.

There are two main ways to pay for mobile phone calls:


Some digital mobile phones need a separate microchip, called a Subscriber Identity Module or SIM, to work. The SIM has information like the phone number and payment account and this is needed to make or receive calls. The SIM may be supplied by the same company as the phone, or a different one. Sometimes you can change the network by using a SIM from another network, but some companies do not want this to happen and they lock the phone so that you have to use their SIM. This type of phone uses GSM signals.

The others have a special radio inside them that only makes phone calls when the phone is activated. When someone buys a contract, the network gives them a code, that if they enter it into the phone, the phone will then make calls. It is almost always impossible to switch to a different network's code on this type of phone. This type of phone is called CDMA.

The latest mobile phones are commonly referred to as smart phones. These phones can be used for email, browsing the internet, playing music and games, and many other functions that computers can perform. This is because they basically are small computers. Older phones also used computer technology, but lacked many of the parts of a computer that were too big to fit into a phone. Modern phone makers have been able to make computer parts small enough to fit inside a phone. 

Advancements have also been made in the field of data communication. Smart phones can send and receive data much faster than older phones. The industry uses different standards to label the data transmission rates. 2G was introduced in 1991. 2G means "2nd Generation". 2G phones transmit data at about the same speed as a 56kbps (kilabits per second) dial-up modem would get. 3G was introduced in 2002. 3G phones vary in speed, but range from about 200kbps to 14mbps (megabits per second). This is comparable to a DSL or low end Cable Modem's speed. Most smart phones use 3G technology because 2G is not fast enough to practically use e-mail, internet, and other data features. A new Generation of technology is being introduced now called 4G. 4G speeds are estimated to be as fast as 100mbps to 1gbps (gigabit per second). This would be as fast as some computer networks that use ethernet. The newest smart phones use 4G technology.


</doc>
<doc id="26787" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26787" title="Amazon">
Amazon

Amazon can be:


</doc>
<doc id="26791" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26791" title="Giorgio Napolitano">
Giorgio Napolitano

Giorgio Napolitano (born in Naples, Italy on June 29, 1925) is the 11th President of the Italian Republic.

He was elected on May 10, 2006 on the fourth ballot, with 543 votes out of 1009 (the required number was 505), but he took office as President only on May 15, 2006, after Carlo Azeglio Ciampi's time was finished. 

He was voted mostly by the left-wing coalition led by Prime Minister Romano Prodi, head of the Italian Government. 

Napolitano was preceded at his job by Carlo Azeglio Ciampi.


</doc>
<doc id="26800" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26800" title="Robert Byrd">
Robert Byrd

Robert Carlyle Byrd (born November 20, 1917 North Wilkesboro, North Carolina, United States - died June 28, 2010) was dean of the United States Senate until 2010. Byrd, a democrat from West Virginia, was elected in 1958 and serving since January 1959. He served as majority leader from 1977 to 1981 and again from 1987 to 1989. He was also minority leader from 1981 to 1987. Byrd was fourth person in the state (as President "pro tempore" of the Senate, usually longest serving Senator from majority party) from January 1989 to January 1995, from January 3, 2001 to January 20, 2001 and again from June 2001 to January 2003 and January 2007 until his death in 2010. After Republicans retook control of the Senate, he became the honorary President "pro tempore emeritus" In 2007, Byrd became President Pro Tempore of the Senate again. Before he was elected to the Senate he served in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1953 until 1959 (he is dean of all Congress). He is a vocal opponent of President George W. Bush's war in Iraq. In January 2006 he was one of the only four (alongside Ben Nelson of Nebraska, Kent Conrad of North Dakota and Ken Salazar of Colorado) democratic Senators, who voted for Samuel Alito. Robert Byrd became the longest serving Senator in United States history on June 12, 2006, after serving 17,327 days. Byrd died in 2010 at age 92.


</doc>
<doc id="26805" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26805" title="Artemis">
Artemis

Artemis is a goddess in Greek mythology, and one of the Twelve Olympians. She is the daughter of Zeus and Leto and the twin sister of Apollo.

She is the goddess of hunting, wild animals and the wilderness.
During the 5th century BC, Artemis became also known as the goddess of the moon, becoming one with the goddess Selene.

She is known as a goddess of childbirth as well because she helped Leto give birth to Apollo. 

She is also known as the goddess who asked Zeus to remain chaste and unmarried.

In Greek mythology, Artemis is the daughter of Zeus and Leto, and the twin sister of Apollo. Leto had to find a place where she could give birth to the two. This was because of a curse set by Hera, Zeus' wife, because she was very angry with Zeus. For this, Zeus raised an island that had been floating underwater and had not yet been touched by the sun's rays. The island was Dellos. Leto gave birth there, while grasping hold of a palm-tree.




</doc>
<doc id="26806" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26806" title="Apollo">
Apollo

Apollon or Apollo is a god in Greek mythology, and one of the Twelve Olympians. He is the son of Zeus and Leto and the twin brother of Artemis he lived in Greece.

He was the god of healing and medicine, and of music and poetry. He was the leader of the Muses. He also was a god of prophecy, and his Oracle at Delphi was very important. He also was a god of revenge and justice. During the 5th century BC, Apollo became also known as the god of the sun, becoming one with the god Helios, and getting the name Phoebus.

He is shown as a young man, wearing a laurel wreath and playing the kithara (lyre). It was known as his symbol. His other symbols included the raven. Some times he is known as the god of fire but this clashes with Vulcan or Hephaestus.

He has been known to ride white horses across the sky.


</doc>
<doc id="26809" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26809" title="Nike (mythology)">
Nike (mythology)

Nike is the goddess of victory in Greek mythology. She was the daughter of Styx and Pallas and the sister of Cratos, Bia, and Zelus. Nike and her brothers and sister were all friends of Zeus. 

Nike could run very fast, had wings and brings good luck. She is usually worshipped at the same time as Athena. Nike is often linked with sport, with companies named for her like Nike Inc. A picture of Nike also appears in all the medals for the Summer Olympics. Her Roman name is Victoria.

The most famous statue of Nike is the Winged Victory of Samothrace. This is now in the Louvre, which is a museum in Paris, France.


</doc>
<doc id="26811" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26811" title="Daphne">
Daphne

Daphne can mean:







</doc>
<doc id="26814" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26814" title="Montagu Island">
Montagu Island

Montagu Island is the largest island of the South Sandwich Islands.


</doc>
<doc id="26815" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26815" title="Styx">
Styx

Styx is the goddess of the river Styx in Greek mythology, and was the only female river goddess. She was the daughter of Okeanos and Tethys, and with Pallas was also the mother of Zelus, Nike, Kratos, and Bia (and sometimes Eos). During the Titanomachy she sent the children to help Zeus. To reward her for helping the Olympians, Zeus did not throw her in Tartarus, but let her be the guardian of the river Styx. She is the wife if the ferryman, Charon, and the guardian of the the river Coctylus, Archeon.


</doc>
<doc id="26816" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26816" title="Groucho Marx">
Groucho Marx

Julius Henry Marx or Groucho Marx (October 2, 1890 – August 19, 1977), was a famous American comedian. He was best known for work with his siblings in The Marx Brothers and then later on his own. He is best known for playing a fast-talking "wise guy" with bushy eyebrows, glasses, moustache, and a cigar.


</doc>
<doc id="26817" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26817" title="Greek mythology">
Greek mythology

Greek mythology is a large collection of stories, started in Ancient Greece, about the beginning of the world, and the lives and adventures of gods, goddesses, heroes, and heroines.

The gods and goddesses in Greek Mythology are all assigned as the god of a certain something. For instance Zeus is the god of the sky, Poseidon is the god of the sea and Hephaestus is the god of fire. They can make themselves invisible to humans and move to any place in a very short amount of time. The gods and goddesses also never get sick and can only be hurt by very unusual causes. This is called being immortal. The king of the gods was Zeus, who lived with the other gods on top of Mt. Olympus in Greece. The gods were children of the Titans, for example Kronos and Rhea.

Greek mythology has 12 main gods, known as the Twelve Olympians, including Zeus, Poseidon, and Hades and Hera. Many known names like Heracles (the Romans called him Hercules) and Athena come from Greek mythology.

There are lots of monsters in Greek mythology. Many are hybrids of animals or people. Some important Greek monsters are minotaurs, satyrs, centaurs and chimera. Hybrid animals are called chimeras sometimes because of the monster.

The Greeks believed that the sun was a "chariot" and it was driven by the god, Apollo. Apollo was the brother of Artemis (the goddess of the hunt) and he himself was the god of Archery, Poetry and Prophecies. Everyday Apollo would drive the "Sun Chariot" across the sky and provide light and heat for the people of Greece.

The Ancient Greeks believed that in the beginning, the world was in a state of nothingness, which they called chaos. Suddenly, from light, came Gaia (mother earth) and Uranus (the sky). Gaia and Uranus had 6 sets of twins. The most important of the 12 children were Kronos and Rhea. 

Gaia gave birth to some monsters called Cyclops. Uranus disliked the cyclops, so he forced Gaia to keep them in her womb. Gaia, angered by the amount of pain that Uranus had put her through by holding babies in her womb, seeked revenge on Uranus. 
Gaia used her son Kronos, who chopped off Uranus' genitals. From the blood of his genitals, came the goddess of love and beauty - Aphrodite.

Kronos married his sister Rhea and gave birth to 6 children, who were called the gods.
Kronus, who was afraid of a prophecy delivered to him a while ago, swallowed each of his children each time they were born. Rhea did not like this, so she saved Zeus and gave Kronos a rock to eat instead. 
Zeus was raised by a Centaur named Chiron in a mountain cave.
When Zeus was old enough, he tricked Cronos into drinking a mixture of Wine and Mustard. Cronos vomited up the rest of the gods, who being immortal had been growing up completely undigested in Cronos' stomach.
Zeus then banished Cronos to Tartarus.

Zeus was from then on the leader of the gods, and created man for his own entertainment.



</doc>
<doc id="26818" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26818" title="Category:People in Greek mythology">
Category:People in Greek mythology


</doc>
<doc id="26819" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26819" title="List of Greek gods and goddesses">
List of Greek gods and goddesses

This is a list of the gods and goddesses of Greek mythology. Roman Mythology uses different names, calling Zeus by the name of Jupiter, and Aphrodite by the name of Venus, for example. The Roman names are often better known to English-speaking people than the Greek names. 

See also "Titan (mythology)".
The original twelve Titans:

Other Titans:

These gods are the most important and powerful gods. The home of these gods was Mount Olympus.




</doc>
<doc id="26820" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26820" title="Gaia">
Gaia

Gaia can mean:


</doc>
<doc id="26822" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26822" title="Ge">
Ge

Ge or GE may stand for:


</doc>
<doc id="26825" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26825" title="Gaya (disambiguation)">
Gaya (disambiguation)

"See also: Gaia"

Gaya may refer to:



</doc>
<doc id="26826" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26826" title="Nyx">
Nyx

Nyx was the goddess of the night in Greek mythology. She came out of Chaos.

Her Roman equivalent was Nox.

In his theogony (How the gods came to be), Hesiod tells: "Night is born of Chaos; her offspring are many, and telling. With Erebus, Night gives birth to the following deities:
Later, on her own, Night gives birth to 

In his description of Tartarus, Hesiod says further that Hemera "day", who is now Night's sister rather than daughter, left Tartarus just as Nyx entered it; when Hemera returned, Nyx left. This mirrors the portrayal of Ratri "night" in the Rig-Veda, where she works in close cooperation but also tension with her sister Ushas "dawn".


Nyx had other children on her own. These were:



</doc>
<doc id="26827" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26827" title="Hemera">
Hemera

Hemera was the goddess of daylight in Greek mythology. She was the daughter of Erebus and Nyx, and the sister of Moros, Charon, Keres and the Nemesis Goddess of Retribution. 

Hyginus listed Gaia, Thalassa and Ouranos as Hemera's children. 
While in Hesiod's "Theogony" Hemera was not mother of Gaia nor Ouranos, but mother of only Thalassa. Hemera got Thalassa with her brother Aether. 


</doc>
<doc id="26828" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26828" title="Aether">
Aether

Aether was the god of light in Greek mythology. He was the son of Erebus, but had no mother. Aether was the Protogenos (first-born elemental god) of the bright, glowing upper air of heaven - the substance of light. Above him lay the solid dome of the sky-god, Ouranos, and below, the transparent mists of earth-bound air. 

In the evening his mother Nyx drew her veil of darkness between the aither and the aer to bring night to man. In the morn his sister-wife Hemera dispersed these mists, revealing the shining blue aither of day. Night and day were regarded as quite independent of the sun in the ancient cosmogonies.

Aither was one of the three "airs". The middle air was Aer or Khaos, a colourless mist which enveloped the mortal world. The lower air was Erebos, the mists of darkness, which enveloped the dark places beneath the earth and the realm of the dead. The third was the upper air of aither, the mist of light, home of the gods of heaven. It enveloped the mountain peaks, clouds, stars, sun and moon. The stars themselves were said to be formed from the concentrated fires of aither.

His female counterpart was Aithre, Titanis of the Clear Blue Sky, mother of the Sun and Moon.


</doc>
<doc id="26832" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26832" title="Keres (spirits)">
Keres (spirits)

The Keres are female death spirits in Greek mythology, and were the daughters of Erebus and Nyx. They look very dark and have sharp teeth, claws and like the taste of blood. The Keres look around battlefields for hurt people and people who are dying.


</doc>
<doc id="26833" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26833" title="Eris">
Eris

Eris (Greek Ἒρις, "Strife") is the goddess of strife and discord in Greek mythology. She is the daughter of Nyx, but has no father. She is the opposite of Harmonia, who is the goddess of harmony.

The Romans called her "Discordia". In Roman statues of Discordia, and in other Roman art of her, she looks scary and ugly, and she is holding a knife.

Nowadays, there are some people who call themselves "Discordians". This idea comes from a book called "Principia Discordia", which was written by Greg Hill and Kerry Thornley in San Francisco in the year 1958 or 1959. The book says that Eris might not have been scary and ugly after all, but that she was just misunderstood.

The "Principia Discordia" describes the Discordian Society and its Goddess Eris, as well as the basics of Discordianism.


</doc>
<doc id="26834" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26834" title="Geras">
Geras

Geras is the god of age in Greek mythology. His mother is Nyx, but he has no father.


</doc>
<doc id="26835" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26835" title="Hypnos">
Hypnos

Hypnos is the god of sleep in Greek mythology. He is the son of Nyx and the twin brother of Thanatos, the god of death.

His sons are the Oneroi: Morpheus, Phobetor and Phantasos.

His Roman equivalent was "Somnus". Hypnos was represented as a gentle young man, usually with wings attached to his temples or shoulders.


</doc>
<doc id="26836" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26836" title="Momus">
Momus

Momus is the god of blame in Greek mythology. His mother is Nyx, but he has no father. He was kicked out of Olympus after criticizing Zeus and Aphrodite.


</doc>
<doc id="26837" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26837" title="Moros">
Moros

Moros is the god of fate in Greek mythology. His mother is Nyx, but he has no father sadly. But still as the god of fate he decides what fate a person gets.


</doc>
<doc id="26838" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26838" title="Metis">
Metis

Metis is the goddess of wisdom in Greek mythology. She is one of the Titans and is the daughter of Oceanus and Tethys. She was the mother of Athena.

There is also a moon named after Metis.

There are many stories about Athena's birth. In Hesiod's "Theogony", Zeus had sex with Metis, but was then scared of her having a child because a prophecy had said that Metis would have children who were more powerful then Zeus. To try and stop Metis having a child, Zeus changed her into a fly and then swallowed her. However, Zeus was too late and Metis was already pregnant.

When she was inside Zeus, Metis made a helmet and a robe for her baby. The hammering noise caused Zeus to have a headache. To try and help Zeus with the pain, Prometheus, Hephaestus, Hermes, or Palaemon (depending on the myth) cut his head open with a Minoan axe. Athena then came out of Zeus's head. She was fully grown and had her armour on.



</doc>
<doc id="26839" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26839" title="Eos">
Eos

Eos is the goddess of the dawn and a Titan in Greek mythology. She is the daughter of Hyperion and Theia.

She is the sister of Helios, the sun god, and Selene, the moon goddess.

Eos leaves her home, which was at the edge of ocean, every morning to wake her brother, Helios. She opens the gates of heaven so that Helios can ride his chariot across the sky each day.



</doc>
<doc id="26840" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26840" title="Selene">
Selene

Selene is the goddess of the moon and a Titan in Greek mythology. She is the daughter of Hyperion and Theia. 

She later became one with the goddess Artemis. In Roman mythology the moon goddess is called Luna, Latin for "moon". The Roman Luna became one with Diana. 

Like most moon deities, Selene plays a fairly big role in her pantheon. In the collection of poems called the Homeric hymns, there is a "Hymn to Selene" (xxxii), used with the hymn to Helios; in it Selene is called "far-winged", a name ordinarily applied to birds. Selene is also talked about in Nonnus, "Dionysiaca" 48.581; Pausanias 5.1.4; and Strabo 14.1.6,

The etymology of "Selene" is not known, but if the word is from Greek, it is probably connected to the word "selas", meaning "light". "Boreion Selas" is the Greek name for Aurora Borealis. The word "selenology", the study of the geology of the Moon, comes from her name. The chemical element Selenium was also named after Selene. 

In post-Renaissance art, Selene is shown as a beautiful woman with a pale face. She is sometimes riding a silver chariot (cart) pulled by oxen or a pair of horses. Often, she is shown riding a horse or bull, wearing robes and a half-moon on her head and carrying a torch.

In the old pre-Olympian genealogy of the gods, Helios, the sun, is Selene's brother: after her brother, Helios, finishes his trip across the sky, Selene, freshly washed in the waters of the Earth-circling Ocean, begins her own trip as night falls upon the earth, which becomes lit from the light of her head and golden crown. When she is growing after mid-month, it is a "sure token and a sign to mortal men". Her sister, Eos, is goddess of the dawn. Eos also carried off a human lover, Cephalus, which is like a myth of Selene and Endymion.

As a result of Selene becoming one with Artemis, later writers sometimes said Selene was a daughter of Zeus, like Artemis, or of Pallas the Titan. In the Homeric "Hymn to Hermes", with its list of people's fathers, she is "bright Selene, daughter of the lord Pallas, Megamedes' son."

Lovers

The Apollonius of Rhodes tells how Selene loved a mortal, the handsome hunter or shepherd—or, in the version Pausanias knew, a king— of Elis, named Endymion, from Asia Minor. He was so beautiful that Selene asked Zeus to grant him eternal sleep, she learned from her sister never to ask for eternal life or be left with a grasshopper in her hands so he would never leave her: her asking permission of Zeus is as an Olympian change to an older myth: Cicero "Tusculanae Disputationes" recognized that the moon goddess had done it by herself. Another story says Endymion made the decision to live forever in sleep. Every night, Selene went down behind Mount Latmus near MiletusPausanias geographerPausanias . Selene had fifty daughters, the Menae, by Endymion, including Naxos, the nymph of Naxos Island. The protected place of Endymion at Heraclea by Latmus|Heraclea on the southern slope of Latmus is a horseshoe-shaped room with an entrance hall and pillared front court. 

Though the story of Endymion is the best-known one today, the Homeric hymn to Selene tells that Selene also had a daughter by Zeus, Pandia, the "utterly shining" full moon. According to some sources, the Nemean Lion was her child as well. She also had a brief relationship with Pan , who seduced her by wrapping himself in a sheepskin and gave her the yoke of white oxen that drew the chariot in which she is shown in sculptures, with her windblown veil above her head like the arching canopy of sky. In the Homeric hymn, her chariot is drawn by long-maned horses.

The Roman moon goddess, Luna, had a temple on the Aventine Hill. It was built in the sixth century BC, but was destroyed in the Great Fire of Rome when Nero was king. There was also a temple to Luna Noctiluca ("Luna that shines by night") on the Palatine Hill. There were parties in honor of Luna on March 31, August 24 and August 29.



</doc>
<doc id="26841" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26841" title="Leto">
Leto

Leto is a goddess in Greek mythology. She was the daughter of Coeus and Phoebe, who were Titans. Leto was the mother of the twins Artemis and Apollo, whose father was Zeus.

After her twins were born, Leto played very little part in Greek mythology.

Hera, who was Zeus's wife, discovered that Leto was pregnant and became very angry. She banned Leto from giving birth on any mainland or island known.

Leto found the island of Delos, which floated and so was not an island nor mainland,and gave birth there. Leto gave birth to Artemis without any problem. However she was in labour with Apollo for nine days and nine nights. Artemis helped Leto to give birth to Apollo.


</doc>
<doc id="26843" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26843" title="Sioux Falls, South Dakota">
Sioux Falls, South Dakota

Sioux Falls (pronounced "sue falls") is the largest city in the U.S. state of South Dakota. As of the 2000 census, it had a population of 123,975. Sioux Falls is the county seat of Minnehaha County. It is in the eastern part of the state.

The city was incorporated in 1876.



</doc>
<doc id="26844" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26844" title="30s">
30s



</doc>
<doc id="26846" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26846" title="Christopher Eccleston">
Christopher Eccleston

Christopher Eccleston (born 16 February 1964) is an English actor. He is famous as the Ninth Doctor on "Doctor Who" in 2005. Before playing the doctor, he played the Son of God in "The Second Coming". 



</doc>
<doc id="26847" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26847" title="Category:Jamaica">
Category:Jamaica


</doc>
<doc id="26848" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26848" title="Deliverance">
Deliverance

Deliverance is a 1972 drama movie made by Warner Bros.. It was directed by John Boorman and starred Burt Reynolds, Ronny Cox, Ned Beatty, and Jon Voight. It was based on a book written in 1970 by James Dickey, who also wrote the screenplay and had a small part in the movie.


</doc>
<doc id="26849" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26849" title="Category:1970 books">
Category:1970 books


</doc>
<doc id="26852" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26852" title="The Adventures of Robin Hood">
The Adventures of Robin Hood

The Adventures of Robin Hood is a 1938 movie. It stars Errol Flynn as Robin Hood.


</doc>
<doc id="26853" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26853" title="Speed (movie)">
Speed (movie)

Speed is a 1994 movie. It stars Keanu Reeves, Sandra Bullock, Jeff Daniels, and Dennis Hopper. It is about a police officer (Reeves) who has to stop a bomber (Hopper), who has put a bomb on a city bus. The movie was a box office success in many countries.

It was followed by a 1997 sequel, "".


</doc>
<doc id="26854" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26854" title="Ares">
Ares

Ares is the god of savage war and bloodlust in Greek mythology. He is the son of Zeus and Hera. He is one of the Twelve Olympians. Neither parent liked him. He is considered murderous and bloody. In the Trojan war, he fought on the side of Troy. He was caught having sex with Aphrodite, and fled to his homeland of Thrace.




</doc>
<doc id="26855" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26855" title="Anna Kavan">
Anna Kavan

Anna Kavan (born April 10, 1901 as Helen Emily Woods, died 1968) was an English writer.

Her early work, comprising six novels, gave little indication of the style and content of her post-1939 writing. The change of her name to the nom de plume Anna Kavan in 1940 signalled an experimental form, focussed on the 'nocturnal language' of dreams and addiction.

'I Am Lazarus' is a collection of short stories that address the disturbing unreality of mental illness, particularly as a result of [war-related] post traumatic stress disorder.

Kavan travelled extensively during the Second World War, spending 22 months in New Zealand. That country's proximity to Antarctica informed her writing of 'Ice' - the post-apocalyptic novel which won her the Brian Aldiss Science Fiction Book of the Year award in 1967. 

Kavan's biographical details have until recently been vague and sketchy, but recent discoveries of letters and unpublished manuscripts have shed revealing light on her life and times. Dr Jennifer Sturm of Auckland University has made a recent study of Kavan's writing, and has unearthed significant validation of her biographical details. Kavan is currently enjoying something of a belated interest. London publishers Peter Owen Publishers have for many years flown the Kavan flag and continue to do so, with the recent re-release of 'Ice' and a forthcoming publication of 'Guilty', a new posthumous release of Kavan's work. 


</doc>
<doc id="26856" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26856" title="Voodoo">
Voodoo

The word Voodoo, which has many different names and spellings (like "Vodun, Vodou, Voudou, Vudu, Vodoun") is the name of a West African religion. Voodoo is animist and spiritist, and a lot of Voodoo beliefs have to do with ancestor spirits. Some of it is based on Catholic beliefs, but most of Voodoo is from the Fon, Ewe, and Yoruba peoples. The word vodún is the Fon-Ewe word for spirit. 

In Voodoo many gods and spirits are prayed to or called on. Both spirits of nature and of dead people are important. The spirits of family member who have died are especially important. Voodoo often has rituals with music and dancing. Drums are used to make most of this music. In Voodoo people often believe that a spirit is in their body and controlling the body. Having a spirit come into is wanted, and important. This spirit can speak for the gods or dead people you love, and can also help to heal or do magic.

Voodoo came to places like Haiti and the United States as Vodu. Some people think Voodoo and Vodu are the same religion. Some people think they are not the same religion because Voodoo has changed some after it was taken from Africa. For example, African Vodu often has animal sacrifice (the animal is killed for the spirits), but this is not common in Haiti and never done in the United States. Another example is that an African sea god became a Haitian sea Goddess. Voodoo in Haiti and America has also added some Catholic ideas that were not known in African Vodu.

Voodoo is an important religion in Haiti. When Haiti beat the French in a war and became its own country, the people of Haiti believed that Voodoo had helped them win. Also, in Haiti there are both good priests and "dark" sorcerers (called bokor). The bokor acts like a kind of religious policeman, and may curse bad people. It is the bokor who are said to make zombies; becoming a zombie is the worst curse because it means a person loses their soul.

Voodoo originally entered the United States via immigrants from Africa and Haiti such as Marie LaVeau, "the Voodoo queen of New Orleans." Marie was a pacifist and known for healing people. Though unprecedented, the local Catholic priest let Marie practice Voodoo in the Catholic church, and as a result, she became famous, leading (along with others) many in Louisiana to believe in Voodoo.

In most parts of the U.S., Voodoo is primarily practiced by African descendants, who follow the teachings as part of a family heritage. Louisiana, however, which is the U.S. state with the most Voodoo believers, the belief system has attracted a number of caucasian followers as well.

People fear the unknown, and as most people do not know much about Voodoo, it is used to frighten and its practices (Hoodoo) are portrayed as evil. Voodoo is shown in many horror/suspense movies and has come into American pop culture through music, movies, art, and many other mediums.
Like many other religions and practices, people learn about Voodoo and Hoodoo through movies and TV shows, where it has gained the popularity it has today as a form of entertainment. Hoodoo was showcased in the 2005 horror-suspense movie, The Skeleton Key, starring Kate Hudson (correctly emphasizing that it was Hoodoo that was being used), and in the upcoming 2009 Disney movie The Princess and the Frog.
<br>Zombies are a large part of popular horror culture, and they originated in Voodoo folklore from the original word, “nbzambi”, which refers to the primary sprit and/or to one’s soul.
There are four types of zombies in Voodoo: the Great Spirit, the Spiritual Soul, the Herbal Zombie and the Bargained Zombie;each type is created differently. Zombies of Voodoo folklore do not come to be from a zombie bite, it is a large misconception.

Zombies are portrayed as monsters and are in plays and many movies, including the 2009 release of Zombieland, and the 2004 movie Shaun of the Dead, both horror-comedies. 
Just as there is Christian music, there was music that came from Voodoo rituals, which influenced jazz, and many of the original jazz players are rumored to have had a connection to Voodoo in some way, including Jelly Roll Morton and Louis Armstrong. Storyville, a district in New Orleans, was a place where, at night, Jazz was played and Hoodoo was sold. There, jazz thrived and pulsed with the voices and instruments of Jelly Roll, Sweet Emma Barrett, and many others.
There are many songs and albums that reference Voodoo and/or Hoodoo, either in the title ("Hoodoo" by Muse )
or in the actual song, such as in David Bowie's song "Magic Dance", with the lyric, ""You remind me of the babe./ What babe?/ The babe with the power. /What power?/ The power of the hoodoo. /Hoodoo? /You do. /Do what? /Remind me of the babe!"". Another example is Rob Zombie who started the band White Zombie.

There are many books on the subject of Voodoo and Hoodoo, such as How-To's and folk tales.
One of the most famous books incorporating these themes is "The Serpent And The Rainbow", by Wade Davis, which is also a movie, though the author was very displeased with the result.
A list of books can be found here.

Many people enjoy partaking in Voodoo and Hoodoo practices, such as buying love potions, and casting or having spells casted for them that promise luck, money, health or success. While some only do it for the fun of it, many take it seriously, as it is a religion. Hoodoo can be used for harm, but that is adverse to how it is supposed to be used, as Voodoo is not an evil religion by any means. 


</doc>
<doc id="26857" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26857" title="Mercury (mythology)">
Mercury (mythology)

Mercury is a god in Roman mythology. God of fighting, thieves, commerce and travelers. Messenger of the gods. He showed the way for dead souls to Pluto's realm.



</doc>
<doc id="26858" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26858" title="Medusa">
Medusa

Medusa is a monster from Greek mythology. If she looks at somebody, she turns them to stone because she is very ugly. She is a Gorgon sister. The other two are called Stheno and Euryale and are immortal. All three had brass hands, sharp fangs, and hair that was made out of snakes. The Gorgons were the daughters of Phorcys and Keto.

Medusa used to be a beautiful maiden, but she was caught having sexual intercourse with Poseidon in Athena's temple. Athena then turned Medusa into a horrific sight. No human could look straight at her and live. She was killed by Perseus, who looked at her reflection so he was not turned to stone. He chopped off her head and sent it to Athena. Athena placed the head on her shield for protection.


</doc>
<doc id="26870" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26870" title="Lilo &amp; Stitch: The Series">
Lilo &amp; Stitch: The Series

Lilo & Stitch: The Series is a Disney Channel animated television series based on the 2002 movie, "Lilo & Stitch". It follows "Stitch! The Movie", which was a pilot to the series. It stars Daveigh Chase as Lilo Pelekai. Lilo and her alien friend Stitch try to find Stitch's alien cousins and the job each cousin is perfect for. 




</doc>
<doc id="26873" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26873" title="Olga Bondarenko">
Olga Bondarenko

Olga Bondarenko (maiden name Krentser) (b. 2 June 1960 in Slavgorod, Altai Krai, Russia) is a long-distance runner . Running for the U.S.S.R., she won the 10,000 metre race at the 1988 Olympic Games, and the 3,000 metre race at the 1986 European Championships. Earlier she had set a world record for the 10,000 m event, at 31 minutes, 13.78 seconds, in Kiev in 1984. Her first world-class gold medal was a first place finish in the 5,000 m race at the 1986 Goodwill Games in Moscow.



</doc>
<doc id="26877" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26877" title="Hephaestus">
Hephaestus

Hephaestus was the god of fire and volcanoes. He was prayed by metal workers. Hephaestus mother and father were Hera and Zeus. His grandfather was Kronos. When Hephaestus was born, he was very weak and had a broken foot. Hera did not like the way he looked and threw him off her castle which was on top of the clouds. Hephaestus fell for one day and one night before falling into the sea. The sea animals rescued him and took him to an island called Lemenos. There Hephaestus built his forge underneath a volcano. He collected precious metals, pearls and pieces of coral to fashion extraordinary jewelry. Hephaestus built little robots of gold to help him get around. Hephaestus even worked with the Cyclopes (one eyed creatures). To impress the gods and goddesses, he made a set of golden thrones for them. Hera realised her mistake of throwing Hephaestus of Mount Olympus and pleaded Zeus to welcome Hephaestus back. Hephaestus politely refused, saying that he was quite happy where he was. Then he set to work and fashioned a beautiful golden throne and sent it to Hera as a ‘thank you gift’ for the invitation. The instant she sat on it, golden ropes flew out and tied her up locking her into the chair. Hephaestus was still very angry with Hera because she threw him of Mount Olympus. Even though everyone tried to free Hera from the great trap, Hephaestus’ design was so clever that none could detach the ropes. So, Zeus sent his son Ares, god of war, to bring Hephaestus back to let Hera loose. Instead Hephaestus made him run away throwing firebrands at him, and Ares made a shameful retreat. Zeus used trickery next and sent Dionysus, the god of wine, to get Hephaestus drunk. Hephaestus was not a regular drinker, and Hephaestus got drunk very quickly. Soon Dionysus was making his proud return to Mount Olympus, with drunk Hephaestus on the back of a mule. Hephaestus finally freed Hera and moved back to the forges because he did not like the busy life of the palace. Although he still refused to forgive Hera. Hera felt very guilty and gave him loads of supplies materials tools and helpers for his workshop. Hephaestus made the best weapons, jewelry, and armor. Some of his greatest creations ever were the silver bows and arrows of Artemis and Apollo as well as Apollo’s golden chariot. The shield of Achilles the great and invincible demigod, Athena the god of wisdoms spear, Hercules the son of Zeus’s breastplate. The scepter of Zeus and the battle armor of the Olympian armies. He also made all of the gods and goddesses palaces and their unbreakable locks. On top of all this, Hephaestus was and is still credited with the invention of the three-legged stool and the world’s first robots. Hephaestus helpers included a complete set of life size golden maids who helped around the house. 
Hephaestus married his own Sister Aphrodite. When Aphrodite was born Zeus feared that the gods would battle over her hand in marriage, so Zeus arranged that Aphrodite would marry Hephaestus. Hephaestus gave Aphrodite his best creations and even gave her a magic girdle that made her irresistible to men.
Hephaestus was well liked by all of the Olympians. He was not involved in their plots. Hephaestus preferred to be alone in his workshop. Hephaestus was also worshiped by the Greeks because he proved that those who labor are also noble. Hephaestus reminds us of the value and dangers of losing our selves in work. 



</doc>
<doc id="26878" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26878" title="Vulcan (mythology)">
Vulcan (mythology)

Vulcan is the god of fire in Roman mythology. His Greek equivalent was the god Hephaestus. He is the son of Jupiter and Juno, and the husband of Venus.

Vulcan was born extremly ugly. His mother, Juno, tried to throw him off a cliff, but failed to kill her son. Instead, she put him in a volcano and told him to stay there for the rest of his young life. Little did she know that her young boy would grow to be a very talented blacksmith for all the gods and goddesses of Olympus.

Vulcan made thrones for the other gods to sit on in Mount Etna. Through his identification with the Hephaestus of Greek mythology, he came to be considered as the manufacturer of art, arms, iron, jewellery and armor for various gods and heroes, including the thunderbolts of Jupiter. He was the son of Jupiter and Juno, and husband of Maia and Venus. His smithy was believed to be underneath Mount Etna in Sicily.

Vulcan had a happy childhood with dolphins as his playmates and pearls as his toys. Late in his childhood, he found the remains of a fisherman's fire on the beach and became fascinated with an un-extinguished coal, still red-hot and glowing.

Vulcan carefully shut this precious coal in a clamshell and took it back to his underwater grotto and made a fire with it. On the first day after, Vulcan stared at this fire for hours on end. On the second day, he discovered that when he made the fire hotter with bellows, certain stones sweated iron, silver or gold. On the third day he beat the cooled metal into shapes: bracelets, chains, swords and shields. Vulcan made pearl-handled knives and spoons for his foster mother, he made a silver chariot for himself, and bridles so that seahorses could transport him quickly. He even made slave-girls of gold to wait on him and do his bidding.

Later, Thetis left her underwater grotto to attend a dinner party on Mount Olympus wearing a beautiful necklace of silver and sapphires, which Vulcan had made for her. Juno admired the necklace and asked as to where she could get one. Thetis became flustered causing Juno to become suspicious and, at last, the queen god discovered the truth: the baby she had once rejected had grown into a talented blacksmith.

Juno was furious and demanded that Vulcan return home, a demand that he refused. However he did send Juno a beautifully constructed chair made of silver and gold, inlaid with mother-of-pearl. Juno was delighted with this gift but, as soon as she sat in it her weight triggered hidden springs and metal bands sprung forth to hold her fast. The more she shrieked and struggled the more firmly the mechanical throne gripped her; the chair was a cleverly designed trap.

For three days Juno sat fuming, still trapped in Vulcan's chair, she could not sleep, she could not stretch, she could not eat. It was Jupiter who finally saved the day, he promised that if Vulcan released Juno he would give him a wife, Venus the goddess of love and beauty. Vulcan agreed and married Venus. He later built a smithy under Mount Etna on the island of Sicily. It was said that whenever Venus is unfaithful, Vulcan grows angry and beats the red-hot metal with such a force that sparks and smoke rise up from the top of the mountain, to create a volcanic eruption.

According to Virgil, Vulcan was the father of Caeculus.[12]

To punish mankind for stealing the secrets of fire, Jupiter ordered the other gods to make a poisoned gift for man. Vulcan's contribution to the beautiful and foolish Pandora was to mould her from clay and to give her form. He also made the thrones for the other gods on Mount Olympus.

Vulcan's oldest shrine in Rome, called the "Volcanal", was at the foot of the Capitoline in the Forum Romanum, and was reputed to date to the archaic period of the kings of Rome,[2][3] and to have been established on the site by Titus Tatius,[4] the Sabine co-king, with a traditional date in the eighth century BC. It was the view of the Etruscan haruspices that a temple of Vulcan should be outside the city,[5] and the Volcanal may originally have been on or outside the city limits before they expanded to include the Capitoline Hill.[1] The Volcanalia sacrifice was offered here to Vulcan, on August 23.[2] Vulcan also had a temple on the Campus Martius, which was in existence by 214 BC.[1][6]The Romans identified Vulcan with the Greek smith-god Hephaestus, and he became associated like his Greek counterpart with the constructive use of fire in metalworking. A fragment of a Greek pot showing Hephaestus found at the Volcanal has been dated to the 6th century BC, suggesting that the two gods were already associated at this date.[3] However, Vulcan had a stronger association than Hephaestus with fire's destructive capacity, and a major concern of his worshippers was to encourage the god to avert harmful fires. His festival, the Vulcanalia, was celebrated on August 23 each year, when the summer heat placed crops and granaries most at risk of burning.[1][7] During the festival bonfires were created in honour of the god, into which live fish or small animals were thrown as a sacrifice, to be consumed in the place of humans.[8] Vulcan was among the gods placated after the Great Fire of Rome in AD 64.[9] In response to the same fire, Domitian (emperor 81–96) established a new altar to Vulcan on the Quirinal Hill. At the same time a red bull-calf and red boar were added to the sacrifices made on the Vulcanalia, at least in that region of the city.[10]

Vulcan's blacksmith workshop was said to be below Mount Etna in Sicily, Italy. Each year on August 23 the festival of Vulcanalia is held. During the festival fish and small animals are thrown into the fire.




</doc>
<doc id="26879" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26879" title="Tyche">
Tyche

Tyche is the goddess of luck, destiny and fortune in Greek mythology. She is the daughter of Hermes and Aphrodite.
A "historical fortune teller".


</doc>
<doc id="26880" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26880" title="Fortuna (mythology)">
Fortuna (mythology)

Fortuna is the goddess of luck and fate in Roman mythology. 

She was a god that like to help people and give them luck to do whatever they needed to do.



</doc>
<doc id="26883" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26883" title="Demeter">
Demeter

Demeter is the goddess of farming in Greek mythology. She is one of the Twelve Olympians. She is the daughter of Kronos and Rhea, and also the sister of Zeus. As a fertility goddess, she is sometimes identified with Rhea and Gaia. She is the mother of Persephone. Demeter brings forth fruits of the earth, particularly the various grains. Her sacred animals were the snake and the pig. She is also the sister of Hera, Zeus,Posiden and Hades. Demeter was most often kind and generous and married to Poseidon. 



</doc>
<doc id="26884" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26884" title="Ceres">
Ceres

In Roman mythology, Ceres was the goddess of growing plants (particularly cereals) of motherly love and good fertility. 

Fertility


</doc>
<doc id="26885" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26885" title="Roman mythology">
Roman mythology

Roman mythology is a large collection of stories, started in Ancient Rome, about the beginning of the world, and the lives and adventures of lots of gods, goddesses, heroes, and heroines.

The myths of the Ancient Romans are often called "Greco-Roman" because they were very similar to the Greek mythology of the Ancient Greeks.

The gods and goddesses in these stories have lots of magic powers. They can make themselves invisible to humans and move to any place in a very short amount of time. The gods and goddesses also never get sick and can only be hurt by very unusual causes. This is called being immortal.



</doc>
<doc id="26886" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26886" title="List of Roman gods and goddesses">
List of Roman gods and goddesses

This is a list of Roman gods and goddesses that are in Roman mythology.




</doc>
<doc id="26887" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26887" title="Category:Ancient Rome">
Category:Ancient Rome


</doc>
<doc id="26888" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26888" title="List of names of mythological gods">
List of names of mythological gods

This is a list of god versions in other mythologies. It includes Etruscan, Greek, Roman and Norse versions of the same god. The table is ordered by the Greek god's name.


</doc>
<doc id="26891" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26891" title="Ancient history">
Ancient history

Ancient history is history from when human history began until the early Middle Ages or the end of the Roman Empire in about 476 AD. The word "antiquity" usually means ancient history that is before the start of Ancient Greek history in about 776 BC. Ancient Rome also began at about this time. 

Finding facts about ancient history is difficult because people wrote less in those times and some of what they did write has been lost. Not many people could read and write in ancient history so people did not write about history then. There were very small numbers of copies made because there was no printing press. What people wrote they wrote by hand. More people could read and write in Ancient Rome than in other places but much of what they wrote is now lost. Historians look at things that were made and used in ancient history to learn more about it.

Archaeology is looking at things that were made or used in the past to find out more about that time. Things like clay pots, solid tools, and metal weapons can stay the same during a long time. Things like paper, wood, and cloth can be easily broken or damaged.

Some ancient things found using archaeology are:

These are things written by people who lived in ancient history. They tell us most of what we know about ancient history. But people in ancient history may have believed different things from each other. They may also be wrong.

Some famous people who wrote in ancient history are:
Herodotus, Josephus, Livy, Polybius, Suetonius, Tacitus, Thucydides and Sima Qian.


Some famous things:












</doc>
<doc id="26902" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26902" title="Andrzej Sapkowski">
Andrzej Sapkowski

Andrzej Sapkowski (born June 21, 1948 in Łódź) is a well-known Polish fantasy writer. He is probably one of the most popular Polish writers today. His best known work is The Witcher ("Wiedźmin") Saga (takes place in a fictional universe). Before starting his career in the late 1980s, he worked in foreign trade.


</doc>
<doc id="26903" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26903" title="Staten Island">
Staten Island

Staten Island is a borough of New York City. They have a museum there. A free ferry service carries 20 million people each year the five miles between Staten Island and Manhattan. There are nine ferries used to provide the service which began in the 1700's.



</doc>
<doc id="26904" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26904" title="Borough">
Borough

A borough is an administrative division in many countries. In principle the term borough means a self-governing township. 

In medieval times, boroughs were settlements with some self-government. Boroughs were particularly common in England, Germany and Scotland. In medieval England, boroughs had also the right to elect members of parliament. ("The Borough" in Southwark, London is thought to have been the original 'borough' of which all others come from.)

Usually a borough is a single town with its own local government. 
But in some cities it is a sub-division of the city (e.g. London, New York, Toronto, Montreal). In such cases the borough will normally have either limited powers delegated to it by the city's local government or no powers at all. At certain times London has had no overall city government and London boroughs were the main unit of local government for Londoners. 
In other places, such as Alaska, a borough does not mean a single township, but a whole region. In Australia borough can mean a town and its surrounding area, e.g. Borough of Queenscliffe.

Boroughs exist in United Kingdom, more specifically in England and Northern Ireland, in the Canadian province of Quebec, in some states of the United States, in Israel, and formerly they also existed in New Zealand. 

At the end of a word, -borough (or -brough) is found in the name of many towns and cities in England; in southern England it is usually spelt -bury. The suffix -bury is also used in the New England region of the United States, while -burg (or -burgh) is more common in Scotland and the American South and West.


</doc>
<doc id="26909" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26909" title="Echo (mythology)">
Echo (mythology)

Echo was a nymph in Mythology, and an Oread (a mountain nymph). She was very beautiful, but loved her own voice. 

According to "Ovid", Echo once had the job of distracting Hera from Zeus having relationships with other women. She did this by leading Hera away and flattering her. When Hera found out she was very angry with Echo. She put a curse on her that meant that she could only speak the last words of other people after she had heard them. It is due to this story that we get the meaning behind the word "echo".

After she was cursed, Echo fell in love with Narcissus. Narcissus was very handsome and anybody who saw him always fell in love with him. However, Narcissus had no heart and could not fall in love with anybody. Echo could not speak to Narcissus but wanted to be able to see him. She therefore followed him everywhere, but made sure that he could not see her. 

Narcissus got lost and called out ""Is anyone here?"". Echo said back ""Here, here, here."" Narcissus then asked Echo to come out of her hiding place. Echo did so and then told Narcissus that she loved him by hand movements. Narcissus, who was angry that so many people loved him, told Echo that he did not love her.

Echo was very upset and prayed to Aphrodite for death. Aphrodite granted Echo's wish, but she liked Echo's voice so much she kept it alive. 

Narcissus also rejected Echo and broke her heart. She then went and haunted valleys and mountainous areas where echoes are able to be heard in all hollow places of the earth.

This is a different story about Echo's death. Echo was a very good dancer and singer, but did not like the love of any man. This caused another god, called Pan, to become angry. He had Echo killed and split into pieces. These pieces were spread about the world, but were collected up by Gaia. Echo's voice was not collected, so it remains all over the world and still says the last words that other people have said. In some versions of the story, Echo and Pan have a child who was called Iambe.


</doc>
<doc id="26911" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26911" title="Helios">
Helios

Helios is the god of the sun and a Titan in Greek mythology. He is the son of Hyperion and Theia.

He later became one with the god Apollo.


</doc>
<doc id="26914" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26914" title="Category:Costa Rica">
Category:Costa Rica

Costa Rica


</doc>
<doc id="26919" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26919" title="Bia">
Bia

Bia is the goddess of force in Greek mythology. She is the daughter of Styx and Pallas, and also the sister of Nike, Cratos, and Zelus. She and her brothers and sister were the friends of Zeus and were always with him. 


</doc>
<doc id="26920" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26920" title="Zelus">
Zelus

Zelus is the god of dedication and emulation in Greek mythology. He is the son of Styx and Pallas, and also the brother of Nike, Cratos, and Bia. He and his brothers and sister were the friends of Zeus and were always with him. he was a constant companion of Zeus and personififed zeal.


</doc>
<doc id="26921" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26921" title="Mnemosyne">
Mnemosyne

Mnemosyne is the Titan of memory in Greek mythology. Her parents are Gaia and Uranos. With Zeus her children are the nine Muses. Her paitron symbol ia a mask and she was often seen wearing one. Her paitron animal is the partridge.


</doc>
<doc id="26925" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26925" title="Harmonia">
Harmonia

Harmonia is the goddess of harmony in Greek mythology. 

She is the daughter of Ares and Aphrodite, and the mother of Ino, Polydorus, Autonoe, Agaue and Semele with Kadmos. She is the opposite of Eris, who is the goddess of strife. She is the goddess of harmony.



</doc>
<doc id="26930" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26930" title="President pro tempore of the United States Senate">
President pro tempore of the United States Senate

President "pro tempore" of the United States Senate is the longest serving Senator from a major political party in the United States Senate. According to the Constitution, this is the fourth highest office in the United States. It is the third in the presidential line of succession (behind the Vice President and the Speaker of the House).

Officially the Vice President is person in charge of the Senate, but he is not a Senator. Daniel Inouye (D-HI) is the President pro tempore. When the Vice President cannot be in charge, the President pro tempore is in charge of the Senate. Many people still think of the President pro tempore as "" president of the Senate. During President Andrew Johnson's impeachment trial in 1868 president pro tempore Benjamin Wade was the first person in the line of succession. No president pro tempore has taken over the presidency as of 2009.

Probably the most famous Presidents pro tempore were John Langdon (first in this office), David Rice Atchison (D-MO), Benjamin Wade (R-OH), Arthur Vandenberg (R-MI), Strom Thurmond (R-SC), and Robert Byrd (D-WV).

When Senator Hubert Humphrey, a former Vice President of the United States, was seriously ill the Senate showed its respect for him by creating the office of Deputy President Pro tem for any former President or Vice President who is elected to the Senate. No Vice-President since Humphrey has done this.


</doc>
<doc id="26937" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26937" title="David Tennant">
David Tennant

David Tennant (born 18 April 1971) is a Scottish actor. He is famous as the Tenth Doctor on "Doctor Who" from 2005 to 2010 and as Casanova in the television programme of the same name.



</doc>
<doc id="26939" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26939" title="Category:Science fiction">
Category:Science fiction

This category is about Science fiction.


</doc>
<doc id="26940" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26940" title="Category:Science fiction television series">
Category:Science fiction television series

This category is about Science fiction television programmes.


</doc>
<doc id="26942" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26942" title="American Broadcasting Company">
American Broadcasting Company

The American Broadcasting Company (ABC) is an United States television network. Along with CBS, NBC and FOX, it is one of the country's four major television networks. The network is owned by The Walt Disney Company.

This is a partial list of the shows that ABC shows.


For children, ABC has a separate show titled ABC Kids.



</doc>
<doc id="26943" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26943" title="Fox Broadcasting Company">
Fox Broadcasting Company

Fox is an United States television network. Along with ABC, CBS, and NBC, it is one of the country's four major television networks.




</doc>
<doc id="26944" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26944" title="ABC">
ABC

ABC are the first three letters in the Latin Alphabet

ABC could also mean: easy as counting (1, 2, 3).





</doc>
<doc id="26947" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26947" title="Papua New Guinea">
Papua New Guinea

Papua New Guinea is a country near Indonesia and Australia. It contains the east half of New Guinea island and some more nearby islands. The capital city of Papua New Guinea is Port Moresby.



</doc>
<doc id="26949" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26949" title="Strom Thurmond">
Strom Thurmond

James Strom Thurmond (December 5, 1902 - June 26, 2003) was an American politician. He was best known for being the longest and oldest serving member of the United States Senate to date. He was also Governor of his home state South Carolina and a Presidential candidate. He was a lawyer.

Thurmond spent more than 70 year of his life on public career. Before World War II he served as state senator and judge. During war he served in the US Army in Europe and briefly in Asia. In 1960 he was promoted to the rank of major general.

From 1947 to 1951 he served as Governor of South Carolina (as a Democrat). During 1948 U.S. Presidential Election he became the presidential candidate of the Democratic Party faction called "Dixiecrat" (States Rights Democrat, mostly from the South) - people who supported racial segregation and opposed civil rights laws. Thurmond and his Vice Presidential candidate, Mississippi Governor Fielding Lewis Wright finished the race in 's3rd (behind Harry Truman and Thomas Dewey) with 39 electoral votes and they carried 4 states (Alabama, Louisiana, Mississippi and, of course, Thurmond's home state).

He was elected, as first write-in candidate for major national office, to the Senate in 1954. He was reelected for his first full term in 1956 and served until January 2003. He was originally a Democrat, but in 1964 he openly supported Barry Goldwater's presidential bid and became a Republican.

As the longest serving Republican he was President pro tempore of the United States Senate for three occasions (1981-1987, 1995-2001, and January 2001-June 2001), when Republican gained a majority. After Democrats took over the control of the Senate in June 2001 Thurmond became first honorary "president pro tempore emeritus".

Started his career as opponent of racial integration, in his later years Thurmond supported desegregation.

His longtime Senate rival, Robert Byrd of West Virginia, is on track to surpass Thurmond's record of length of senatorial service, but not chronological age in the Senate, as of June 10, 2006.


</doc>
<doc id="26950" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26950" title="Roman Forum">
Roman Forum

The Roman Forum is an area of the city of Rome which the ancient city developed around. It is the place where commerce, business, prostitution, cult, and the administration of justice took place. 

The Roman Forum is famous for the amount of buildings and other ancient ruins that it contains. These include:


</doc>
<doc id="26952" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26952" title="Playwright">
Playwright

A playwright is a person who writes plays for the stage. Because the name of such a text is "drama", another word for this person is dramatist. Sometimes, dramas are written to be read and not played. In that case, they are called "closet dramas".

The word "wright" does not come from write. It is an ancient English term for a builder. For example, a "wheelwright" makes wheels. In a similar way, a playwright makes plays. When the term was first used, it was meant as an insult. Today it has lost this meaning.

The first playwrights in Western literature whose plays still exist were the Ancient Greeks. They were written around the 5th century BC. These playwrights are important as they wrote in a way that is still used by modern playwrights. Important among them are Aeschylus, Sophocles, Euripides, and Aristophanes.

The most famous playwright may be William Shakespeare. A lot of later work is based on his tragedies and comedies. For example, "Kiss Me, Kate" is based on Shakespeare's "The Taming of the Shrew", and his "Romeo and Juliet" has been made again many times. Tom Stoppard created the play "Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead" in 1966 which is a modern adaptation of "Hamlet".

Modern playwrights are usually less famous than past playwrights. Since television and movies were invented, theater has become less popular. Because it is less popular, not as many tickets are sold now, and producers often do not have enough money to make plays, and many playwrights are not known.


</doc>
<doc id="26953" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26953" title="Iambe">
Iambe

Iambe was the goddess of rhyme and merriment in Greek mythology. She was the daughter of Pan and Echo.

Iambe created the iambic pentameter verse pattern in poetry. This is a metered verse with two different sounds, and it was named after Iambe. The imabic pentameter verse is used by many poets, one of which is William Shakespeare.

The goddess, Demeter, was sad about losing her daughter, Persephone. It was only Iambe who was able to make Demeter laugh. She did this by using poetry and wit to cheer Demeter up. When Demeter was not sad any more, the earth became fertile again. Iambe then became Demeter's first priestess.


</doc>
<doc id="26954" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26954" title="Triangle (instrument)">
Triangle (instrument)

The triangle is a musical instrument with three sides and curved corners. There is always one corner where the sides do not join. This makes it possible for the instrument to vibrate.

The player holds a small piece of string or leather from which the triangle is hanging, and he makes a sound by hitting the triangle with a metal beater. In orchestras, where the percussionist may be playing several percussion instruments, the triangle may hang from a stand so that the player can move quickly to another instrument.

Triangles come in different sizes. Smaller ones will sound higher than larger ones.

The triangle can always be heard clearly above the sound of the orchestra or band.


</doc>
<doc id="26955" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26955" title="Speaker">
Speaker

Speaker could mean:



</doc>
<doc id="26958" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26958" title="Category:Internet service providers">
Category:Internet service providers


</doc>
<doc id="26959" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26959" title="Bernie Little">
Bernie Little

Bernie Little (born in McComb, Ohio, USA circa 1926 - died April 25, 2003) was the most successful owner in Unlimited Hydroplane racing history. His "Miss Budweiser" team won 134 of the 354 hydroplane races they entered. They won the high points championship 22 years in 40 years of competition, and the Gold Cup 14 times.

Little's team is also known for making an enclosed driver's seat to improve driver safety, after driver Dean Chenoweth was killed in a crash during a race in 1982.

His team employed some of the biggest names in their field, including designer Ron Jones, and driver Chip Hanauer who won more Gold Cup races than any other driver, and is second only to Bill Muncey in total races won.

Little has been inducted into the Unlimited Hydroplane Hall of Fame, the Florida Sports Hall of Fame, and the Motorsports Hall of Fame of America. Chenoweth, Hanauer, and another driver for Little, Tom D'Eath, are also in the Motorsports Hall of Fame of America.



</doc>
<doc id="26964" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26964" title="Perseus">
Perseus

Perseus is a hero in Greek mythology. He is the founder of Mycenae and is most famous for killing the Gorgon Medusa.

He is the son of Danaë and the god Zeus.

With his wife Andromeda his children are the sons Perses, Alkaios, Sthenelos, Elektryon, and the daughter Gorgophone. Perseus is also the great-grandfather of Herakles.

King Akrisios of Argos was told by an oracle that he would be killed by his grandchild. Because of that he put his daughter Danaë in a tower where no one was allowed to enter, so she could not have a child. But the god Zeus could enter in the form of a golden rain, and with him her child was Perseus.

Akrisios then put Danaë and her baby Perseus in a box and threw it into the sea. But Zeus tells the sea-god Poseidon to help them, and so Danaë and her son come to the island Seriphos. There they are found by Diktys, who lets them live with him.

A long time after that, the grown up Perseus takes part in some funeral games. During the games Perseus throws a discus, which accidentally hits Akrisios. Akrisios is killed by it: he was killed by his grandchild, like the oracle's prophecy said.


</doc>
<doc id="26971" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26971" title="Niccolò Paganini">
Niccolò Paganini

Niccolò Paganini was a Italian composer and violin player. He is believed to be one of the best violinists who ever lived. He was born October 27 1782 in Genoa, Italy and died May 27, 1840.
Paganini was the perfect virtuoso during his time although many other violinists slowly approach and some appear to be as virtuosic as him too. He was said to be a show off during his time and many wanted to challenge his violin skills. Paganini once broke all of the strings on his violin except the G-string and played a piece just on one string to show how good he was. He was the master of violin technique and invented many new techniques such as ricochet bowing, flying staccatos, left hand pizzicato, etc. His 24 caprices are his most famous compositions. Paganini was good friends with Franz Liszt who was also an equally magnificent virtuoso, only that he played the piano. They both came together and composed the etude "La campanella", also known as "the clock" in English.*Viola in music - Niccolò Paganini


</doc>
<doc id="26978" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26978" title="Samer Kamal">
Samer Kamal

Samer Kamal is a Jordanian athlete. He won the bronze medal in Taekwondo (a form of martial arts) in the 1988 Olympic Games at Seoul, South Korea. He was the first Jordanian athlete to get a medal for Jordan in the Olympics in Seoul. This made him the pride for many Jordanians in the 80's.

Samer Kamal is a 7th Dan Black Belt, international referee and an international trainer. He was given the Independence Badge of Honor (4th Degree) by His Majesty the late King Hussein Ben Talal in the 1988 and was chosen 7th best Jordanian athlete for the century on the year 1999. 
Samer started his sports career as a Marketing Manager at the Jordan based Sports Marketing Company DUNK. He managed to export his experience to Qatar where he was appointed as General Manager responsible for the creation of a sports marketing company with the purpose of promoting Qatari football. Soon after, Samer decided to start his own sports marketing company “SportUpJordan” to promote local athletes. Within a year, he was able to ensure sponsorships for Jordanian athletes that now reign on world class podiums. He created the biggest and sole bilingual sports portal and established mobile sports content serving the region. The pioneering experience created an attractive product which was acquired by Maktoob Group, the leading Arabic Internet company who recently were acquired by Yahoo.

His vast sports experience coupled with passion expanded internationally. Samer was appointed Director of Business Development at Right To Play, the international humanitarian organization based in Canada, that uses sport programs to improve health and foster peace for children and communities in disadvantaged areas. He successfully managed to raise funds and implement unique sports initiatives across the MENA region. 

Outside his professional role, Samer is active in the local, regional and international sports communities. In the year 2009 he was appointed as an Executive Board Member of the World Olympians Association, Chairman of Business Affairs Commission. In November 2011, Samer become President of Asia Oceana Olympains Association. 
Samer pursued his higher studies in Management Studies at Robert Gordon University, Scotland after he completed his undergraduate at Jordan University in Business Administration. 

Samer Kamal competed in the following International Taekwondo Championships:
Taekwondo Refereeing & Arbitration Experience

Class and management

• 1st Class International Referee since 1999
• International Referee since 1989
• Chairman of the Arab Referee Committee from the year 1997 until 1999
• Chairman of the Jordanian Referee Committee for the years 91,92,94,96, and 97
Lectures

• Lecturer of Rules & Regulations for the International Instructor course - Sana’a (Yemen) 1998 
• Lecturer of Rules & Regulations for the Tunisian Referees – (Tunis) 1998. 
• Lecturer of Rules & Regulations for the International Instructor course - Doha (Qatar) 2003
Referee and Arbitration membership

• Chairman of the Arbitration Board of the 1st Bahrain Internation Taekowndo Championship – Manamah (Bahrain) 2007
• Referee Director for the 2nd Arab Taekwondo Championships – Rabat (Morocco) 1998
• Refereed in the unrecognized Cyprus International Championships – Nicosia (Cyprus) 1996
• Referee Chairman of the 9th Pan Arab Games – Amman (Jordan) 1999
• Referee Chairman of The Aqsa International Championships – Doha (Qatar) 2001
Referee Seminars and Courses
• Joined the 19th International Referee Seminar – Cairo (Egypt) 1989 
• Joined the International Referee Refreshing Course – Athens (Greece) 1991
• Joined the International Referee Refreshing Course – Olympia (France) 1992
• Joined the International Referee Refreshing Course – Manila (Philippines) 1995
• Joined the International Referee Refreshing Course – Orlando (USA) 1998
• Joined the International Referee Refreshing Course – Athens (Greece) 1999
• Joined the International Referee Refreshing Course – Amman (Jordan) 2002
• Joined International Referee Refreshing Course – Cairo (Egypt) 2007
Participations as a referee

• Participated in the World Cup Championships – Barcelona (Spain) 1990
• Participated in the World Championships – Athens (Greece) 1991
• Participated in the Asian Championships – Kuala Lumpur (Malaysia) 1992
• Participated in the World Championships – New York (USA) 1993
• Participated in the US Open, Orlando International recognized Championships – Florida (USA) 1998
• Participated in the 13th Asian Games – Bangkok (Thailand) 1998
• Participated in the US Open, Los Angeles International recognized Championships – California (USA) 1999
• Participated in the World Championships – Edmonton (Canada) 1999
• Participated in the World Championships – Garmich (Germany) 2003


</doc>
<doc id="26986" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26986" title="Violet (plant)">
Violet (plant)

The violet is a genus of flowering plants. The Common Blue Violet (Viola sororia) is the state flower of the U.S. state of Illinois. There is also a famous poem that refers to violets. It goes "Roses are red, violets are blue", and then the poet adds his or her own lines to it.


</doc>
<doc id="27006" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27006" title="Winnie the Pooh">
Winnie the Pooh

Winnie the Pooh is a fictional bear created by A. A. Milne. He is based on a stuffed toy that belonged to Milne's son, Christopher Robin Milne. The toy was named after "Winnipeg" ("Winnie" for short), who was a bear at the London Zoo and the mascot of a Canadian army regiment, and "Pooh", which was a nickname Milne and his son had given to a swan. The first book was published in 1926. There were later other books published, and Walt Disney made a series of cartoons based on the books. The Walt Disney Company still owns the character.

There are many Pooh’s friends. Their names are Piglet, Eeyore, Tigger, Rabbit, Kanga and Roo, Owl, Gopher, and Christpher Robin. Christpher Robin is a boy who has Pooh ( teddy bear ) and he is everyone’s best friend.

Pooh is a small golden bear, stands nearly 22 inches tall and wears an old red t-shirt. His favorite food is honey and his birthday is October 15. The first thing he says when he gets up in the morning is “ What’s for breakfast ”. He invented the game ‘ Poohsticks ’.

The first book “ Winnie the Pooh ” was published on October 15, 1926 by Methen & Company. Secondly ‘ The House at Pooh Conner, ’ was published on October 11, 1928. Pooh-books had been favorites of Walt Disney’s daughters.
There have been quite a few series created by Walt Disney based on these books.


</doc>
<doc id="27007" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27007" title="960s">
960s



</doc>
<doc id="27009" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27009" title="Aleksander Kwasniewski">
Aleksander Kwasniewski

Aleksander Kwaśniewski (born November 15 1954) is a Polish politician. He served as President for two terms (1995-2000 and 2000-2005). He was, before being elected first time, member of the Democratic Left Alliance, but after assumed duties he became an independent. Before 1989 he was a member of Polish United Workers Party (communist). He was preceded by Lech Wałęsa and succeeded by Lech Kaczyński.

He was born in Białogard in Northwest Poland. Before became a politician, he was a journalist. Before became President, he was minister and deputy to the Sejm. In the late 1980s, he participated in the Polish Round Table Agreement.

In 1995 election, he won in the second round, but five years later he won in the first round.



</doc>
<doc id="27015" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27015" title="Viola sororia">
Viola sororia

Viola sororia, also known as Viola papilionacea, common blue violet, common meadow violet, and purple violet is a species of violets. It is a perennial flowering plant that lives in most of eastern North America.

The common blue violet is the state flower of the U.S. states of Rhode Island, Illinois, and New Jersey.

In developed areas it is often said to be a weed because it grows well in lawns.



</doc>
<doc id="27021" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27021" title="NAND gate">
NAND gate

The NAND gate is a logic gate used to build digital logic circuits. Given two inputs, A and B, A NAND B will be true if at most one of A and B is true. In other words, A NAND B is false if both A and B are true, and true otherwise. The NAND gate is a "universal gate."

There are three symbols for NAND gates: the 'military' symbol and the 'rectangular' symbol. For more information see logic gate symbols.


</doc>
<doc id="27022" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27022" title="Under the Rainbow">
Under the Rainbow

Under the Rainbow is a 1981 comedy movie starring Chevy Chase, Carrie Fisher, Eve Arden, Billy Barty, and Mako.

The plot is loosely based on the gathering of little people in a Hollywood hotel, to audition for roles as "munchkins" in the movie "The Wizard of Oz". The movie also has nobility, assassins, spies, and tourists.

The movie was nominated for Razzie Awards for Worst Musical Score and Worst Supporting Actor (Billy Barty).


</doc>
<doc id="27025" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27025" title="Gilli-danda">
Gilli-danda

Gilli "िगल्ली" -danda "डन्डा" is a game played by children in India and Pakistan. It is usually played by using a small round stick, about as long as a baseball or cricket bat. This is the "danda". There is another smaller stick, round in the middle and sharp at the ends. This is the "gilli" . The game gilli-danda is similar to cricket.


</doc>
<doc id="27026" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27026" title="Southern United States">
Southern United States

The "Southern United States" (also known as The Southern States or "The South" among Americans) is a term for the Southeastern part of the United States. All Confederate States were in the South, but not all Southern States joined the Confederacy. The States farthest to the south are called the "Deep South". Most of the South is a land of longhot summers.Winters are short and cool.There is abundant rainfull.This combination gives the South a long growing season.
The States that make up "The South" are usually:

1.Maryland
2.Virginia 
3.Tennessee
4.Arkansas
5.Louisiana
6.Missouri
7.North Carolina
8.South Carolina
9.Mississippi
10.Alabama
11.Georgia
12.Florida
13.Texas
14.Oklahoma
15.Delaware
16.West Virginia
17.Kentucky

Expect for Florida and Texas, most of the South was not touched by people immigrating to the United States in the 19th and 20th centuries. Most of the people in the South are of English, Scottish, or Irish ancestry, or the of African-American slaves. Some of these people identify themselves as being of "American" ancestry.

The Southern United States has a culture somewhat different from the rest of the United States. They cook different foods such as pecan pie, pork and beef barbecue, and collard greens.


</doc>
<doc id="27027" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27027" title="Hick">
Hick

A hick is a term for an American stereotype. It is also used in Canada to a lesser degree. It is a term for people who live in rural areas, especially on farms and ranches. It is usually meant as an insult. One other form of the word 'hick' is 'redneck'. 


</doc>
<doc id="27031" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27031" title="Greenhouse gas">
Greenhouse gas

Greenhouse gases reflect radiation from the Earth and stop it from being lost into space. This causes the Earth's temperature to be higher than it would be without greenhouse gases. The name for this is the "greenhouse effect."

Most greenhouse gases are natural - water vapor is the most common, and causes most of the greenhouse effect on Earth. Other greenhouse gases are carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, Chlorofluorocarbon and ozone. A natural greenhouse effect is not bad. Without greenhouse gases, the earth would be on average 33 degrees Celsius colder, and life would probably not be possible on Earth for heat is important for life forms. 

However, humans are adding too much more greenhouse gases to the atmosphere. Mainstream Science believes that this has caused the planet's average temperature to rise by causing the greenhouse effect. The most important greenhouse gas that humans add to the atmosphere is carbon dioxide which there is less than 1% in the atmosphere. Carbon dioxide is released when people burn fossil fuels, like oil, coal, and natural gas. This is done for transportation, energy and industries. 

Water vapour is the most abundant of these gases but merely reacts to climate change. In other words, when the atmosphere is warm, there is more water vapour. Thus there is a higher possibility of clouds and precipitation. 

In addition to burning fossil fuels, human beings add carbon dioxide to the atmosphere by cutting down trees.We also add methane to the atmosphere by raising cattle and other farm animals, such as geese, turkeys, pigs, chickens, and sheep. Human activity adds water vapor to the atmosphere through increased evaporation by the use of cooling towers in thermal cycle power plants or creation of artificial lakes. These activities contribute to global warming.

Although global warming is a world wide danger, there are some proof and evidence that global warming would be occurring with or without humans creating greenhouse gas emissions. This is because there are natural causes that us humans have no control over. These include: the sun spots are exploding therefore raising the heat, large eruptions in the major volcanoes on the earth which increases gases and this is damaging plants, the orbit the Earth takes has changed - movement to or from the sun, the Earth is different when compared to how it sits near the sun -changes the temperature up or down, meteors caused explosions as they made contact with the Earth. Earth's absorption of solar radiation and heat energy that is emitted by the sun. This in turn will make temperature rise and get higher on the top surfaces of the earth.



</doc>
<doc id="27040" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27040" title="Omaha hold'em">
Omaha hold'em

Omaha hold'em is a poker game, similar to Texas hold' em. In Omaha, each player is given four cards. Then there is a round of betting. Then three community cards are placed on the table. Another round of betting is after that. Then a fourth community card is put down. After this, there is another round of betting. Then there is the final community card put down, there is a last round of betting, and each player uses exactly two cards from the hand and three from the table to form a five-card poker hand. Whoever has the best hand wins all the money put in the middle during betting.

Omaha can also be played as Omaha Hi Lo, where the best hand and the lowest hand splits the pot.
The low hand's cards have to be 8 or lower .



</doc>
<doc id="27049" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27049" title="Leverkusen">
Leverkusen

Leverkusen is a city near Cologne at the river Rhine in Germany. As of October 2005, about 162,000 people lived there.



</doc>
<doc id="27050" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27050" title="Tocotronic">
Tocotronic

Tocotronic is a German alternative rock band. They were founded in 1993 in Hamburg.


</doc>
<doc id="27052" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27052" title="Template:Noupload">
Template:Noupload

Sorry, image uploads are not allowed on this Wikipedia. You can upload free images to and link to them just like you would here, but fair use images are not allowed. For more information, see .

</doc>
<doc id="27053" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27053" title="Bolesław Prus">
Bolesław Prus

Bolesław Prus (pen name of Aleksander Głowacki; August 20, 1847 - May 19, 1912) was a Polish writer.

He was born in Hrubieszów and died in Warsaw. As a 15-year-old high-school student, he fought in Poland's January 1863 Uprising.

Prus is best known for his novels, "Lalka" (The Doll) and the historical novel "Faraon" (Pharaoh). He also wrote "Anielka," "Placówka" (The Outpost), "Emancypantki" (The New Woman), and many other stories and novels. He was an advocate of Positivist philosophy and social progressivism.

Prus is regarded as one of the greatest Polish writers, and one of the world's most prominent.


</doc>
<doc id="27056" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27056" title="2040">
2040

2040 (MMXL) will be a leap year starting on Sunday of the Gregorian calendar.





</doc>
<doc id="27059" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27059" title="Wayne Mixson">
Wayne Mixson

(John) Wayne Mixson (born June 16, 1922) is a retired American politician. He was born in Alabama, but was raised and is still living in Florida. He is a democrat.

He served in the Florida House of Representatives. In 1978 he was elected a lieutenant governor of state (deputy governor) to governor Bob Graham. They were reelected in 1982. Mixson served as lt. gov. from 1979 to 1987. During his second term he was also state Secretary of Commerce.

On January 3, 1987 Graham resigned from office to become U.S. Senator. Mixson was sworn in as governor for three days, to January 6, when governor-elect, Robert Martinez (Rep.), assumed duties.

During the 2004 presidential election, Mixson crossed party lines to endorse the re-election of President George W. Bush. Now he is co-chair state senator Rod Smith (Dem.) campaigning for governor in 2006.


</doc>
<doc id="27060" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27060" title="Neustadt an der Weinstrasse">
Neustadt an der Weinstrasse

Neustadt an der Weinstraße is a city in Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany. It has about 54,000 people. The main parts of the city's economy are tourism and winegrowing. Every year the city is the location of the German wine harvest festival with the election of the Gerrman wine queen.

Its districts are 



Neustadt have two on-ramps (North and South) of the highway A 65.
Except for the central station, the town have a second railroad station (Böbig) and a third (South) is in work.

Neustadt is the seat of the Hornbach Holding AG and Team Rosberg.



</doc>
<doc id="27061" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27061" title="Reubin Askew">
Reubin Askew

Reubin O'Donovan Askew (born September 11, 1928) is a retired American politician. He is a democrat from Florida. He was born in Muskogee (Oklahoma), but since 1937 he living in Florida. He is a lawyer. He served both in US Army and US Air Force.

Prior to becoming governor, Askew served as state representative (1959-1963) and state senator (1963-1970). For a year (1969-1970) he was president pro tempore of this body.

He was elected governor in the same year and assumed duties in January 1971. He was one of the first southern governors (alongside Jimmy Carter of Georgia) who openly support desegregation. In 1972 then-democratic Presidential nominee, senator George McGovern of South Dakota offered him vice presidency, but Askew declined it. McGovern lost to Richard Nixon.

Askew was reelected in 1974 and served until early 1979. After leaving office he was, for two years, United States Trade Representative under President Carter.

In 1984 he ran for President, but was defeated in the primary.

He was regarded by many (including Harvard Scholars) as one of the best U.S. governors in the 20th Century.


</doc>
<doc id="27063" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27063" title="Trabant">
Trabant

The Trabant (or "Trabi") was a series of cars built in the German Democratic Republic. When the first cars were released, people saw them as being innovative. The cars were also easy on fuel, they did not need much fuel. Trabant had a two-stroke engine. Trabants were not made with steel or iron, because the German Democratic Republic did not want to import steel and iron for the cars, because that would have been too expensive. Instead, the Trabant was made of Duroplast, a special kind of plastic, made by mixing formica and bakelite, and made stronger with fibres of cotton. After the Berlin Wall was opened the Trabant did not sell as much as before, because the people wanted bigger cars that they could get after the wall was opened. Trabants can still be found in East Europe, for example in Hungary.

The Trabant was a small car, good for driving in the city. Because it was made of plastic it was not very safe in a crash, and the two-stroke engine created lots of air pollution.

<br clear=all>

Between 1957 and 1990, about 3 million Trabants were built. As of January 2005, about 67.000 such cars were still registered.


</doc>
<doc id="27065" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27065" title="Lindsay Lohan">
Lindsay Lohan

Lindsay Dee Lohan (born July 2, 1986) is an American actress and singer. She has acted in several movies, including "Freaky Friday" and "The Parent Trap".

The movies "Freaky Friday", "Parent Trap" and "Mean Girls" made Lohan popular in the United States. They also showed her talent in singing. She plays the guitar and has done many singing parts.

She first sang in the soundtrack of the movie "Confessions of a Teenage Drama Queen".

In 2004, she released her first album named "Speak". In 2005, her second album, "A Little More Personal (RAW)" was released. Now, in recent years she has been working on a new album with Ne-yo, Snoop Dogg, Timbaland. This album was released at the end of 2008.





</doc>
<doc id="27069" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27069" title="Postum">
Postum

Postum is a drink first made by C. W. Post in 1895. It is a powder substitute for coffee that is mixed with water. The ingredients are wheat bran, wheat, molasses, and corn dextrin.

It is advertised as a healthier choice of drink than coffee.


</doc>
<doc id="27070" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27070" title="Brok">
Brok

Brok nad Bugiem (English: "Brok near Bug") is a small town located in Mazowsze Voivodship, Poland. Brok is in Ostrowian County (head town of this region is Ostrów Mazowiecka). Brok is one of the smallest places in Europe with town status (since 1500).


Brok is regarded by many as one of the most beautiful places in this part of Poland. This is a tourist town near two rivers: Bug and one also named Brok.

Attractions include:


</doc>
<doc id="27071" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27071" title="1480">
1480





</doc>
<doc id="27072" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27072" title="1099">
1099


</doc>
<doc id="27077" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27077" title="Herb Alpert">
Herb Alpert

Herb Alpert (born March 31, 1935 in Los Angeles, California) is an American musician. He is known for his trumpet playing with his group, Tijuana Brass. He is also the co-founder and one of the heads of A&M Records (The "A" stands for Alpert, the "M" is Jerry Moss).


</doc>
<doc id="27078" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27078" title="Template:User nl-4">
Template:User nl-4


</doc>
<doc id="27079" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27079" title="Category:User nl-4">
Category:User nl-4


</doc>
<doc id="27080" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27080" title="Category:User nl-3">
Category:User nl-3


</doc>
<doc id="27081" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27081" title="Category:User nl-2">
Category:User nl-2


</doc>
<doc id="27082" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27082" title="Category:User nl-1">
Category:User nl-1


</doc>
<doc id="27083" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27083" title="Category:User nl-N">
Category:User nl-N


</doc>
<doc id="27085" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27085" title="Teddy bear">
Teddy bear

A teddy bear is a type of toy that looks like a bear. The teddy bear is normally a cub or baby bear. In Russia, bears were used as children's toys for many years before they became popular in the United States. The teddy bear in Russia has been the subject of folklore or stories for many years. Some people believe that teddy bears are only a children's toy but the bear is more then that. The teddy bear used in to comfort and teach. As you will read in the Wikipedia teddy bears are for adults and children. 

A teddy bear is a popular and well-known toy. It may often have human-like features. They are usually small and soft. Teddy Bears are found all over the world.In the early days of teddy bears, they were made from mohair. Now they are usually made from synthetic (fake) fabrics.

Build-A-Bear Workshop is a store that offers a toy making experience in which Children and Adults can make their own personalized toy. The Build-A-Bear Workshops lets children pick their own toy that are meaningful to them. The children's experience starts "choose me" section. This section allows the child to pick a teddy bear or other animals that they would like to make. After the child or adult picks out the toy of their choice, they move to the "hear me" section. At the "hear me" section of the store a person picks out what they want their toy to "say" A person doesn't have to have an animal that "speaks" or for additional cost a person can leave their own personalized message. After the "hear me" section, you take your bear to the "stuff me" section. At this point, the person adds there own stuffing to make the toy come to life. After the bear has been picked out and stuffed, it's time for the "fluff me" sections. This is the step when the bear "comes to life". As the toy making process is coming to an end, a child can pick out an outfit for their bear in the "dress me" section. Then the bear is registered in the Build-A-Bear Workshop computer, and ready to go home. 

There are many stories about how the Teddy Bear got its name. It may be a myth but the teddy bear is said to be named after Theodore Roosevelt. Roosevelt was the 26th and youngest President of the United States. He was president from 1901–1909. Friends of the president gave him the nickname "Teddy". The most told story happened in November 1902. President Roosevelt was in Mississippi for a bear hunt. He and other men went out hunting for bear on horseback. The President and the men had hunting dogs to help find the bears. The dogs ran off following the scent of the bears. When the men could no longer hear the dogs, they turned around and went back to their camp, When they got to camp there was a bear there. Everyone at the camp wanted President Roosevelt to shoot the bear. He would not do it or let anyone else do it.

British soldiers in World War I, wore fur coats that they called Teddys. The American soldiers also wore a one piece fur overall they called a teddy. Women's night gowns have also been nicknamed "Teddy" because the are comfortable. 

The teddy bear has been a mascot and a companion for many adults. Olympic Long Jump Gold Medal winner Randy Wililams 1972 pictured on Life magazine with a teddy bear at the Munich games. The bear was giving to him by an ex-girlfriend. 

While playing baseball with the San Francisco Giants, Ron Bryant was nicknamed "Bear" for always taking his teddy bear everywhere with him. After playing for the Giants, he was traded to the Chicago Cubs. While he was playing with the Cubs, Bryant bought a bear from a girl on the street. He took the bear to the game and they won that day. After that, he brought the bear with him to all the games. The teddy bear was even fitted with a baseball uniform with Bryant's number. 

Adults often collect "Cherished Teddies". They are figurines of teddy bears. They are considered knick knacks. Only a limited amount of each mold is produced. Some are more rare, or uncommon than others. The less made of a particular one, the more valuable they are. 

Beanie Baby bears are of the most popular in Beanie Baby collections. "Princess Diana" bear honors the late Princess of Wales. Her bear is of royal purple color with two flowers on its heart. Accessories for the bear such as a copy of Princess Di's actual license, a crown, and royal cape can be purchased to enhance the royal bear. Some bears that were defective in production are considered to have the highest worth, since limited amounts were effected. Collectors search for the defective ones to have the most unique collection. Just as with "Cherished Teddies" the less available ones are worth the most amount of money. The TY tags on the ears of the bears condition also attributes to their value. Children have a tendancy to rip off these tags making the collectibles an everyday toy.

The teddy bear is is used in children's classrooms. According to "The Much Maligned Teddy Bear" teddy bears comfort and support children. The teddy bear is also used to teach children about different places. In story, the bear does traveling and sends postcards to the readers, which helps children learn. A child can learn a lot through teddy bears. There are books, logos that teach and comfort children. The teddy bear books help children learn to read and are also fond memories for parents and grandparents. 

Law enforcement in America gives children in tramatic experiences teddy bears for comfort. Several agencies provide the bears the children going through crisis. The bears are donated by citizens to help children deal with transition from their homes to foster care or when a parent is arrested for disobeying the law and is taken to jail. Firemen also hand out bears to children victims of fire.


</doc>
<doc id="27087" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27087" title="Template:User id">
Template:User id


</doc>
<doc id="27088" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27088" title="Template:User id-2">
Template:User id-2


</doc>
<doc id="27089" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27089" title="Template:User id-3">
Template:User id-3


</doc>
<doc id="27090" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27090" title="Template:User id-4">
Template:User id-4


</doc>
<doc id="27091" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27091" title="Category:User id-4">
Category:User id-4


</doc>
<doc id="27092" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27092" title="Category:User id-3">
Category:User id-3


</doc>
<doc id="27093" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27093" title="Category:User id-2">
Category:User id-2


</doc>
<doc id="27094" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27094" title="Category:User id-1">
Category:User id-1


</doc>
<doc id="27095" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27095" title="Category:User id">
Category:User id


</doc>
<doc id="27096" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27096" title="Hangul">
Hangul

Hangul or Hangeul (In Korean : 한글) is the alphabet used with the Korean language and Cia-Cia language.

It was invented by Sejong the Great, the 4th King of the Joseon Dynasty in 1443 and it is still used widely. When Hangeul was spread out, King Sejong published Hunminjeongeum Haeryebon(훈민정음 해례본) which was chosen as the Memory of the World by UNESCO in 1997. In this book, the principle of the invention of Hangeul and information on its usage were recorded in detail. 

The book Hunminjeongeum Haeryebon states the 2 principles of Hangeul. The first one is that the consonants of Hangeul are patterned on vocal organs. The second one is that the vowels of Hangeul are based on Cheonjiin(천지인). Cheonjiin refers to the three elements of philosophy which are heaven(천), earth(지) and human(인). Due to this invention principle, Hangeul gained the international reputation of its scientific method.

Vowels are letters like A, E, O and so on
<br>There are 21 letters for vowels in Hangul.

Meaning:
Those with two small marks are pronounced with an extra "y" first.

Consonants are letters like B, G, L, M, N, S and so on.
<br>There are 14 simple consonants: ㄱㄴㄷㄹㅁㅂㅅㅇㅈㅊㅋㅌㅍㅎ
<br>They can be written two next to each other.
Meaning:
Note: ㅇ is silent if it comes first in a syllable.

The consonants and vowels are combined into blocks of syllables. A syllable means one vowel and a few consonants, like "han" and "gul".

The blocks look like these examples: 서울 한글 평양



</doc>
<doc id="27099" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27099" title="Category:User id-N">
Category:User id-N


</doc>
<doc id="27100" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27100" title="Lincoln Chafee">
Lincoln Chafee

Lincoln Davenport Chafee (born March 26, 1953) was a junior U.S. Senator from Rhode Island.

He was born in Providence, Rhode Island. Before he became Senator he was Mayor of Warwick (1993-1999). His father, John Chafee, was also a Senator from Rhode Island and member of the liberal wing of the Republican Party.

After his father was died in office Chafee was appointed to fill his vacancy. He was elected to his first full term in 2000.

He was probably the most liberal Republican Senator. He is strongly pro-choice, and supports gay rights and gun control. He was only Republican Senator in 2002 who voted against intervention in Iraq. In 2004 he did not endorse the reelection bid of President George W. Bush, and urged other Republicans to write-in in the November election George H. W. Bush, not his son.

In January 2006 he was also the only Republican Senator to vote against Samuel Alito to the United States Supreme Court.

He was, however, defeated for reelection in 2006 by Democrat Sheldon Whitehouse.


</doc>
<doc id="27101" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27101" title="Sascha Fischer">
Sascha Fischer

Sascha Fischer (born 24 December 1970) is a German rugby player. He started with volleyball, then he began to play rugby for DSV 1878 Hannover (Niedersachsen, Germany). Right now he is playing in France as a pro for C.A. Périgueux-Dordogne. With his former team, C.S. Bourgoin-Jallieu, he took part at Heineken Cup. He is 6 feet, 8 inches tall (2.08 meters) and one of the tallest rugby players in Europe. He is a 27 time national player for Germany. He is a very aggressive player and with his height, he can overlook the whole rugby field.


</doc>
<doc id="27103" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27103" title="Bob Graham">
Bob Graham

Daniel Robert "Bob" Graham (born November 9, 1936) is a retired American politician. He was a well known member of the Democratic Party.

Graham has never lost an election. His career started with being a state legislator (Representative 1966-1969, and Senator 1971-1979).

In 1978 he was elected Governor of Florida. His Lt. Governor was Wayne Mixson. Graham was reelected in 1982, when he won 65% over a Republican candidate, Skip Bafalis.

He was a popular Governor. He did much to protect the environment. He also oversaw restart of state executions (as first time since 1964), when 16 people were electrocuted. The first of them, John Spenkelink, was the first to die in the electric chair since 1966 in the United States. He was the second to be executed since 1967 (after Gary Gilmore in Utah in January 1977).

Graham was elected to the United States Senate in 1986, defeating sitting Senator Paula Hawkins. He served as Senator from 1985 to 2005, when he retired. He resigned from governorship on January 3, 1985, three days before the swearing-in of the governor-elect, Republican Robert Martinez. For this time Mixson assumed his duties, making him the shortest serving governor in Florida history.

From 2001 to 2003 Graham was a chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence.

In early 2003 he decided to run for President but, after poor results in an opinion polls, he resigned and later supported John Kerry, who won the Democratic nomination. He was regarded as possible Kerry Vice Presidential candidate, but Kerry chose John Edwards.

Graham voted in 2002 against intervention in Iraq.



</doc>
<doc id="27114" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27114" title="Ohio Wesleyan University">
Ohio Wesleyan University

Ohio Wesleyan University is a private university in Delaware, Ohio and a member of the Five Colleges of Ohio. Wesleyan was founded in September 1844.


</doc>
<doc id="27132" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27132" title="Lakshmi">
Lakshmi

Lakshmi is the goddess of money and good luck in Hinduism. She is the wife of the Hindu god Vishnu. Most Hindus pray to her on Diwali, which is a festival in India.

Lakshmi has four arms, fair skin and sits on a lotus flower. She is covered in jewellery.

She also has several avatars (means a god coming to the earth in the form of a human being or in any other form) who are usually married to Vishnu's avatars:





</doc>
<doc id="27136" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27136" title="Ancient Australia">
Ancient Australia

In Ancient Australia (also called the Prehistory of Australia), the first people to live in Australia arrived between 42,000 and 48,000 years ago. They came from Asia and had dark skin and black hair. Most of them were hunter-gatherers (people who hunt animals and collect plants to eat) and nomadic. This meant that they walked around from place to place and did not make cities.

There were two main types of people living in Australia - the Aborigines and the Torres Strait Islanders. Together they are called Indigenous Australians. The Torres Strait Islanders lived in the north-east and the Aborigines lived everywhere else. They lived in separate tribes and each tribe had its own language and traditions. They also thought that families were very important. 

They had a strong religion. They believed that everything had come from the Dreamtime and that the earth was sacred. They believed that spirits such as the Rainbow Serpent had made the world. The religion was passed on from parents to children and their culture is famous for its oral history. They practiced their religion in the form of corroborees. These were important dances and songs about their religion. They worshiped many gods. They believed that the rainbow serpent made all the water come.

The Aboriginal people did not know writing but they painted pictures on rocks and bark. They used paint that they made from crushed rocks and water in colours like brown, red, orange, and yellow. They used symbols (simple pictures) to mean different things and could draw stories with them. Their art is famous for using dots and handprints.


</doc>
<doc id="27137" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27137" title="Dreamtime">
Dreamtime

In Australian Aboriginal religion, the Dreamtime, also called The Dreaming, had four parts: The beginning of everything; the life and power of the ancestors; the way of life and death; and power in life. Dreamtime was all four of these things at the same time because it is more powerful than time and space. In it all things exist at once. The Aboriginal peoples call Dreamtime the all-at-once time because they think it is the past, present, and future at the same time.

They meet The Dreamtime by doing special dances and singing special songs. Aboriginals believe that people have a part of them that will live forever. This part existed before a person was born and will exist after they die. It exists in The Dreamtime. All Australian Aboriginals believe in the Dreamtime. Each tribe has stories that say things about it. Most Aboriginals believe that all life is connected to the great spirit ancestors of the Dreamtime.

The expression Dreamtime is often used to describe the time before time, or the time of the creation.


</doc>
<doc id="27138" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27138" title="Loch Ness Monster">
Loch Ness Monster

The Loch Ness Monster, more often called Nessie, is a supposed animal, said to live in the Scottish loch of Loch Ness, the second biggest loch in the country. The Loch Ness Monster story was big in the field of cryptozoology. 

Most scientists believe that the Loch Ness Monster is not real, and they say that many of the seeings are either hoaxes or pictures of other mistaken existing animals. However, a popular theory among believers is that "Nessie" is a plesiosaur, an extinct meat-eating aquatic reptile that lived in the Mesozoic era. The Loch Ness monster has also been described as an elephant, eel, and other creatures.

The Surgeon's photograph was the only photographic evidence of a head and neck – all the others are humps or disturbances. Dr. Wilson claimed he was looking at the loch when he saw the monster, so grabbed his camera and snapped five photos. After the film was developed, only two exposures were clear. The first photo (the more publicised one) shows what was claimed to be a small head and back. The second one, a blurry image, attracted little publicity because it was difficult to interpret what was depicted. 

The image was revealed as a hoax in 1994. 
Supposedly taken by Robert Kenneth Wilson, a London gynaecologist, it was published in the "Daily Mail" on 21 April 1934. Wilson's refusal to have his name associated with the photograph led to it being called "Surgeon's photograph". 

The strangely small ripples on the photo fit the size and of circular pattern of small ripples as opposed to large waves when photographed up close. Analysis of the original uncropped image fostered further doubt. A year before the hoax was revealed, the makers of Discovery Communications's documentary "Loch Ness Discovered" analysed the uncropped image and found a white object was visible in every version of the photo. "It seems to be the source of ripples in the water, almost as if the object was towed by something", the narrator said. "But science cannot rule out it was just a blemish on the negative", he continued. Additionally, analysis of the full photograph revealed the object was quite small, only about long. 

After Christian Spurling's confession, most agree it was what Spurling claimed – a toy submarine with a sculpted head attached. Details of how the photo was accomplished were published in the 1999 book, "Nessie – the Surgeon’s Photograph Exposed". Essentially, it was a toy submarine with a head and neck made of plastic wood, built by Christian Spurling.

Spurling was the son-in-law of Marmaduke Wetherell, a big game hunter who had been publicly ridiculed in the "Daily Mail", the newspaper that employed him. Spurling claimed that to get revenge, Marmaduke Wetherell committed the hoax. His co-conspirators were Spurling (a sculpture specialist), his son Ian Marmaduke, who bought the material for the fake Nessie, and Maurice Chambers (an insurance agent). Chambers asked surgeon Robert Kenneth Wilson to offer the pictures to the "Daily Mail". 

The hoax story was disputed by Henry Bauer. Unfortunately for Bauer, he claimed that plastic wood did not exist in 1934, when actually it was a popular DIY and modelling material from the 1920s. 

No animal has ever been discovered in the loch which resembles the mythical monster.




</doc>
<doc id="27141" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27141" title="Template:User he">
Template:User he


</doc>
<doc id="27142" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27142" title="Category:User ja-2">
Category:User ja-2


</doc>
<doc id="27149" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27149" title="Category:Moldova">
Category:Moldova


</doc>
<doc id="27150" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27150" title="Wesleyan">
Wesleyan

Wesleyan is the adjective form of "Wesley", which could also mean:


</doc>
<doc id="27156" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27156" title="Macintosh">
Macintosh

Macintosh can be:


</doc>
<doc id="27158" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27158" title="Southern rock">
Southern rock

Southern rock is a kind of rock music from the southern part of the United States. Some southern rock music groups include: Lynyrd Skynyrd, The Allman Brothers Band and Molly Hatchet.


</doc>
<doc id="27159" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27159" title="Ostrów Mazowiecka">
Ostrów Mazowiecka

Ostrów Mazowiecka is a main town of Ostrów County, Masovian Voivodeship, Poland.




</doc>
<doc id="27162" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27162" title="Template:Year in other calendars">
Template:Year in other calendars


</doc>
<doc id="27163" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27163" title="100">
100

100 (Roman numerals: C) is a common year of the Gregorian calendar. It started on a Friday.

It is one of only seven years to use just one Roman numeral. The seven are 1 AD (I), 5 AD (V), 10 AD (X), 50 AD (L), 100 AD (C), 500 AD (D), and 1000 AD (M).









</doc>
<doc id="27174" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27174" title="Niue">
Niue

Niue is an island country in the south Pacific. It is commonly known as "Rock of Polynesia". It has its own government, but it is an associated state of New Zealand. This means that Niue's head of state is New Zealand's sovereign (queen) in right, and most diplomatic relations are conducted by the latter on Niue's behalf.

The territory is located 2,400 kilometres north-east of New Zealand in a triangle between Tonga, Samoa, and the Cook Islands.


</doc>
<doc id="27196" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27196" title="Master race">
Master race

The Master Race was an idea used by Adolf Hitler and others to say that one race of people were better than others.

This idea mostly began in the 19th century. It is not a theory liked by any scientists today. It claims there is a hierarchy of races (or that some races are better than others). It was also claimed that at the bottom of the hierarchy were black-skinned people from Africa and Aborigines from Australia, while pale-skinned Nordic people were at the top of the hierarchy. 

Arthur de Gobineau believed that cultures become bad when races mix. Arthur Schopenhauer liked with this idea. He said that the White race had become what it was though hardship and bad conditions in the North. Others who liked the theory were Guido von List, Lanz von Liebefels and Houston Steward Chamberlain.

Hitler and his supporters, the Nazi party, took power in Germany in 1933. They were Social Darwinists, meaning they thought that one race was superior and would "win" over all the others. The Nazis made laws that were based on their ideas of race. They claimed that "Aryans" were the "master race", called Aryanization. They also made propaganda that blamed Jews for many things. German Jews were forbidden to own property, and were attacked and killed. When Germany invaded other countries in Europe, they also started putting people into concentration camps. This systematic killing is known as The Holocaust today.

To help increase the numbers of Aryans, the Nazis set up special homes called "Lebensborn". These were for unmarried pregnant woman who were likely to have children that had Nordic qualities. Heinrich Himmler believed that this would help create the master race. He arranged for nine Lebensborn homes to be built in Germany, and another ten in Norway.. There were also Lebensborn in France, Belgium and Luxembourg. About 20,000 children were born in these homes during the Third Reich.



</doc>
<doc id="27197" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27197" title="Reichstag (disambiguation)">
Reichstag (disambiguation)

Reichstag is the name of




</doc>
<doc id="27201" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27201" title="The Last Supper">
The Last Supper

The Last Supper is a painting by Leonardo da Vinci. It is a picture of the last supper of Jesus and his disciples and shows how they reacted when Jesus said that one of them would betray him, each disciple has their own expression showing their own reaction to what Jesus had just told them.

The painting is a mural on the wall of the Santa Maria delle Grazie rectory in the dining room located in Milan, Italy, that measures 460 X 880 cm. Da Vinci began painting it in 1495 and finished it in 1498, but did not work on it all the time between these years.


</doc>
<doc id="27207" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27207" title="Thomas the Apostle">
Thomas the Apostle

Saint Thomas is one of the twelve apostles of Jesus. His name means "the twin". He is most famous for not being present when the other apostles (Jesus's followers and friends) first saw Jesus after he has been risen from the dead. Thomas was not there and when he heard about it, he did not believe his friends, and he said he wanted to see it for himself, even the marks in his hands where Jesus had been nailed to the cross. Jesus did return and showed Thomas. The phrase "Doubting Thomas" (a term for a person who does not believe something at first) comes from this story.
The following people were the twelve apostles of Jesus: 




</doc>
<doc id="27208" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27208" title="Bartholomew the Apostle">
Bartholomew the Apostle

Bartholomew the Apostle is one of the twelve apostles of Jesus. He is the patron saint of Armenia, bookbinders, butchers, Florentine cheese and salt merchants, Gambatesa, Italy, leather workers; nervous diseases, plasterers; shoemakers; tanners, and trappers. Along with Saint Jude Thaddeus, he helped bring Christianity to the country Armenia. He is the patron saint of people who work with leather and animal skins because he was martyred (killed for his beliefs) by being skinned alive (which is why he is the patron saint of people who work with animal skins). He is usually represented by holding a large knife and his skin.

The following people were the twelve apostles of Jesus: 



</doc>
<doc id="27209" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27209" title="Matthew the Evangelist">
Matthew the Evangelist

Saint Matthew is one of the twelve apostles of Jesus. Matthew wrote the Gospel of Matthew in the New Testament of the Christian Bible. Sometimes, he is called "Levi". He was a tax collector before his decision to follow Christ.

The following people were the twelve apostles of Jesus: 



</doc>
<doc id="27210" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27210" title="John the Apostle">
John the Apostle

Saint John was one of the twelve apostles of Jesus. He is believed to have written the one of the four gospels of the New Testament of the Christian Bible that is named after him. He also authored the New Testament books of 1st, 2nd and 3rd John and the Book of Revelation. Tradition holds he was the last surviving apostle, and the only apostle to die a natural death rather than by martyrdom. John is the brother of James according to the Bible.
The following people were the twelve apostles of Jesus: 



</doc>
<doc id="27211" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27211" title="Saint Peter">
Saint Peter

Peter (Greek Πετρος, "rock") also called Simon (Cephas) Peter is one of the twelve apostles of Jesus. He is often talked about in the Bible. Most of what we know about Peter comes from the Bible. It is not known when Peter was born. But the date of his death is about the year 64 C.E. He died by being nailed to a cross in Rome. This type of death is called crucifixion. Some sources say that Peter died upside down. Others say he died right side up.

The Roman Catholic Church, Eastern Orthodox, Oriental Orthodox, Lutheran Church and Anglican Communion, consider Simon Peter a saint. Roman Catholics thinks that the Pope is Peter's successor. For this reason, he is the rightful head of all other bishops. Eastern and Oriental Orthodox also recognise the Bishop of Rome as the successor Saint Peter and the Ecumenical Patriarch sends a delegation each year to Rome to participate in the celebration of his feast. In the "Ravenna doumernt" of 13 October 2007 the representatives of the Eastern Orthodox Church agreed that "Rome, as the Church that 'presides in love' according to the phrase of St Ignatius of Antioch (To the Romans, Prologue), occupied the first place in the "taxis", and that the bishop of Rome was therefore the "protos" among the patriarchs. They disagree, however, on the interpretation of the historical evidence from this era regarding the prerogatives of the bishop of Rome as "protos", a matter that was already understood in different ways in the first millennium."

The historical accuracy of the accounts of Peter's role in Rome is a matter of ongoing debate.

In art, he is often shown holding the keys to the kingdom of heaven (interpreted by Roman Catholics as the sign of his primacy over the Church), a reference to Matthew .

Peter was married according to the gospel of Mark. The name of his wife is unknown nor is it known if he lived with her once he started his ministry.

The Bible tells us that Peter was responsible for letting people who were not Jews become Christians. This is important because, at first, only Jews were allowed to become Christians. 

Saint Peter was the first leader of an early Christian community for at least 34 years. At that time the word Pope or "Papa" was not used to name the leader of the Roman Catholic Church. At that time there was only one Christian Church. Later, the Roman Catholic Church would say that Peter was their first Pope.

The remains of St. Peter are believed to rest in the Vatican City.

The following people were the twelve apostles of Jesus: 




</doc>
<doc id="27216" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27216" title="Sistine Chapel">
Sistine Chapel

The Sistine Chapel is a large chapel in the Vatican Palace, the place in Italy where the Pope lives. The Chapel was built between 1473 and 1481 by Giovanni dei Dolci for Pope Sixtus IV. 

The Sistine Chapel is the Pope's own chapel. It is used for important Masses and ceremonies. When a pope dies, the College of Cardinals meet in the Sistine Chapel to elect a new pope. 

The Sistine Chapel is famous for its fresco paintings by the Renaissance painter Michelangelo.

 
The Sistine Chapel is a brick building shaped like a rectangle. The outside is plain, with no decoration and no big door. It has a walk-way near the top, for soldiers. 
It has six arched windows on its two side walls and a curved ceiling called a barrel vault. 

The inside of the chapel is richly decorated. The floor is of coloured marble. The lower parts of the walls are painted to look like gold and silver cloth. 

The other decorations in the chapel are paintings which tell stories to help people understand about Jesus Christ and about the Roman Catholic Church. 

The middle part of the walls has 12 large paintings called frescoes, done by famous artists in 1481. The artists' names were Domenico Ghirlandaio, Sandro Botticelli, Perugino, Cosimo Rosselli, Pinturicchio, Benedetto Ghirlandaio, Luca Signorelli and Bartolomeo della Gatta.
The frescoes show stories from the Bible. On the north side, the stories are about the life of Moses. On the south side, they are about the life of Jesus. 

Above the stories, near the windows, are painted pictures of Popes.

The ceiling is the most famous part of the Sistine Chapel, and many thousands of visitors go to see it. 
In 1505 Pope Julius II asked Michelangelo to paint the ceiling. Michelangelo was a famous sculptor. He did not want to be a painter. Three years later, he agreed to paint the ceiling. He worked from 1508 to 1511, standing on a high platform with his arms stretched above his head. 
(Although some people think that he lay down to paint, this is not true.) Because he painted onto wet plaster, the smell and the heat was terrible. He wrote a poem about how sick he was. 

Along the centre of the ceiling are painted nine pictures that tell stories from the Book of Genesis in the Old Testament of the Bible. The stories start with three pictures of God making light, making the Earth, the Sun and the Moon, and making the Sea and Sky. 

The next three pictures tell the story of the first man and woman, Adam and Eve. In the first scene, God has just made Adam. He reaches out his hand and touches his finger to give him Life. 

In the next picture, Adam is asleep and God makes Eve from one of Adam's ribs. 

In the third picture there are two scenes. Adam and Eve are tricked by the Devil to eat fruit from the tree that they have been told not to touch. In the other scene, an angel chases them out of God's Garden of Eden. This story tells how sin came into the world. 

The last three pictures are about Noah's Ark. They tell about a sad and sinful world. Because of human sin and unkindness, God sends a flood. Only Noah and his family escape in the large boat that they build. When the flood has ended, they make an altar and kill a sheep as a sacrifice to God. But then Noah grows grape vines, makes wine and gets drunk. One of his sons sees Noah lying naked and laughs at his father. Noah is ashamed and curses his son. These stories show how people keep acting the wrong way, even when they get a second chance. 

All around the wall, Michelangelo painted twelve big figures of wise men and women. These were the prophets and sibyls who told people that God would send Jesus Christ to save them from sin. 

Also painted on the ceiling are 20 beautiful young men called the "ignudi". No-one knows what they are for sure, but perhaps they are angels. 

When the ceiling was finally uncovered, everyone was amazed. Giorgio Vasari, who wrote Mchelangelo's life story, says that hundreds of people came every day to stare and stare.

Michelangelo was happy to get back to his sculpture. But in 1537 Pope Paul III ordered him to paint another large fresco. This time it was on the wall above the altar. It was finished in 1541.

Michelangelo painted "The Last Judgement" which shows Jesus judging the people of the Earth and sending some to Hell while others are welcomed into Heaven by Saints. He painted most of the figures naked. This made some of the priests in the church very angry. They paid another artist to paint clothes onto the Blessed Virgin Mary and many of the other figures.




</doc>
<doc id="27219" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27219" title="Pope Paul III">
Pope Paul III

Pope Paul III (February 29, 1468 – November 10, 1549), born Alessandro Farnese, was an Italian priest of the Roman Catholic Church and the 221st Pope from 1534 to 1549.

Alessandro Farnese was born in an ancient Roman family. His grandfather was commander-in-chief of the papal troops under Pope Eugenius IV. 

In 1493, Pope Alexander IV made Farnese a cardinal.

Cardinal Farnese was elected Pope in 1534; and he chose to be called Paul III.

Pope Paul was involved in Italian and European political disputes.

He convened the Council of Trent in 1545.



</doc>
<doc id="27220" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27220" title="Pope Sixtus IV">
Pope Sixtus IV

Pope Sixtus IV (July 21, 1414 - August 12, 1484), originally "Francesco della Rovere", was an Italian priest of the Roman Catholic Church and the 213th Pope from 1471 until his death in 1484. 

He is known for beginning construction of the Sistine Chapel. 

Della Rovere was born in Celle Ligure, a town near Savona in Liguria. His family was important.

As a young man, he joined the Franciscan Order. He rose in the order to head of the Franciscans in Liguria.

Della Rovere studied philosophy and theology at the University of Pavia; and he lectured at Padua, Bologna, Pavia, Siena, and Florence.

In 1467, Pope Paul II raised della Rovere to the rank of Cardinal.

He was elected pope on August 9, 1471. He took the name Sixtus because the first day of the conclave which elected him pope was the Feast Day of St. Sixtus.

Pope Sixtus was involved in Italian and European political disputes.


Sixtus ordered the building of the Ponte Sisto (Sistine Bridge) across the Tiber River.

The Vatican Library was enlarged during the reign of Sixtus; and the number of manuscripts grew ten times larger -- from 360 during the reign of Pope Nicholas V to 3650.




</doc>
<doc id="27221" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27221" title="Pope Julius II">
Pope Julius II

Pope Julius II (December 5, 1443 - February 21, 1513), originally "Giuliano Della Rovere", was an Italian priest of the Roman Catholic Church and the 217th Pope from 1503 until his death in 1513. He was known as "the Warrior Pope."

He was the nephew of Pope Sixtus IV.

Giuliano della Rovere was the son of Rafaello della Rovere.

His uncle would become Pope Sixtus IV.

In 1471, Sixtus made della Rovere a cardinal.

Della Rovere was elected pope in 1503; and he chose to be called Julius II.

Pope Julius was involved in Italian and European political disputes.

In 1506, Pope Julius he established the Swiss Guard. 


 


</doc>
<doc id="27222" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27222" title="Donato Bramante">
Donato Bramante

Donato Bramante (c. 1444 - April 11, 1514) was an architect who introduced the High Renaissance style to architecture.


</doc>
<doc id="27224" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27224" title="Alexandre Dumas, père">
Alexandre Dumas, père

Alexandre Dumas (born 24 July, 1802 at Villers-Cotterêts, died 5 December 1870 at Dieppe) is a French writer. He is famous for writing "The Three Musketeers" (1844), "Queen Margot", "The Count of Monte Cristo" (1844-1845) and "The Man in the Iron Mask". 

Dumas was also a gourmand (lover of food), and wrote Le Grand Dictionnaire de cuisine, an encyclopædia of food and cooking with 1152 pages. He finished it weeks before his death. It is not thought very reliable, because it relies on Dumas' opinions rather than fact.

Dumas was a member of the Club des Hashischins, or Hashish Club. This group of French writers experimented with hashish to get ideas.


</doc>
<doc id="27226" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27226" title="Beastie Boys">
Beastie Boys

The Beastie Boys are an American rap group. The word "Beastie" is the acronym of "Boys Entering Anarchic States Towards Internal Excellence". They formed in 1979 as punk rock band, and are still performing music today. Their most famous albums are probably "Licensed To Ill" (1986) and "Paul's Boutique" (1989). "Licensed To Ill" is their debut album, and it is an album that is given credit for starting the type of music "rap rock", which is rapping done over rock guitar or beats. "Paul's Boutique" is an album famous for its use of samples, or snippets of music, and the fact that the samples were put together in creative, interesting ways.





</doc>
<doc id="27227" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27227" title="Public Enemy">
Public Enemy

Public Enemy is an American rap group. They are also known as PE. They formed in 1982, and are still together today. They became famous for their politically charged, militant messages in their songs. They are also famous for using lots of jazz and funk samples in their songs, doneto create a loud, noisy sound and back their angry, powerful rapping. Group members include Chuck D. and Flavor Flav, as well as Terminator X and Professor Griff, who left the group in 1990, but rejoined in the late 1990's.


</doc>
<doc id="27228" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27228" title="Macbeth">
Macbeth

Macbeth is a play by William Shakespeare. Shakespeare wrote three types of plays; histories, comedies and tragedies, and Macbeth is the shortest tragedy written by Shakespeare. It was written between 1603 and 1607, during the reign of King James I of England.

Shakespeare based some characters in the play (Macbeth, Macduff, and Duncan) roughly on records of real people in "Holinshed's Chronicles", a history book from 1587. However, the things that happen in the play are very different from what happened in real life. 

Macbeth is one of Shakespeare's most popular plays, and has often been acted since his time in theatres and movies. There have also been several comic books and novels written based on the story of the play. 


The first characters we see in the play are the three Witches. They talk to each other in a mysterious way, and agree to meet with Macbeth on the heath. This scene includes the famous line "fair is foul, and foul is fair", a subject which becomes a main part of the play. 

In Act I, Scene ii (I.ii), there is a war going on. King Duncan is at "a camp near Forres", listening to reports from the battlefield. An injured officer (some scripts say a captain, others a sergeant) is brought in. He saved Malcolm's life. The officer tells Duncan about the battle. He says that it was going badly, until Macbeth fought his way to the rebel leader Macdonwald and disembowelled him. But as soon as that happened, the Norweyans, led by their king Sweno, also attacked. They were joined by a traitor, the Thane of Cawdor. Macbeth and Banquo fought bravely until they were defeated. Duncan is pleased by the news. He orders that the Thane of Cawdor be executed and his title given to Macbeth.

In I.iii, the Witches appear again. They talk about using their powers on humans, and it becomes clear that they have a lot of power, but they cannot kill people. Macbeth and Banquo are returning from the battlefield to Forres, and meet the witches. Banquo is amazed by the way the witches look, because they look like women but they have beards. Macbeth is not afraid and asks them what they are. They do not answer him, but greet him as the Thane of Glamis, the Thane of Cawdor and the future King. Macbeth is surprised, because he knows that he is not the Thane of Cawdor, and does not think he will ever become the King. Banquo asks the witches what his future will be like. They answer in riddles, saying that he will be "lesser than Macbeth, and greater", "not so happy, yet much happier", and that he will be the father to a line of kings. Then the witches disappear. 

Ross and Angus come to find Macbeth, and tell him that the King has given him the title of Thane of Cawdor. Macbeth is surprised and happy, but he starts thinking of ways to become king. This frightens him, because he thinks that the only way he can become king is to murder Duncan.

In I.iv, Macbeth and Banquo return to Forres and Duncan thanks them for their courage and hard work. He also says that his son Malcolm will be his heir. Macbeth realizes that he will have to get past both Duncan and Malcolm to become king. Duncan says he is going to Macbeth's castle for the night. 

In I.v, Lady Macbeth is reading a letter from Macbeth that tells her about the witches and their prophecy. She is very excited, and starts planning to murder Duncan. A messenger tells her that Duncan will be staying at their castle that night. She calls on evil spirits to make her strong and evil so that she can murder Duncan. Macbeth comes in and she tells him of her plans.

I.v shows Duncan, Banquo, Donalbain, Malcolm, Macduff and some of the thanes entering Macbeth's castle. Duncan and Banquo agree that the castle is sweet and pleasant. Lady Macbeth enters and greets them.

I.vii is the last scene in Act I. Macbeth is talking to himself about why it is wrong to kill the king. He knows that it is a bad thing to do, especially because he is the host and Duncan trusts him. Lady Macbeth enters and scolds him for being a coward and says that he is not brave enough to be a man. She works out how they are going to kill Duncan, and convinces Macbeth to do it.

Act II starts with Banquo and his son Fleance walking in a courtyard in Macbeth's castle. They meet Macbeth, who lies to Banquo and says that he has not thought about the witches' prophecy. When they leave, Macbeth sees a hallucination of a knife. He knows it is not real, but before his sight it changes and becomes covered in blood. He leaves to kill Duncan.

Lady Macbeth enters in scene ii. She has already made Duncan's guards drunk. Macbeth comes in with his hands covered in blood, carrying the knifes of the guards. He is very troubled. Lady Macbeth comforts him and tells him to wash his hands and cover the guards with blood, so it looks like they did it. But Macbeth is afraid, so Lady Macbeth does it instead.

In II.iii, the porter is very drunk. He pretends to be the porter of the gate of hell, and takes a long time to open the gate for Macduff and Lennox. Macbeth greets them. Macduff says that he is there to wake the king, and Macbeth leads him to the king's room. Macduff is shocked to see the king murdered on his bed. He runs out shouting and wakes everybody up. Macbeth pretends he did not know about the murder, as everyone comes to see what is happening. He admits that he killed the guards, and says that he did it because he was so angry that they killed Duncan. Lady Macbeth faints and they rush to help her. Malcolm and Donalbain think that somebody is lying. They know it is not safe for them to stay in Scotland, so they run away. Malcolm goes to England, and Donalbain to Ireland.

Scene iv is a talk between Ross and an old man. They talk about how strange the night was. Nature seems to have turned into a mess now that Duncan is dead. Macduff comes in and says that Macbeth is going to become king. He does not trust Macbeth, and is not going to the coronation.

Banquo is alone on stage at the start of Act III. He realizes that Macbeth has become everything the witches said he would become. He thinks that Macbeth did wrong to get the crown, but he does not want to say anything. He hopes that his son will also be king, as the witches said. Macbeth, Lady Macbeth, and the lords enter. Macbeth asks Banquo if he is going riding that afternoon, and if Fleance is going with him. Banquo says yes to both. Two men come to see Macbeth, and he goes to meet them. He is angry that he has risked everything to become king, but that Banquo's sons will be kings after him. The men are actually murderers. Macbeth tells them that Banquo is the reason they are unhappy and have bad lives, and convinces them to kill Banquo and Fleance.

Macbeth talks to Lady Macbeth in scene ii. He says that he has nightmares and cannot sleep. He is jealous of Duncan, because he is dead and does not need to worry anymore. Macbeth also says that he is worried about Banquo being alive, but he does not tell his wife about the murderers.

In III.iii, the two murderers meet another one, also sent by Macbeth. They kill Banquo, but Fleance escapes.

Scene iv has Macbeth at a banquet with the nobles. The murderers come in and inform him of Banquo's death and Fleance's escape. He returns to the table where the nobles are eating, and looks for a seat. Even though there is one empty, he cannot see it. He has a vision of the murdered Banquo sitting in his seat, and becomes hysterical talking to the vision. Lady Macbeth explains it to the nobles as an illness, and asks them to leave as Macbeth becomes more and more upset.

Many editors say that scene v of Act III, along with a song in IV.i, is not written by Shakespeare. This is because the writing is different to the way Shakespeare usually writes. It has a witch called Hecate in it, who is not previously mentioned in the play. She seems to be in charge of the other witches and is scolding them for dealing with Macbeth without informing her.

In the final scene, Lennox is talking to another lord. They find out that Macduff has gone to England to convince Malcolm to return and claim his throne, and to ask for the help of King Edward of England.

The play ends when Macduff kills Macbeth.

Many actors think it is bad luck to say the word "Macbeth", and will not say the play's name. Instead, they call it "The Scottish Play". One theory about where this superstition came from is that the play deals with witchcraft.


</doc>
<doc id="27229" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27229" title="Love's Labour's Lost">
Love's Labour's Lost

Love's Labour's Lost is a comedy play by William Shakespeare which was written between 1588 and 1597.

Ferdinand, the King of Navarre, and three of his men meet together and talk about their intellectual plans. Their plans then go wrong with the Princess of France and three of her ladies arrive. The men find that they are in love with the ladies and cannot hide it.


</doc>
<doc id="27232" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27232" title="Titus Andronicus">
Titus Andronicus

Titus Andronicus (c. 1589–1592) is the first tragedy play by William Shakespeare. Most of its theme, structure and language comes from "The Spanish Tragedy" by Thomas Kyd.


</doc>
<doc id="27233" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27233" title="The Comedy of Errors">
The Comedy of Errors

The Comedy of Errors (c. 1589–94) is one of the first plays by William Shakespeare. The play's story was based on "Menaechmi" by Plautus and "Amphitruo" by Plautus.


</doc>
<doc id="27234" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27234" title="Category:Art by Leonardo da Vinci">
Category:Art by Leonardo da Vinci


</doc>
<doc id="27235" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27235" title="Category:Art by Michelangelo">
Category:Art by Michelangelo


</doc>
<doc id="27236" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27236" title="Pieta (Michelangelo)">
Pieta (Michelangelo)

The Pieta is a statue by Michelangelo. It is now in the first temple on the right of Saint Peter's Basilica in the Vatican City.

The following are other statues by Michelangelo:


</doc>
<doc id="27238" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27238" title="Category:Art by Sandro Botticelli">
Category:Art by Sandro Botticelli


</doc>
<doc id="27240" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27240" title="Raphael">
Raphael

Raffaello Sanzio, usually known as Raphael (April 6, 1483 - April 6, 1520) was a Renaissance painter and architect. With Leonardo da Vinci and Michelangelo, he is one of the greatest painters of the High Renaissance.

He is best known for his paintings of the Madonna and Christ Child and for his paintings in the Vatican in Rome, Italy. 

Raphael was born in Urbino, in the region of Umbria, Italy. He was the son of Giovanni Santi (d. 1494), who was also a painter, and Magia di Battista Ciarla (d. 1491). Giovanni Santi was Raphael's first teacher, but he died when Raphael was only eleven.
While about 15, Raphael became an apprentice at the workshop of the painter Pietro Perugino, called by that name because he was the most famous painter in the town of Perugia. Perugino was famous, not only in Umbria, but also in Rome and in Florence, the home of Leonardo and Michelangelo. He had been one of the artists given the important job of painting the Pope's large chapel in the Vatican, the Sistine Chapel.

Perugino was known to have expert ways of painting (technique), and was good at getting paintings finished on time which made him popular with his patrons. He painted some portraits, but most of his pictures are religious. Some of his paintings are small pictures of the Madonna and Child that could be used in a family chapel for private worship. But because he was famous, Perugino also got lots of work from wealthy patrons and from churches, so he painted many very large pieces to go above the altar in church. To do this, he needed the help of his "apprentices". 

Raphael was able to learn a great deal from Perugino - drawing, the anatomy of the human figure, paint chemistry and the technique of putting the paint onto the picture in smooth layers. The figures in Perugino's paintings often have very sweet gentle faces. Many of Raphael's paintings are also sweet and gentle. Some painters, such as Leonardo, were quick to change their style and make their paintings show their own touch. But Raphael continued to paint in the style that Perugino taught him. He added to this new ideas that he learnt by looking at the work of other artists. Unlike Leonardo and Michelangelo, Raphael did not give the world anything new in the Art of Painting. He is famous simply because he was so expert at what he did, and because people loved his paintings so much.

The painting that is thought to be his earliest known work is a small picture called "The Vision of a Knight". In this painting a knight lies asleep. In his dream there are two beautiful women. One woman, dressed in soft flowing clothes, offers him flowers. The other woman, dressed in dark clothing, offers the knight a sword and a book. The path behind the pretty woman runs beside a river. The other path leads up a steep mountain. Raphael was thinking about choices. Should the knight take the easy road, or should he try to change things?

Other early pictures by Raphael are "Three Graces", and "Saint Michael".

Raphael's first major work was "The Marriage of the Virgin" which was painted in 1504. It was influenced by Perugino's painting for the Sistine Chapel of "Jesus giving the Keys to Saint Peter". It is now in the Brera Gallery in Milan, Italy.

In about 1504 Raphael went with another painter, Pinturicchio, to Florence, Italy. Florence was famous for its artworks, its artist's workshops, its new Renaissance buildings and its huge cathedral. Raphael wanted to see the work of Michelangelo, Leonardo da Vinci and other important painters and sculptors.

Florence had a very strong tradition of making images of the Madonna and Child because the city was dedicated to the Blessed Virgin Mary. On almost every street corner there was a painting or a brightly-coloured statue of the Madonna and Child.

While he was in Florence, Raphael painted many of his famous "Madonna" paintings. The most famous of these paintings are:

In 1508 Raphael was called to Rome by Pope Julius II. He became so popular whilst he was in Rome that he was known as the "Prince of Painters". He spent the last 12 years of his life in Rome and created many of his most famous paintings.

While he was in Rome he was "commissioned" (given a job), to paint a fresco of the Prophet Isaiah in the Church of Sant'Agostino. While he was working on the painting, he went to visit his friend, the architect, Donato Bramante. Bramante was at the Vatican while Michelangelo was painting the Sistine Chapel ceiling. Of course Raphael wanted to see what the famous master was doing. While Michelangelo was away, Bramante took Raphael into the Chapel. When Raphael saw the way that Michelangelo had painted the prophets, he was so excited that he went back to Sant'Agostino's Church, scraped his painting off the wall and started all over again. It is easy to see that Raphael's painting is in the style of Michelangelo. Raphael was not ashamed of this. He did it to give honour to the great master. 

Among Raphael's most famous paintings are the frescos that are painted on the walls of Julius II's own rooms in the Vatican Palace, known as the "Stanze". The paintings in the "Stanza della Segnatura" and the "Stanza d'Eliodoro" were created by Raphael himself, whilst the "Stanza dell'Incendio" was designed by Raphael and painted by his assistants.

One of the frescoes in the "Stanza della Segnatura" is of the greatest importance. This painting is called "The School of Athens". It shows a group of learned people from Ancient Greece, philosophers, poets, dramatists, mathematicians and others. They are listening to the central figure, who is the philosopher, Plato. The painting is meant to show that at that time, the early 1500s, there was a new birth of ideas and learning among the people of Rome that was equal to the learning of Ancient Athens.

To make this message clear, Raphael used the faces of the people that he knew. Michelangelo, with his broken nose, is sitting with his chin on his hand. The tall figure of Plato with long hair and flowing beard is a portrait of Leonardo da Vinci.

One of the excellent things about this painting is the way that Raphael has painted the building in which the figures are standing. The architecture looks as if it is opening up from the real room.
In the 1500s, painters were often asked to design architecture. Raphael's first work as an architect was the funeral chapel in the church of Santa Maria del Popolo. Pope Leo X also chose Raphael to help design Saint Peter's Basilica alongside Donato Bramante. After Bramante died, Raphael took over the designing of the basilica and changed its groundplan from a Greek Cross to a Latin Cross. Michelangelo went back to Bramante's plan but made it simpler. Then another architect, Maderna, made the building longer, as Raphael had planned.

Raphael's last work of art was a painting of the "Transfiguration". This was an altarpiece, but Raphael died before he could complete it. It was instead finished by Giulio Romano, who was one of Raphael's assistants.

Raphael died on his 37th birthday and was buried in the Pantheon in Rome. His funeral mass was celebrated at the Vatican and his "Transfiguration" altarpiece was put at the head of Raphael's funeral carriage. 
<br clear=all>



</doc>
<doc id="27262" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27262" title="Non-governmental organization">
Non-governmental organization

A non-governmental organization (NGO) is a group of people from different countries acting together, but not connected with the government of any country. Usually non-governmental organizations are non-profit - that is, they are trying to do something other than make money for the people who run them. They include organisations such as 'Oxfam' and 'World Vision'. 

Non-governmental organization (NGO) is a term that has become widely accepted as referring to a legally constituted, non-governmental organization created by natural or legal persons with no participation or representation of any government. In the cases in which NGOs are funded totally or partially by governments, the NGO maintains its non-governmental status and excludes government representatives from membership in the organization. 

Government funding of NGOs is controversial, since, according David Rieff, writing in "The New Republic", "the whole point of humanitarian intervention was precisely that NGOs and civil society had both a right and an obligation to respond with acts of aid and solidarity to people in need or being subjected to repression or want by the forces that controlled them, whatever the governments concerned might think about the matter."

Unlike the term intergovernmental organization, "non-governmental organization" is a term in general use but is not a legal definition. In many jurisdictions these types of organization are defined as "civil society organizations" or referred to by other names.



</doc>
<doc id="27263" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27263" title="Wikipedia">
Wikipedia

Wikipedia () is an internet encyclopedia project in many languages. It is free of charge (it does not cost money to use). It is also "open content," which means anyone can copy it for any purpose, as long as they follow certain rules. 

It is owned by the American organization, Wikimedia Foundation, which is located in San Francisco, California. 

Its name is a combination of the two words "wiki", a Hawaiian word for quick, and "encyclopedia." Because the word was made by combining parts of those words, it is a portmanteau. 

It was started on January 10, 2001 by Jimmy Wales and Larry Sanger as part of Nupedia. But they separated in January 15, 2001. It is based on an older Internet encyclopedia named Nupedia. It is a wiki that runs using the software MediaWiki (like all other Wikimedia projects). 

Anyone can change the pages in Wikipedia, or even make new ones. Wikipedia has a standard format that must apply for all pages in the encyclopedia. 

As of December 2007, Wikipedia had about 9.25 million pages in 253 languages, and more than 1.74 billion words across all Wikipedias.

Some people think that the English Language Wikipedia shows bias and unfairness. Editors of reference works such as the "Encyclopædia Britannica" have questioned Wikipedia's utility and status as an encyclopedia. Others believe that Wikipedia is more useful than other encyclopedias because it can be updated so quickly.

Wikipedia began as a related project for Nupedia. Nupedia was a free online English-language encyclopedia project. Nupedia's articles were written and owned by Bomis, Inc which was a web portal company. The main people of the company were Jimmy Wales, the Bomis CEO, and Larry Sanger, the editor-in-chief for Nupedia. Nupedia was first licensed under the Nupedia Open Content License which was changed to the GNU Free Documentation License before Wikipedia was founded when Richard Stallman requested them.

Larry Sanger and Jimmy Wales are the founders of Wikipedia. Wales is credited with defining the goals of the project, Sanger created the strategy of using a wiki to reach Wales' goal. On January 10, 2001, Larry Sanger proposed on the Nupedia mailing list to create a wiki as a "feeder" project for Nupedia.
Wikipedia was launched on January 15, 2001. It was launched as an English-language edition at www.wikipedia.com, and announced by Sanger on the Nupedia mailing list. Wikipedia's policy of "neutral point-of-view" was codified in its initial months, and was similar to Nupedia's earlier "nonbiased" policy. Otherwise, there were relatively few rules initially and Wikipedia operated independently of Nupedia.

Wikipedia gained early contributors from Nupedia, Slashdot, and also from search engine indexing. It grew to about 20,000 articles, and 18 languages by the end of 2001. By late 2002 it had 26 languages, 46 by the end of 2003, and 161 by the end of 2004. Nupedia and Wikipedia both existed till Nupedia's servers were stopped in 2003. After this, its text was incorporated into Wikipedia. The English Wikipedia passed the 2 million-article mark on September 9, 2007, making it the largest encyclopedia ever assembled, eclipsing even the Yongle Encyclopedia (1407), which had held the record for exactly 600 years.

The English Wikipedia reached 3 million articles in August 2009. In terms of the numbers of articles and of contributors it appeared to have been reduced around spring 2007.

On January 15, 2011, Wikipedia celebrated its 10th birthday. It used a special logo "(pictured)" to celebrate its 10 years since it opened on January 15, 2001, and the logo was used for the whole day on the sidebar of the English Wikipedia.





</doc>
<doc id="27265" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27265" title="Template:Warning">
Template:Warning


</doc>
<doc id="27280" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27280" title="Conservation law">
Conservation law

A conservation law is a statement used in Physics that says that the amount of something does not change in time. That thing could be as simple as mass or charge, or something that has to be calculated, like energy, or angular momentum.

For example, the "law of conservation of mass" is the conservation law that says that the amount of mass is always conserved, even if it is changed into another form. This means that if the mass of the universe could be measured right now, its mass would be known tomorrow because it will not change.

For a long time, people thought that these laws were true for the amount of mass and energy in the universe. Later on, Albert Einstein said that they were not completely true. He said that mass could change into energy (or the other way around). If this happened, it would be against the conservation laws because if mass was changed into energy, the total amount of mass goes down, and the total amount of energy goes up. 

Einstein said that conservation laws could still be used if all the mass and all the energy were combined. He said that even though the mass changes or the energy changes, the sum when they are added together does not change. So now there is just one conservation law for mass and energy together.

Of course, mass is measured in kilograms, and energy is measured in joules. They cannot be added together directly, but Einstein found a way to add them together. He created the equation formula_1. This equation means is that before adding the amount of mass to the amount of energy, the mass must be multiplied by the speed of light and then by the speed of light again.

Some of the things that are thought to be conserved are:

Conservation laws are helpful for people when they do problems in Physics. This is because if they know that a thing is conserved, it gives them more mathematical information about the thing they are doing the problem about.

Because science does not know where consciousness originally comes from, some mystic philosophers have guessed that there may also be a "law of conservation of consciousness" in the universe. That is to say, when something loses consciousness, or dies, that consciousness may not disappear, but may go into some kind of unseen pool of consciousness, according to this idea.

Conservation laws can come in two types, global, or local. 

A global conservation law just says that the total amount of something in the universe does not change in time. 

A local conservation law says a little bit more than that. It says that if the amount of something changed in one place, it's because it moved in to or out of that place, and we can measure that movement.


</doc>
<doc id="27285" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27285" title="Animal rights">
Animal rights

Animal rights is a term used for the general belief that non-human animals have certain natural rights. Most animal rights promoters believe that non-human animals have the natural right not to be used by humans for any means, including food, clothing, experimentation, and entertainment. Just as human rights are gained simply because someone is a human, animals have animal rights simply because they are an animal.



</doc>
<doc id="27287" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27287" title="Aaron Sorkin">
Aaron Sorkin

Aaron Benjamin Sorkin is an American screenwriter. He was born on June 9, 1961 in New York, New York. He is most famous for creating and writing "The West Wing", a television show about the lives of people who work in the White House. He also wrote the movies "The American President" and "A Few Good Men" (which he took from a play he'd written with the same name), and created and wrote the television show "Sports Night".


</doc>
<doc id="27292" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27292" title="470s">
470s



</doc>
<doc id="27293" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27293" title="1060s">
1060s




</doc>
<doc id="27294" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27294" title="30s BC">
30s BC




</doc>
<doc id="27295" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27295" title="Aristophanes">
Aristophanes

Aristophanes (born around 450-445 BC – died around 385 BC) was a Greek writer who wrote 40 plays. However, only 11 of his plays survive in their entirety. He is famous for writing comedies (funny plays), and even today his plays make people laugh.

Many of the jokes in his plays relate to sex. For example, "Lysistrata" is about a group of women who protest a war by not having sexual intercourse with their husbands until the war is ended.

Another well known play by Aristophanes is "The Frogs".

George Grote said of Aristophanes:





</doc>
<doc id="27296" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27296" title="40s BC">
40s BC




</doc>
<doc id="27303" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27303" title="California Institute of Technology">
California Institute of Technology

The California Institute of Technology (called "Caltech" for short) is a major American research university in the city of Pasadena in the state of California. Caltech specializes - is especially good, or especially interested - in the study of engineering, computer science, and the physical sciences (some physical sciences are physics and chemistry, as well as others). Caltech is also in charge of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, also called JPL. JPL is part of NASA, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, which is the part of the United States government that explores space. Caltech is not owned or run by the United States, or NASA, but NASA pays Caltech to run JPL for them.

Caltech's mascot is the beaver. Many schools that specialize in engineering have beavers for their mascot, because in the wild, beavers are known for making dams, and so people think that they are the animal most like engineers.


</doc>
<doc id="27304" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27304" title="Secret">
Secret

A secret is a piece of information that one person or a group of people know, and do not want others (either everyone, or certain people) to know.

There are many reasons for keeping secrets. Some secrets are good (ones that should be kept secret like respect of citizen's privacy), others are bad (ones that ought not to be kept secret). Some things will only be kept secret until a certain time. Other things may be kept secret forever.

Sometimes secrets are violated such as a citizen's privacy by groups or individuals like the National Security Agency.

Sometimes things might be kept secret from someone because it is believed that it would upset them to know.

Some things need to be kept secret for security reasons. If a person has a bank account they must keep their PIN number secret. No one else should know it.

In businesses a lot of information is kept secret. This is usually called confidential. Things that are talked about at meetings are sometimes confidential. People who were at the meeting should not go telling everyone else what was discussed.

Another kind of secret would be cryptographic secrets, which is short codes that unlock other secrets. That is, secrets protecting secrets and so forth.


</doc>
<doc id="27313" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27313" title="Oceanographer">
Oceanographer

An oceanographer is someone who studies the ocean, its properties, and its characteristics. This can include, and is not limited to, studying the marine life, the geography of the ocean floor, and the water itself.

Tools Oceanographers Use:
B. Taking Measurements of the Marine Environment 
1. Temperature
• Standard Thermometer
• Bucket Thermometer
• Reversing Thermometer (for Nansen Bottle)
• Bathythermograph (BT) 2. Salinity
• Hydrometer (quick test type for aquariums) 
• Hydrometer Set 
• Chemical Test Kit (Knudsen)
• Salinometer 
• Secchi Disk (used by itself)
• Forel/Ule Scale (used with the Secchi disk) 6. Other
• There are chemical tests for numerous dissolved substances including Carbon Dioxide, Nitrogen, Phosphates, Ammonia, Lead, Copper and Manganese 
7. Depth & Profile
• Sounder (lead line)
• Fathometer
•Surveying Equipment 8. Currents
• Current Meter
• Dye
• Drogues
• Drift Bottles
• Drift Cards


</doc>
<doc id="27317" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27317" title="Chicago Cubs">
Chicago Cubs

The Chicago Cubs are a Major League Baseball team that plays in Chicago, Illinois. The Cubs filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on October 12, 2009.

The Cubs were started in 1869. Although they were a very successful team during their early years, the success did not continue into the later years. After 1908, the Cubs did not win a Championship title.

The last time the Cubs appeared in the World Series (baseball's Championship game), was in 1945. They lost to the Detroit Tigers. The Cubs have come very close to making it to the World Series since then, but have had a mishap each time they came close. The Chicago Tribune bought the team in the early 1980's. 

When playing home games in Chicago, the Cubs play at Wrigley Field. The stadium was built in 1914 and has been the home playing field of the Cubs since 1916.

During games, the stadium is filled with Cubs fans, who are known for always cheering for their team, even if they are not winning. Even though the Cubs currently hold the record for the longest championship dry spell in all of American professional sports, their fans remain loyal to them.

The name "Billy Goat " comes from a bar known to all reporters as Billy Goat's Tavern, located on lower Wacker drive in downtown Chicago. When this "curse" started to sell the Cubs all the main characters were conveniently dead. 
The big fiction is:
During the 1945 World Series, a man by the name of Vasili "Billy Goat" Sianis attended Game 4 of the series with his pet goat. During the 7th inning of the game, the Stadium's security guards asked Sianis to leave the stadium because his goat was bothering other fans. Sianis became angry and cursed the Cubs, saying that they would never win a World Series as long as they played at Wrigley Field. Although the curse is often seen as a joke for most Cubs fans, some fans think it could be the reason why the Cubs have not won a World Series title.



</doc>
<doc id="27319" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27319" title="Category:Kurdistan">
Category:Kurdistan


</doc>
<doc id="27330" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27330" title="Herpes simplex">
Herpes simplex

The herpes simplex virus (HSV) (also known as Cold Sore, Night Fever, or Fever Blister) is a virus. It causes two common viral infections. Each infection has painful, watery blisters in the skin or mucous membranes (such as the mouth or lips) or on the genitals. The disease is contagious, particularly during an outbreak. "Contagious" means that it can spread from one person to another.It is incurable with present medicine. An infection on the lips is commonly known as a "cold sore" or "fever blister," though this should not be confused with a canker sore, which appears inside the mouth and is not caused by the herpes simplex virus.


</doc>
<doc id="27332" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27332" title="Władysław Reymont">
Władysław Reymont

Władysław Stanisław Reymont, born as Stanisław Władysław Rejment. Born at May 7, 1867 in Kobielce Wielkie, Poland, died at December 5, 1925 in Warsaw, Poland), was a well-known Polish writer, who won the Nobel Prize in 1924 for his four-volume epic novel "Chłopi" ("The Peasants"). This novel was about life of this part of the society. He also wrote "Ziemia obiecana" ("The Promised Land"), about industrial capitalism in 19th century Łódź.

Many people say he is one of the greatest and most prominent Polish writers of all time and one of the greatest in 20th century.


</doc>
<doc id="27333" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27333" title="Introversion and Extroversion">
Introversion and Extroversion

Introversion and Extroversion, made up by Carl Jung in the 1920s, is one theory that describes how a person gets energy from the world. Many people associate "introverts" with being quiet and shy, and "extroverts" with being loud and sociable. According to the theory, introverts get energy from inside themselves (ideas and concepts in their own minds), and extroverts get energy from outside of themselves (interacting with other people). 

Those who follow this way of looking at the world say that everyone has some parts of both traits in them, though one will usually dominate over the other. At one time, extroverts were thought to make up almost three-fourths of American society. Now, researchers typically assume that the number of extroverts is pretty much equal to the number of introverts in the country.


</doc>
<doc id="27334" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27334" title="Sartell, Minnesota">
Sartell, Minnesota

Sartell is a city in the U.S. state of Minnesota. The 2000 census said 9,641 live in the city. Newer information says 12,629 people live in the city. Sartell is in both Stearns County and Benton County.

Sartell started as a small town near the Mississippi River. It was first named "The Third Rapids" because it was the third rapids that French fur traders came to as they went north from St. Anthony Falls in Minneapolis.

One of the first people to live in this young town was Joseph B. Sartell. He came in 1854 and worked as a millwright at a local sawmill. In 1877, he started a flour mill at the nearby Watab River. In 1884, he started the Sartell Brothers Lumber Company with his sons.

In 1905, some people started to build the Watab Pulp and Paper Company. They also started to build the Sartell Dam across the Mississippi near the "third rapids". Both of these things were finished in 1907. Seven people died when building the dam. Since that time, Watab Pulp and Paper was rebuilt several times and many people bought and sold it. Now a company called International Paper owns it.

It was in 1907 that residents of the town decided it was time to incorporate. Several influential people felt the town ought to be named "Wengert" after a local businessman. Another man lobbyied to have the town named "Oberly" after himself. However, because of his many relatives and generous contributions to the community, the town was incorporated as "The Village of Sartell" in honor of Joseph B. Sartell. From 1907 until 1973, there was a Sartell on nearly every City Council, the most prominent being Ripley B. "Rip" Sartell who was mayor for 31 years.

The town continued to grow slowly and developed a number of businesses and a "downtown" on the east side of the Mississippi along U.S. Highway 10. In the 1960s, the highway was re-routed, greatly contributing to the demise of the downtown area. The later construction of a new bridge over the Mississippi in the early 1980s replaced the remaining businesses. This and Sartell’s nearby location to St. Cloud, Minnesota's major retail center account for Sartell's lack of a traditional "downtown".

Because residents wanted to educate their children locally, Independent School District #748, Sartell-St. Stephen, was created in 1969. Despite not having a downtown the city continued to grow and the pace of the growth increased in the 1970s. From 1970 to the present, the population of the city has grown from 700 to over 10,000.

Sartell's city council has a mayor and four council members. They are elected at-large to represent the community. They also legislate policy for the city. As of October 2005, Sartell's mayor is Robert Pogatshnik and its four council members are Mary Lewandowski, Tim O'Driscoll, Paul Orndorff, and Joe Perske. They have the authority to pass and enforce ordinances, establish public and administrative policies, create advisory boards and commissions, and manage the city's financial operations including preparing a budget, auditing expenditures, and transacting other city business as required by law. The City Council also appoints a City Administrator who overseas the day-to-day operations of the city and implements the policies of the Council.

The United States Census Bureau says that the city has a total area of 15.9 km² (6.1 mi²). 15.3 km² (5.9 mi²) of it is land and 0.6 km² (0.2 mi²) of it is water. The total area is 3.75% water.

The city is located on both sides of the Mississippi River. The area around the city has lots of farmland and forests.

Because the Mississippi River goes through the city, people use the river to have fun. When it is warm, people ride boats, swim, catch fish and water ski on the river. When the river is frozen in winter, people ride snowmobiles, cross country ski, and catch fish through holes in the ice. 

The city has also built places for people to have fun. These include 24 parks, walking pathways, playgrounds, a bike lane, tennis courts, baseball and soccer fields, ice rinks, a disc golf course and a wading pool.

Sartell's largest employer is Verso Paper. They own a paper mill in the city. Another large employer is DeZurik Water Controls.

Sartell's Chamber of Commerce says that the city has many small business.

As of the census of 2000, there were 9,641 people, 3,443 households, and 2,513 families living in the city. The population density was 630.9/km² (1,633.9/mi²). There were 3,531 housing units at an average density of 231.1/km² (598.4/mi²). The racial makeup of the city was 97.42% White, 0.29% African American, 0.17% Native American, 1.21% Asian, 0.01% Pacific Islander, 0.21% from other races, and 0.69% from two or more races. 0.87% of the population were Hispanic or Latino of any race.

There were 3,443 households out of which 46.4% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 60.6% were married couples living together, 9.1% had a female householder with no husband present, and 27.0% were non-families. 20.4% of all households were made up of individuals and 8.0% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.75 and the average family size was 3.23.

In the city the population was spread out with 32.0% under the age of 18, 8.4% from 18 to 24, 35.5% from 25 to 44, 15.5% from 45 to 64, and 8.7% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 31 years. For every 100 females there were 95.7 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 91.3 males.

The median income for a household in the city was $52,531, and the median income for a family was $61,056. Males had a median income of $39,834 versus $27,476 for females. The per capita income for the city was $22,667. 4.0% of the population and 3.0% of families were below the poverty line. 4.7% of those under the age of 18 and 8.3% of those 65 and older were living below the poverty line.

Transportation to and from Sartell is limited to surface roads, mainly U.S. Highway 10 and Minnesota Highway 15 which both pass along the outskirts of the city. A rail line runs through town but serves only as freight transportation for the local paper mill. The presence of dams along the Mississippi River and the waterway's relatively shallow depth render it useless for anything more than recreational watercraft traffic. 

Sartell's proximity to St. Cloud allows for convenient access to St. Cloud Regional Airport.




</doc>
<doc id="27340" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27340" title="50s BC">
50s BC






</doc>
<doc id="27341" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27341" title="1690s BC">
1690s BC




</doc>
<doc id="27343" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27343" title="1680s BC">
1680s BC

Events (things that happened):


Important people:



</doc>
<doc id="27344" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27344" title="1670s BC">
1670s BC

Events:



</doc>
<doc id="27346" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27346" title="1080s BC">
1080s BC

Events (things that happened):


Important people:



</doc>
<doc id="27347" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27347" title="Sunset">
Sunset

A sunset, which in some American dialects is called a sundown, is the time where the Sun goes below the horizon to the West. It is not dusk, which is the point when darkness begins, which can be sometime after the Sun sets, this begins twilight.


</doc>
<doc id="27361" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27361" title="Pop punk">
Pop punk

Pop-Punk or Punk-Pop, is a form of popular music that blends punk rock with pop music and rock music. Pop-punk music has a lighter, happier sound than most punk rock and hardcore punk music. Most punk rock and hardcore punk music sounds angry and harsh, and has lyrics (words) about protest and anger.

There are several types of pop-punk. An early type of pop-punk was developed right after Punk rock became popular in the late 1970s. Most of this kind of music is very much like Punk rock, but it features things from other kinds of music like pop music and older rock music, and country music, so different people can enjoy it. Some people call the Ramones a pop-punk band. The Ramones were a band from the United States.

In the 1990s, pop-punk became very popular in North America. Bands such as Green Day and Blink-182 sold millions of recordings and did many tours.

In the 2000s and 2010s, which is the decade we are in now, many bands have joined, or contributed to the pop punk genre. They include Fall Out Boy, Relient K, FM Static, Hawk Nelson, and Amber Pacific.

Some people who like 1970s punk rock or 1980s hardcore punk do not like pop-punk. The 1970s punk rock or 1980s hardcore punk was usually angry, rebellious protest music. In contrast, 1990s pop-punk songs are nicer and lighter. Some people think 1990s pop-punk is too commercialized and nothing like the older punk music from the 1970s and 1980s.



</doc>
<doc id="27365" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27365" title="Sheryl Crow">
Sheryl Crow

Sheryl Crow (February 11,1962) is an American singer and songwriter. She can also play guitar and bass guitar.

Many of her songs have reached high ranks and are still popular. Some of the most famous are "The First Cut Is the Deepest", "Soak Up the Sun", "If It Makes You Happy" and "All I Wanna Do".

Sheryl was never married.

She has two adopted sons, Wyatt Steven Crow (born on May 11, 2007) and Levi James Crow (born on April 30, 2010).

Is breast cancer survivor since 2003.



</doc>
<doc id="27366" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27366" title="Chubby Checker">
Chubby Checker

Ernest Evans (born October 3, 1941) or Chubby Checker is a pop singer from the United States. He is most famous for his dance songs. His best-known song, "The Twist," was popular in the early 1960s.


</doc>
<doc id="27370" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27370" title="Irish people">
Irish people

The Irish are an ethnic group who come from or came from the island of Ireland. There are two countries on Ireland called the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland. Many countries, especially English-speaking countries, have people with Irish roots. 

In Northern Ireland, there have been violent fights between the Unionists, who claim to be British and are mainly Protestant, and the Nationalists, who claim to be Irish and are mainly Catholic. Irish people have a strong culture and many beliefs.

Due to problems in Ireland, most importantly a famine that made it difficult to grow potatoes in Ireland between 1845 and 1852, many Irish moved out of Ireland and to other countries, such as the United States and Canada. At present, many more Irish live in the United States than in Ireland, with many of them living in large American cities such as Boston, New York, and Chicago.


</doc>
<doc id="27374" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27374" title="Claude Debussy">
Claude Debussy

Achille-Claude Debussy (born St Germain-en-Laye, August 22, 1862; died Paris, March 25, 1918) was a French composer. He is one of the most important composers of the early 20th century. Most of his compositions are for orchestra or for piano. He also wrote some songs, chamber music and one opera. He made his music very different from the Romantic style that other composers were using at the time. He is often called an Impressionistic composer because he was influenced by the group of painters called “Impressionists”. They were not so much interested in making their paintings look exactly like the real world, but preferred to paint things such as the effect of the sunlight shining on water. Debussy often did this in his music, which creates a special atmosphere.

Claude Debussy did not have an easy childhood. His father was a travelling salesman and his mother worked as a seamstress. He learned the piano when he was young and went to the Paris Conservatoire. For a time it seemed that he would become a concert pianist, but he did not do well enough in his examination. After winning an important prize, the Prix de Rome, he went to Rome for two years but he did not enjoy it. He visited Bayreuth in 1888 and 1889 to hear Wagner’s operas but he did not like them. He preferred sounds like that of the Javanese gamelan which he heard in Paris at the World Exhibition.

In 1899 he married a young woman named Lily Texier. He got a job as music critic of a journal called "La revue blanche". He wrote his opera "Pélleas et Mélisande" which was performed at the Opéra-Comique. It was extremely successful and was performed 100 times there during the next ten years. He wrote exciting music for orchestra: "Fêtes galantes" and a work called "La Mer" ("The Sea") which he worked at while staying in Brighton on the south coast of England. It is one of the most exciting pieces of music about the sea.

Debussy was now starting to become very famous. His personal life changed. He left his wife because he had fallen in love with Emma Bardac who was an amateur singer for whom Gabriel Fauré had written a song cycle "La Bonne Chanson". Her husband was a banker. She bought an apartment and Debussy lived with her there for the rest of his life. They had a daughter called Chou-Chou, born in 1905. They married in 1908.

Debussy’s next orchestral work was called "Images". He began composing a set of preludes for piano. Other works followed: "Khamma", "Le martyre de St Sébastian" and the ballet "Jeux", which was produced in 1913 by Dyagilev’s company. People soon forgot about this work because only two weeks later the same ballet company produced Stravinsky’s "Rite of Spring" which caused a riot.

By this time Debussy was already ill with cancer. His visit to London in 1914 was his last trip to another country. He wrote more piano works: a set of Études and a piano duet called "En blanc et noir" ("In white and black"). He planned to write six sonatas, each for a different group of instruments, but he only wrote three of them: one for cello and piano, one for flute, viola and harp and one for violin and piano. The "Sonata for violin and piano" (1917) was the last work he played in public (he played the piano part). He became very ill and died in 1918.

Debussy is often thought of together with Ravel, but really they composed in very different ways. Between 1892 and 1894 Debussy worked on a short orchestral piece called "Prélude à l'après-midi d'un faune". It is about a fawn waking up and seeing the world around him. It is based on a poem by Mallarmé, a poet who belonged to the group known as the Symbolists. It is a wonderful piece of music, but many people at the time did not understand it. Saint-Saëns, for example, did not understand the way that the musical ideas flowed gently into one another. He was always an enemy of Debussy. 

There is a lot of variety in Debussy’s piano music.　Some of it is very difficult to play, e.g. the "Études" and pieces such as "L’isle joyeuse" ("The happy island"). Other collections are much simpler, e.g. "Suite bergamasque" which includes the very popular piece called "Clair de lune" ("Moonlight"). He wrote two books of preludes. Each of the pieces has a title, but the titles are printed at the end of each piece, as if he did not want the listener to know what it was about until afterwards.

Debussy wrote wonderfully for the voice, making the music just right for the rhythm of the French language. This can be heard in his songs and his opera. Using melodies and harmonies which are often quite simple he creates a special kind of dream-world which can be very powerful. He often uses the whole tone scale and the pentatonic scale which give the music a hazy feeling because it does not seem to be clearly in one particular key. He liked to use unusual chords just for their own sake, not in order to make them lead to a particular key. He also used the old scales known as the church modes.

Debussy’s music had a great influence on many composers in the 20th century. Cage, Messiaen, Boulez and Stockhausen all learned from listening to his music.

Groves Dictionary of Music Online


</doc>
<doc id="27377" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27377" title="P.O.D.">
P.O.D.

P.O.D. (which stands for Payable on Death) is a metal band from San Diego, California. Its fans are called "The Warriors", and the band is known for its Christian messages.

The members are Sonny Sandoval (lead singer), Marcos Curiel (guitar player), Wuv Bernardo (drummer) and Traa Daniels (bass player).

The band released an album in 1999 called "The Fundamental Elements of Southtown", which became very popular, and P.O.D. made a lot of fans who saw the band on MTV.

In 2001, P.O.D. made a second album called "Satellite", which had a more nu metal post-grunge vibe and several hit songs, like "Boom," "Alive," "Youth of the Nation," "Set It Off," "Satellite," and "Portrait." In 2003, P.O.D. made the album "Payable On Death", which had a heavy neo-grunge sound and a hint of reggae.

Their next album, "Testify", was released in 2006. It was similar to "Satellite" in sound and featured two duets with Matisyahu. In 2008, P.O.D. released the album "When Angels & Serpents Dance".


</doc>
<doc id="27395" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27395" title="Template:Very good article, large">
Template:Very good article, large


</doc>
<doc id="27399" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27399" title="Differential">
Differential

Differentials are the main focus of differential calculus.

Differentials can also be used in automobiles, where they are used for turning, for example, while turning right, the right wheel travels a shorter distance than the left, the differential slows down the wheel so it will not slip.

This is because the inside (right) wheel is closer to the center of the turn, meaning that it travels on an arc with a shorter radius, thus resulting in less distance traveled.


</doc>
<doc id="27400" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27400" title="Blackbird">
Blackbird

A Blackbird (or Common Blackbird)is a member of the passerine songbird family Turdidae, the thrushes. Its scientific name is "Turdus merula", and there are a number of geographical subspecies. It is native to Europe and parts of Asia. It is a terrific singer.

The adult male is black, with a yellow/orange bill (beak). Juveniles and females are brown, and less easy to see. Blackbirds are easy to find in gardens all over Europe and in Asia, South of the Arctic Circle. On average, Blackbirds live to be 2.4 years old, but some have been found to be 20 years old.


</doc>
<doc id="27403" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27403" title="Geta (footwear)">
Geta (footwear)

Geta are traditional Japanese sandals. They are stilted to keep the hem of a kimono above the ground. They are worn with tabi socks. Geta makes the person's feet stay out of the mud.

Usually Japanese people wear them with a casual kimono rather than formal one. It is common to wear them with bare feet when a yukata is worn. Also they are worn with western clothes. 
Today, in Japan, most people rarely wear kimono and rarely wear geta. One reason for this is most gravel roads were changed to asphalt roads for Tokyo Olympic. Since 1995, the number of people who wear geta casually increased because of the pretty looks and sounds. In addition, the popularity of geta grew little by little through trend for yukata. At one time, Japanese people thought that it is hard to walk with geta and sometimes get injured by hanao. Hanao is a rope which is set between the big toe and second toe when geta are worn. However, because of efforts by yukata makers and footwear makers, Japanese people are starting to like to wear geta again.


</doc>
<doc id="27404" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27404" title="Tabi">
Tabi

Tabi are traditional Japanese socks. The sock is divided at the toes that forms them into two groups. Tabi socks are worn with "zori" or "geta" sandals.


</doc>
<doc id="27417" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27417" title="Bydgoszcz">
Bydgoszcz

Bydgoszcz is a city in the north of Poland, capital of Kujavia-Pomerania voivodship, located on the Brda and Wisła rivers. The population is 368,000 people (8th place in Poland).


</doc>
<doc id="27428" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27428" title="The Mystery of Edwin Drood">
The Mystery of Edwin Drood

The Mystery of Edwin Drood is the last novel of Charles Dickens. It was not finished when he died.

The first person we meet is called John Jasper. He is leaving a place where opium (powerful drug) is taken by lots of people. He is in London. Jasper leads a choir (group of singers) in a large church in Cloisterham. 

The next day Jasper is visited by his nephew Edwin Drood. Edwin tells Jasper he is worried about getting married to a girl called Rosa Bud. He has to get married to her because his parents and Rosa’s parents said they had to.

The next day, Edwin finds Rosa in a nun’s house which is a school. They have a friendly argument. At the same time, Jasper wants to learn about the graveyard, so he goes to find a man called Durdles, who knows a lot about the graveyard. 

A person called Neville Landless has a twin sister called Helena. They are both sent to a school in Cloisterham. Helena goes to live with Rosa in the Nuns’ House, and Neville is taught by Reverend (vicar) Crisparkle.
We find out that Neville doesn’t like his stepfather who is a nasty man. He tells this to Crisparkle. Rosa tells Helena that she doesn’t like Jasper, who is her music teacher. She says she finds him scary.

When Neville meets Rosa, he falls in love with her. He is angry that Edwin Drood doesn’t like her very much, but still wants to get married.
Edwin makes Neville angry, and Neville attacks him. Jasper tells everyone that Neville is a violent (hurts a lot of people) person. 

Reverend (vicar) Crisparkle wants Edwin and Neville to be friends. He wants to say sorry to Edwin, but only is Edwin accepts the apology (saying sorry). 
They all decide to have dinner the day before Christmas at Jasper’s house, so that everyone can say sorry. 

Mr. Gregious who takes care of Rosa, tells Rosa that she has a lot of money. This money is from her father who is dead. She asks him if they money will still be given to her if she doesn’t marry Edwin. Mr Gregious says that she will still get the money even if she doesn’t marry Edwin.

Mr. Gregious meets Edwin and gives him a ring. The ring belonged to Rosa’s father, and gave is to Rosa’s mother when they got married. 
Mr Gregious says that if Edwin loves Rosa and wants to stay with her forever, he must give her the ring. If he doesn’t love Rosa, and doesn’t want to stay with her forever, he must give the ring back to Mr. Gregious. There is another man watching to make sure Mr. Gregious and Edwin follow the rules.

Rosa and Edwin talk and they say they both don’t want to get married anymore. They want ask Mr. Grewgious to tell Jasper this. Edwin says he will soon give the ring back.

Meanwhile, Jasper is in the graveyard again with Durdles. Jasper gives Durdles some very strong wine. This makes him drunk. Jasper finds out that Durdles can tap the stone coffins and knows what is in them from this. Jasper is interested in this trick. 
Suddenly they see a boy called Deputy. Jasper thinks the boy was following them, so he holds him by the neck. He doesn’t kill him though, and lets him go. 

On Christmas Eve, Neville buys a stick for walking. He wants to do some walking in his spare time in the countryside. 

Edwin goes to a jewellery shop because his watch is broken. A woman who uses opium (powerful drug) asks him what his first name is. He tells her. She says that she is happy his name is not Ned. She says that Ned is in danger. 
Edwin doesn’t listen to her, but he knows that Jasper sometimes calls him Ned.

They have the planned dinner, and everyone is friends again. Edwin and Neville go down to the river to see the storm. 

The next day, we find out that Edwin is missing. Jasper tells everyone that Neville killed him. Neville goes off for a walk, but the village people bring him back to the town. 

Reverend (vicar) Crisparkle stops Neville from going to jail by saying that he will look after him. He says that he will bring Neville forward whenever he is needed. 

Jasper is then told that Edwin and Rosa won’t get married. He is very upset. 

Crisparkle finds Edwin’s watch and other belongings at the river. 

Half a year later Neville is living in London. A man called Mr. Tartar meets Neville and he wants to share his garden with him. He lives near Neville. 

A new character called Dick Datchery comes to Cloisterham. He lives near Jasper and watches him. 
Datchery meets Deputy and asks where Jasper lives. Deputy doesn’t ever go near there because he is afraid Jasper will choke (grab his neck) him again. 

Jasper goes and visits Rosa. He tells her that he loves her. She tells him to leave. He doesn’t give up, and says he will destroy Neville unless she loves him. Because Neville is the brother of her friend Helena, Rosa is frightened. She goes to Mr. Grewgious in London.

Crisparkle has followed Rosa to London. Mr. Tartar meets him and asks him if he knows who he is. Crisparkle remembers that Tartar once saved him from dying in a river. 

They tell Rosa not to talk to Neville or Helena in case Jasper is watching. However, Tartar lets Rosa meet Helena. Grewgious finds a place for Rosa to live with another woman. 

We see that Jasper is visiting the place where lots of people smoke opium (powerful drug) in London. He has not been there for a long time. 

The woman who owns the place follows him. She promises not to lose him again like last time. She follows him all the way to Cloisterham. 
She meets Mr. Datchery, who tells her Jasper’s name. He also says that he is going to sing in the church service in the morning. The woman is called Princess Puffer. She goes to the service and shakes her fist (a sign of anger and hate) at Jasper. 

Dickens died before the story was finished. No one knows what happens next.



</doc>
<doc id="27439" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27439" title="Vientiane">
Vientiane

Vientiane is the capital city of Laos. It is located in the Mekong Valley, and over two hundred thousand people live in its central area.


</doc>
<doc id="27444" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27444" title="Dome">
Dome

A dome is a feature of architecture that usually looks like the upper half of a sphere on top of a building.

It is a feature that makes many religious and government buildings stand out, because if someone is speaking to others inside or under a dome, the voice sounds louder. Also a dome makes it easier to identify an important building, for example a temple or a palace.


</doc>
<doc id="27447" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27447" title="Address">
Address

"This article is about the kind of address that you find or communicate with someone through. Address can also mean public speaking. It can also be used when someone is working on something, or talking about something."

An address (pronounced AD-dress or ad-DRESS) is a way to find or communicate with someone. When someone says address, he or she usually means a postal address or an e-mail address. On forms, it is common to ask for someone's name, address and phone number, so that the person can be found easily.

A postal address is usually the location of someone's house, but sometimes it is the person's Post Office Box. It is the information that is put on a letter to have the letter delivered to a person.

Example (in England):

In the U.S., it is formatted in this way:

Example (in the US):

An email address is used to send someone an e-mail. It is formatted like this:
"name" is the person's name (or username), and "provider" is the person's email provider. For example:

The "name" part can be made up of any letters or numbers, and a few special characters, but it cannot contain spaces. The "provider" part can be made up of any letters or numbers, but no special characters and no spaces. Some providers may restrict the "name" part in other ways. For example, yahoo does not allow periods ".", and gmail does not allow underscores "_".


</doc>
<doc id="27449" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27449" title="Wadaiko">
Wadaiko

Wadaiko is the Japanese name for both the act of drumming in a traditional Japanese style (of which there are many) or to the drums themselves. The name comes from the Japanese words 'Wa', meaning 'Japanese', and 'Taiko', meaning 'drum', 

In a traditional Japanese village the 'Odaiko' (big drum) defined the extent of the village land. In modern Japan, wadaiko has become more of a performance art, seen only during festivals or in concert. The most famous Wadaiko performance group are 'Kodo' (meaning heart-beat). They are not only the worlds most respected Japanese drumming group, they also maintain many traditional art forms. They group lives on the island 'Sado Higashima' and live together as a community in a traditional way. Many other cultures have adopted this style of drumming, from Germany and the United States to Australia.


</doc>
<doc id="27461" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27461" title="T cell">
T cell

A T cell is a type of lymphocyte, a white blood cell. 

It plays an important role in the immune system by attacking virus-infected cells, foreign cells, and cancer cells. The "T" in T cell stands for thymus. The thymus is where T cells are developed.








</doc>
<doc id="27464" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27464" title="Template:User hu-1">
Template:User hu-1


</doc>
<doc id="27465" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27465" title="Category:User hu-1">
Category:User hu-1


</doc>
<doc id="27466" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27466" title="Template:User hu-2">
Template:User hu-2


</doc>
<doc id="27467" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27467" title="Category:User hu-2">
Category:User hu-2


</doc>
<doc id="27468" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27468" title="Template:User hu-3">
Template:User hu-3


</doc>
<doc id="27469" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27469" title="Category:User hu-3">
Category:User hu-3


</doc>
<doc id="27470" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27470" title="Template:User hu-4">
Template:User hu-4


</doc>
<doc id="27471" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27471" title="Category:User hu-4">
Category:User hu-4


</doc>
<doc id="27472" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27472" title="Template:User hu-0">
Template:User hu-0


</doc>
<doc id="27473" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27473" title="Category:User hu-0">
Category:User hu-0


</doc>
<doc id="27475" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27475" title="Template:User de-4">
Template:User de-4


</doc>
<doc id="27476" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27476" title="Category:User de-4">
Category:User de-4


</doc>
<doc id="27478" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27478" title="Biscuit">
Biscuit

A biscuit is a type of food. They are small baked breads or cakes.

In British English, Australian English, Canadian English and New Zealand English, biscuits are usually sweet and can be eaten with milk or coffee. In North America these are called "cookies".

In spite of the difference, this is the meaning in the name of the United States' most famous maker of cookies and crackers, the National Biscuit Company (now called Nabisco).

In American English, a "biscuit" is a small form of bread, similar to scones, made with baking powder or baking soda as a leavening agent rather than yeast. (Biscuits, soda breads, and corn bread, among others, are sometimes referred to all together as "quick breads" to show that they do not need time to rise before baking.) 


</doc>
<doc id="27480" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27480" title="Electromagnet">
Electromagnet

Electromagnets are magnets that are only magnetic when there is a coil of wire with electricity running through it. This is called a solenoid. The strength of the magnet is proportional to the current flowing in the circuit. Electromagnets are used for a variety of purposes. In a simple example, an electromagnet can pick up pieces of iron, steel, nickel, and cobalt. The electricity running through the wire is called a current. The current is a flow of electrons, negatively charged particles.

Electromagnets can be made stronger by adding more coils to the copper wire, or adding an iron core through the coils (for example a nail). You can also increase the current to make the magnetism stronger.

British electrician William Sturgeon invented the electromagnet in 1825. 

An electromagnet is very beneficial because it can be turned on and off easily (using an electric current), whereas a permanent magnet cannot be turned off and will continue to affect its immediate environment. Iron stops being an electromagnet very quickly, but steel takes time to wear off. To make an electromagnet, you can wind copper wire around a steel rod. Then connect the two ends of the wire to the + (positive) and - (negative) side of the battery. 

Electromagnets are used in everyday items such as burglar alarms, electric relays and fire bells. Their ability to change from the state of non-magnetic to magnetic just by passing an electric current through it allows it to be used in many different items.


</doc>
<doc id="27481" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27481" title="Palau">
Palau

Palau, officially the Republic of Palau, is an island nation. It is the Pacific Ocean. Palau is 300 miles (500 km) east of the Philippines. It got independence from United Nations trusteeship administration (administered by the United States of America) in 1994. It is one of the world's youngest and smallest nations. It is sometimes referred to in English under its native name Belau. The capital city of Palau is Melekeok. This has been true since October 1, 2006.

Palau is divided into sixteen administrative states:

Palau has a tropical climate all year round. Average yearly temperature is around 82 °F (27 °C). 



</doc>
<doc id="27485" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27485" title="Borderless country">
Borderless country

A borderless country (also sometimes called island nation) is a country that is made up only of islands. Each island only belongs to that country, there are no neighbors. Examples of borderless countries are Iceland, Japan, and São Tomé and Príncipe.


</doc>
<doc id="27486" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27486" title="Cloth">
Cloth

Cloth, also sometimes called fabric is an artificial material. It is usually made by weaving or knitting natural or artificial fibers together. It is often used to make clothing.
Cloth can also be a special form of binding books.


</doc>
<doc id="27489" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27489" title="Template:Policy">
Template:Policy

<includeonly></includeonly>

</doc>
<doc id="27491" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27491" title="Llivia">
Llivia

Llívia is a little catalon town and also exclave of Spain. It is surrounded by France, the Spanish border is about 1 kilometer away. It belongs to Cerdanya, province of Girona. The French territory that surrounds it is the Pyrénées-Orientales "département". Llivia has a total population of 1252, as of 2005.

Llívia is located at .

People lived there since Roman times. Originally, the settlement began as a Roman fort (What is called "oppidum"). The name of the oppidum was "Julia Libica".
The city was the ancient capital of Cerdagne in antiquity. In the early Middle Ages, Hix (commune of Bourg-Madame, France) became the capital of the region.



</doc>
<doc id="27492" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27492" title="Template:Coor dms">
Template:Coor dms

°′″, °′″

</doc>
<doc id="27494" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27494" title="Category:Wikipedia guidelines">
Category:Wikipedia guidelines

This category includes all Simple English Wikipedia guidelines, as well as related pages, but does not include Simple English Wikipedia policies. Those are . A combined list is available at .


</doc>
<doc id="27495" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27495" title="Category:Wikipedia policies">
Category:Wikipedia policies

This category includes all Simple English Wikipedia policies, as well as related pages, but does not include guidelines. Those are . A combined list is available at .


</doc>
<doc id="27503" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27503" title="Monkey Island">
Monkey Island

Monkey Island is a well-known adventure game series made and published by LucasArts.

The games are known for their humor, and often use parody and clichés, both from pirate stories as well as from films.

The story takes place in the Caribbean. In the different games the main character Guybrush Threepwood, who wants to become a pirate, has many adventures. Each of the games usually involves the evil undead pirate LeChuck and the island which gave the series its name.



</doc>
<doc id="27509" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27509" title="Category:Disputed policies">
Category:Disputed policies

This category is for policies that are disputed. This means that people do not agree about them. This category may also include some guidelines. It is a subcategory of .


</doc>
<doc id="27510" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27510" title="Port Arthur massacre">
Port Arthur massacre

The Port Arthur massacre was a mass killing that took place at Port Arthur, Tasmania, Australia. On Saturday April 26 and Sunday April 26, 1996 35 people were killed, and 37 people were badly hurt. Martin Bryant used semi-automatic guns to shoot people who were visiting Port Arthur. Port Arthur is an old penal colony or large prison. More than 75,000 convicts from England and Ireland had been kept at the prison from the 1830s to the 1870s. The ruins of the prison are one of the biggest attractions for visitors to Tasmania. Bryant is in jail for the crime. 

The massacre was the worst single-day mass murder incident in Australian history. 32 people died on 28 April 1996, the middle day of the massacre. After the massacre, Australia made new laws about gun control. People could not buy guns very easily anymore. New laws were changed which meant that Martin Bryant had to give many millions of dollars to the families of the people who were killed. This law does not exist anywhere else in the world.

Bryant had first killed the owners of a small guesthouse. The next day he went to the Port Arthur Historic Site. 20 of the people killed were shot in the Broad Arrow Cafe in a 90 second burst of gunfire. Bryant went into the cafe at lunchtime and began shooting. There were more than 60 people in the cafe. He then went into the gift shop and continued shooting. Two minutes later he went back to his car to get more guns. He continued to shoot and kill people outside in the gardens. 

Bryant then took a hostage and went back to the Seascape Guest House. He killed the hostage and then set fire to the house. He finally gave himself up to the police after 18 hours. He was burned in the fire.

Bryant was found guilty of killing 35 people. He was sentenced to a life sentence for each murder. The court said he was never to be released.

The ruins of the cafe are now a memorial to the people who were killed in the massacre. A square pond has been built as a place for quiet thinking. The Prime Minister of Australia, John Howard spoke at the memorial in 2006. This was to remember 10 years since the massacre.


</doc>
<doc id="27511" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27511" title="Backpacker murders">
Backpacker murders

The backpacker murders is when lots of people were killed in Australia from 1990-1996, and all of their bodies were found in Belangalo State Forest, which is close to Sydney. Police think that a person called Ivan Milat killed all of these people, and they say that 7 people died.

7 people were found in Belangalo State Forest. Some of these people were visiting Australia. Some of these people were visiting Sydney from other parts of Australia. Some of these people were from Sydney. Some of these people were by themselves. Some of these people were with a friend. The 7 people were all different from each other.

On the TV they said that tourists were killed, but not everyone who died was a tourist. 

The 7 people were found all over Belangalo State Forest, which is a big area. Some of them had their heads chopped off. Someone had sex with some of them. Some of them had their clothes taken off. Some of them were wearing clothes that belonged to other ones. Some of them had bits of their bodies cut off and put somewhere else. Some of the bodies were mixups of other bodies. Some of the bodies were by themselves. 

Some of the people had been killed with a shovel. Some had been killed with an axe. Some had been killed with a gun. Some had been strangled.

The 7 people who died had nothing in common. People who tried to find out who did it said that it must have been 7 different people who killed them. They said that they were probably a part of a gang. They said that a big gang like the mafia might have killed these people.

Ivan Milat was a man who lived near Belangalo State Forest. He tried to help police to find out what happened. Police said that he knew too much about the murders, so they thought maybe he had killed someone. So police started to spy on him to try to find out if he had killed people. They found out that:


Ivan Milat went to court, and people in court said that Ivan Milat did kill all of these people.

A man named Chopper Read said that he knew who killed the people in the "backpacker murders". He said it was a big gang in Melbourne that killed them.

Some people think that other people helped Ivan Milat. Some people said his brothers helped him, or a girl, or lots of other people. Police have said that there are more than 30 people that went missing that might have been killed by Ivan Milat. 


</doc>
<doc id="27512" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27512" title="Azaria Chamberlain">
Azaria Chamberlain

Azaria Chamberlain is the name of a baby who went missing in 1980 near Ayers Rock in Australia. Her mother, Lindy Chamberlain, said that she was taken by a dingo and killed. Police said that Lindy Chamberlain had murdered the baby and had lied about the dingo. After a long trial which was reported around the world, Lindy Chamberlain went to gaol. Lindy Chamberlain kept arguing that she was innocent. When some of the baby's clothes were found three years later near a dingo's den, the case was reopened. After a long legal battle which involved three inquests, three appeals and a royal commission she was released.

Lindy Chamberlain was released from jail on Feb 7 1986, but not cleared until Sept 15 1988, at which time Lindy and Michael (her husband) were declared innocent of all charges. She and Michael were divorced on June 27 1991. She met Rick Creighton on a speaking tour of the United States in February 1992 and married him on December 20, 1992.

The disappearance of Azaria became one of the most argued about events in Australia. Many people thought that a dingo would be unable to kill a baby. This meant that the mother must have lied. People in Australia say "a dingo stole my baby" as a joke, when they think someone is lying. After a dingo killed a nine year old boy on Fraser Island in 2001, people have had to rethink their beliefs about dingos.

Author John Bryson wrote a book about the case, called Evil Angels. This was later made into a movie called "Evil Angels" and starred Meryl Streep and Sam Neill. The movie was released in other countries as A Cry in the Dark.

In 2005, a woman called Erin Horsburgh said that she was really Azaria Chamberlain and wanted police to do a DNA test to check. But police said that the woman was lying and they did not need to check. This created interest in the media, but there was no truth to the story.


</doc>
<doc id="27513" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27513" title="Peter Falconio">
Peter Falconio

Peter Falconio (20 September 1972 - c. 14 July 2001) was an English tourist who went missing in Northern Territory, Australia in 2001. Falconio was last seen near a place called Barrow Creek. This is one of Australia's greatest murder mysteries. Police say that he is dead. A trial decided that Bradley John Murdoch murdered Falconio.
Peter Falconio and his girlfriend Joanne Lees had been fighting with each other. Lees was going to leave Falconio because she had a new boyfriend in Australia. Some people think that Lees wanted to kill Falconio because of this. Some people think that she might have asked Murdoch to kill Falconio for her.

Bradley John Murdoch sold drugs to people. Falconio and Lees liked to use drugs. It is thought that they knew each other, and that Falconio and Lees bought drugs from Murdoch. Falconio owed a lot of money in taxes, and he was scared. Falconio had told people that he wanted to fake his own death. Many people say they saw Falconio over a week after police say that he died. It was known that Murdoch had hurt people before this. He had once shot at some aborigines just for fun. He had told people that he thought he was being followed and was going to get rid of them. Some people think that he raped some women too.

This remains a great mystery and many people have different stories as to what really happened. A movie called "Wolf Creek" was made that is similar to the story. It was not allowed to be shown until after the trial.


</doc>
<doc id="27514" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27514" title="John Howard">
John Howard

John Winston Howard (born 26 July 1939) was the 25th Prime Minister of Australia. John Howard is a member of the Liberal Party. John Howard was the leader of Australia from 1996, when he won the election against Paul Keating of the Labor Party, until 2007 when he lost the election to Kevin Rudd of the Labor Party. John Howard is the second longest serving leader of Australia. He served for 11 years, and Robert Menzies is the longest serving leader of Australia who served for 18 years. Janette Parker, a school teacher, married John Howard in 1971.

John Howard was a lawyer before he became a politician. He was in parliament from 1974 until 2007. From 1977 to 1983 he was the Treasurer in Malcolm Fraser's government. Malcolm Fraser lost the 1983 election to Bob Hawke.

In 1995, the Prime Minister, Paul Keating, was not popular after 13 years of Labor government and in 1996 John Howard became Prime Minister of Australia. 

One of the first things he did was get together all the governments in Australia to ban many kinds of dangerous guns in 1997. A man went on a shooting spree in Tasmania in 1996 and killed many people for no reason, so the Howard Government said nobody except farmers really needs certain guns in modern Australia. In 1998, Howard and his Treasurer, Peter Costello took a big tax reform (the GST) to the election and won. In 1999 John Howard's government held a referendum on whether Australia should become a republic and have a President instead of a Queen. However, John Howard did not support the referendum and urged people to vote no.

In 1999, Howard led a United Nations force into East Timor (INTERFET), to help them set up an independent democracy. 

After the September 11 attacks, John Howard was involved in world issues. He was close with George W. Bush who was the leader of the United States. George Bush called John Howard a "key ally". John Howard sent SAS troops to Afghanistan and Iraq to support the United States, and signed a free trade agreement with the United States. Despite this alliance, Australia remained fairly neutral on Israel and Palestine. 

Like before Howard, Australian trade with Asia got bigger while John Howard was leader. He invited the Chinese leader to speak to the Australian Parliament for the first time. After the 2004 Boxing Day Tsunami, John Howard called the President of Indonesia and offered a billion dollars to help. John Howard increased immigration a lot and people came to Australia from all over the world, but he tried to stop boats of people coming without asking for visas first. 

Australia was successful while John Howard was leader. However, some people say he did not help poor people, and ignored global warming. In 2005, he made it easier for bosses to get rid of workers, and the Labor Party became more popular. On 24 November 2007, Kevin Rudd won an election and John Howard stopped being Prime Minister. John Howard also lost his seat in the Parliament.


</doc>
<doc id="27517" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27517" title="Swedish language">
Swedish language

Swedish (() is a language mostly spoken in Sweden and in parts of Finland, especially along the coast and on the Åland islands. More than nine million people speak Swedish. It is similar to two of the other Scandinavian languages, Norwegian and Danish, and a person who understands one of these languages can understand the others. Other Scandinavian languages, such as Icelandic and Faroese, are less closely related and cannot be understood by Swedish speakers. Standard Swedish is spoken and written throughout Sweden, but there are some local dialects with differences in grammar and vocabulary in small towns and rural areas. 

Swedish began as a dialect of Old Norse, which was a language that everyone in Scandinavia understood during the Viking Age. Around the 12th century Swedish began to slowly become different from the other dialects. These dialects later became what we today call Norwegian, Icelandic, Faroese and Danish. Swedish is a Germanic language and some similarities to English because of the Vikings that invaded England in the 10th Century. It is even more similar to German and Dutch, partly because of the Hanseatic League of the Middle Ages, when Sweden traded very openly with Germany.

There are three characters in the Swedish language that are not used in English. These are å, ä and ö. The letter å is a vowel sound between [a] and [o], similar to the English word "awe". The letter ä is a vowel sound similar to [ɛ], like in the English word "bed". The letter ö is a vowel sound between [o] and [ɛ], pronounced [øː] like the "u" in the English word "burn". These characters are also used in the Finnish language, while Norwegian and Danish languages replace ä and ö with similar characters æ and ø. 

Swedish also has some important differences in grammar. Definite articles are suffixed onto the end of their nouns, so "ett hus" (a house) becomes "huset" (the house). Also unlike English, Swedish uses two grammatical genders called "Common" and "Neuter". Nouns of the Common gender are sometimes called "en words", and many words for living (or once-living) things are "en words". Nouns of the Neuter gender are sometimes called "ett words".



</doc>
<doc id="27519" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27519" title="Walter Mikac">
Walter Mikac

Walter Mikac is an Australian writer and motivational speaker. 

Walter Mikac's wife and two small children were killed at the Port Arthur massacre. He has written two books, one called "To Have And To Hold" and the other is called "Circle of Life: Sustenance for the Soul". It is about handling grief and tragedy. He helped create the Alannah and Madeline Foundation to help children who are the victims of violent crime



</doc>
<doc id="27525" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27525" title="Martin Bryant">
Martin Bryant

Martin Bryant (born 7 May 1967) is an Australian criminal who killed 35 people in Tasmania in 1996, in the Port Arthur massacre. He is now in prison for the most murders in Australian recorded history.

Bryant has been given a sentence of life in gaol for each of the 35 murders. He is never to be released. He is held in solitary confinement (by himself) in Hobarts Risdon Prison. 

Martin Bryant is believed to have an IQ (thinking level) of an 11-year-old. Guards and doctors report that his only interest seems to be himself. He has tried to kill himself several times in prison.


</doc>
<doc id="27526" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27526" title="Rugby league">
Rugby league

Rugby League is a ball sport. Two teams of thirteen players play against each other. The ball used is oval in shape. The field is a rectangle shape. It is 100 metres long and 70 metres wide. It is played for 80 minutes (40 minutes aside).

A "try" is scored when a player scores or touches the ball down in the in-goal area. A try is worth 4 points and if its converted (the goal kicker kicks the ball in between the top of the goal post), the team gets an extra 2 points. Another method of scoring points is through drop goals which are worth 1 point, or penalty goals which are worth 2 points. The countries that play it the most are Australia, Ireland*, England*, Fiji, France, Great Britain*, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, Russia, Samoa, Scotland*, Lebanon, Tonga and Wales*.


</doc>
<doc id="27528" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27528" title="Dustin Hoffman">
Dustin Hoffman

Dustin Hoffman (born August 8, 1937) is an American actor. He has been in many movies. 

Hoffman was born in Los Angeles, California. He is the younger son of Lillian, a jazz pianist, and Harry Hoffman, who worked as a prop supervisor/set decorator at Columbia Pictures before becoming a furniture salesman. His brother, Ronald, is a lawyer and economist. Hoffman's family was Jewish, although he was not brought up religious. He graduated from Los Angeles High School in 1955.

One of his movies was "Rain Man", in which he played a character with autism. This helped people to understand autism. The film also starred Tom Cruise.


</doc>
<doc id="27529" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27529" title="Chopper Read">
Chopper Read

Mark Brandon "Chopper" Read (born November 17, 1954) was an Australian mobster who during his career in the Melbourne mafia scene, was convicted of many crimes, for example; armed robbery, assault and kidnapping. Read retired from the life of crime and wrote a series of fiction books based on his life as a criminal. More recently he has begun making music.
Read started his criminal career as a child; robbing drug dealers as a teenager. During this time he was the leader of a gang. While in prison as an adult Read made a friend cut off his ears so he could leave prison where a gang wanted to have him killed. Read claims that he killed 19 people during his time as a criminal. His first book was written in 1991 while he was in prison. In 2000 a film called Chopper was made; about Read's life and based on his books, it starred Eric Bana as Chopper.


</doc>
<doc id="27530" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27530" title="Elle McFeast">
Elle McFeast

Elle McFeast is a stage name used by comedian Libbi Gorr, who started off on a show with Andrew Denton about sport in Australia called "Live and Sweaty". Elle McFeast is not her real name.
She made it up to make fun of Australian model Elle Macpherson. "McFeast" is the name of food from McDonald's, and is very unhealthy. 

Elle McFeast had her own show for many years in Australia and was very famous. She talked about many scary things, like jails and criminals, and made fun of them. One day she interviewed Chopper Read on her show. He was so scary that she had to stop her show. Elle McFeast does not have a show anymore and is not on television anymore.


</doc>
<doc id="27531" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27531" title="Elle Macpherson">
Elle Macpherson

Elle Macpherson (born Eleanor Nancy Gow on 29 March 1964, in Killara, New South Wales, Australia) is an Australian supermodel and actress. She first became famous because of her advertisements for Coca Cola where she wore a string bikini. She became a supermodel and became very famous. She is part owner of a cafe in America. She has been in a movie called "Sirens". Macpherson is nicknamed "the body" because some people say she has a perfect body.


</doc>
<doc id="27532" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27532" title="Andrew Denton">
Andrew Denton

Andrew Christopher Denton (born May 4, 1960) is an Australian comedian and television presenter who likes to make fun of politics. Andrew Denton used to have a television programme about sports in Australia called "Live and Sweaty". He now has a programme called "Enough Rope" where he interviews people about politics. Denton is a very smart man. The Australian media use him in many news stories. One of Denton's interviews was with Rene Rivkin, who police said had cheated in the stock market to make money. Rivkin was very sad, and after the interview he went to jail. Rivkin killed himself in jail. Denton says that he feels very sorry for interviewing Rivkin. Denton says that he does not want to interview someone like that again.


</doc>
<doc id="27533" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27533" title="Rene Rivkin">
Rene Rivkin

Rene Rivkin (June 6, 1944 – May 1, 2005) was an Australian man who made much money by buying stocks and shares on the Australian stockmarket. Rivkin had his own television show and magazine to help people to make money. One day police said that Rivkin had cheated to make money off the stock market. Rivkin got very sad. Rivkin was put in jail. Before killing himself, Rivkin said on a television show called "Enough Rope" with Andrew Denton that if he went to jail he would kill himself. Andrew Denton has said that he is very sad about this.


</doc>
<doc id="27534" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27534" title="Eric Bana">
Eric Bana

Eric Bana (born Eric Banadinovich on August 9, 1968) is an actor from Australia. Eric Bana was a comedian for a long time, and he was in a show called "The Comedy Company". He then became a serious actor in the movie "Chopper" which was about a criminal called Chopper Read. Eric Bana also acted in the movie "Troy".


</doc>
<doc id="27536" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27536" title="African American Vernacular English">
African American Vernacular English

African American Vernacular English (AAVE) is a name for the way some black people talk. Linguists, or people who study language, gave AAVE its name. Some non-black people use this dialect, too. Some of its pronunciations and grammar resemble the way people talk in West Africa.

It first came about in the 16th and 17th centuries. The African-slaves developed a way to communicate among all their various tribes. 

African American Vernacular English became famous in 1996, when some educators in Oakland, California said they wanted to use AAVE to help teach black kids. They called it Ebonics. However, Ebonics often has a negative connotation. 

There are many rules that govern how the sounds of AAVE are different from Standard English. Some have to do with pronunciation and vocabulary (or lexicon). Most have to do with grammar. This includes verb tenses, and sentence structure.

Hip hop music has made AAVE more famous since the 1980s. Some people think it is cool and they try to speak it or learn it even if they are not really familiar with it. Some non-black people can speak it well.


</doc>
<doc id="27538" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27538" title="60s BC">
60s BC




</doc>
<doc id="27542" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27542" title="Joe Vialls">
Joe Vialls

Joe Vialls (1944 – 2005) was an Australian Internet journalist and conspiracy theorist. He was once a policeman and detective, but became a private investigator. He is most famous for writing many stories on the Internet about famous things that have happened around the world.

On April 17, 1984, a police woman called Yvonne Fletcher was killed while she was in London. Joe Vialls told people that he knew why she was really killed. Because of Joe Vialls, police in London spent a long time trying to find out what really happened. In the end, police agreed with Joe Vialls, and they said that they had found out what really happened because of Joe Vialls.

In April 1996, Joe Vialls said that he knew who had really killed people in the Port Arthur massacre, and that it was not Martin Bryant, who police said had killed people. Joe Vialls talked to Wendy Scurr who was there, and Stewart Beattie who was a gun expert, and he also talked to Martin Bryant's mother, to find out what really happened. Joe Vialls wrote a book and had many articles talking about what he thinks really happened. You can see 9 articles that Joe Vialls wrote here. Joe Vialls says that the Australian government killed people so that they could take guns away from people . This is the same story that the Australian National Rifle Association says. 

Joe Vialls often says that Jews are the secret cause of many famous mysteries. Many people have said that Joe Vialls hates Jews. Because of this, many people do not listen to Joe Vialls.

Someone on the internet said that Joe Vialls died on 18 July 2005 . Some people think that he is not really dead.



</doc>
<doc id="27545" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27545" title="Tatts Group Limited">
Tatts Group Limited

Tatts Group Limited, formerly known as Tattersalls, is the name of a company in Australia that helps people to bet money. Tattersalls has made lots of money. A woman named Helen Harvey owned Tattersalls and had lots of money. When she died, she gave the money to her friend Martin Bryant. When Martin Bryant went to jail after police say that he killed people in the Port Arthur massacre, Martin Bryant had to give all of the money to people who were killed or injured there. 



</doc>
<doc id="27547" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27547" title="Tsukuba">
Tsukuba

Tsukuba is a new town in Ibaraki Prefecture, Japan. It is located 50km northeast of Tokyo and 40 km of Narita International Airport.



</doc>
<doc id="27548" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27548" title="Narita International Airport">
Narita International Airport

Narita is the international airport in Chiba, near Tokyo, Japan. It is located 65 km northeast from the city. Hub Airport of Japan`s flag carrier Japan Airlines.

The railway links are the NaritaExpress on the Narita line, and the Skyliner, on the Keisei line


</doc>
<doc id="27563" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27563" title="Pup">
Pup

Pup means the babies of several species of animals, such as:

Pup could also mean:



</doc>
<doc id="27564" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27564" title="Monitor">
Monitor

The word monitor is a Latin word for "warner" or "suggester". The many uses of the word are listed below.






</doc>
<doc id="27568" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27568" title="Chest">
Chest

The chest is the front part of the torso between the neck and abdomen.


</doc>
<doc id="27577" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27577" title="Category:2006 movies">
Category:2006 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were released in the year 2006.


</doc>
<doc id="27583" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27583" title="Axiology">
Axiology

Axiology is the field of study under the broad scope of philosophy that studies ethical and aesthetic values.


</doc>
<doc id="27585" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27585" title="Blackburn">
Blackburn

Blackburn is a town in Lancashire, England. The town has a population of about 105,000 people.
Blackburn is mentioned in one of the Beatles' songs. The town's football team is Blackburn Rovers F.C.


</doc>
<doc id="27586" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27586" title="Springfield">
Springfield

Springfield can be:


</doc>
<doc id="27589" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27589" title="National Security Agency">
National Security Agency

The National Security Agency (NSA) is a part of the United States government. It was started in 1952, and the main office is in Maryland. 

Their goal is to protect the US people, by making codes and breaking codes. They collect information by "eavesdropping". This means that they listen to what people are saying in other countries, without letting the people know that they are listening. The NSA is also in charge of making sure that other countries do not eavesdrop on the United States.

Because the agency has to keep secrets, not many people know exactly what the agency is working on. 

Many people have written books about the NSA. Sometimes the books are real history books, and sometimes the books are fiction, and say things about the NSA that are not true, like in television shows like "24".




</doc>
<doc id="27591" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27591" title="Robert Wadlow">
Robert Wadlow

Robert Pershing Wadlow (February 22, 1918 – July 15, 1940) was one of the tallest people who ever lived. He was born in Alton, Illinois, US.

Robert Wadlow was normal at birth but started growing abnormally when he was four. He was six feet tall by the time he entered third grade. By the time he was 19, he was almost eight feet tall. Because he was so tall, he got lots of attention and became very famous, but his bones were very weak and he had to wear leg braces. In 1940, he was walking in a Fourth of July parade, when one of his braces made his ankle get infected; he died on the 15th of that month. When he died he was 8' 11.1". Robert was 6' 5" on his knees.

Four days later, at his funeral, 40,000 people attended and it took 12 people to carry his coffin. People remember him as the "Gentle Giant" and there is a statue of him at the Southern Illinois University Edwardsville School of Dental Medicine. People now say Wadlow had something called gigantism, which made him so tall.


</doc>
<doc id="27592" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27592" title="Code">
Code

A code or cypher is a way of changing information into something else. Sometimes this is done as a way of keeping a message secret. Sometimes it is done as an easier way of sending a message. For example, when people on two different boats want to send a message, they may be too far away from each other to talk, but they can send messages with a flag code. Another code that people use a lot is called Morse Code, which changes letters to dots and dashes, like this:

Computers use codes, by changing letters into 1's and 0's. This is called an ASCII code.

Some people write codes as a kind of game. They think it is fun to make codes, and fun to break codes. Breaking a code means taking it apart to understand how it works, and then you can understand messages that are written in that code.

In the United States, there is an organization called the NSA. Their job is to break other people's codes, and to make codes that the United States government can use, which are hard to break.

The algorithm (code) for making a message secret is called the encryption algorithm. To change a secret message back a decryption algorithm is needed.

When you change the message back you most likely use a cypher (commonly spelled as cipher). The word Cypher is also in French as "cifre" and Latin as "cifra," from the Arabic word "sifr" (zero).


</doc>
<doc id="27594" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27594" title="Goaltender">
Goaltender

The goaltender (also known colloquially as goalie or netminder) in ice hockey is the player who defends his team's goal net by stopping shots of the puck from entering his team's net, thus stopping the other team from scoring.

At the very end of a game, if a team is losing by one goal, teams may take their goaltender out of the game and replace him with another player. This makes it more likely that they will score a goal, however, it is also much easier for the other team to score without anybody defending the goal.


</doc>
<doc id="27595" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27595" title="Category:User ja-3">
Category:User ja-3


</doc>
<doc id="27596" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27596" title="Category:User ja-4">
Category:User ja-4


</doc>
<doc id="27597" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27597" title="Category:User la-N">
Category:User la-N


</doc>
<doc id="27599" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27599" title="Template:User ca-2">
Template:User ca-2


</doc>
<doc id="27600" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27600" title="Template:User ca-3">
Template:User ca-3


</doc>
<doc id="27601" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27601" title="Template:User ca-4">
Template:User ca-4


</doc>
<doc id="27602" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27602" title="Template:User ca">
Template:User ca


</doc>
<doc id="27603" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27603" title="Category:User ca-N">
Category:User ca-N


</doc>
<doc id="27604" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27604" title="Category:User ca-2">
Category:User ca-2


</doc>
<doc id="27605" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27605" title="Category:User ca-3">
Category:User ca-3


</doc>
<doc id="27606" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27606" title="Category:User ca-4">
Category:User ca-4


</doc>
<doc id="27607" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27607" title="Template:User eo">
Template:User eo


</doc>
<doc id="27608" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27608" title="Category:User eo-N">
Category:User eo-N


</doc>
<doc id="27609" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27609" title="Template:User eo-1">
Template:User eo-1


</doc>
<doc id="27610" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27610" title="Category:User eo-1">
Category:User eo-1


</doc>
<doc id="27611" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27611" title="Template:User eo-2">
Template:User eo-2


</doc>
<doc id="27612" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27612" title="Category:User eo-2">
Category:User eo-2


</doc>
<doc id="27613" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27613" title="Template:User eo-3">
Template:User eo-3


</doc>
<doc id="27614" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27614" title="Category:User eo-3">
Category:User eo-3


</doc>
<doc id="27615" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27615" title="Template:User eo-4">
Template:User eo-4


</doc>
<doc id="27616" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27616" title="Category:User eo-4">
Category:User eo-4


</doc>
<doc id="27618" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27618" title="Category:User gl-1">
Category:User gl-1


</doc>
<doc id="27619" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27619" title="Template:User gl">
Template:User gl


</doc>
<doc id="27620" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27620" title="Category:User gl-N">
Category:User gl-N


</doc>
<doc id="27621" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27621" title="Template:User gl-2">
Template:User gl-2


</doc>
<doc id="27622" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27622" title="Category:User gl-2">
Category:User gl-2


</doc>
<doc id="27623" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27623" title="Template:User gl-3">
Template:User gl-3


</doc>
<doc id="27624" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27624" title="Category:User gl-3">
Category:User gl-3


</doc>
<doc id="27625" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27625" title="Template:User gl-4">
Template:User gl-4


</doc>
<doc id="27626" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27626" title="Category:User gl-4">
Category:User gl-4


</doc>
<doc id="27627" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27627" title="Wikispecies">
Wikispecies

Wikispecies is a sister project of Wikipedia, and so it is a wiki supported by the Wikimedia Foundation. It is a free directory of species that wants to make a full catalogue of all living things. It tells of how "species" are classified into groups (taxonomy), and how those groups are similar to one another. It calls itself the "directory of life". 

It is supposed to be written and used by scientists, not by normal people. The people who write Wikispecies do not need to show that they know much about it. 

It was started in August 2004, with biologists around the world invited to help. Now, the project has become a good directory listing the Linnaean taxonomy with links to Wikipedia articles on individual species since April 2005. The links are provided in different languages. 

The articles in Wikispecies are all written in the Latin names, so that scientists around the world, no matter what language that use, can use the website. There is information in the article telling people what the article's living thing is called in every other language that has a common name for it. Still, Wikispecies is mostly in English; its main page is in English, and it is run in English. 

The taxoboxes in Wikipedia come from Wikispecies, where people in Wikipedia can go to refer.

As of December 12, 2010, Wikispecies has 246,250 number of articles.



</doc>
<doc id="27629" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27629" title="Template:User da">
Template:User da


</doc>
<doc id="27630" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27630" title="Category:User da">
Category:User da


</doc>
<doc id="27631" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27631" title="Category:User da-N">
Category:User da-N


</doc>
<doc id="27632" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27632" title="Template:User da-1">
Template:User da-1


</doc>
<doc id="27633" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27633" title="Category:User da-1">
Category:User da-1


</doc>
<doc id="27635" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27635" title="Template:User da-2">
Template:User da-2


</doc>
<doc id="27636" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27636" title="Category:User da-2">
Category:User da-2


</doc>
<doc id="27637" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27637" title="Template:User da-3">
Template:User da-3


</doc>
<doc id="27639" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27639" title="Category:User da-3">
Category:User da-3


</doc>
<doc id="27640" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27640" title="Template:User da-4">
Template:User da-4


</doc>
<doc id="27641" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27641" title="Category:User da-4">
Category:User da-4


</doc>
<doc id="27642" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27642" title="Template:User fi">
Template:User fi


</doc>
<doc id="27643" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27643" title="Category:User fi-N">
Category:User fi-N


</doc>
<doc id="27644" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27644" title="Template:User fi-1">
Template:User fi-1


</doc>
<doc id="27645" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27645" title="Category:User fi-1">
Category:User fi-1


</doc>
<doc id="27646" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27646" title="Template:User fi-2">
Template:User fi-2


</doc>
<doc id="27647" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27647" title="Category:User fi-2">
Category:User fi-2


</doc>
<doc id="27649" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27649" title="Template:User fi-3">
Template:User fi-3


</doc>
<doc id="27650" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27650" title="Category:User fi-3">
Category:User fi-3


</doc>
<doc id="27651" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27651" title="Template:User fi-4">
Template:User fi-4


</doc>
<doc id="27652" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27652" title="Category:User fi-4">
Category:User fi-4


</doc>
<doc id="27653" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27653" title="Template:User nn">
Template:User nn


</doc>
<doc id="27654" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27654" title="Category:User nn">
Category:User nn


</doc>
<doc id="27655" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27655" title="Category:User nn-N">
Category:User nn-N


</doc>
<doc id="27656" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27656" title="Template:User nn-1">
Template:User nn-1


</doc>
<doc id="27657" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27657" title="Category:User nn-1">
Category:User nn-1


</doc>
<doc id="27658" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27658" title="Template:User nn-2">
Template:User nn-2


</doc>
<doc id="27659" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27659" title="Category:User nn-2">
Category:User nn-2


</doc>
<doc id="27660" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27660" title="Template:User nn-3">
Template:User nn-3


</doc>
<doc id="27661" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27661" title="Category:User nn-3">
Category:User nn-3


</doc>
<doc id="27662" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27662" title="Template:User no">
Template:User no


</doc>
<doc id="27664" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27664" title="Category:User no">
Category:User no


</doc>
<doc id="27665" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27665" title="Category:User no-N">
Category:User no-N


</doc>
<doc id="27666" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27666" title="Template:User no-1">
Template:User no-1


</doc>
<doc id="27667" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27667" title="Category:User no-1">
Category:User no-1


</doc>
<doc id="27668" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27668" title="Template:User no-2">
Template:User no-2


</doc>
<doc id="27669" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27669" title="Category:User no-2">
Category:User no-2


</doc>
<doc id="27670" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27670" title="Template:User no-3">
Template:User no-3


</doc>
<doc id="27671" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27671" title="Category:User no-3">
Category:User no-3


</doc>
<doc id="27672" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27672" title="Template:User no-4">
Template:User no-4


</doc>
<doc id="27673" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27673" title="Category:User no-4">
Category:User no-4


</doc>
<doc id="27683" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27683" title="Category:Côte d'Ivoire">
Category:Côte d'Ivoire

Côte d'Ivoire


</doc>
<doc id="27709" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27709" title="Lopp Lagoon">
Lopp Lagoon

Lopp Lagoon is a tidal lake on Cape Prince of Wales (the western-most tip of the Seward Peninsula) in the U.S. state of Alaska. Many creeks empty into it, but the most water comes from the Mint River. Some salt water from the Pacific Ocean also enters the lagoon through several channels between it and the Bering Strait.

It was named in 1900 for William Thomas "W.T." Lopp, the civilian leader of the 1897–8 Overland Expedition.

Historically, Lopp Lagoon has been an important source of food (salmon and waterfowl) for people living in the Wales, Alaska area.



</doc>
<doc id="27710" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27710" title="Welsh people">
Welsh people

The Welsh are people from Wales, a country in the United Kingdom. Welsh people speak two languages, Welsh and English. 


</doc>
<doc id="27711" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27711" title="League of Nations">
League of Nations

The League of Nations was the predecessor to the United Nations. The League was founded during World War I, but failed to maintain peace during World War II.
The League of Nations was thought up by Woodrow Wilson, the American President during the First World War. It was to be a group of nations that worked together to keep peace. One of the reasons for its downfall was that, after a vote, the American public refused to join. This meant the League did not have the power it needed to enforce any of the rules that made it up. This later proved to be a fatal flaw in the League's structure. 

After a series of disasters in the 1930s, it was abolished. It was thought to be weak and powerless, after Japan completely ignored it when the League of Nations tried to stop Japan from invading Manchuria (North-East China) and Italy invaded Abyssinia. The League did not fail completely: it had prevented a few conflicts in Europe in the 1920s and worked hard to stamp out various public health and social problems around the world. 

Another flaw in the League was that it was not representative enough: no more than 65 nations were members at any given time, and the interests of the leading members (notably Britain and France) often outweighed those of smaller, less powerful members. 

The League also had no troops of its own, and decisions it made were often slow. For example, when Japan invaded Manchuria in 1931, it took a whole year for the League's decision to be heard. 

President Woodrow Wilson arranged a plan for a "government of governments", or rather an international peacekeeping force. The idea of his plan was to settle problems between nations peacefully. Wilson tried his hardest to persuade the international community that the league would discourage aggression and tackle the underlying problems that often lead to war, such as poverty. Wilson was however unable to convince the American public into supporting the League. The United States did not want to be part of Wilson’s approach for several reasons:

First of all the United States consisted of many Americans being German immigrants and loathed the Treaty of Versailles. The treaty said that Germany and its allies were to accept full responsibility for causing the war and reparations were to be made to certain countries. The Treaty of Versailles was the treaty that set up the League of Nations and not agreeing to it meant not being part of the League of Nations.

The next reason that America did not want to get involved in European affairs is because they did not want to risk more Americans dying in a war. They also felt that it would result in them pouring effort into pointless actions such as sending soldiers all around the globe to sort out small disputes. This was called isolationism. Most of the American citizens felt it would be best to just avoid European and British affairs completely. In 1946, the League of Nations formally ended, and the United Nations was established, along with a few of the League's committees, such as the World Health Committee, which still today maintains many of the same responsibilities of the League of Nations.

These countries joined League of Nations in 1920:

United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland
Dominion of Canada
Commonwealth of Australia
Federation of New Zealand 
Union of South Africa


</doc>
<doc id="27713" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27713" title="Audiolingual method">
Audiolingual method

The Audiolingual Method is a method for teaching foreign languages. Linguists at the University of Michigan invented this method in the late 1950s. In the Audiolingual method, students first hear a language. Later, they speak the language, and after that, they read and write in it. This way of language teaching is similar to the Direct Method. Like the Direct Method, the Audiolingual Method does not use the students’ native language. For example, if you are in an English class in Turkey, the teacher only speaks English, and no Turkish. However, unlike the Direct Method, the Audiolingual Method does not teach vocabulary. Rather, the teacher drills grammar. In the Audiolingual method, grammar is most important for the student. In other words, the student must repeat grammar patterns after the teacher. The students do not learn lots of vocabulary. This method also uses psychology. The students get a reward for speaking correctly. They get punishment if they speak incorrectly; because it is based on habit formation, which is establishesd by stimulus, response and reinforcement. It gives priority to speaking the target language, and using the native language is not allowed.


</doc>
<doc id="27716" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27716" title="Montenegro">
Montenegro

Montenegro is a country in Europe. It is on the Adriatic Sea, between Albania (to the South) and Croatia to the North. Inland (to the East and South-East) it also has a common border with Serbia, Kosovo and Bosnia and Herzegovina.

The country came to exist when its people decided to split from the country Serbia and Montenegro on May 21, 2006. It had also been independent before World War I and existed as a kingdom. Its leader is Filip Vujanović. 

the national song is called "Oj, svijetla majska zoro"Montenegrin Cyrillic: Ој, свијетла мајска зоро""Oh, Bright Dawn of May"".

The size of the econany's GDP is $4.114 billion and it has a population of 625,000 people. The traditional old capital of Montenegro is "Cetinje", but Podgorica is the new one. The country adopted the Euro unilaterally; Montenegro is not a formal member of the Eurozone.


</doc>
<doc id="27722" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27722" title="Solar eclipse">
Solar eclipse

When seen from Earth, a solar eclipse (ee klips') happens when the Moon passes between the Earth and the Sun. This makes the Moon fully or partially (partly) cover the sun. Solar eclipses can only happen during a new moon. Every year about two solar eclipses occur. Sometimes there are even five solar eclipses in a year. However, only two of these can be total solar eclipses, and they are quite uncommon.

Many people who are sometimes called ""eclipse chasers"" or ""umbraphiles"" (the moon's shadow is called an "umbra") travel to faraway places to see solar eclipses. After the solar eclipse on August 11, 1999, in Europe, people began to show more interest in solar eclipses. On October 3, 2005, there was another solar eclipse, and unusually many people came to see it.

The last total eclipse was the solar eclipse of July 11, 2010. The next will be the solar eclipse of November 13, 2012.

A total solar eclipse is a natural phenomenon (event). Yet long ago, solar eclipses were thought to happen because of something supernatural or as a sign that something bad was going to happen. This is still believed in some cultures today. A total solar eclipse can frighten people who do not know what it means, because the Sun seems to disappear during the day and the sky turns dark in just a few minutes.

There are four different types of solar eclipses:


The Sun's distance from the Earth is about 400 times the Moon's distance, and the Sun's diameter is about 400 times as big as the Moon's. This is why the Sun and Moon seem to be about the same size from Earth.

Looking directly at the bright surface of the Sun itself can hurt the retina of the eye greatly because of the radiation that comes from the Sun. It can even blind people. The retina does not feel pain, so damage may not be felt for hours.

The Sun is usually so bright that it is hard to look at it directly. However, when the Sun is covered in an eclipse, it is easier to look at it. Sadly, looking at the Sun during an eclipse is equally dangerous, except in the very short time when the Sun's surface is completely covered. Looking at the Sun's surface through binoculars, a telescope, or even a camera is extremely dangerous and can damage the eye in less than a second.

Looking at the Sun without an eclipse does not usually hurt the eye very greatly, because the pupil of the eye closes down and makes everything darker. If the Sun is almost completely covered, the pupil opens because there is not as much light. However, the parts of the Sun that can be seen are still equally bright, and can hurt the eye very much.





</doc>
<doc id="27724" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27724" title="Kate Fischer">
Kate Fischer

Kate Fischer (born November 30, 1973) is an Australian model and actress. She was a very famous model for a long time. She had a job working on television on a cartoon program with a puppet called "Agro". She was in a movie called "Sirens" with Elle Macpherson and Sam Neill.



</doc>
<doc id="27731" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27731" title="Alton, Illinois">
Alton, Illinois

Alton is a city in Madison County, Illinois, in the United States. About 34,500 people lived in Alton as of the year 2006.



</doc>
<doc id="27733" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27733" title="Armenian">
Armenian

Armenian may mean:




</doc>
<doc id="27736" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27736" title="Minneapolis, Minnesota">
Minneapolis, Minnesota

Minneapolis is a city in Minnesota. It is next to St. Paul, Minnesota. St. Paul and Minneapolis are called the Twin Cities because they are right next to each other. Minneapolis is the biggest city in Minnesota with about 370,000 people. People who live here enjoy the lakes, parks, and river. The Mississippi River runs through the city.

We know Indians first lived in Minneapolis around Lake Calhoun and St. Anthony Falls waterfall. They are called the Dakota. They thought St. Anthony Falls was a spiritual place. Dakota hunted, fished, and planted food. The United States wanted the land in 1800 and bought it with the Louisiana Purchase. The army built Fort Snelling. Soon, people from the East Coast or "Yankees" came to Minneapolis. They used the waterfall for their flour mills. They named the new city Minneapolis. It comes from the Dakota Indian word for "laughing waters" or "Min-ne ha-ha" and the Greek word for "city" or "po-lis." Minneapolis means "City of Waters." A nearby city called St. Anthony then joined with Minneapolis. The first mayor was Dorilus Morrison.

Minneapolis is flat near the river and hilly away from it. The city is also in the middle of the country. The weather is like many places in America with hot summers and cold winters. The winter is very long, very cold, and there is almost no spring. Summers are humid, meaning a lot of water is in the air, so it feels very muggy. There are lots of mosquitos too. 

"Minnesota Nice" is a saying that describes Minneapolis residents well. They are generally kind and polite people. Most residents of Minneapolis live in houses and apartments. Some now live in tall buildings called condos. They work and play in the city. Many different people make up Minneapolis today. After the Dakota Indian were people from Britain, French Canada, and Spanish Mexico. They were followed by Scandinavians who are from Norway, Denmark, and Sweden. Soon people from almost all parts of the world started coming including East Europe, Russia, and Asia. Today the newcomers are from East Africa (Somali) and Southeast Asia (Hmong). Once Minneapolis was even larger than it is today with 520,000 people. But many people moved away to suburbs using new highways. 

Lots of big companies are in Downtown in tall skyscraper buildings. These include lawyers, doctors and people in banks. They work near Nicollet Mall where there are restaurants and shops. Minneapolis also has neighborhoods. People there work in small stores too, like barber, grocery, hardware, and coffee shop. Anyone in Minneapolis can get internet to their laptop too.

There are lots of art and shows in the city. The biggest theater is the Guthrie Theater and kids like shows by the Children's Theatre Company. You can see interesting art at the Minneapolis Institute of Arts and the Walker Art Center. 

Minneapolis hosts lots of sport teams for the state. The Vikings play at the Metrodome. The Minnesota Twins use to play there but will soon play at their new ballpark called Target Field. Nearby is the Target Center where the Timberwolves play. 


</doc>
<doc id="27737" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27737" title="St. Louis, Missouri">
St. Louis, Missouri

Saint Louis is a large and important city in the American state of Missouri that is located by the Mississippi River. It was founded by the French and named after King Louis IX of France, who is also a Saint. It is often called the "Gateway City" because it was important to settlers traveling out west. Its most famous landmark is the Gateway Arch.

There are many colleges and universities in and around St. Louis. Some of these are Washington University in St. Louis, Saint Louis University, Fontbonne University, and Lindenwood University.

Professional sports teams in St. Louis are:


</doc>
<doc id="27738" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27738" title="Albert Coady Wedemeyer">
Albert Coady Wedemeyer

General Albert Coady Wedemeyer (1897–1989)



His son Albert Dunbar Wedemeyer, Captain, United States Army and a Central Intelligence Agency Operative.



</doc>
<doc id="27739" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27739" title="William H. Tunner">
William H. Tunner

Lt. General William H. Tunner (July 14 1906 - April 6 1983) was an American general.




</doc>
<doc id="27740" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27740" title="Sarasota, Florida">
Sarasota, Florida

Sarasota is a city on the West coast of Florida, in the United States. It is the place where the Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus has its home. In 2000, 52,715 people lived there (US. Census 2000). Many famous people have lived in the city, such as: Tom Cruise (actor), Brian Johnson (band singer), and Paul Reubens (the actor, "Pee-wee Herman").



</doc>
<doc id="27742" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27742" title="Paul Reubens">
Paul Reubens

Paul Reubens (born Paul Rubenfeld on August 27,1952) is an American actor and comedian. He is best-known for his alter-ego Pee Wee Herman. He was born in Peekskill, New York and grew up in Sarasota, Florida. He appeared in many movies and TV series in the late 1970s and early 1980s and worked with a group called "The Groundlings". Around this time he created Pee-Wee for a stage show, which was a parody of old kids shows. In 1985, he starred in a movie called "Pee-Wee's Big Adventure", which was very successful. The next year, he got his own TV show, "Pee-Wee's Playhouse", which was a huge hit. In 1991, Reubens was arrested for misbehaving in an adult movie theatre; this ended the Pee-Wee craze and forced Reubens to stop playing the character. He has since appeared in many other movies and there have been rumors that he would return as Pee-wee. These rumours have not been denied by any official.


</doc>
<doc id="27743" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27743" title="Peekskill, New York">
Peekskill, New York

Peekskill is a city in the U.S. state of New York. It is the birthplace of New York Governor, George Pataki. Other famous people born there include Paul Reubens and Mel Gibson.


</doc>
<doc id="27750" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27750" title="Małkinia Górna">
Małkinia Górna

Małkinia Górna is a village in Małkinia Dolna Community, Ostrowian County (head town of the county: Ostrów Mazowiecka), Mazowsze Voivodship, Poland. There is probably the greatest village in Europe (by population) and one of the greatest places without town status.




</doc>
<doc id="27751" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27751" title="Category:Ostrowian County (Poland)">
Category:Ostrowian County (Poland)

Articles about the Ostrowian County ("Powiat Ostrowski") in Masovian Voivodeship, Poland


</doc>
<doc id="27754" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27754" title="John C. Calhoun">
John C. Calhoun

John Caldwell Calhoun (March 18, 1782 – March 31, 1850) was the vice-president for Andrew Jackson, an American President. Calhoun is probably best remembered for his strong belief in supporting nullification, which said any US state had the right to reject a federal law if it wanted to. Jackson hated nullification and the disagreement that started the feud between him and President Andrew Jackson.


</doc>
<doc id="27755" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27755" title="Pelvis">
Pelvis

The pelvis (plural: pelves) is a set of bones. Many people think of the pelvis as the "hip bone", because it is at the hip. The pelvis is at the lower end of the spine. In vertebrates, usually legs are attaching at the pelvis.

The function of the pelvis is to protect the organs used for digesting and for reproduction (making babies). It is also important for bearing some load.

The pelvis is symmetrical. It is made of the following bones:
1) The hip bone made of: 
2) The sacrum
3) The coccyx

Male and female human pelves are different. The female pelvis is wider and more shallow than the male pelvis.


</doc>
<doc id="27757" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27757" title="Star Wars Episode I: The Phantom Menace">
Star Wars Episode I: The Phantom Menace

Star Wars Episode I: The Phantom Menace is a movie released in 1999. This movie is the fourth movie that director George Lucas made in the "Star Wars" series.


Two Jedi Knights, Master Qui-Gon Jinn and his apprentice Obi-Wan Kenobi, are sent on a mission by the Galactic Republic to engage in peace talks with the greedy Trade Federation of Neimoidia. They learn that the Neimoidians are sending a blockade to the planet of Naboo. In order to warn the people of Naboo, they transport themselves on Trade Federation battle ships, after their ship was destroyed purposely. They reach the swamps of Naboo, separately. Qui-Gon Jinn meets Jar Jar Binks, and they find Obi-Wan. Qui-Gon Jinn asks Jar Jar to tell them of a safe place to hide from the attacking droids. Jar Jar takes them to Otoh Gunga, his birthplace, but Jar Jar was sent into exile from Otoh Gunga years ago. As such, when he returned, Boss Nass, the Gungan leader, ordered Jar Jar to be executed. Obi-Wan, following his master's instructions, rescues Jar Jar and flees to the city of Theed on a bongo, a water transport system. They find the Queen, Amidala, who escapes with them to the Republic, but in the blockade, their ship's engine was damaged. 

They barely had enough power to reach Tatooine, and still needed a new T-14 hyperdrive generator so as not to be stuck on the planet forever. They were not able to afford any, as the planet concentrates only on money, not galactic credits. Luckily, they met Anakin Skywalker, a young slave, who helped them gain the money by participating in a very dangerous podracing event. Finding abnormal midi-chlorians in the boy, Qui-Gon attempts to take Anakin as his Padawan, but was disallowed by the Jedi Council. On the other hand, war at Naboo breaks out and during the war, Qui-Gon, who faced a battle with a Sith apprentice named Darth Maul, died in the battle. Obi-Wan agrees to train Anakin as his Padawan. Anakin turns out to be a very successful padawan and later loses his mom.


</doc>
<doc id="27758" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27758" title="Star Wars Episode II: Attack of the Clones">
Star Wars Episode II: Attack of the Clones

Star Wars Episode II: Attack of the Clones was a movie released in 2002. This movie is the fifth movie that George Lucas made in the "Star Wars" series. It shows the reasons why Anakin Skywalker eventually became Darth Vader.


Senator Padmé Amidala is nearly killed by an unknown assassin, and Supreme Chancellor Palpatine assigns two Jedi knights - Obi-Wan Kenobi and his apprentice Anakin Skywalker - to protect her. Anakin falls in love with Senator Padmé, and a war is started by the Separatists, who are led by the evil Count Dooku. Meanwhile, Obi-Wan Kenobi discovers the army of clone troopers made in the Planet Kamino, which, according to the makers, was ordered by a Jedi Master who was killed ten years back. While chasing the bounty hunter Jango Fett (whose DNA was used to make the clone army), Obi-Wan was captured by the Separatists in Geonosis and was sent off to be executed.
Anakin, meanwhile, was in his home planet of Tatooine, after dreaming of his mother. He tried to rescue his mother but was too late. He later began to hate the Sand People who took his and killed his mother.

Padmé comforted him, and later asked him to save Obi-Wan in Geonosis. They too were sentenced to be executed but other Jedi knights came to save them. Master Yoda later arrived, bringing the Clone Troopers along to help the Jedi. But Anakin and Obi-Wan had to fight Count Dooku after they suffered injuries. Yoda comes to their rescue, but Count Dooku gets away.

Meanwhile in the capital, Coruscant, Supreme Chancellor Palpatine gains more power because of the war.



</doc>
<doc id="27760" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27760" title="Cyprus Mail">
Cyprus Mail

The Cyprus Mail is a newspaper written in English based in Cyprus. It is made every day, except Monday. Some of its news can be found on its website.



</doc>
<doc id="27761" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27761" title="Collision">
Collision

A collision occurs when two objects come in contact with each other. All collisions have the same momentum before and after a collision. Examples of collisions include car crashes, bouncing a ball, and playing pool. Collisions are made from two smaller sections called elastic and inelastic collisions. 

In the case of playing pool or bouncing a ball, an elastic collision occurs. An elastic collision generally occurs when an elastic or hard object experiences a collision that bounces off another elastic or hard object, where the kinetic energy and momentum are the same before and after the collision. In an experiment, a small amount of energy will still be lost because of the friction between the surface and the objects.

In the case of a car crash, an inelastic collision occurs. An inelastic collision generally occurs when a soft object experiences a collision that does not result in a bounce. Kinetic energy is lost during this type of collision because the energy is transformed into other forces. The momentum is the same before and after the collision.

In the case of a two dimensional collision, the rules in elastic and inelastic collision are still the same, but vectors are used to find the momentum before or after a collision.

Duncan, Tom. "Advanced Physics for Hong Kong: Volume 1 Mechanics & Electricity". John Murray Ltd, 1995.
Wai, Loo Kwok. "Longman A-Level Course in Physics: Volume 1". Pearson Education South Asia Pte Ltd, 2003.


</doc>
<doc id="27762" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27762" title="Belgrade">
Belgrade

Belgrade is the capital city of the country of Serbia. Before the wars of the 1990s it used to be the capital of Yugoslavia.

Belgrade is also one of the most popular travel destinations in Eastern Europe. It is famous for a very busy nightlife and a lot of entertainment activities.

Belgrade main tourist attractions are:
- Kalemegdan Fortrees
- Knez Mihailova Street
- Belgrade Zoo
- Memorial Complex "Josip Broz Tito"




</doc>
<doc id="27763" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27763" title="Puncknowle">
Puncknowle

Puncknowle is a village in Southwest Dorset, England, United Kingdom. In 2001, 491 people lived in it.


</doc>
<doc id="27775" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27775" title="Hydrogen economy">
Hydrogen economy

A hydrogen economy is a hypothetical future economy in which the primary energy used for automobiles and other vehicles as well as creating electricity comes from hydrogen. 

The reason to use this is to replace the use of petroleum. It would also stop the use of fossil fuels which causes carbon dioxide to be created. This is bad for the ecology.


</doc>
<doc id="27783" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27783" title="Brachiosaurus">
Brachiosaurus

Brachiosaurus (meaning ""Arm lizard"") was a herbivorous dinosaur genus that lived in the Upper Jurassic period. The name comes from the fact that the Brachiosaurus's front legs were longer than its back legs. Most other dinosaurs had back legs that were longer than their front legs or arms. The Brachiosaurus was about 25 m (82 feet) long and 13 meters (42 feet) tall. It was one of the biggest dinosaurs that we know.
Brachiosaurus was a sauropod. It fossils were found in North America and Africa. At full stretch, Brachiosaurus could reach heights of up to 16 meters (52 feet). The Brachiosaurus skeleton in the Humboldt Museum in Berlin, Germany is both the tallest and largest complete sauropod skeleton. This means that it is also the tallest and largest complete dinosaur skeleton.


</doc>
<doc id="27788" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27788" title="Barnacle">
Barnacle

A barnacle is a cirripede, a kind of crustacean. It is covered with hard plates of calcium carbonate, and lives stuck to hard surfaces.

It does not look like a crustacean, and for many centuries it was thought to be a mollusc. In the 1830s, someone found their larvae, and followed their development through to their adult form. They have a nauplius larva, typical of crustaeans. Later Charles Darwin spent eight years working on barnacles, and discovered that Thompson had been right.

Barnacles grows on hard surfaces like piers, boats, rocks, and on other animals such as turtles and whales. Barnacles are a different group from crabs and shrimps. They are considered a nuisance to the shipping industry and private boat owners.

Barnacles are suspension feeders, sweeping small food into their mouth with their curved 'feet'. They are cemented to rock (usually), and covered with hard calcareous plates, which they shut firmly when the tide goes out. The barnacles reproduce sexually, and produce little nauplius larvae which disperse in the plankton. Eventually, the larvae change into cypris form, and attach on other hard surfaces to form new barnacles. Their comparative anatomy was worked out in detail by Charles Darwin. 

Barnacles have the largest penis to body size ratio of the animal kingdom. A few forms have become fully parasitic on larger crustacea.

Barnacles are by far the commonest animals on rocky sea shores. Their numbers on a shore in the Isle of Man have been estimated as a thousand million (10), and they produce body material of 12 hundrededweight (~600kg) of tissue, weighed after drying. Each year they let go a huge number of larvae, estimated as a million million (10).

Darwin set his work out in four parts: There were the barnacles on stalks (pedunculated), and those that sat on hard substrate (the sessile barnacles). Each of these was divided into living and fossil barnacles.


</doc>
<doc id="27789" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27789" title="International organization">
International organization

An international organization is an organization, but rather than having people as members, they have individual countries as members. International organizations are active in more than one country. These organizations can not command countries and citizens in a way a government can, but they do make rules that put limit on what governments can do.

Examples of such organizations are the United Nations and the Red Cross.


</doc>
<doc id="27796" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27796" title="Weapons of mass destruction">
Weapons of mass destruction

Weapons of mass destruction are weapons that can cause a lot of damage to a large number of people. In general, people see the following as weapons of mass destruction:


</doc>
<doc id="27811" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27811" title="Port Arthur, Tasmania">
Port Arthur, Tasmania

Port Arthur is a small town on the Tasman Peninsula, in Tasmania, Australia. It is about 80 km south east of the state capital, Hobart. It was settled as a penal colony (a very large prison for convicts). Port Arthur is now one of Australia's most important historic areas. It is officially Tasmania's top tourist attraction. In 1996 the worst mass murder in Australian history took place here.

At the 2006 Census, Port Arthur and the local area had a population of 499.

Port Arthur was named after Van Diemen's Land lieutenant governor George Arthur. It started as a place to cut down timber from the forests in 1830. It is best known for being a penal colony. From 1833, until the 1853, criminals from United Kingdom and Ireland were sent to Port Arthur as convicts. The prisoners were kept busy ship with jobs including building the prison, shoemaking, smithing, timber and brick making. In the 1840's there were more than 1100 prisoners. In 1842 the prisoners built a hospital and a big flour mill and grain store. At the time it was built, it was the biggest building in Australia. This was later turned into a cell block. After 1853 convicts from other prisons in Australia were sent to Port Arthur if they did more crimes, or would not behave properly.

In 1864 they started building the Asylum to hold the prisoners who had become insane. During the 1860's and 1870's the prisoners left at the prison were either too old, too sick, or insane to keep working. The prison closed in 1877.

Port Arthur has the best example of a "Separate Prison" system. This system was started at Pentonville prison in London. The Separate Prison (sometimes called the Model Prison) was started in 1848, finished in 1853 and made bigger in 1855. It has 80 prison cells built in the shape of a cross. In the centre is a hall and a chapel. There are exercise yards built between the arms of the cross. The Separate system was a change in the way that prisoners were treated. Instead of physical punishment the system used psychological (mind) punishment. It was thought that physical punishment, such as whippings, only made prisoners worse. It did not turn bad people into good people. In the Separate prison they used the "Silent System". Prisoners wore a hood over their heads. They were not allowed to talk or make any noise. The guards wore special shoes and walked on mats so they wouldn't make any noise. Even in the chapel, each prisoner was kept in a separate wooden box where they could only see the altar. The prisoners were supposed to use the quiet time to think about the bad things they had done. Port Arthur was seen as the best prison in Australia.

Port Arthur was a natural prison. It is on the Tasman Peninsula which is almost completely surrounded by the sea. It is joined to the rest of Tasmania by a small narrow piece of land about 30 metres wide. This is called Eaglehawk Neck. The Neck had a fence, prison guards, and savage dogs to stop prisoners from leaving. There was no contact between visiting seamen and prisoners. Ships had to give the guards their sails and oars when they arrived to stop people leaving without permission. A semaphore message system was also set up between Port Arthur and Hobart. Messages could be sent in just 15 minutes. 
Escape from Port Arthur was said to be impossible, like Alcatraz Island in the United States. Some prisoners did try to escape. One prisoner, George "Billy" Hunt, covered himself with a kangaroo skin and tried to get across the Neck. The hungry guards on duty tried to shoot him to make an extra meal. When he saw them pointing their guns, Hunt gave himself up. He was whipped 150 times. Bushranger Martin Cash successfully escaped along with two others.

The British Empire's first boys' prison was built on Point Puer, 3 kms across Opossum Bay from Port Arthur. Puer is the Latin word for boy. It was for young boys, some as young as 9, like James Lynch, arrested for stealing toys . The boys were kept away from the main convict area. About 3,500 boys were sent to Point Puer. Like the adults, the boys were given hard work such as stone cutting and building. There was also a school run by 2 ex-convicts. . One prisoner was James Gavagan. When he was 11 he stole some umbrellas. He was sent to Tasmania for 7 years. He arrived at Point Puer in 1835. When he turned 17, he was sent to the main prison at Port Arthur. He was released in March 1842.. There is only a few stones left to mark the site of the boys' prison. | Point Puer Excavation

The convicts built one of Australia's first non-denominational churches, built in a gothic style. All prisoners had to go to the church every Sunday. People who did not like the new prison system said that this did not seem to make the prisoners into good people.

Port Arthur was seen as a much better prison, and would make the convicts better people. But life at Port Arthur was just as hard and brutal as other penal colonies. Some critics might even say that its use of psychological punishment, together with no hope of escape, made it one of the worst. Some stories say that prisoners would murder others to escape the prison. Murder would be punished by death. Isle of the Dead is a small island in the bay near Port Arthur. Everyone who died at the penal colony was buried on the island. There are 1646 graves on the island, but only 180, mainly those of prison staff, have a headstone.

The first railway in Australia was a human powered railway at Port Arthur. The railway was built in 1836. The line ran from the beach at Taranna, Tasmania for 7 kms to Port Arthur. It carried both people and supplies. It meant that ships from Hobart could unload in the calm water and not have to travel right around Cape Raoul to Port Arthur through rough seas. The carriage was pushed along the tracks by 4 convicts. Very little sign of the railway has survived . The State Library of Victoria has a drawing of the convict railway. 

When the penal colony closed in 1877 the area was renamed "Carnavon". During the 1880s the was sold and a small town was started. Many buildings were pulled down and the bricks sent to make new buildings in Hobart. Fires burned the area in 1895 and 1897 and ruined many of the old prison buildings. Some buildings were changed for the new town to make a post office and town hall.

Tourism started as soon as the prison closed. This brought money into the new town. Some of the old convicts gave guided tours of the prison. In 1927 tourism had grown so much the area's name was changed back to Port Arthur . 1916 saw the start of the Scenery Preservation Board (SPB) which looked after the Port Arthur site. By the 1970s the National Parks and Wildlife Service took over the site.

In 1979 the government gave money to protect the site as a tourist area, because of its historical importance. The post office and town hall of Port Arthur were moved to nearby Nubeena. Several grand sandstone buildings, built by convicts were cleaned up. These buildings include the Separate Prison, the Round Tower, the church, and the remains of the main prison building. The buildings are surrounded by green grass.

The mass graves on The Island of the Dead also attract visitors. The air about the small bush-covered island is described as being sad and peaceful by visitors.

Tourists can either walk around the area themselves, or go on a guided tours. There are also late night ""ghost tours"". There is a museum, with written records, tools, clothing and other interesting things from convict times.

Since 1987 the site has been managed by the Port Arthur Historic Site Management Authority, paid for by the Tasmanian Government.

On 28 April 1996, Martin Bryant killed 35 people and hurt 37 others at Port Arthur. He was captured by the police. This is now called the Port Arthur massacre. This led to a national ban on semi-automatic shotguns and rifles. It also made a link between the Port Arthur and Dunblane, a Scottish town which also had a shooting that year.




</doc>
<doc id="27825" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27825" title="Template:User ia">
Template:User ia


</doc>
<doc id="27826" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27826" title="Template:User ia-1">
Template:User ia-1


</doc>
<doc id="27827" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27827" title="Template:User ia-2">
Template:User ia-2


</doc>
<doc id="27828" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27828" title="Template:User ia-3">
Template:User ia-3


</doc>
<doc id="27829" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27829" title="Template:User ia-4">
Template:User ia-4


</doc>
<doc id="27830" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27830" title="Category:User ia-4">
Category:User ia-4


</doc>
<doc id="27831" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27831" title="Category:User ia-3">
Category:User ia-3


</doc>
<doc id="27832" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27832" title="Category:User ia-2">
Category:User ia-2


</doc>
<doc id="27833" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27833" title="Category:User ia-1">
Category:User ia-1


</doc>
<doc id="27834" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27834" title="Category:User ia-N">
Category:User ia-N


</doc>
<doc id="27836" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27836" title="Template:User eu">
Template:User eu


</doc>
<doc id="27837" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27837" title="Template:User eu-1">
Template:User eu-1


</doc>
<doc id="27838" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27838" title="Template:User eu-2">
Template:User eu-2


</doc>
<doc id="27839" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27839" title="Template:User eu-3">
Template:User eu-3


</doc>
<doc id="27840" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27840" title="Template:User eu-4">
Template:User eu-4


</doc>
<doc id="27841" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27841" title="Category:User eu-4">
Category:User eu-4


</doc>
<doc id="27842" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27842" title="Category:User eu-3">
Category:User eu-3


</doc>
<doc id="27843" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27843" title="Category:User eu-2">
Category:User eu-2


</doc>
<doc id="27844" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27844" title="Category:User eu-1">
Category:User eu-1


</doc>
<doc id="27845" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27845" title="Category:User eu-N">
Category:User eu-N


</doc>
<doc id="27848" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27848" title="Template:User ast">
Template:User ast


</doc>
<doc id="27849" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27849" title="Template:User ast-1">
Template:User ast-1


</doc>
<doc id="27850" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27850" title="Template:User ast-2">
Template:User ast-2


</doc>
<doc id="27851" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27851" title="Template:User ast-3">
Template:User ast-3


</doc>
<doc id="27852" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27852" title="Category:User ast-3">
Category:User ast-3


</doc>
<doc id="27853" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27853" title="Category:User ast-2">
Category:User ast-2


</doc>
<doc id="27854" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27854" title="Category:User ast-1">
Category:User ast-1


</doc>
<doc id="27855" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27855" title="Category:User ast-N">
Category:User ast-N


</doc>
<doc id="27859" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27859" title="Odysseus">
Odysseus

Odysseus was a person in the Greek mythology. He was the king of the island Ithaca, and was married to Penelope. Odysseus and Penelope had a son called Telemachos. Odysseus is a major character in Homer's "Iliad" and Odyssey.

Odysseus fought in the Trojan War, and invented the Trojan Horse, which made the Greeks win the war. After the war, his adventurous journey home took the time of 10 years. The story of that journey is told in the "Odyssey".

The latin name for Odysseus is Ulysses.


</doc>
<doc id="27860" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27860" title="Cast iron">
Cast iron

Cast iron is an alloy of iron. The term is usually used for grey cast iron. There are two main types of cast iron: "grey cast iron" and "white cast iron". The differences between the two are mainly based on the amount of silicon in the alloy. All cast iron has about 95% iron in it. Grey cast iron has 2% silicon and 3% carbon. White cast iron has less silicon.

The silicon in grey cast iron causes the carbon to change into graphite. This causes it to have a dark grey or almost black color. With less silicon, the carbon in white cast iron changes to cementite or "iron carbide" (FeC). This causes white fractures to form on the surface and give white cast iron the name.

Grey cast iron is very good at conducting heat. Because of this, it is often used to make cookware. 


</doc>
<doc id="27868" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27868" title="Incest">
Incest

Incest means sexual intercourse between people who are related. In many societies, it is forbidden by law and religion. Children that result from incest are more likely to have birth defects. Incest is the ultimate form of inbreeding.

The exact definition of the incest relationship varies. In some societies it is immediate relations, such as parents and their children; or brothers and sisters of the same parents. That way, intercourse between cousins is permitted. 

Other societies define it much more widely, to include all "blood relatives", or all who live in the same household, or belong to the same clan.

The type of incest most often reported in the Western world is father-daughter incest. Incest between adults and children is a form of child sexual abuse. This form has been shown to cause one of the worst forms of childhood trauma, a trauma that often causes serious and long-term psychological damage, especially in the case of parental incest. Stepfathers are more likely to abuse daughters that are biologically not their own than biological fathers, since the Westermarck effect prevents strongly fathers from abusing their own daughters. In the Eastern world, especially in Japan, mother-son incest is most often reported.

The term is often misused to apply to less serious sexual relationships between related people. It is difficult to say how frequent incest is, but researchers have estimated that between 10% and 15% of people have at least one "incest experience" (this means some kind of sexual relationship falling short of actual incest). Less than 2% of these involve intercourse or attempted intercourse. Among women, research by Russell (1986) and Wyatt (1985) has given estimates as high as twenty percent (for such 'incest experience'). 

Incest between consenting adults is very rare, or rarely reported. Willing incest between adults is a crime in most countries, although it is seen by some as a victimless crime. The reason why it is usually prohibited is because it may lead into severly handicapped children.

Most societies have some form of incest avoidance. The incest taboo is and has been one of the most common of all cultural taboos, both in current nations and many past societies, with legal penalties imposed in some jurisdictions. Most modern societies have legal or social restrictions on closely consanguineous marriages. However, in some societies, such as that of Ancient Egypt, brother–sister, father–daughter, and mother–son relations were practiced among royalty. In addition, the Balinese and some Inuit tribes have altogether different beliefs about what constitutes illegal and immoral incest. 


</doc>
<doc id="27875" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27875" title="The Canterbury Tales">
The Canterbury Tales

The Canterbury Tales is a book of stories written by Geoffrey Chaucer in the 14th century. This is an important book, because it is one of the first to be written in the English language. The book is about a group of travellers who are going from London to Canterbury. As they travel along, each person tells a tale (a story), thus making up the text of "The Canterbury Tales". 

Chaucer planned to write 120 tales, but only 24 were completed. Two of the stories are written in prose and the others are written in verse. They were so popular that he was invited to read his stories to the king and royal court. 

"The Canterbury Tales" is about a group of people who are pilgrims. They are travelling on a journey to an important religious site. In the Middle Ages, many Christian people went on pilgrimages to Jerusalem, Rome, Santiago de Compostela and Canterbury. Canterbury Cathedral was a famous pilgrimage site because it contained the "shrine" (a place for remembering) of Saint Thomas Becket. Thomas Becket had been the Archbishop of Canterbury in the 1100s. He had an argument with his old friend, King Henry II, and in 1170 he was murdered by some supporters of the king. The King felt very sad and guilty. He had a magnificent tomb built for his old friend. People began to visit the tomb. Soon, some people said that Thomas Becket was a saint, and that his bones could work miracles. He is regarded as a martyr for the Christian faith and as a saint by both the Roman Catholic and Anglican churches. In the late Middle Ages his shrine made Canterbury one of the four most important pilgrimage places in Europe. 

Many pilgrims used to meet together in London. "The Canterbury Tales" tells of the meeting of a group at an inn in Southwark, which was a village south of the Thames River and now making up part of London. This was a good place to meet because people from the north could cross the Thames River by London Bridge. Canterbury is in the south-east of England. A reason why pilgrims used to gather in groups was that it was dangerous to travel alone. In the days before modern banking, every traveller had to carry a lot of money to pay for food and accommodation (a place to sleep). Robbers often attacked people along the roads. 

When pilgrims gathered in a group, the group could be made up of many different kinds of people, both rich and poor, noble and humble. The groups often contained a number of religious people such as priests, monks and nuns. In Chaucer's story, the most noble person is a knight.

"The Canterbury Tales" begins with a Prologue (which means "a few words to begin"). In the prologue Chaucer describes the time of year, which is April, when the weather begins to get warmer after winter. He says that it is at this time that people begin to go on pilgrimage. Chaucer tells the reader about the people who are gathered at the inn. He describes the people so clearly that many of them have become famous characters in English Literature, and have often been shown in paintings. Chaucer describes how each person tells a story to entertain the other as they travel along. 

The Tales are:

• The General Prologue
• The Knight's Tale
• The Miller's Prologue and Tale
• The Reeve's Prologue and Tale
• The Cook's Prologue and Tale
• The Man of Law's Prologue and Tale
• The Wife of Bath's Prologue and Tale
• The Friar's Prologue and Tale
• The Summoner's Prologue and Tale
• The Clerk's Prologue and Tale
• The Merchant's Prologue and Tale
• The Squire's Prologue and Tale
• The Franklin's Prologue and Tale
• The Physician's Tale
• The Pardoner's Prologue and Tale
• The Shipman's Tale
• The Prioress' Prologue and Tale
• Chaucer's Tale of Sir Topas
• The Tale of Melibee
• The Monk's Prologue and Tale
• The Nun's Priest's Prologue and Tale
• The Second Nun's Prologue and Tale
• The Canon's Yeoman's Prologue and Tale
• The Manciple's Prologue and Tale
• The Parson's Prologue and Tale
• Chaucer's Retraction

Some of the tales (stories) are serious and others are funny. Some of the funny stories are vulgar (sexually rude). A lot of the tales talk about the Christian faith. Sometimes the "theme" (main idea) of one story is followed into the next story, as a new story-teller responds (or answers) to a story they have just heard. All of the tales are about the way that people think and behave towards each other.

"The Canterbury Tales" is written in the type of English that most ordinary people used in Chaucer's day. Chaucer was one of the first authors (writers) who wrote stories in English. Before, stories were written in Latin or French. Some other writers of Chaucer's time also wrote in English. Some of these writers were John Gower, William Langland, and the Pearl Poet. 

Chaucer planned the stories before he wrote them but he did not finish his plan. He planned that each character would tell four stories: two while going to Canterbury and two while returning to London. If Chaucer had finished, he would have written 120 stories. He only actually wrote 24. Chaucer began to write the stories in the 1380s. He stopped writing them in the 1390s. Some think that he deliberately did not write the total 120 stories.

Chaucer was an important person in the royal court. Some people think that, in the stories, Chaucer was saying things about court politics. Some people think that Chaucer based his characters on people that he really knew and who were at the royal court.

Some people think that Chaucer copied ideas from others peoples’ writings because some of the stories in "The Canterbury Tales" are very similar to them. The characters, however, are very different. The characters have different occupations and personalities. They all tell different types of stories and they tell them in different ways.
The big story is about many pilgrims traveling to Canterbury. They are riding horses and the trip takes several days. Chaucer does not say much about the big story and most of the writing is about the stories told by the pilgrims.

The two earliest manuscripts (hand-written copies) of "The Canterbury Tales" are the Hengwrt manuscript and the Ellesmere manuscript. There are also 84 manuscript and four printed copies of "The Canterbury Tales" that were made before 1500. There are quite a lot of differences in the different copies. Some experts on Chaucer have started The "Canterbury Tales Project". The project is to read all these copies of "The Canterbury Tales", find out the differences and write the most accurate copy.




</doc>
<doc id="27878" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27878" title="Sweat">
Sweat

Sweat is a liquid that is made by the skin when the body is hot. Sweat is made in sweat glands under the surface of the skin, and it comes out of tiny holes in the skin called pores. Sweat is mostly water, but it also contains some salts. 

The body makes sweat to cool itself down. The sweat takes the heat from the body when it evaporates (turns to gas).

Some people think sweat makes a person smell bad. Many people use special sprays to stop this from happening. Deodorants hide the odor of sweat. Anti-perspirants stop the body from sweating.

The sweat glands in our skin contains two different groups of sweat glands: apocrine sweat glands and merocrine sweat glands.

Sweat also helps to remove waste from the body.

Perspiration, or sweat, is your body's way of cooling itself, whether that extra heat comes from hardworking muscles or from overstimulated nerves. The average person has 2.6 million sweat glands in their skin. Sweat glands are distributed over the entire body, except for the lips, nipples and external genital organs. The sweat gland is in the layer of skin called the dermis along with other "equipment," such as nerve endings, hair follicles and so on. 

The sweat gland is a long, coiled, hollow tube of cells. The coiled part in the dermis is where sweat is made, and the long part is a duct that connects the gland to the opening or pore on the skins's outer surface. Nerve cells from the sympathetic nervous system are connected to the sweat glands. There are two types of sweat glands:


We are constantly sweating, even though we may not notice it. Sweating is your body's major way of getting rid of excess body heat, which is produced by metabolism or working muscles. The amount of sweat produced depends upon our states of emotion and physical activity. Sweat can be made in response to nerve stimulation, hot air temperature, and/or exercise. First, let's concentrate on how sweat is made in an eccrine sweat gland. 

When the sweat gland is stimulated, the cells secrete a fluid (primary secretion) that is similar to plasma -- that is, it is mostly water and it has high concentrations of sodium and chloride and a low concentration of potassium -- but without the proteins and fatty acids that are normally found in plasma. The source of this fluid is the spaces between the cells (interstitial spaces), which get the fluid from the blood vessels (capillaries) in the dermis. This fluid travels from the coiled portion up through the straight duct (Figure 2). What happens in the straight duct depends upon the rate of sweat production or flow: 
•Low sweat production (rest, cool temperature) - Cells in the straight duct reabsorb most of the sodium and chlorine from the fluid. This happens because there is enough time for reabsorption. In addition, water is reabsorbed osmotically. So not much sweat reaches the outside. Also, the composition of this sweat is significantly different from the primary secretion. There is not as much sodium and chloride, and there is more potassium. 

•High sweat production (exercise, hot temperature) - Cells in the straight portion do not have enough time to reabsorb all of sodium and chloride from the primary secretion. So, a lot of sweat makes it to the surface of the skin and the composition is close to, but not exactly like the primary secretion. The sodium and chloride concentrations are about half as much, and potassium is about 20 percent higher. 
Sweat is produced in apocrine sweat glands in the same way. However, the sweat from apocrine glands also contains proteins and fatty acids, which make it thicker and give it a milkier or yellowish color. This is why underarm stains in clothing appear yellowish. Sweat itself has no odor, but when bacteria on the skin and hair metabolize the proteins and fatty acids, they produce an unpleasant odor. This is why deodorants and anti-perspirants are applied to the underarms instead of the whole body. 

The maximum volume of sweat that a person who is not adapted to a hot climate can produce is about one liter per hour. Amazingly, if you move to a hot climate such as the American desert southwest or the tropics, your ability to produce sweat will increase to about two to three liters per hour within about six weeks! This appears to be the maximum amount that you can produce. 

When sweat evaporates from the surface of your skin, it removes excess heat and cools you. This is actually due to a neat principle in physics, which goes like this. To convert water from a liquid to a vapor, it takes a certain amount of heat called the heat of vaporization. This heat energy increases the speed of the water molecules so that they can escape into the air. For water, this value is 540 calories/gram or 2.26 x 106 joules/kilogram. So, if you can produce one liter of sweat, which is equal to 1000 g or 1 kg (density of water is 1 g/ml or 1 kg/l) in one hour, then 540,000 calories of heat can be removed from your body. This is an extreme example using the maximum amount of sweat that a person can make. Typically, all of the sweat does not evaporate, but rather runs off your skin. In addition, not all heat energy produced by the body is lost through sweat. Some is directly radiated from the skin to the air and some is lost through respiratory surfaces of the lungs. 

A major factor that influences the rate of evaporation is the relative humidity of the air around you. If the air is humid, then it already has water vapor in it, probably near saturation, and cannot take any more. Therefore, sweat does not evaporate and cool your body as efficiently as when the air is dry. 

Finally, when the water in the sweat evaporates, it leaves the salts (sodium, chloride and potassium) behind on your skin, which is why your skin tastes salty. The loss of excessive amounts of salt and water from your body can quickly dehydrate you, which can lead to circulatory problems, kidney failure and heat stroke. So, it is important to drink plenty of fluids when you exercise or are outside in high temperatures. Sports drinks contain some salts to replace those lost in the sweat. 

As we mentioned earlier, sweating responds to your emotional state. So when you are nervous, anxious or afraid, there is an increase in sympathetic nerve activity in your body as well as an increase in epinephrine secretion from your adrenal gland. These substances act on your sweat glands, particularly those on the palms of your hand and your armpits, to make sweat. Thus, you feel a "cold" sweat. Also, the increased sympathetic nerve activity in the skin changes its electrical resistance, which is the basis of the galvanic skin response used in lie detector tests. 

Excessive sweating -- usually on the palms of the hand or the armpits -- that is not caused by emotional or physical activity is called diaphoresis or hyperhidrosis. It is often an embarrassing condition. The cause or causes are unknown, but the condition may be due to the following: 

•hormonal imbalances (e.g., menopause in women) 
•overactive thyroid gland (The thyroid hormone increases body metabolism and heat production.) 
•certain foods and medications (e.g., coffee with its high amounts of caffeine) 
•overactivity of the sympathetic nervous system 
This condition can be treated by medications and surgical procedures. 


</doc>
<doc id="27883" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27883" title="Adult Swim">
Adult Swim

Adult Swim (also called [adult swim]) is a group of television shows for adults older than 17 that is shown on Cartoon Network. It began on September 2, 2001 and was created by Williams Street Studios. On March 28, 2005, Nielsen Media Research shows that Adult Swim is now separate from Cartoon Network (like Nickelodeon's Nick at Nite). Adult Swim is part of Turner Broadcasting System. It is known for showing mature, adult anime, or Japanese-style animation.







</doc>
<doc id="27892" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27892" title="WESC">
WESC

WESC is a Swedish company. The company makes clothing, like jeans and shirts. Many people like these clothes, and they can buy them in many countries, for example in the United States, Japan and Germany. Because some famous people use the clothes, other people want to buy them too.


</doc>
<doc id="27902" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27902" title="Ozámiz">
Ozámiz

Ozámiz is a city in the Philippines, in the province of Misamis Occidental. There were 110,420 people living there according to the 2000 census. 

Ozámiz is named after Senator José F. Ozámiz, a hero of the Philippine resistance against the Japanese during World War 2.



</doc>
<doc id="27904" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27904" title="Tillage">
Tillage

Tillage is the process in which soil is loosened and softened by tillers or harrows pulled by a tractor or by a plough pulled by an animal or human. The plough breaks the upper crust of the soil so that air and sunlight enter into the soil. This makes the soil more fertile but too much or frequent tillage may make it less fertile.


</doc>
<doc id="27911" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27911" title="Template:User an">
Template:User an


</doc>
<doc id="27912" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27912" title="Template:User an-1">
Template:User an-1


</doc>
<doc id="27913" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27913" title="Template:User an-3">
Template:User an-3


</doc>
<doc id="27914" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27914" title="Template:User an-4">
Template:User an-4


</doc>
<doc id="27915" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27915" title="Category:User an-4">
Category:User an-4


</doc>
<doc id="27916" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27916" title="Category:User an-N">
Category:User an-N


</doc>
<doc id="27917" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27917" title="Category:User an-1">
Category:User an-1


</doc>
<doc id="27918" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27918" title="Category:User an-3">
Category:User an-3


</doc>
<doc id="27919" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27919" title="Template:User ksh">
Template:User ksh


</doc>
<doc id="27920" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27920" title="Category:User ksh">
Category:User ksh


</doc>
<doc id="27921" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27921" title="Template:User ksh-1">
Template:User ksh-1


</doc>
<doc id="27922" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27922" title="Template:User ksh-2">
Template:User ksh-2


</doc>
<doc id="27923" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27923" title="Template:User ksh-3">
Template:User ksh-3


</doc>
<doc id="27924" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27924" title="Template:User ksh-4">
Template:User ksh-4


</doc>
<doc id="27925" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27925" title="Category:User ksh-4">
Category:User ksh-4


</doc>
<doc id="27926" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27926" title="Category:User ksh-3">
Category:User ksh-3


</doc>
<doc id="27927" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27927" title="Category:User ksh-2">
Category:User ksh-2


</doc>
<doc id="27928" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27928" title="Category:User ksh-1">
Category:User ksh-1


</doc>
<doc id="27929" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27929" title="Category:User ksh-N">
Category:User ksh-N


</doc>
<doc id="27930" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27930" title="Template:User tr-1">
Template:User tr-1


</doc>
<doc id="27931" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27931" title="Template:User tr-2">
Template:User tr-2


</doc>
<doc id="27932" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27932" title="Template:User tr-3">
Template:User tr-3


</doc>
<doc id="27933" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27933" title="Template:User tr-4">
Template:User tr-4


</doc>
<doc id="27934" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27934" title="Category:User tr-4">
Category:User tr-4


</doc>
<doc id="27935" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27935" title="Category:User tr-3">
Category:User tr-3


</doc>
<doc id="27936" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27936" title="Category:User tr-2">
Category:User tr-2


</doc>
<doc id="27937" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27937" title="Category:User tr-1">
Category:User tr-1


</doc>
<doc id="27938" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27938" title="Template:User nds">
Template:User nds


</doc>
<doc id="27939" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27939" title="Template:User nds-1">
Template:User nds-1


</doc>
<doc id="27940" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27940" title="Template:User nds-2">
Template:User nds-2


</doc>
<doc id="27941" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27941" title="Template:User nds-3">
Template:User nds-3


</doc>
<doc id="27942" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27942" title="Template:User nds-4">
Template:User nds-4


</doc>
<doc id="27943" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27943" title="Category:User nds-4">
Category:User nds-4


</doc>
<doc id="27944" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27944" title="Category:User nds-3">
Category:User nds-3


</doc>
<doc id="27945" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27945" title="Category:User nds-2">
Category:User nds-2


</doc>
<doc id="27946" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27946" title="Category:User nds-1">
Category:User nds-1


</doc>
<doc id="27947" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27947" title="Category:User nds-N">
Category:User nds-N


</doc>
<doc id="27963" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27963" title="Yarmouth">
Yarmouth

Yarmouth could mean one of the following places.

In Canada:

In England:

In the United States:



</doc>
<doc id="27964" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27964" title="Yarmouth, Nova Scotia">
Yarmouth, Nova Scotia

Yarmouth is a town in the province of Nova Scotia in the country of Canada. In 2006, the population of Yarmouth was 7,162.



</doc>
<doc id="27966" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27966" title="Spleen">
Spleen

The spleen is a gland that works closely with the circulatory system. The spleen is a ductless, vertebrate gland. It is not needed for life but is closely associated with the circulatory system, where it functions in the destruction of old red blood cells and removal of other debris from the bloodstream, and also in holding a reservoir of blood. It is thought to be one of the centres of activity of the reticuloendothelial system. Until recently, the purpose of the spleen was not known. It is increasingly recognised that its absence predisposes to certain infections. The spleen produces, monitors, destroys and stores red blood cells. The spleen also has two other functions, the red and white pulp. The white pulp helps fight infections and the red pulp removes unwanted materials.

The spleen is shaped like a loose fist and is tucked under the left side of the diaphragm. 

The average weight of an adult spleen is 0.44 lbs. During and after digestion, the size of the spleen increases. Infection of malaria or mono can also cause the spleen to increase in size.

If the increase in size is significant, the spleen can rupture. If the spleen ruptures, immediate medical care is necessary. You may need emergency surgery to control the bleeding.

Other diseases that causes enlargement of the spleen are: rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus, sickle cell anemia, leukemia, lymphoma.


</doc>
<doc id="27967" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27967" title="Placenta">
Placenta

The placenta is a temporary organ found in most female mammals while they are pregnant.
The mother's and baby's blood never mixes. That is why the placenta is necessary. It acts as an exchange surface between the mother and baby, and nutrients and oxygen are passed over by diffusion only. If the mother and baby blood mixes, it could be deadly for both the mother and the baby. If the mother is blood type A for example and the blood type of the baby is B, then different type blood will mix and the mother and baby would both die.
The placenta is connected to the fetus by the umbilical cord which is made of blood vessels and connective tissue. When the fetus is delivered, the placenta is delivered afterwards, and is often called the afterbirth.

The placenta has two parts, one of which is genetically and biologically part of the fetus, the other part of the mother. It is implanted in the wall of the uterus, where it receives nutrients and oxygen from the mother's blood and passes out waste. This forms a barrier called the placental barrier, which filters out some substances which could harm the fetus. However, many other substances are not filtered out, including alcohol and some chemicals associated with smoking cigarettes. Several types of viruses may also cross this barrier.


</doc>
<doc id="27972" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27972" title="Glorious Revolution">
Glorious Revolution

The Glorious Revolution was an event in the history of England in 1688. The people of England did not like the king, King James II because he would not let them vote or worship God in the way they wanted to. They invited William III of Orange-Nassau to take over as king. William was King James II's nephew and Mary's first cousin. He came to England with his wife Queen Mary, the daughter of King James II. They let the old king escape, so he moved to France out of fear.

William signed the "Bill of Rights" and became king, and England became a constitutional monarchy.


</doc>
<doc id="27976" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27976" title="Electromagnetism">
Electromagnetism

Electromagnetism is the study of the electromagnetic field. The electromagnetic field pushes or pulls anything that has an electric charge. The electromagnetic field affects all of space. 

An electric field is an area where charged particles will feel an electric force. The units used to measure electric fields are newtons per coulomb. Electromagnetism is closely related to both electricity and magnetism because both involve movement of electrons.

Electric fields can be drawn as arrows. The arrows point which way a positive particle, like a proton, will be pushed if it's in the field. Negative particles, like electrons, will go in the opposite direction as the arrows. In an electric field, arrows will point away from positive particles, and towards negative ones. So, a proton in an electric field would move away from another proton, or towards an electron.

A magnetic field is a part of the electric field that only exerts a force on moving charges.

Through electromagnetic induction, a changing magnetic field can produce an electric field. This concept is used to make electric generators, induction motors, and transformers work. Since the two types of fields were dependent on each other, the two are thought to be one. Together they are called the electromagnetic field.

The electromagnetic force is one of the fundamental forces of nature. The electromagnetic force is the force that causes an attraction between electrons and the positive nucleus. All forces between atoms are caused by the electromagnetic force. 

The electromagnetic radiation is thought to be both a particle and a wave. This is because it sometimes acts like a particle and sometimes acts like a wave. To make things easier we can think of an electromagnetic wave as a stream of photons (symbol γ).

A photon is an elementary particle. It is the particle that light is made up of. Photons also make up all other types of electromagnetic radiation such as gamma rays, X-rays, and UV rays. The idea of photons was thought up by Einstein. Using his theory for the photoelectric effect, Einstein said that light existed in small "packets" or parcels which he called photons. 

Photons have energy and momentum. When two electromagnetic fields act on each other, they switch photons. So photons carry the electromagnetic force between charged objects. Photons are also known as messenger particles in physics because these particles often carry messages between objects. Photons send messages saying "come closer" or "go away" depending on the charges of the objects that are being looked at. If a force exists while time passes, then photons are being exchanged during that time.

Fundamental electromagnetic interactions occur between any two particles that have electric charge. These interactions involve the exchange or production of photons. Thus, photons are the carrier particles of electromagnetic interactions.

Electromagnetic decay processes can often be recognized by the fact that they produce one or more photons (also known as gamma particles). They proceed less rapidly than strong decay processes with comparable mass differences, but more rapidly than comparable weak decays.

In 1600, William Gilbert said that electricity and magnetism were two different effects in his book "De Magnete". The link between electricity and magnetism was found through the work of Benjamin Franklin, Romagnosi, and Ørsted. A scientist named Ampère then used mathematics in electromagnetism. Many physicists then developed a theory of electromagnetism now known as classical electromagnetism. James Clerk Maxwell then brought everything together into one theory of electromagnetism. This type of electromagnetism was based on Maxwell's equations and the Lorentz force law. Maxwell's studies showed what light actually was. Maxwell's work did not work with classical mechanics because he said that the speed of light was always constant. It only depended on the permeability of the substance it was travelling through. This led to the development of the theory of special relativity by Einstein.

Albert Einstein's work with the photoelectric effect and Max Planck's work with black body radiation did not work with the traditional view of light as a continuous wave. This problem would be solved after the development of quantum mechanics in 1925. This development led to the development of quantum electrodynamics which was developed by Richard Feynman and Julian Schwinger. Quantum electrodynamics was able to describe the interactions particles in detail.


</doc>
<doc id="27981" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27981" title="Acton, Massachusetts">
Acton, Massachusetts

Acton is a town in the U.S. state of Massachusetts. It is 21 miles away from Boston.



</doc>
<doc id="27982" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27982" title="Urbana, Illinois">
Urbana, Illinois

Urbana is a city in the U.S. state of Illinois. It is the twin city of Champaign, Illinois and is separated by a single street.


</doc>
<doc id="27990" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27990" title="Bill Oddie">
Bill Oddie

William Edgar (Bill) Oddie (born July 7, 1941) is a British comedian and television personality. He is most famous for his birdwatching and conservation work. In the 1970s, he was a member of The Goodies. Some of his books have pictures in them. His mother, Lilian, was said to be mentally ill, and Oddie says that he does not remember her living at home.



</doc>
<doc id="27994" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27994" title="Montgomery Ward">
Montgomery Ward

Montgomery Ward was an American department store chain. It started as a mail-order catalog (called a "Wish Book") and department store in 1872. It owned Jefferson Ward discount stores. Jefferson Ward stores in the northern US were sold to Bradlees in 1985. The rest closed in 1988. All its stores closed in 2000. In 2004, it reopened as an online store.


</doc>
<doc id="28019" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28019" title="Toe">
Toe

Toes are the "digits" of the foot of an animal. Many animal species walk on their toes, and are called "digitigrade". Humans, and other animals that walk on the soles of their feet, are "plantigrade"; hoofed animals are "unguligrade".

In humans, the bones of each toe continue all the way to the heel, although in from the base of the toes they come together in the body of the foot. The inside toe is by far the thickest, and is called the "big toe", "great toe", or "hallux".

The one on the other end is short and thin. The toes, especially the big toe, play an essential role in walking, although a loss of the smallest toe will not affect the way people move.



</doc>
<doc id="28023" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28023" title="AFC Champions League">
AFC Champions League

The AFC Champions League is a football competition between the best club teams in Asia. The teams are selected because of good performances in matches. South Korea is the country that has the most titles for a team. Pohang Steelers got the most titles.


</doc>
<doc id="28026" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28026" title="Raptor">
Raptor

Raptor can mean:



</doc>
<doc id="28036" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28036" title="Newton's laws of motion">
Newton's laws of motion

Isaac Newton (1642-1727), the father of the dynamics, – the study of motion – developed three sets of laws that are believed to be true because the results agree with the laws he produced.

If a body is at rest it remains at rest or if it is in motion it moves with uniform velocity until it is acted on by a resultant force. (Duncan, 1995) 

In other words, the first law says that an object that is not moving or moving in a constant speed in a straight line, will stay like that until something pushes it or blocks its path. As we all know, nothing in the visual world ever stays in constant speed, but the object itself is moving at constant speed, while a force is stopping it from moving at constant speed, friction. That does not change the law. However, in space, an object can move in a constant speed as long as it does not get close to any other objects, and stays in open space. This is why rockets use less fuel in space than they do getting to it.

Force is equal to mass times acceleration.

This law provides the definition and calculation of force through mass and acceleration.

For example, Weight is a force that we feel on Earth, caused by the gravity. Weight is calculated as

where m is the mass of the object and g is the local gravitational field (not to be confused with G, the universal gravitational constant), equal to 9.8 meters per second (32 feet per second) on Earth.
Simply put this law states that "energy cannot be created or destroyed but may be changed from one form to another"

Newton's third law is:

For every action, there is an equal and opposite reaction.

The statement means that in every interaction, there is a pair of forces acting on the two interacting objects. The size of the forces on the first object equals the size of the force on the second object. The direction of the force on the first object is opposite to the direction of the force on the second object. Forces always come in pairs - equal and opposite action-reaction force pairs. 

A variety of action-reaction force pairs are evident in nature. Consider the propulsion of a fish through the water. A fish uses its fins to push water backwards. But a push on the water will only serve to accelerate the water. Since forces result from mutual interactions, the water must also be pushing the fish forwards, propelling the fish through the water. The size of the force on the water equals the size of the force on the fish; the direction of the force on the water (backwards) is opposite the direction of the force on the fish (forwards). For every action, there is an equal (in size) and opposite (in direction) reaction force. Action-reaction force pairs make it possible for fish to swim.

Consider the flying motion of birds. A bird flies by use of its wings. The wings of a bird push air downwards. Since forces result from mutual interactions, the air must also be pushing the bird upwards. The size of the force on the air equals the size of the force on the bird; the direction of the force on the air (downwards) is opposite the direction of the force on the bird (upwards). For every action, there is an equal (in size) and opposite (in direction) reaction. Action-reaction force pairs make it possible for birds to fly. 

Consider the motion of a car on the way to school. A car is equipped with wheels which spin backwards. As the wheels spin backwards, they grip the road and push the road backwards. Since forces result from mutual interactions, the road must also be pushing the wheels forward. The size of the force on the road equals the size of the force on the wheels (or car); the direction of the force on the road (backwards) is opposite the direction of the force on the wheels (forwards). For every action, there is an equal (in size) and opposite (in direction) reaction. Action-reaction force pairs make it possible for cars to move along a roadway surface.

Duncan, Tom. "Advanced Physics for Hong Kong: Volume 1 Mechanics & Electricity". John Murray Ltd, 1995.




</doc>
<doc id="28037" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28037" title="Fencing">
Fencing

"This is about the sport. You may be wanting to read about a fence."

Fencing is a sport that includes two people with swords. The aim is to score hits. There is also a referee.
In the olden times when two people argued they fenced the first one to draw blood was wrong and the person would be dead, so the person that won would claim the dead person's house and belongings.

The foil is a light and easy to bend weapon, first made in mid 17th century as a weapon for practice. 'Hits' can only be scored by hitting the right target area with the point of the sword. The target area is the torso.

The épée is the heaviest of the three weapons. To score a hit, the push-button on the end of the weapon must remain fully down for 2-10 milliseconds, and must arrive (hit) with a force of at least 7.35 newtons.

The sabre is the "cutting" weapon, with a curved guard (to protect the hand) and a triangular blade. However, in modern electric scoring, a touch with any part of the sabre, (point, flat or edge, as long as it is on target) will count as a hit. The target area in sabre is everything from the waist up, except for the hands.

Fencers wear a uniform to avoid injury. They a wear mask of black mesh with a bib. Also, a jacket, short pants and a sort of half-a-shirt (called a underarm protector or plastron), all of white fabric. They must also wear socks that cover their legs. Women must wear a chest protector. These are collectively called "whites."



</doc>
<doc id="28038" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28038" title="Administrator">
Administrator

Administrators are people who organize things like businesses. All businesses have administrators. They make decisions, organize the people who work there and make sure that things are working alright and there are no problems. Their work is called "administration". The administrators are part of the "management".

Administrator is also the person in charge of some of the small territories of the United Kingdom, for example Ascension Island and the British Antarctic Territory which are too small to run their own government.


</doc>
<doc id="28039" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28039" title="Geneva Conventions">
Geneva Conventions

The Geneva Conventions are a set of four treaties of international law. They were formulated in Geneva, Switzerland. All of the four treaties are about humanitarian issues. The Swiss Henri Dunant was the person who started the creation of the conventions. He did this after he saw the unimaginable cruelty of the Battle of Solferino in 1859.

Some parts of the four Geneva Conventions say that all states who signed must create national laws to make violations of the Geneva Conventions a crime.

The conventions and their agreements are as follows:


In addition, there are three more protocols to the Geneva Convention:



After the First Convention was agreed, the International Committee of the Red Cross was founded in 1863.

All four conventions were last checked and agreed in 1949. Those versions are related to previous revisions. In some cases, ideas from the 1907 Hague Conventions were added. Usually, people refer to all four conventions as the "Geneva Conventions of 1949" or simply the "Geneva Conventions". Later conferences have added text that forbids certain methods of warfare. They have also spoken about issues of civil wars. Nearly all 200 countries of the world are "signatory" nations, in that they have signed and ratified these conventions. 

Clara Barton was important in campaigning for the agreement of the First Geneva Convention by the United States; the U.S. signed in 1882. By the Fourth Geneva Convention some 47 nations had ratified the agreements.



</doc>
<doc id="28041" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28041" title="International law">
International law

International law is the law that is used when there is a conflict between countries. There are two different types of international law 1. Public International Law which applies to all countries but is not enforceable 2. Private International Law which is when there is a conflict between two or more countries that broke a certain law based on the countries' law. It is composed of a set of treaties. In recent years, people have also seen international organizations like the United Nations use international law.



</doc>
<doc id="28044" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28044" title="Hague Convention">
Hague Convention

The Hague Convention is a set of treaties signed in Den Haag in 1899 and 1907. Along with the Geneva conventions, they are among the first treaties to speak about war crimes and the laws of war. They are considered to be part of international law.


</doc>
<doc id="28046" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28046" title="The Hague">
The Hague

The Hague (with capital T; Dutch: also called , commonly ) is the third-largest city in the Netherlands, after Amsterdam and Rotterdam. It has a population of 490,000 (January 1 2011) and an area of around 100 km². It is in the west of the country, in the province South Holland. It is the capital of the province. About 1 million people live in the urban area of The Hague, on about 405 square kilometers. 

Den Haag is where the government meets, even though it is not the capital of the Netherlands. The Dutch constitution makes Amsterdam the capital.
The Hague is the home of the "Eerste Kamer" (literally "First Chamber") or "Senaat", and the "Tweede Kamer" (literally "Second Chamber"). These are the same as the upper and lower houses in some other countries. They form the "Staten Generaal" (literally the "Estates-General"). The Dutch Queen Beatrix lives and works in The Hague. All foreign embassies and government ministries are in the city, as well as the Hoge Raad der Nederlanden (The Supreme Court) and many lobbying organisations.
Residentie Orchestra


</doc>
<doc id="28049" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28049" title="Special Air Service">
Special Air Service

The S.A.S. or Special Air Service, is a Special Operations Organisation of the British Army. It was founded in 1941 to attack behind the German line of defence in North Africa, in World War II.

The SAS is a very secret organisation, its members often do not tell anyone except close family that they are in it. The British Ministry of Defence (MOD) rarely speaks of the SAS and mission details are never released until after a set amount of time.

The Badge of the organisation is a knife with wings. It shows the motto: "Who Dares Wins".

Current SAS roles include:




The SAS is thought of all over the world as one of the best, if not the best Special Operations organisations.
This is mainly because of the intense training they are put through. The hardest part of this is intense interrogation (questioning while under torture) which the trainees must go through.

The SAS is respected worldwide and used to train many other Special Forces Units.



</doc>
<doc id="28050" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28050" title="Kookaburra Sport">
Kookaburra Sport

Kookaburra Sport is an Australian company named after an Australian bird related to the kingfisher, which eats snakes and is, therefore, very valuable to the Australians.

Kookaburra makes and sells cricket supplies which are used by amateurs and professionals. They are one of the leading brands and are famous for their colourful and artistic designs.


</doc>
<doc id="28051" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28051" title="Lancashire">
Lancashire

Lancashire is a county in the North West of England. Its two cities are Lancaster and Preston. Before 1974, Liverpool and Manchester were part of Lancashire.

The county has developed a fierce rivalry with Yorkshire, the next county east. This comes from rivalry in sport, such as in cricket, and comes from the War of the Roses.

A big attraction in Lancashire is Blackpool, an English seaside resort, which has a theme park called Blackpool Pleasure Beach. It has the second largest rollercoaster in Europe ("The Big One") and Blackpool Tower, a tower which was made to look like the Eiffel Tower in Paris.

Lancashire has market towns (like Chorley) and small villages (like Bretherton, Croston and Eccleston). It is just south of an area of outstanding natural beauty called the Lake District. Lancashire also has a lot of pleasant countryside such as White Coppice and the Rivington Moors.

A famous food from Lancashire is "Lancashire Hot pot" which is made of meat, onion or other vegetables and potatoes. It is often found on many pub menus in the county and in other places in Britain. 

The people of Lancashire are known for their friendly nature. Humour is also an important part of Lancashire life.


</doc>
<doc id="28053" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28053" title="Church of England">
Church of England

The Church of England is the leading Christian church in England. It is the church established by law, with its formal head being the English monarch (Elizabeth II). It is the mother church of the Anglican Communion. 

The Church of England understands itself to be both Catholic and Reformed:

There are other Protestant churches in England which are not part of the Anglican Communion.

The Church of England was created by King Henry VIII in 1534. Henry VIII was married to Catherine of Aragon, but asked the Pope to annul the marriage (say that there was a mistake and that Henry and Catherine were never really married). He had wanted to annul the marriage because he wanted a male heir to his throne and Catherine could not produce one. When the annulment was refused, Henry VIII used his position as King to break away from the Roman Catholic Church, and establish the Church of England, sometimes called the Anglican (English) Church.


</doc>
<doc id="28055" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28055" title="Tense (grammar)">
Tense (grammar)

Tense is a system of verb forms. Its main job is to show when the verb happens. There are three main tenses:


Some languages have all three tenses, some have only two, and some have no tenses at all. English and Japanese for example have only two common tenses: past and present. Obviously, English verbal phrases do indicate future time, but not in the form of the verb itself. We only have present (take, takes) and past (took). The rest, including the future, is done by adding auxiliaries such as "be", "have", "is", "shall", "will", and so on. So we get the continuous present with "is taking", the future with "will take", and so on. These 'tenses' (as they used to be called) are now called 'aspects'.

Chinese and Indonesian verbs do not show tense. Instead they use other words in the sentence to show when the verb happens.

Many people think that 'tense' means any verb form or even certain combinations of auxiliary verbs and other verbs. For example, many people say that "will go" is future tense or that "He is loved by many" is passive tense. This is not technically correct.


</doc>
<doc id="28056" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28056" title="Blackpool Tower">
Blackpool Tower

Blackpool Tower is a monument in Blackpool, a North England seaside town. 

It was built in the style of the Eiffel Tower In 1891. It cost £45000 (around $70000), is 518 ft tall and weighs 2586 tons. It is mainly made from Steel and Cast Iron. 

It is used as a tourist attraction and is part of the Blackpool attractions. These include, the tower, the Golden Mile, which is a row of arcades, the sea, and Blackpool Pleasure Beach (A theme park)

The oldest part of the building is the aquarium which was part of Dr Cockers' Menagarie and Aquarium in the 1870s. It was kept open to earn revenue while the tower building went up around it.

The tower is owned by Blackpool Council.


</doc>
<doc id="28057" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28057" title="Theme park">
Theme park

A theme park or an amusement park is a place with attractions made up of rides, such as roller coasters and water rides. They usually contain a selection of different types of rides, along with shops, restaurants and other entertainment outlets. Theme parks can be enjoyed by adults, teenagers and children.
Many are themed to a particular area; there are water parks, parks modeled after toys, parks modeled after films or types of films, usually adventure or action.

Some famous theme parks include:


</doc>
<doc id="28061" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28061" title="Kookaburra">
Kookaburra

Kookaburras are birds of the genus Dacelo. It is the best-known bird of Austrailia. There is even a popular song about it. The kookaburra is also called the "laughing jackass." 


Kookaburras originally lived in Australia and New Guinea. Some were brought by humans to New Zealand between 1866 and 1880; but only those that were freed by Sir George Grey on Kawau Island are still there today.

Kookaburras usually eat small animals: small mammals (like mice), insects, small birds, lizards and snakes. 

Kookaburras usually live in family groups. Young kookaburras help their parents to hunt and care for the smaller children.

Kookaburras are well known for their loud call, which sounds a bit like human laughter. Kookaburras use their calling to show others their territory.


</doc>
<doc id="28063" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28063" title="Poll tax">
Poll tax

Polltax is a system of taxing. It is based on the idea that everyone pays the same amount of tax. This is regardless of how much they earn. In the last few years of Margaret Thatcher's reign as British Prime minister, she received heavy opposition and mass riots were held when she tried to have polltax used as the tax system.


</doc>
<doc id="28069" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28069" title="Category:User el">
Category:User el

These users can speak Greek.


</doc>
<doc id="28070" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28070" title="Template:User el">
Template:User el


</doc>
<doc id="28071" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28071" title="Template:User el-1">
Template:User el-1


</doc>
<doc id="28072" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28072" title="Template:User el-2">
Template:User el-2


</doc>
<doc id="28073" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28073" title="Template:User el-3">
Template:User el-3


</doc>
<doc id="28074" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28074" title="Template:User el-4">
Template:User el-4


</doc>
<doc id="28075" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28075" title="Category:User el-4">
Category:User el-4


</doc>
<doc id="28076" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28076" title="Category:User el-3">
Category:User el-3


</doc>
<doc id="28077" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28077" title="Category:User el-2">
Category:User el-2


</doc>
<doc id="28078" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28078" title="Category:User el-1">
Category:User el-1


</doc>
<doc id="28079" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28079" title="Category:User el-N">
Category:User el-N


</doc>
<doc id="28082" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28082" title="Canadian dollar">
Canadian dollar

The Canadian dollar is the national currency of Canada. It has been used since 1858.


</doc>
<doc id="28083" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28083" title="Printer">
Printer

A printer can be:


</doc>
<doc id="28084" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28084" title="Bonn">
Bonn

Bonn is a city near Cologne. It is in the German state of North Rhine-Westphalia.

Bonn was founded on an old Roman settlement, today it has about 310,000 inhabitants.

Following World War II Bonn was in the British occupation zone. In 1949 Bonn was chosen as the provisional capital of West Germany.

Bonn was the choice of Konrad Adenauer, a former Cologne Mayor and the first Chancellor of West Germany after World War II, who came from that area. Frankfurt am Main had most of the needed facilities already, so using Bonn meant spending about 95 Million DM to building new roads and building. However, Frankfurt am Main had been an important city during the war, and choosing Bonn was to symbolise a new start for the new Germany.

Because of its relatively small size for a capital city, Bonn was sometimes jokingly called the "Bundesdorf" (Federal Village).

Bonn was the capital of West Germany from 1949 until 1990 it. The Bundestag voted to move to Berlin on 20 June 1991, after a heated debate. The Federal President had already decided to make Schloß Bellevue in Berlin his main official residence. The extra building work needed meant it was 1999 before the governmentÄs move was completed.

Beethoven's birth place is located at Bonngasse. Next to the market place is the Old Town Hall, built in 1737 in Rococo style, under the rule of Clemens August of Bavaria. It's used for receptions of guests of the town, and as a bureau for the mayor. Close by is the "Kurfürstliches Schloss", which has been built as a residence of the prince-elector, and nowadays is the main building of the University of Bonn.

The "Poppelsdorfer Allee", an alley flanked by chestnut trees, connects the "Kurfürstliches Schloss" with the "Poppelsdorfer Schloss", a palace that was built as a resort to prince-electors in the first half of the 18th century. This axis is interrupted by a railway line and Bonn Central Station, a building erected in 1883/84.

The three highest buildings in the city are the radio mast of WDR in Bonn-Venusberg (180 m), the headquarters of the Deutsche Post called "Post Tower" (162.5 m) and the former building for the German members of parliament "Langer Eugen" (114.7 m) which nowadays is the new location of the UN-Campus.











</doc>
<doc id="28086" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28086" title="CAF Champions League">
CAF Champions League

The CAF Champions League is a football competition between the best club teams in Africa. The teams are selected because of good performances in matches.


</doc>
<doc id="28087" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28087" title="Category:Football (soccer)">
Category:Football (soccer)


</doc>
<doc id="28088" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28088" title="Copa Libertadores">
Copa Libertadores

Copa Libertadores de America (Libertadores Cup or Copa Libertadores) is a football competition between the best club teams in South America and Mexico. The teams are qualified based on how well they did in the national tournament. The last year winner has assured participation. The tournament is run by Confederación Sudamericana de Fútbol (CONMEBOL).

Copa Libertadores de America is played annually. It usually happens between the months of February and June (South American summer and fall). Its winner is qualified for the annual FIFA Club World Cup.

Libertadores starts in January with the worst classified team of each country playing for to be a part of the "Main Draw". In February, the Main Draw begins. It is made up of 8 groups with 4 clubs in each group. Each team plays 6 games. They play three home games and three away games. The top 2 clubs in every group advance to the next round. A total of 16 clubs play in the playoffs.

The better qualified clubs in the Main Draw take advantage of playing the second game of each round of the playoffs at home. Libertadores goes on with clubs playing home and away, round after round till the Finals.

Unlike European club competitions, the Copa Libertadores, in the past, did not use extra time or away goals to decide a tie. Starting with the 2005 event, CONMEBOL began to use the away goals rule, with the extra time used only in the final matches.


</doc>
<doc id="28089" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28089" title="Longbow">
Longbow

A longbow is a type of bow. It is not as powerful as a crossbow: its advantage is that more arrows per minute can be delivered. Also, the basic equipment cost little, and could be made almost anywhere in Europe. Metal-tipped arrows could pierce all but the best plate armour. Archers would usually have a second weapon, often an axe, for close-quarter fighting.

The longbow was mainly used in the Middle Ages up until Henry VIII's reign. The longbow was mainly used by the English, although it originated in Gwent, a county in Wales. 

It was made from hard wearing, flexible wood (often yew). The devastating hail of the longbowmen (at a rate of six per minute) was often very demoralizing. The French often cut off the forefinger and middle fingers of those that they caught. This led to the archers trying to make the French angry by waggling the fingers in a "two-fingered salute", which is today considered rude.

Longbows have been found in Europe as far back as the Mesolithic period.


</doc>
<doc id="28093" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28093" title="African Union">
African Union

The African Union (abbreviated AU) is an international organization consisting of fifty-three African member countries. Founded in Durban in July 2002, the AU was formed as a replacement to the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and the African Economic Community (AEC). 

The AU, in the future, aims to have a single currency and a single integrated defense force, as well as other institutions of state, including a cabinet for the AU Head of State. The purpose of the organization is to help secure the continent's democracy, human rights, and a sustainable economy, especially by bringing an end to conflict between African nations and creating an effective common market.




</doc>
<doc id="28095" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28095" title="Bastille">
Bastille

The Bastille was a prison in Paris, France. It was destroyed during the French Revolution on July 14, 1789. This event is considered the beginning of the French Revolution. Today in France, July 14, "Fête Nationale", also called Bastille Day, is a national holiday.

The Bastille was built during the Hundred Years' War. It was called the Bastion de Saint-Antoine. At first it was just the Saint-Antoine gate, but from 1370–1383, this gate was made bigger and became a fortress. It defended the east end of Paris and the Hôtel Saint-Pol royal palace. After the war, it was turned into a prison. Louis XIII was the first king to send prisoners there. 
The Bastille was built in a rectangle shape, 70 meters (220 ft) long and 30 meters (90 ft) wide. It had eight towers and walls 25 meters (80 ft) high, with a wide moat going around the outside. There were two courtyards inside and houses against the walls. Pairs of towers on the east and west sides had gates through which the rue Saint-Antoine passed. In the 1400s, these were blocked up, and a new city gate was built to the north on the present day rue de la Bastille. A bastion on the eastern side was built later. The walls and towers were of the same height and width and joined by a broad path. Soldiers on the wall could move quickly to any part of the fortress without having to climb down inside the towers. It also meant that there was enough room for placing artillery. A similar design can be seen today at Château de Tarascon.

As a prison, the Bastille held common criminals such as forgers and thieves, as well as people put in prison for religious reasons, such as the Huguenots. There were also people who had for printed or written things against the government or the King. . People of high rank were sometimes held there too. The prison, which could only hold about 50 prisoners, was not as bad most of the prisons in Paris. But secrecy about the prison and its prisoners gave it an evil reputation. 

The people of Paris attacked the Bastille on 14 July 1789, following several days of protests. They were after the gunpowder and weapons that were kept at the prison. They were not attacking the Bastille to free the seven prisoners inside. The prison was guarded by about 80 "invalides" (old soldiers) led by Governor Bernard-René de Launay. There was also an extra group of 32 grenadiers from one of the Swiss mercenary regiments brought to Paris by the King shortly before 14 July.

A crowd of around 8,000 men and women were outside the Bastille by mid-morning. They wanted the guards to give up the prison, remove the artillery guns, and give them the gunpowder and weapons. Two people chosen to represent those outside were invited into the fortress to talk with the Governor.

At about 1:00pm, the crowd broke into the undefended outer courtyard and the chains on the drawbridge to the inner courtyard were cut. There was some gunfire, but by mid-afternoon the crowd was supported by mutinous Gardes Françaises of the Royal Army and two cannons. De Launay ordered his guards to stop shooting and he gave up the fortress. The crowd swept into the Bastille at about 5.30pm.

The crowd took the weapons, gunpowder, and freed the seven prisoners. They had to break down the doors because the keys had already been taken and shown in the streets. Even though they had surrendered, the Governor and some of the guards of the Bastille were killed. Their heads were cut off, stuck onto long poles, and marched through the streets.

The propaganda value of the Bastille was quickly seen by Pierre-François Palloy, "Patriote Palloy". He got together a group of men to begin pulling down the fortress by the next day. People paid him to view the site and he sold off pieces as souvenirs. By November, 1789, the Bastille was largely pulled down. The cut stones of the fortress were used to build the Pont de la Concorde (Paris).

The site of the Bastille is now called the Place de la Bastille. It is home to the Opéra Bastille. The large moat behind the fort has been turned into a marina for boats, the Bassin de l'Arsenal. To the north, a covered canal, the Canal Saint Martin, goes under the road along the edge of the site.

The remains of one tower of the fort were found during digging for the Métro (rail mass-transit system) in 1899. These were moved to a park, the Square Henri-Galli, a few hundred meters away. The outline of the fort is also marked on the streets and sidewalks with special paving stones. A cafe and some other businesses are now on the site of the fort, and the rue Saint Antoine passes directly over it as it opens onto the roundabout of the Bastille.




</doc>
<doc id="28096" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28096" title="The Freecycle Network">
The Freecycle Network

The Freecycle Network (TFN) is a global network of people who share and regive items. They organise their network through the Internet. Freecycle is a place for people to meet. There are just two things people can do there.

The first thing is this: A person can ask the other people for an item. If someone has it, they can tell the person who wants it.

The second thing is this: A person can give away an item. Sometimes many people want the item, and the donator has to choose just one person.



</doc>
<doc id="28097" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28097" title="Slashdot">
Slashdot

Slashdot is a website where people can read news. Most people who go to Slashdot like computers. Other people go, too.

On the Slashdot website, people can comment on the news. Often this leads to interesting discussions with many points of view.

Slashdot has been a website for ten years. It has lots of things to talk about. Some of the things are: computers, the Internet, video games, and politics. The politics are just about computers and the Internet.

Many people like Slashdot because you can share ideas. People who like computers and the Internet can read the ideas to learn.

Anyone can go to Slashdot and read it and do not need to give money. People from every country go. It has many ideas which are never the same. 



</doc>
<doc id="28098" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28098" title="Hooke's Law">
Hooke's Law

The spring equation shows Hooke's Law with math. 
The length of a spring always changes by the same amount when it is pushed or pulled. The equation for that is:

The negative sign is because the direction of the force is always opposite of the direction that the spring was pushed or pulled.
When x = 0, the spring how far it was when there was no push or pull on it. The spring is at the equilibrium position. 
There is a minus sign because the force of the spring does not go to the same direction as the spring moves.
This equation only works on a linear spring. A linear spring is a spring that is only being pushed or pulled in one direction, like left or right or up or down.

Elastic potential energy is the energy saved in an object that is stretched, compressed (compression is pressing objects together), twisted or bent. For example, an arrow gets the elastic potential energy from the bow. When it leaves the bow, the potential energy turns into kinetic energy. 
The equation of the elastic potential energy is:


</doc>
<doc id="28100" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28100" title="Railfan">
Railfan

A railfan is a person who likes railways and trains. Railfans like to take pictures of trains. They also like to watch trains. Some railfans make models of railways. These are called model railways. 

Some railfans like to study the history of railways. Some railfans collect things having to do with trains. Railfans may carry a radio scanner when they are watching trains, so they can listen to the railway workers talk. Some railfans work for a railway, or have family members who worked for a railway. Most railfans like to ride trains.

There are many magazines for people who like trains. Railfans enjoy reading books and magazines about trains.


</doc>
<doc id="28101" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28101" title="Time (magazine)">
Time (magazine)

Time is an American news magazine. It is printed every week in the United States. It has articles on politics and current events. They also put out a magazine called "Time For Kids", aimed at children. That magazine is eight pages long and contains more images and shorter articles than the regular "Time" magazine.


</doc>
<doc id="28102" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28102" title="Cable television">
Cable television

Cable television is a way of letting people watch television without having to get signals from an antenna. The television signals are brought to the television through a cable. People usually have to pay to subscribe to cable television. With cable television, people can watch hundreds of television channels. You can have fun watching things for example, cartoons, shows, movies, idols, news and more.



</doc>
<doc id="28103" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28103" title="Antenna">
Antenna

An antenna or aerial is an electronic device designed to send or receive signals that have specific frequency. Some electronic devices like radio, television, radar, wireless LAN need antennas to work. Antennas work properly in air or outer space. Antenna's length is usually up to the wavelength it uses.
The word 'antenna' is from Guglielmo Marconi's test with wireless equipment in 1895. For the test, He used a 2.5 meter long pole antenna with a tent pole called ' "l'antenna centrale" ' in Italian. So his antenna was simply called ' "l'antenna" '. After that, the term 'antenna' became popular among people and had the meaning it has today.
There are many antenna models and each antenna has different purpose. For example, The isotropic radiator is a imaginary antenna that sends signals equally in all directions. The dipole antenna is simply two wires with one end of each wire connected to the radio and the other end hanging free in space. The Horn is used where high gain is needed, the wavelength is short.


</doc>
<doc id="28104" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28104" title="Jack London">
Jack London

Jack London was a writer who wrote many books. He lived in the U.S. state of California but also spent a lot of time in Hawaii and Alaska.

His most famous book was "The Call of the Wild". "The Call of the Wild" is about a dog named Buck who is taken to Alaska to work with a pack of dogs pulling a sled. This book took place during the Gold Rush. Many people bought "The Call of the Wild" and Jack London became a famous writer.

He also wrote other books about dogs and wolves. Another one of his famous books is "White Fang".

Jack London was also a hobo at one time. He wrote a book about this called "The Road". Jack London had political beliefs. He was a socialist. One of his famous books is "The Iron Heel", which is the story of the government using force against the socialist movement.

He also spent some time at sea and making a living as an "oyster pirate". He wrote many books about sailing and boats. One of his best known books about life at sea was "The Sea Wolf".


</doc>
<doc id="28105" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28105" title="Spacetime">
Spacetime

Spacetime is a model in physics that joins the three dimensional space and one dimensional time into the idea of space-time continuum. Combining these two ideas helped physicists to make many laws of physics easier to understand, and to explain how the universe works on the big level (e.g., stars) and small level (e.g., atoms).

The actual number of dimensions in spacetime is not fixed, but usually spacetime means a four dimensional (three dimensions of space and one dimension of time) spacetime. Some other theories claim that there are more than four dimensions.

Many people link spacetime with Albert Einstein who found special relativity. However, it was Einstein's teacher, Hermann Minkowski, who suggested this idea. He hoped this new idea would clarify the theory of special relativity.

In general relativity, spacetime is curved by the existence of matter, energy, and momentum, as said by the Einstein field equations.

Many continuous space-time leads to strange physical understanding. For this reason, many mathematical physicists (physicists who use math to physical questions) study only seemingly real set of spacetime.

In general relativity, spacetime is thought as smooth and continuous. However in the theory of quantum mechanics, spacetime is not always continuous.


</doc>
<doc id="28111" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28111" title="Jerk">
Jerk

Jerk is the change in the acceleration of an object. Mathematically, jerk is the derivative, or the rate of change in acceleration by time. Jerk is also called jolt (in British English), surge, or lurch. Jerk is a vector and there is no word for its scalar value. 

The jerk is measured in metres per second cubed (formula_1).

Yank can be thought as a force in terms of jerk. Force is mass times acceleration. Similarly, Yank is mass times jerk. It is also the derivative of the force. However, when an object is moving near the speed of light, a force is often written as the derivative of momentum. In this case, Yank is the rate of change of derivative of momentum.

Jerk is used in engineering, more than ever in making roller coasters. Weak objects such as people can be damaged by high acceleration or high jerk.
Also, jerk must be thought in the process of making any product. Sudden change in acceleration means very large jerk. This leads to a tool to be damaged faster.

Jerk is also a mean name to call a mean person, or an idiom for ugly behaviour. 


</doc>
<doc id="28112" url="http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28112" title="Electric current">
Electric current

Current is the flow of electric charge. The equation of current is:

The SI unit of electric current is the ampere (A). This is equal to one coulomb of charge in one second.
Current can be found in wires, batteries, and lightning.

In conducting materials, some electrons are very loosely bound to the atoms of the material. When large amounts of these atoms come together, there is a sort of electron cloud that "hovers" near the atoms of the material. If you examine a cross-section of the piece of conducting material, the electrons will move very quickly through it. This motion is caused by temperature, and electrons flowing in one direction tend to equal the electrons flowing from the other direction, so this is not what causes current to flow. Electrons flow from one atom to another, a process has been compared to the passing of water buckets from one person to another in a bucket brigade.

When an electric field is put on the wire, the electrons respond almost instantly by drifting slightly in the opposite direction of the field. They gain energy from the field, which is lost very quickly when they bump into other electrons in the material. As long as the field is in place, however, the electrons will gain back that energy that they lost, and the process will continue. This "jolt" that electrons receive from the electric field is the source of current, not the overall flow of electrons themselves. From this discussion, we can see two things that current is "not":



When current is flowing in a wire circuit, it accelerates when there is no resistance in the circuit. Resistors are used to increase resistance in the circuit so it slows down the current. The relationship between resistance, current, and voltage (another part of the circuit) is shown by Ohm's law.

Wikipedia: Electric current 


</doc>
